 If you really want to start strong, use some boosters. You can use one Color Bomb, one Striped and Wrapped, and one Lucky Candy as boosters on your initial board layout. Just make sure you make them count.


You can equip boosters on the screen where you see the “Start” button. So before you press “Start,” check out the boosters available for you to use. They can be found on the area above the “Start” button.;
, Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. Do you see good moves to quickly get a Striped Candy or two? Do you see a Color Bomb in the making somewhere? Do you see some good combos that would unfreeze the Striped Candies from the jelly?


If you believe the board is good, you can proceed to Part 2.
 If you don’t like your board, go ahead and exit. You won’t lose any life as long as you haven’t touched any candy yet.
 There’s a T-shaped set of meringue in the middle of the board. This prevents candies from reaching the lower part. The candies are then just found on the upper half of the board. To get the most out of this level, you need to get rid of the meringues to get some space and additional candies in play.
 On the key parts of this T-shaped set of meringue are some Striped Candies frozen in jelly. These Striped Candies, when unfrozen, can aid you in removing the block made by the meringues. Unfreeze the jellies by making a combo with it included or just touching it.
 Once the Striped Candies have been unfrozen, use them to remove the meringues. With a little more moves, you can remove the meringues and open up the lower half of the board for more candies.
 Look for moves that will give you Striped Candies. You need ten of these to pass the level. Five of these are already available, and if you have unfrozen them already, then you’re halfway there.
 Look for ways to generate a Candy Bomb by matching five candies in a row. This is the special candy you need to beat this level and get high points.


If you want to be sure you have this special candy in play, you can opt to equip it before you even begin the level.
 If you’re able to get the Candy Bomb, place a Striped Candy beside it. Combine the two to make an incredible combo play. Doing so will most likely get you done with this level as you will definitely exceed the required number of Striped Candies.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before doing a move.

If you also didn’t get a Candy Bomb in play, there’s still hope. With the lower part of the board opened up, there will definitely be lots of moves to generate the needed Striped candies.

