 Regardless of what town map you have, the train station is located near the top of the map, just left of the exit that takes you to Main Street.


Once you’re inside the train station, speak with the monkey (use “a” to initiate dialogue with characters). You’ll see that you have two options: either to visit a nearby town or a faraway town.;
, If you and your friend are close to each other, have one of you go to visit the other's town – it doesn't matter who. Just make sure your gate is open so they can come in!


If you choose to visit a nearby town, Porter (the monkey) will simply look for nearby random players who have their gates open to other nearby players. This option works even if you haven’t previously exchanged friend codes with that player. This can work if you’re sitting next to your desired best friend and he or she opens up his gate for you.

However, do be aware that if you or your friend opens your town gates to nearby players, that you might end up with other unintended visitors.
 If your best friend isn't nearby and you choose to visit a faraway town, your 3DS will connect through the Internet to towns with people whom you’ve already exchanged friend codes with and who have their gates open to far away players.


Remember, this option only works if you've already exchanged friend codes. Otherwise, their faraway town won't show up.
 Once you’re in your desired best friend’s town, simply look for the green button that has icons of people on it on the bottom left of the touch screen. Tapping that button will result in list of every person in the current town. Most likely, it will only comprise of your desired best friend, but if others are wandering around, they’ll show up, too.


From there, tap the name of the person you desire to be best friends with and he or she will be added to your Animal Crossing friend list.
 Any person must appear on your friend’s list before you can initiate best friend status, thus why the previous steps are necessary. In order to become best friends, you just have to have this person add you back by tapping the heart next to your name.


If you have your friend visit your town, have them add you to their list. Then you can look at your list and make them your best friend by tapping the heart next to his or her name.

