 Get familiar with the right shoulder position, one of the most common fundamental flag positions you will begin any other movement from. Start in a comfortable stance with feet shoulder width apart.Hold a right shoulder position by placing your left hand around the tip or stopper of the flag’s pole and hold it at the height of your bellybutton. Place your right hand around the pole at the tape or “tab” where the pole and the silk of the flag meet.
Perform a left shoulder position by switching the placement of your hands, with the right hand at the stopper and your left hand at the tab.;
, Build on right shoulder position by moving to front present or back present. Keep your hands in the same placement while you straighten your right or left arm for these positions.


Get in front present position by beginning in right shoulder position. Push your right arm straight out in front of you. The left arm may be bent to bring the stopper slightly further in toward your belly button, while the right arm extends so that the pole tilts away from you at eye level.
Begin in right shoulder position for back present. Push your left hand up and out straight in front of you so that it is parallel to the ground. This will cause your right hand to extend above your head, with the flag above and tilted to the back of you.
 Start in right shoulder position to transition to right present or left present. These positions create a diagonal angle with the pole to the right or left of your body.


Start in right shoulder position and move your right arm out to the right for right present, keeping your left hand over the stopper at your belly button.
Begin in the right shoulder position for left present as well, though this time your right hand will cross over your face and body to the left, with your left hand still at your belly button. Lower your shoulders so you can still see over your arm in this position.
 Create a slightly more dramatic movement with a slam. Use the same right shoulder position to create a diagonal line in either direction across your body.


Begin in a right shoulder position for a right slam. Pull your right hand down toward your right hip at the same time that you pop your left hand up toward your left shoulder, keeping your hands in the same position on the flag.
For a left slam, start in right shoulder position. Let go of the flag with your left hand and hold that hand face up and cupped at your left hip. Use your right hand to swing the flag down toward your left hip, “catching” your right hand in your cupped left hand. The pole will be tucked up into your right armpit.