 Litter box issues can happen as a result of stress, conflict with other cats, or even due to a medical condition, such as a urinary tract infection. Litter box issues can be complex, so using a spray bottle is unlikely to solve the problem. If your cat is having litter box issues, then the best thing to do is to take her to see a veterinarian to rule out medical issues and then work on retraining your cat to use the litter box. If your cat is healthy, then you can try some different techniques to get your cat to use her box, such as:Keeping one more box than the total number of cats in your home.
Changing the litter more frequently.
Trying a different brand of litter.
Placing the litter box in a quieter place in your home.
Placing litter boxes in more rooms of your house to make using the box more convenient.
Removing the liner and/or hood from the litter box, since these can make some cats uncomfortable.
Filling your cat's litter box with only one to two inches of litter, which is what most cats prefer.
Getting a large or extra large litter box, since some cats dislike small boxes.
Getting an easy entry box if you have an older cat. These boxes have a lower edge or an opening to make it easier for your cat to get in and out of the box.
 When you use positive reinforcement training, it is important to time the reward right when the desired behavior happens.Spray bottle training may also be the most effective if you use the spray bottle right when your cat is doing something you do not want him to do. Otherwise, he will probably not make the connection.


For example, if you spray your cat a few minutes after he has finished scratching your sofa, then he will not understand why you are doing it. You have to spray him while he is still in the act.
 While you may be tempted to use the spray bottle every time your cat does something you don't want him to do, you should only use the spray bottle to train for severe or persistent behaviors. If you use the spray bottle too often, then your cat may get used to being sprayed and the bottle might lose its effect.For example, if your cat often gets up on the kitchen counter to search for treats, then spray bottle training may be a good choice. Or, if your cat scratches on your sofa despite your other efforts to deter him, then spray bottle training might be a good option. However, avoid using the spray bottle on a cat who gets up on the counter once in a great while, or who scratches on the sofa once a week instead of using his scratching post.
 Some cats will learn right away that doing a specific behavior earns them a spray of water, while other cats may take longer to make the connection. Make sure that you repeat the training every time your cat engages in the unwanted behavior.


If your cat has a routine with the unwanted behavior, then be ready with the spray bottle to deter him. Try keeping it next to you (but out of his sight) or in a convenient cupboard.
 One of the reasons why most cat behavior experts do not recommend the spray bottle method is because it can cause your cat to fear you.If you notice that your cat is hiding from you, refusing to approach you, or running away when you enter a room, then she may be responding to the spray bottle training and becoming fearful of you.


If your cat does not seem to be responding to the training after a couple of weeks, then you should also stop using the spray bottle and try a different deterrent. For example, you can place tin foil or plastic wrap on counters to discourage your cat from getting up on them. Or, you can place double sided sticky tape, foil, or plastic wrap on your furniture to discourage your cat from scratching.
You can also talk to your cat's veterinarian or a cat behavior specialist to get help for severe or persistent behaviors.

