 Generally, compensation for delayed airline luggage takes the form of reimbursement for essentials, such as toiletries and underwear, that you need to purchase to get you by in the interim until your bag arrives.This means you're probably not going to get much assistance if the delay occurred on the final leg of your flight home. The airline will assume that you have items such as toiletries and underwear at home beyond what you packed in your bags for your trip.
If your flight was covered by the Montreal Convention, you are entitled to a set amount of compensation for each day your bags are delayed. The Warsaw Convention offers similar compensation, although the amount is less than that offered under the Montreal Convention.
Keep in mind that if you're traveling within the United States, there are few regulatory requirements regarding baggage delays.
Check the airline's policy. Some airlines such as Delta offer flat compensation of $50 a day for baggage delays, but you may need to mention the policy to enforce it.
 Depending on your situation, there may be things that you need immediately. If so, you should try to secure replacements before you leave the airport. Get the airline to assist you.Some airlines will simply give you a voucher to pay for replacement toiletries and the like. They also may have branded items to give to passengers in your situation. This typically takes the form of a small bag with travel sized shampoo, conditioner, soap, and lotion.
If you have special needs or were carrying items for someone with special needs, let the agent know. For example, you may have to use a particular shampoo because of allergies.
Many airlines will offer immediate compensation in the form of vouchers to cover your immediate needs, particularly if it's estimated you won't be able to retrieve your bags for at least 24 hours. However, you have to ask. The agent typically won't offer you anything voluntarily.
 The airline cannot reimburse you without proof of the expenditures you made. If you purchase items to replace things in your delayed luggage, keep the receipts together in a safe place.International agreements may restrict the airline's liability. This means you won't get any more compensation than the liability ceiling set by the agreement.
However, that doesn't mean you should treat that ceiling as an excuse to go on a free shopping spree as long as you don't spend over that amount. The airline may contest your expenditures if they don't seem to fall in the range of necessity.
Be prepared to justify your expenses. Business attire, if necessary, can be expensive – especially if you have to buy something at the last minute within a short period of time. Other expenses, however, may be harder to explain.
For example, if you need to buy underwear and go to a discount store, you'll likely be fully reimbursed. However, don't expect the airline to reimburse your entire purchase at a luxury lingerie boutique.
 many air travelers purchase travel insurance to protect them in situations such as when baggage is lost or delayed by the airline. If you have travel insurance, you may have quicker results going through your insurance.In some situations (and depending on the contents of your bag), your homeowner's or renter's insurance also may cover the loss.
Keep in mind that typically the insurance company won't act until the situation has been resolved – meaning either you have your bag and the period of delay can be assessed, or the airline has notified you that your bag is lost entirely.

