 Key to earning as much money as possible during your Uber shift is limiting the times during which you aren't in your car. Rather than looking for parking and spending valuable time (and money) finding somewhere to buy food during lunchtime, consider packing a lunch or other meal that you can eat comfortably from your car while pulled over.
 Your bodily needs are unavoidable during a long day of work, but you can limit the time and gas you spend looking for places to use the restroom by searching your map for public restrooms in the area where you're working.
 If a passenger requests a destination that is in a suburb or less densely populated area, it's important not to stay there after the trip is complete. You'll find much higher demand for Uber in busy urban areas, so always make an effort to search for new passengers here rather than in less socially active places (especially ones where people are more likely to drive their own cars).
 Uber will often text drivers with advice on where to head to find lots of passengers. However, this causes lots of drivers to head to "high-demand" areas, reducing the likelihood of surge pricing and of all drivers even managing to find passengers. By merely avoiding the areas that Uber texts about, you increase your likelihood of finding passengers.
 Uber turns on surge pricing according to the number of Uber drivers operating in an area, which is determined by the number of drivers logged into the app at a given time. You can increase the likelihood (and rate) of surge pricing by logging out of the driver app just before typical surge price hours - for example, just before 1am on a Friday night or just before rush hour on a weekday - and then logging back in a few minutes later, after passengers have started requesting rides en masse. This increases both the likelihood that a surge will occur and the surge rate that passengers experience when requesting rides.
 While the driver app does not allow you to see other Uber cars in the area, the Uber passenger app does. If you find yourself without any passenger requests for an extended time, download and open the passenger app. You may find that the map shows you many other Uber cars in your immediate vicinity. When this happens, drive away from the other cars on the map (it may take less than even a mile) and you will increase the demand for your car's service.


This trick involves a tradeoff between supply and demand of Uber cars. Ideally, you should drive as far away from other Ubers as possible without leaving a well-populated area, where the demand for Uber is likely to be high.
 The average Uber trip in the United States is 6.4 miles.By driving much longer than this to pick up a passenger, you greatly undermine the trip's value to you as a driver.

