 In order to learn setting, you will need full range of motion in your arms and legs.


Wear cross training sneakers that allow you to move in any direction without twisting your ankle. They should also grip the floor so you don’t fall.
Wear kneepads as you learn advanced setting. Setters are required to occasionally kneel to reach a ball.;
, A set will usually be the second touch out of 3-touch return. The setter must pivot and adjust to where the first pass took place.
 Face the ball and square your hips toward it.


Position yourself so that the ball will hit you in the head, if you do not set it with your hands.
You want the ball to be redirected with upward, rather than sideways momentum, allowing a player to spike it in the direction of their choice.
 Your dominant leg should be leading and your knees should be slightly bent.
 Elbows should be bent slightly. Your hands should be approximately 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15cm) above your head.
 The window should frame the ball as it comes toward you. There should be approximately 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5cm) between your thumbs and your index fingers.
All of your fingers should touch the ball when you set, although the most control comes from your “window.”

, Straighten your knees at the same time.


The power that lifts the ball straight up should come from your legs and your triceps, with the wrists controlling the direction.
Your arms will outstretch, but can remain slightly bent if you are not setting the ball high.
Never allow the ball to rest into your hands. Prolonged holding of the ball is an illegal lift.
, Although your starting position may be in the front or back, you will move toward the center middle to set up the ball for the spiker.
 At any 1 time, there is only 1 official setter on the court.
 A teammate can temporarily fill in for the current plan. , The following are set types:


The One Ball is low and quick, going toward the front middle attacker.
The Two Ball will rise 2 to 4 feet (0.6 to 1.2m) upward. It should be versatile for the front or back attackers to make the final hit.
The Three Ball is a medium-high set approximately 3 feet (0.9m) upward and directed low and fast at side attacker.
The Four Ball is low and fast to the left outside attacker.
The Five Ball is the highest set. It can go 5 to 8 feet (1.5 to 2.4m) above your head, giving any player on the court time to reach it and spike it over the net. , You will start with a sitting setting warm-up drill.


Place your arms in the air, as if you are going to set.
A teammate will stand in front of you and throw the ball upward toward your head.
Set it back to your teammate.
Repeat 20 times. , You will need to walk as you continuously set the ball.


Flick your wrist to start setting the ball. Only allow it to go several inches before your head.
Keep setting as you walk forward across the court.
Walk backwards while you set after you have reached the end of the court.
Repeat 5 times, setting the ball every few seconds. Do the same drill while side stepping and lunging.
 Stand close to it, so that the ball will rebound back to you.


Set the ball against the wall in a series of heights.
For example, set it 1 foot (0.3m) up the wall, then 2 feet (0.6 m) and 3 feet (0.6 and 0.9m), continuing until you reach 8 or 10 feet (2.4 or 3m).
When you have reached the top height, decrease each set by 1 foot (0.3 m). Make sure to use your legs for the majority of the force in your sets. Bend your knees deeper to get more distance.

