 A college degree is not an admission requirement for training. A high school diploma or equivalent is required to enter a training program. An associate degree is recommended.;
, Standard courses include classes in:


Anatomy – Biology that deals with the structure of plants and animals.
Physiology – The study of living organisms and their parts.
Pathology – The study of diseases.
Physics - The relationship of energy and matter.
 Most states require an echo technician to take and pass a state certification exam before an offer of employment is made.


Health facilities require or prefer registered echocardiographers with advanced training.
 Pediatric echo technicians must register with the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography and complete additional courses.


To determine if a child has heart disease, a physician will request a pediatric echo technician perform sonograms.
Adult echo technicians, at the request of a physician, perform sonograms to diagnose diseases and medical conditions of heart muscles and coronary arteries in adults.
 An echo tech works in a hospital or clinical setting. A tech must be proficient in:


Performing tests to achieve images for a cardiovascular evaluation.
Making necessary adjustments to equipment.
Assisting in selection of equipment according to specifications.
Explaining the exam process to patients.
Discussing scan results with radiologists.
Reviewing a patient's clinical history.
Operating ultrasound diagnostic equipment.
Producing visual images of organs.
Creating a medical chart and record of examination.
Performing standard maintenance of ultrasound equipment.
Demonstrating the ultrasound equipment to staff.



The American Registry of Radiologic Technology (AART) is the world's largest credentialing organization and seeks to ensure high quality patient care in radiologic technology.
The American Registry of Diagnostic Medical Sonographers (ARDMS) administers examinations and award credentials.
 The annual salary starts at around $35,000.

