 For most situations that cause anxiety, there are four ways to deal with them: Avoid, Alter, Adapt, or Accept. The first two focus on changing the situation. The second two focus on changing your own reaction. Try out a combination of these approaches and see what works best for you, keeping in mind that what works in one situation may not work for another.;
, The first A stands for "Avoiding unnecessary stress." Take a look at what's causing stress in your life. Keeping a journal of when you feel stressed and what's going on in your environment and relationships when you feel that way can help you identify triggers for your anxiety.


A common source of anxiety may be feeling like you are stretched too thin between multiple commitments (family, partner, job, school, etc.). Learning to say "no" when you need to can help remove that unnecessary stress.
Dealing with unpleasant people or situations can also trigger anxiety. If someone consistently seems to cause you to feel anxious, consider talking with him or her about it. If that person will not change any behavior, consider reducing the amount of time you spend with him or her.
Certain issues, such as politics or religion, can also trigger feelings of anxiety when you have to deal with them. Try to avoid discussions about things that you feel very strongly about if the conversations cause you anxiety.
 In some cases, you can't just avoid a situation that produces anxiety. However, you may be able to alter the situation so that it doesn't cause as much anxiety. Often, this means taking a new approach to it, or trying out new communication tactics.


For example, if your daily commute to work makes you feel anxious because you're afraid of crashing your car, see if you can take a bus or other type of public transit instead. You probably can't avoid going to work, but you can alter how you get there to reduce your stress.
Another common source of anxiety is relationships. You can often try to alter these dynamics simply by using assertive communication. This type of communication focuses on communicating your thoughts, feelings, and needs in a clear, direct, and respectful manner.For example, if you're feeling anxious because your mom calls you every day to "check up" on you, even though you're in college, you can try telling her how you feel: "Mom, I appreciate that you want to make sure I'm doing okay. Having to give you daily status reports is making me feel like I'm under a lot of pressure, and I'm feeling pretty stressed. What if you call me just on the weekend instead? I can catch you up on everything I'm doing then."


Time management is a huge source of anxiety for a lot of people. In addition to saying "no" to too many obligations, plan your time wisely. Use a calendar or scheduling app to keep track of your responsibilities. Plan ahead for big things like events or projects. You won't be able to avoid these things, but knowing they're coming up -- and that you have time to prepare -- can cut back the anxiety.
 In some cases, you can't do anything about the stressor. Maybe you can't change your job right now, even though you don't like it. Maybe you get stuck in a traffic jam that's simply going to make you late to work that day. In these cases, focus on changing your own response to the situation by adapting to it.


Try to reframe problems and anxiety triggers. For example, maybe you can't afford to change your job right now, even though you really hate dealing with customers at your job and it stresses you out. You could try reframing this negative as a positive: "I'm getting experience in dealing with difficult people that will serve me well in the future."
Try looking at the big picture. Often, people who have anxiety disorders find themselves worrying how others will see and judge them. The next time you feel anxious about something, such as giving a presentation in public, ask yourself: How important is this in the grand scheme of things? Will it matter a week, a month, or a year from now? The chances are likely that this is not as big a deal as it feels like it is.
Adjusting your standards can often help reduce anxiety. Perfectionism is strongly correlated with anxiety and depression.If unrealistic standards are what has you feeling anxious, try bringing them to a reasonable level. Remind yourself that you can pursue excellence without pursuing perfection -- in fact, allowing yourself to make mistakes and adapt to them will make you more successful in the long run., The illusion of control motivates a lot of people to place pressure on themselves through "should" statements: I "should" get over a loss, I "should" enjoy my job, I "should" have a great relationship.However, you cannot control others' actions and responses, only your own. Remind yourself that there are things beyond your control, and work on letting go of what you can't change.


Instead of becoming anxious because you can't get your partner to do what you want in your relationship, focus on what you can control, such as how you communicate with him or her. If the trouble in the relationship continues, remind yourself that you are doing all you can -- you can't take action for the other person too.
Look for the bright side. This may seem cheesy, but research suggests that looking for the "silver lining" of stressful or negative events can actually reduce feelings of anxiety and depression.For example, try to see mistakes not as "failures" but as opportunities for growth and learning. Try to see stresses as building your resilience, rather than tearing you down. Even reframing daily experiences like missing the bus can help you feel less anxious and upset., Anxiety can build up as a result of too much stress in your daily life. Adequate problem-solving and stress-management is required to help you overcome these stressors and minimize feelings of anxiety. With people who have a natural tendency towards anxiety, the need is strong to try to control the environment even when that is not possible. Focus on what you can control.


Grab a notepad and write down all the things that are worrying you at the moment. Brainstorm a few strategies on how you can fix the issues or prepare for them more appropriately. For example, if you are worried about an upcoming speech, you can make a plan to practice the speech nightly and, at some point, deliver it in front of a mock audience., Perhaps you are worried about your sibling who is traveling across country. You may develop intense, anxious feelings if you miss hearing from your sister or brother even by a few minutes. It may be helpful to challenge your worries with realism.


For instance, in the above scenario, you may have started to tell yourself "something is wrong with my sister" or "she's been hurt". You can easily challenge this premise by looking up news reports that relate to her travel route. If you have heard no reports of a car accident, then you can make a more accurate statement like "she has been delayed in calling me for some reason" or "maybe she is having trouble accessing her phone".
 If you suffer from an extreme form of anxiety such as regular panic attacks, your body goes into "flight or fight" mode even when you may not be in danger. People who experience panic attacks may feel as though their lives are being threatened and a feeling of doom may come over them. Rational thinking can also help with such scenarios.Look around at your immediate surroundings. Are you being threatened in some way? If not, repeat this phrase over and over again until you begin to feel calm: "I am not in danger. I am safe." It may even help to back into a corner so that you can see all around you to constantly verify that you are safe.
 In some cases, fear of anxiety causes more anxiety. When when you start to feel anxious, soak up the feeling with a long deep breath. Notice what you are thinking and how you are feeling, but try not to react to these feelings, just mindfully take stock of your mental and physical state.


You may even use light humor when you sense anxiousness approaching. Say things to yourself like, "Bring it on!" or "Give me what you've got!" Acting fearless in the face of anxiety and simply accepting that you are feeling anxious in this moment may help the feelings to pass more quickly.
 Imagine your stomach as a balloon. Inhale fully and deeply through your nose, feeling your stomach expanding. Then, exhale, gradually allowing your stomach to collapse.


You can perform deep breathing exercises during a panic attack or frequently throughout the day to reduce stress and fend off anxious feelings. 20 to 30 minutes of deep breathing daily is ideal.Reciting a script in your head like "I am safe." or "I am perfectly calm." may help.
 Daily engagement in calming activities can help you rid yourself of anxiety or keep these feelings under control. Meditation involves mindfully clearing your mind of fears or worries and focusing on cleansing, relaxing breaths. Yoga incorporates stretching and body positions called asanas with meditation and breathing techniques for a full-body calm.


Look up meditation for beginners or online or sign up for a yoga class at a fitness studio near you.
 Anxiety can be exacerbated by not taking care of your body. Have a healthy, balanced meal of lean protein, fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy several times a day (i.e. between 3 and 5 meals daily). Plus, keep energizing snacks like fresh veggies, fruit, and nuts on hand to fuel your body in between meals.


Eat foods high in healthy fatty acids like salmon and avocado in addition to complex carbohydrates such as whole grain oats and brown rice to manage anxiety naturally.
Avoid caffeine and alcohol. These substances can actually make anxiety worse. Both alcohol and caffeine can make you edgy and interfere with your sleep cycle.
 This can include walking your dog through the park or a more vigorous exercise regimen such as high-intensity interval training.Research shows that regular exercise provides mood-enhancing endorphins that not only help build self-esteem but take your mind off what's making you anxious.In order to be sure that you stick to a routine of regular physical activity, it's best to sample a variety of activities and rotate between a few that you enjoy the most. For example, you might like participating in group sports most. However, you might also enjoy swimming for when you do not have a group of people with whom you can play.
Always speak to your doctor before starting a new fitness regimen.
 Most adults need approximately 8 to 9 hours of sleep a night. Both stress and anxiety can interfere with sleep and keep you up at night. If you have all your worries running on a loop through your mind, it can be hard to settle down for sleep. However, being sleep deprived can worsen anxiety. If you are a chronic worrier, you are at risk of getting insufficient sleep.Wind down your evening with relaxing activities that put you in the right mind-frame for sleep. Take a soothing bath, listen to a mindfulness meditation CD or YouTube video, or read a book. Try to avoid excess stimuli from electronic devices, as the blue light can keep your brain wired and prevent sleep.
Avoid drinking coffee, caffeinated drinks, or eating chocolate before bedtime.Reserve your bedroom for sleeping and relaxing only. Refrain from watching TV in bed or doing work.
 These activities depend on your personal preferences, but may include: sewing or knitting, reading a good book, praying or other spiritual practices, talking on the phone to a friend, listening to music, or playing with a pet.
 If anxiety still holds you back after trying the recommendations listed above, seek professional help such as a mental health counselor or psychologist.This professional can evaluate you to determine which type of anxiety disorder you are suffering from and suggest treatment options for managing the symptoms. Common treatment options for anxiety are:Psychotherapy. Talk therapy may consist of you sharing the details of your worries with a counselor or psychologist, and coming up with strategies to overcome these worries or stressors. A psychologist may use cognitive-behavioral techniques that focus on challenging your irrational thought patterns and discovering healthier ways of coping with stress.
Medications. When anxiety is interfering with your everyday functioning, you may be prescribed pharmacological treatment after seeing a psychiatrist. Medications typically prescribed to treat anxiety include anti-depressants, anti-anxiety meds, and beta blockers. Your doctor will review your unique medical and family history to determine which type of medication is suitable for you.
In some situations, an individual will require both psychotherapy and medications to manage anxiety. Regardless, with proper intervention, anxiety is a curable disorder.
 Have someone to talk to. It doesn't matter how much they understand about your disorder; just having the ability to discuss your worries with a friend or family member can really help.
 Your mental health provider may suggest that you start journaling or keeping a thought diary in order to target in on some of your common fears and figure out the triggers. Doing so can help you to have more insight into the roots of your anxiety and possibly develop strategies to avoid these triggers.Your journal can be a great place to unload anxious thoughts or worries. However, be careful that you do not use it to ruminate and end up making your anxiety worse.
At the beginning or end of each day, simply write an entry that describes your current mood and any details about the day. It's OK to state some concerns that you might have such as an upcoming test or a first date. Use your journal to strategize ways to relieve these stressors as discussed above. After you have conducted a short brainstorming session, close your journal and make an effort to leave those worries on the page. Focus only on being solution-oriented, meaning take action to relieve those stressors but do not ruminate on the specific worries.
 Alternative treatment approaches like acupuncture have been shown to be effective in managing stress and anxiety. Chinese healers believed that when the body's 'chi' is unbalanced people may suffer from conditions like anxiety or depression. Needles are inserted at key places on the body to relieve any obstructions of the chi and reclaim overall health and wellness. Talk to your mental health provider or primary care physician to see if acupuncture is a viable option for treating your anxiety.
 Approximately 40 million Americans struggle with anxiety every day. However, only one-third of those get treatment.Take the necessary steps to get outside help if you cannot manage your anxiety alone.

