 Mark key words and phrases. Doing so will help you determine what to address in your personal testimony. For instance, if the job advertisement includes a requirement for managerial experience, organizational skills, and familiarity with particular software, you will want to be sure to address these topics in your writing.


If you are applying for more than one position, you may notice some overlap in the job requirements. At this point, it may be helpful to create a list that organizes the positions according to key words or phrases. In other words, make a list of positions categorized according to job requirements (e.g., managerial experience, organizational skills, and so forth). This list can serve as a guide later as you revise your personal testimony to fit each particular position.
 Start with the phrases you have highlighted and create a list of past work experiences that demonstrate your capability in these required areas.


If you have worked a lot during your university years or recent work experience, what have you learned (leadership or managerial skills, for example), and how has that work contributed to your growth? What are your career goals?
Make a list of the skills you possess (e.g. leadership, verbal communication, analytical) and think of an example for each of those skills. Alternately, identify one example that relates to all (or the majority) of the skills you listed.
 You can also create a list of your personal characteristics (e.g. integrity, compassion, persistence) that would relate to the positions for which you are applying, as well as challenges that you have overcome.


Be sure that you can clearly connect these personal attributes to a particular professional example. You’ll need to be able to demonstrate an instance when you were persistent or demonstrated compassion that connects to the job at hand.
 Itemizing your reasons for applying to a particular organization or company will help you identify how your skill sets, goals, and experience align with those of the organization or company to which you are applying.


Questions like these will get you started:

When did you become interested in this area and what has motivated your interest and reinforced your belief that you are suited to this field?
How have you learned about this field? Was it through courses, journals, seminars, work or other experiences, or conversations with other professionals?



, If the testimonial will be submitted online, you may be able to include unique content in your testimonial. If you're applying for a job in a creative field, finding a way to include photos and videos can benefit you. If you're applying for a job as a makeup artist, for example, a few photos of your past clients or a link to your website could help you stand out. If you're applying for a job in film, see if you can include a link to any videos you've produced online.