 Diving for abalone is one of a kind experience enjoyed by many on the north coast of California. The use of a scuba tank or any other underwater breathing apparatus is not used; all the fun lies when you must get them by diving while holding your breath. Not to say that you can’t go out at very a low tides and “rock pick” them without entering the water,;
, An abalone is a huge snail that lives on the rocks in the shallows of the ocean. Most abalone have hard shells and are approximately 7 to 9 inches (17.8 to 22.9 cm) wide. Most rarely grow to over 11 inches (27.9 cm) in its life. The abalone are firmly attached to the rocks by their “foot” and are pried off with a flat bar, which also must meet certain criteria legally to avoid damage to undersized abalone and those that are unable to be pried off such as, It must not be sharp or not wide enough so the abalone are not cut with it.
 By law, every diver must carry their own measuring device while diving which are wide “U shaped” tools with an inside width of 7 inches (17.8 cm).
 You will need a full wet suit which includes a hood, gloves, and booties. The other gear that you will need would be a mask, snorkel, fins, weight belt, abalone bar, abalone gauge, and something to keep your abalone in as they must be kept separate from other divers’.
 Seasickness, cramps, exhaustion, and injuries do occur and such a floatation device can save your life.
 The wet suit is neoprene which is a foam type material and the wet suits come in various thicknesses. This material is very buoyant and the weight belt’s purpose is to offset this buoyancy so that you can submerge. Without this weight, diving is virtually impossible. Each weight belt has a quick release buckle on it so that the diver can, if needed and as a last resort, shed this belt and float with ease. Once you lose or shed your belt, either someone else dives down to get it or your dive is over! Shedding your weight belt also causes you to lose some of your maneuverability as your lower body and legs want to float instead of stay underwater to give you “traction” in the water.
 The diver should dawn all gear to be dove with and enter calm, placid water close to shore where he(or she) can freely float. Start with about 20 pounds of weight on your belt and use a couple pounds more if you are taller or more robust than the next guy or girl.
 The water level should be such that your dive mask is half under the water and half above so you can look either under or over the water. Adjust the weight to your belt until you reach this equilibrium a diver will call “neutral buoyancy”.
 This breathing apparatus allows you to keep your head in the water and float easily and let you view under the water with your mask while still breathing normally. Your head is very heavy – 15 to 20 pounds- and if you insist on not using your snorkel and holding it up out of the water so you can breathe through your mouth and nose normally, you will be kicking your rear end off in order to do so.


Much of the time this one hard blow gets 90% of the water out of it and a huge mistake that new divers make is to assume that all of it is out and they take a huge gasp for that needed air and intake that last 10 percent and choke on it.
 This seems like quite a task, but it begins to become habit with experience as does much of proper free diving technique, which then allows the diver a degree of comfort that transcends him or her from the novice to the experienced diver. #Dive only in portions of the United States, where there are clear and gentle ocean waters. Diving on the north coast of California isn’t like the clear ocean waters of Florida, Texas, Mexico, or Hawaii. The water here is not only cold, but usually quite rough and almost always murky where the visibility underwater is only 5 to 15 feet (1.5 to 4.6 m). Although the abalone is found from the mean low tide level of the ocean to depths of 50 feet (15.2 m) or more, diving in waters that are shallow can be both dangerous and exhausting. The ocean’s waves come in and out with great force and sweep the diver where ever it decides to, which can include putting his or her head up against a rock! Even if you do find an abalone, trying to stay in one place long enough to get it off the rock can be nearly impossible and requires that you kick like a maniac and hold on for dear life. Diving in over 15 feet (4.6 m) of water eliminates most of these issues as the waves are just swells that gently take you up and down on the surface and have nearly no effect once you are submerged. When you go down and find an abalone, you are in still water where you can relax and concentrate. The novice diver tends to see the shallow water as easier and safer, but once they relax enough to give the deeper seas a try, they soon learn that their oxygen and strength lasts much longer and that the deeper ocean is a much easier diving experience.
 Part of diving deeper process involves the essential function of the process known as “clearing your ears”. Learning how to clear your ears when diving is an absolute must in order for you to prevent breaking or damaging your eardrum. There are stories of scuba divers that have drown due to the disorientation caused by the trauma to the organ of balance and shock of the cold water caused by the eardrum breaking.


Allergies, colds, and some medical issues can all cause an inability to clear your ears and you should not dive at all if this is the case.
When you do dive, clear your ears several times on the dive, perhaps every 5 or 6 feet (1.5 or 1.8 m), and stop descending if you feel pressure that you cannot relieve by clearing.
 The ocean water here is murky. Many times you are diving to the bottom that you cannot see until you are well on your way from the surface. Bad experiences due to the beginning diver being taken along to learn how to snorkel or abalone dive when the ocean conditions are poor is probably the main reason that the beginners give up diving before they can become proficient and relaxed enough to enjoy themselves and take up the sport as a hobby they love. And usually this is the fault of the friend that takes them along who should know better.
 When you make a dive for abalone, or any dive whether you are spearing fish or just snorkeling for fun, rest a minute on the surface while floating still so your body can build up oxygen in its cells and you are relaxed. After all, what’s the hurry! Then, turn your body downward smoothly and lift your entire leg straight into the air so that it’s substantial weight will propel you downward until your fin enters the water and you can further propel yourself with it as you kick. With this motion you will be surprised to see that you have already descended about 10 feet (3.0 m) with one kick. Many people that are just learning how to dive will try to swim down by kicking sideways to the surface or thrashing their fins in the air, which don’t accomplish much besides using your oxygen. This smooth entry will truly help with your diving abilities and success. Once under water, relax. You are only a few bathtub’s depths deep when you think about it! Kick smooth and think about the abalone on the bottom and how you plan to look on the undersides of the rocks where the big ones hang out or maybe about that huge ling cod or other bottom fish that you plan to show off at the dive shop or campground or on a website. Look at the colors of the corals and the other sea life that you pass and make it a point to enjoy the experience instead of rushing. Pay attention to your surrounding as you are going down and coming up for safety, but also for the opportunity to view the ocean creatures in their habitat. Keep your eye out for lost dive gear that some unfortunate diver lost that you can salvage. Catch a nice rock crab, sea urchins, or scallops to enhance that seafood meal for you and the gang later. Mostly, what I am saying is relax, as this is the key to learning to dive for abalone.
 You will “sneak” up on the abalone by not swirling the water around it or touching it as they will clamp their shell tightly to the rocks and you may not even be able to slip your bar under the shell at that point.
 Grab it and you are done.
 Then throw that lunker in your tube! Make sure that you always try to only pry legal abalone off as this process can damage their bodies and they are almost then certain to die. Try not to get too excited and to remember that everything looks bigger than it is when seen through the mask. If you do take one that is too small to be legal, take care and replace it firmly on the rock that you got it from if you can as this is the law, but at least put it somewhere safe as the fish and other creatures will swarm the poor thing immediately and you won’t be able to get it later when it grows up. These are a fragile creature and we all should have the respect for them to make every effort to protect and preserve them for our children.
 Bring out the abalone guts or squid and put them within sight of the surface in several places in a couple hundred yard area and swim back and forth between them waiting for a fish to appear as they are mostly hidden in the kelp beds, seaweed, or rocks.

