 Type "firstrowsports.eu" into your browser window and press enter. Click on the "Am. Football" category. Click on the MNF game to reveal a string of links — "Link 1," "Link 2," etc. Click on any one of the links to access a streaming version of the game. Wait for the countdown to zero out and then click the small (sometimes hidden) Xs to remove the ads that will inevitably block the visual feed.


To make the viewing experience better, download Adblock Plus. Adblock Plus will remove all the annoying ads automatically, leaving you a clean view of the hard-hitting action.
Streaming games like this may be illegal. Consider using a legal service such as NFL Game Pass before streaming illegally.
Don't click on any "downloads" or the content of ads, and don't pay for the service. Do so at your own risk.;
, Type "wiziwig.tv" into your browser window and press enter. Click on the "live sports" category at the top of the screen, then click on the "Am. Football" subcategory. Click on the MNF game. Choose a link from the list available by pressing "Play now!"


To make the viewing experience better, consider downloading Adblock Plus. Without Adblock Plus, you may have to deal with annoying ads.
Streaming games like this may be illegal. Consider using a legal service such as NFL Game Pass before streaming illegally.
Don't click on any "downloads" or the content of ads, and don't pay for the service. Do so at your own risk.
 Type "ifeed2all.eu" into your browser window and press "enter". The site should automatically redirect to the "football" subcategory, which is actually British football, or soccer. Click on the "Am. Football" subcategory, and then on the MNF game you wish to watch. As with firstrowsports.eu, several streaming links should appear for you to click on. As with all streaming links, Adblock Plus is essential.


Streaming games like this may be illegal. Consider using a legal service such as NFL Game Pass before streaming illegally.
Don't click on the "downloads" button or the content of ads, and don't pay for the service. Do so at your own risk.

