 At the same time, grow accustomed to having to move your feet a lot during matches. To avoid overexerting yourself and risking injury, start off with daily jogs at both a pace and a duration that you can manage easily, so that you are able to converse with a partner without becoming too winded.If needed, alternate between jogging and walking in the beginning if your endurance is low at first. Set off at a jogging pace for one minute, then fall back to walking for four minutes. Repeat three times for a total of 20 minutes. As this grows more comfortable, increase the time spent jogging and reduce that spent walking period by one minute each from run to run until you are able to comfortably jog for 20 minutes without stopping. From there, add additional increments of five or ten minutes to your runs as they become more manageable., Improve your ability to burst into motion at maximum speed so you can move around the ring quickly. Hit the track and run reps on the 100-meter straightaway.


Again, start small in order to avoid overexerting and hurting yourself.Keep to only a handful of reps at first. Start off with a less-than-full sprint that you can maintain from start to finish of each rep, so that your last rep matches the same speed as your first. As each workout becomes easier, increase your speed to a full sprint. Then add a rep or two to each workout.
Be sure to go for a short jog first to warm your legs up and reduce the chance of injury.
 Sprint up the hill with short strides. Walk or jog back down, and then repeat. Develop the ability to spring off your toes with this workout, which maximizes the most amount of muscles in your legs.As with all interval training, take baby steps at first to familiarize yourself with the physical demands of this workout. Ease off the pace in the beginning. Aim to run a consistent speed in each rep throughout the workout. Once you can manage to run that pace from start to finish, increase your speed with the next workout.
 Exercise your feet and legs with a variety of jump-rope workouts. Jump with both feet for three minutes at a slow pace until this becomes nearly effortless. Then alternate between fast and slow with 30-second intervals of each speed, for a total of three minutes.In other rounds, stick to jumping on just one foot for a total of ten steps, then switch to the other, until your three minutes are up. Avoid sticking to just one pace or style from workout to workout, so you can better adapt to quick changes in your opponent’s speed in the ring.
 Find a step, sturdy box, or other elevated surface that will support your weight. Use one that is about a foot high, or roughly shin-level when you stand next to it. Do step workouts at sprint-speed. Do “one” steps (returning each foot to ground-level before stepping up with the other foot), “double” steps (bringing one foot up, then the other, before returning each to ground level), or a combination of the two, to increase speed and force.Consistency is key, so start off with moderate intervals of 30 seconds each until you are able to perform each at an even speed with no missteps. Then gradually increase your reps by 10 or 15 seconds in future workouts.
 Set up a minimum of four traffic cones (or other suitable obstacles) in a straight line. Place them evenly, with enough room between each for you to weave between them. Stand at the head of the line with your back to the cones. Then, keeping your heels off the ground, jog backwards and weave around each cone. At the end of the line, about-face by pivoting on the ball of one foot, and then repeat. Increase your confidence in retreating from your opponents without tripping over your own feet or having to look behind you.Whatever objects you choose in lieu of traffic cones, make sure they are relatively soft or otherwise unlikely to cause injury should you make a few missteps in the beginning.

