 If you're having trouble falling asleep at night, make sure your bedroom is suitable for sleeping. Difficulty sleeping may be resolved by making a few simple alterations to your bedroom.


Keep your sleep life and wake life separate. Do not keep electronic devices like laptops and televisions in your bedroom. Do not do work or go online in bed. Your bedroom should be for sleep alone. This will send a signal to your body that, when you enter the bedroom, it's time to wind down. If you live in a studio or dorm, consider hanging a tapestry or sheet between your bed and the rest of the apartment.Make sure your bedding is comfortable. All cotton sheets are best, as they tend to cause less irritation. Make sure pillows, comforters, and mattresses are not made from allergens. If your mattress is old or lumpy, consider a replacement. If you cannot afford a replacement mattress try investing in a foam sleep pad from a department store.Pay attention to temperature. The ideal temperature for sleeping is between 65 and 67°F (18.3 and 19.4°C). Invest in an air conditioner or box fan if your room is too warm. If you live in an area where it gets cool at night, try leaving your windows open.;
, Many people have trouble sleeping because they have difficulty shutting out daytime thoughts. If this is the case for you, engaging in relaxation techniques before bed can help.


Take a series of five breaths. Place your hand on your belly and breathe in, channeling air in such a way that your hand rises with your stomach. Hold for three counts and then exhale for three counts. Repeat five times.Stay in the present moment by tuning into your senses. Pay attention to how your body feels, how the mattress and sheets feel against your skin. Notice any sounds you hear from the window and any other sensory experiences.Try tensing and then relaxing your toes. Pay attention to how your toes feel, tense them, hold for 10 seconds, and then release., Stimulants, like nicotine and caffeine, as well as alcohol can interfere with your sleep. Avoid these substances before bedtime.


Nicotine, in addition to keeping you awake, comes with a host of other health problems. It's best to work on cutting cigarettes and nicotine altogether. Talk to your doctor about ways to go about quitting.
Caffeine stays in your system for a fairly long time, about six hours, so it's best to stop drinking caffeinated beverages in the early afternoon. Coffee, soda, energy drinks, and some teas all contain caffeine. If you drink any of these beverages later in the day, make sure they're caffeine free.Alcohol can make you sleepy; however, the sleep you have when drinking is of lesser quality. You'll end up waking up tired if you drink before bed, especially in excess. Try to avoid the nightcap if you want to fall asleep faster., The blue light produced by electronic screens stimulates the brain, causing a boost in energy. In the hour before bedtime, stay off your computer and phone. Find another activity, like reading or a crossword puzzle, to entertain yourself just before bed., You should find a way to wind down in the hour before bed. Engage in calming activities that can help slow your brain down and prepare you for sleep.


Reading is great way to wind down and tends to cause fatigue if done around bedtime. Find a relaxing book to read, something lighthearted and fun, and try to read a chapter or so before bed.Watching television can help some people wind down; however, the blue light emitted from the set can have a stimulating effect on the brain. Try limiting your exposure to television before bed to 30 minutes and pick a relaxing show, like a lighthearted sitcom, over something more serious like a news or crime show.Engaging in activities like crossword puzzles or sudoku can help you wind down before bed.

