 If your teen is experiencing any of the symptoms of heat stroke after being out in the sun, you need to get them help as soon as possible.


If your teen is experiencing any of the following symptoms, bring them to the ER: headache, racing heart rate, rapid breathing, nausea and vomiting, flushed or red skin, mental confusion or altered state of mind, or has a body temperature above 104 F or 40 C.
The quicker that you treat someone with heatstroke, the better their prognosis is. Even if your child has one symptom of heatstroke, you need to act immediately.
If you are with your teen, get them inside to a cool place and then to the ER or an urgent care center.
If your teen isn't with you, you need to tell them to ask for help or to call 911 if they cannot get themselves help.
 While you or your teen is waiting for help to arrive, you need to get your teen cooled down as best as possible. The first step is bringing your teen inside.Find an inside area where there is air conditioning. This could be inside of a building or inside of a car that has been idling with the AC on already.
In addition, see if you can find a fan. Fanning your teen helps keep their body temperature cool.
Apply ice packs to the teen's neck, underarms, and groin.
 In addition to getting your teen indoors, it's also a good idea to remove their clothing. This is another way to get their body temperature lower.If your teen is showing signs of heatstroke, don't worry about embarrassing them by removing their clothes. This will get their body temperature lower and allow them to cool quicker inside in front of the fan.
Remove as many of their clothes as possible. However, keep their undergarments on.
Once clothes are removed, you can spray them down with cool, but not freezing cold, water. You can get them in the tub, use a hose or pour water on them.
 If your teen is just beginning to experience signs of heatstroke, it's important to encourage them to drink hydrating fluids. Stop whatever your teen is doing immediately, and go to a cool place. Next, encourage a lot of hydration. This can help their body function enough to cool itself down.Go for hydrating beverages like cold water, sparkling water or an electrolyte drink.
Do not give them sugary drinks like juice or soda and definitely do not allow them to have alcohol.
Only encourage your teen to drink if they're conscious and able to drink by themselves.

