 If you're wearing a belly top, cover your legs. If you're wearing a mini skirt then cover your tummy. As for makeup, don't wear much. Don't cake on foundation, or have bright pink lips. If you must wear makeup, keep it natural. Wear a bit of eye shadow, mascara, eye liner, lip gloss, and foundation if you need it. Cover up spots and blemishes.;
, Avoid joggers and hoodies, and wear skirts with cute tops. Girly colours include pink, purple, gold, white or silver. Peplum tops look really girly and cute and so do midi dresses.
 Wash your hair every other day, or if your hair is very oily every day. Here's how to wash your hair properly: brush your hair through until there is no knots. Rinse your hair in warm water. Not hot as this damages your hair, but warm, about 36 degrees. Lather hair in shampoos and massage into your scalp as is helps your hair grow well. Rinse out until the water runs clear or your hair will look dull. Condition your hair, just the middle and ends. Wash out.
 Pour some oil onto your hands and massage it deeply into your scalp. Apply it to your hair focussing on the ends since the ends of your hair are the oldest.
 If you have acne, see a dermatologist if you can afford it. If not, just use a cleanser every day. If your spots are very noticeable, put toothpaste on them and leave it on overnight. This will make them less red.
 Although you have to be very tough, so people learn not to mess with you. Have a good group of friends who would stick up for you if someone was mean to you. Give people compliments to brighten their day.
 Look around for new faces at your school and introduce yourself to them. Exchange phone numbers, emails, and social media usernames to keep in touch. Make small talk with a cashier or the person standing behind you in line who knows this person could be a potential friend.
 Have a huge sense of humour and laugh cutely. Crack a joke when someone is feeling down and share funny stories with your peers. Try not to make jokes that could offend people and hurt their feelings.
 Being dumb doesn't look cute. Always try hard in class and do your homework. Contribute in class discussion by raising your hand instead of day dreaming. Put your studies first instead of hanging with friends or playing video games you wouldn't want to fail the test.
 Stay away from foods that are high in salt, fat and oil. Read nutrition labels before placing the item in your cart you'd be surprised at how many foods people think are healthy are actually a pile of junk. Do yoga, meditation, or pamper yourself weekly to reduce stress which can lead to living a longer and happier life.
 Always smile, don't frown, be upbeat and jolly. Be proud of who you are, and don't change who you are.

