 When parents demonstrate healthy eating patterns, their kids are more likely to follow suit. Healthy eating patterns involve being conscientious and aware of your dietary habits, but not obsessive or anxious. Set a good example by enjoying a nutritious diet while eliminating any notions of “dieting” from your vocabulary.


Serve yourself small portions of meals derived from the major food groups. Only return for seconds after you have sat for a while, drank some water, and are sure your body wants more.
Don’t use negative self-talk such as “I’m fat.” Help your child develop a positive body image.Do not criticize your child for their emotional eating or scold them about their weight. This will only lead to more emotional eating and resentment.
Make healthy eating fun for children. Have them help you while you cook dinner, or let them read nutritional labels as you grocery shop. This will help teach them about healthy eating habits.
 Avoid guilt-tripping yourself or your kids when you overeat on processed, sugary, junk foods. Instead, offer a casual reminder about the types of foods that help fuel your body and give it energy. Enjoy more of those., Boredom is a common factor associated with emotional eating. Sometimes kids with nothing to do find themselves at the fridge, looking for something to give them temporary pleasure. Help your kids understand when they are bored and offer adaptive activities to do instead of eating.If your child complains of being bored, don’t offer a snack. Suggest they read a book, complete a puzzle, play a game with a sibling or friend, or go outside to play.
 Society often uses food as a “reward” of sorts. A child brings home straight-A’s and parents treat them to ice cream. The feature of any party is usually the cake. Prevent emotional eating habits from developing by resisting associating feeding with comfort or rewards.


Find other ways to treat (or cheer up) your kids, such as a family outing to the park or the local cinema., If you or your children eat from packages, it’s a recipe for disaster. When packages contain several servings, it can be hard to stop. You just might end up consuming the entire package before your body sends the message that you’re full.


Break down snack items such a crackers, nuts, or fruit when you bring them home. Divide them into appropriate serving sizes and place in snack-sized bags or containers.
Try your best to eat most meals from a plate. This helps you become more aware of portion sizes and increases your feelings of satiety.Kids may try to get their own snacks when you are not looking. If this is a problem, you may need to lock your pantry. Hand out snacks as you see fit.

