 This is considered to be good for you, as a good way to gain differing perspectives and to use different parts of your brain.Switching roles can help you to gain insights into what the other party will do when you're in the opposing role, because you've already played it yourself, helping you to empathize and comprehend likely moves. Moreover, switching between both hider and seeker roles is likely to assist you in better spotting errors or anomalies around you.All of these features make hide and seek a good game for all ages, kids and adults alike.
 The closet is an okay place, but it is pretty obvious. If you are small, empty cabinets are perfect. Hiding underneath a bed is also good as long as your hair, arms, legs, feet, or hands aren't showing. Small people can also hide behind solid curtains just as long as they don't move around. If you are big, you can resort to hiding in a closet behind some hanging clothes or behind a chair or couch. If it is a sleepover, hiding in a sleeping bag is perfect for any size of person.


Before the person who is seeker starts to count, take a good look around, and survey the place you are in. Look for potential hiding places. Try not to make it obvious what you're looking at though; if you're staring at one particular area, it is quite easy for the seeker to guess that that is where you will hide.;
, If there is a base, it might be best to hide somewhere near the base. But be careful, because you don't want to be too revealed. Once the seeker leaves the room, run to base and yell, "Safe!" or "Base!". Otherwise, if you are in a spot that is far from base, just stay there until you hear the seeker tag another person first. If there isn't a base, hide in a place that is far from where the seeker was counting.
 If you happen to be playing outside, day or night, a field can be good. Make sure to lie down, especially if it isn't tall grass or wheat or grain etc. Get comfortable fast, moving can cause the wheat or grass to move about, this is very noticeable and can be loud. Always lie down, you may think you're very noticeable, but in fact you are not. The seeker may think the same and dismiss it as a prime hiding spot and move on to other places he or she thinks are better hiding spots.
 For example, if you plan on hiding behind a curtain or the shower curtain, shut the closet door quietly, but loud enough for 'it' to hear. They will most likely think you are going into the closet and you will delay their search.
 If you see that the person is near, try to find an alternative place to hide and move to it, making sure that you are not seen as you shift.


For example if you were behind a car, you could crawl around to the opposite side but go very slowly, so that they don't see you, then and run into some bushes.
 If you haven't yet been spotted, try to make your way somewhere around the place that the seeker has already looked in. The chances are that they are not likely to go back.


Continue to alternate your hiding places, moving will make you harder to find. Carry on this tactic until the seeker eventually gives up!

, If you know where others are hiding, leave a note for the seeker, outing where the others are. This will increase your chances of being found last.


Make sure to tell the seeker that if he or she tells anyone about the note, then you won't aid the seeker next time.
Don't just say everyone's hiding spot besides yours. Skip a few names, so it will be hard to tell who left out the note. You could even decoy by including your own name but a fake hiding spot.
 Don't laugh. That is an automatic giveaway and you will be found. Cover your mouth and stay low. If you are in a closet, keep your back faced towards the door because if by chances they come in, they might think you are a pile of clothing or a bag. Bathrooms are not great places to hide because any sound that is made will usually echo.
 Before the game begins, ask for five minutes to go and check the layout and spot potential hiding spots as you do so. Some hiding areas will become immediately apparent to you, while knowing the layout gives you the opportunity to prepare your trajectory for seeking.


If you've played the same area before, remember where the hiding spots were last time––these are the ones to check first this time.
 Some people might give away their intention to hide in certain locations or to head in particular directions by looking or even shifting their body in that direction.
 This makes it a lot more fun for everyone involved, as they have to dash madly to get to their hiding spot on time and you don't have to wait around impatiently counting.
 Check every single room, if playing indoors. Try to be quick about it. Hiders may become frustrated if you never find them. While you are searching, scope out other places to hide. Be aware that if it looks impossible, it probably isn't, someone may well have tried it.


Check the checked spots toward the game's end. Some hiders shift back, hoping you won't check again.
 This is so that you can listen for any breathing, movements, etc. and not alert hiders to your presence before you reach them (potentially giving them the time to move to a new hiding spot).


As much as you're quiet, listen. If you hear sniffles, sneezes, giggles, shuffling, creaks, etc., these are all giveaway indicators of where your hiders are.
 People don't look up often and a good hider is aware of this. However, if you're playing a very hands-on hide and seek game, don't go climbing up that ladder or wall if you're liable to be pelted back down again. Find another way to get up or call them out of their spot by shouting that you have spotted them.
 This knowledge can be used both ways, and the seeker can start to look for the hider's telltale signs through knowing the hider's tricks. This is clearly something you need to do beforehand, out of sheer interest. It might even encourage you to put your hand up to be seeker at the next hide and seek game you're party to.
 Never resort to 'olee-olee-oxen free'. Masters of hide and seek look until they find.

