 Talk to your doctor about radiation therapy if you have stage III or IV thymoma. This treatment involves the use of high energy x-rays and other forms of radiation to eradicate cancer cells and stop new cells from forming.The type of radiation you receive may depend on the stage and type of thymoma you have.


External radiation utilizes a machine outside the body in order to send the radiation towards the cancer.
Internal radiation therapy, on the other hand, uses radioactive substances found in wires, catheters, needles, and seeds placed near or directly into the cancer.
 Chemotherapy can be used to reduce thymoma tumors. This treatment is generally used for people who have an invasive thymoma that has spread to other organs. The drugs that are used during chemotherapy include cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and cisplatin.These medications will be described in detail in the following steps.
 Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) is a drug that is used to treat various types of cancer. This drug is converted by the liver and made into acrolein and phosphoramide (active compounds that slow down the growth of cancer cells by disrupting the DNA of cancerous cells). This can help to shrink and treat the thymoma.Dosage is given initially at 30 to 50 mg/kg, administered intravenously during a period of 2 to 5 days. This dosage is then repeated in 2 to 4 weeks interval.
Orally, 1 to 5 mg/kg of this drug can be taken every day.
 Doxorubicin is another chemotherapeutic agent used with other drugs to treat various types of cancer, including thymoma. This drug works to slow down, and in some cases completely stop, the growth of cancer cells in your body.This drug is generally administered intravenously once every 21 to 28 days. The length of the treatment depends on the response of the tumor to the medication, as well as the response of your body to certain side effects.
 Vincristine (Oncovin) is a chemotherapeutic drug used with other drugs to stop or slow down the growth of cancer cells in the body. This drug is administered intravenously., Cisplatin (Platinol-AQ) is another chemotherapeutic agent used in the treatment of various cancers. This is used alone or in combination with other agents, such as the ones described in the previous steps. It works to slow down or completely stop the growth of cancer cells in your body.Doctors generally give this drug intravenously. They may prescribe 75 to 100 mg/m every four weeks, depending on what other chemotherapy drugs you are prescribed.

