 Even if a little corner, that should give the others enough time, to take their owns, so you won’t have to navigate without a plan and evade everyone.;
, If your space is big enough, make sure that you secure it ASAP. The bigger space you have, the more others wants to invade it.
 Make a full camp, by starting from the borders until you reach the center, or make the lines loose, and before you reach the center, make a turn, and start to go back through the way you just did.
 Everyone can attack you, from every side, and you have a low chance to capture any space.
 If you have a premium account, than you are lucky, since you can set any powerups. The most useful is, to set only one power up, which should be the following: Fast, slow, triple, square and reverse. Try to make hard moves, big challenges that you wouldn't dare while playing seriously. Remember, all the failures helps you to become pro!

, You can go back anytime, but don’t stay in one place if you have the opportunity, to get bigger space. If you miss the chance, others will take it, and by that, they’ll have a higher chance to win.
 Try to keep your gaming style as peaceful as you just can, otherwise, others will notice your rudeness, and will target you! If you are peaceful, you’ll be less visible to others, which is a big advantage, since they’ll target you anyway if you are the leader.
 Try to do the less important moves as simple as possible, but if you have to dodge someone, be vulpine.
 If it’s risky, and you have a bigger chance to win, leave it. Risk them only if you are losing

, When your space is full, and you have to navigate in the more chaotic part of the map, plan from step by step. Point out a goal, where you have to get, like an empty space or a powerup, and search for a way backwards! This is very important. Start the search from the goal, until you reach yourself. You should do this before you are out of space, since the game is fast, and it is possible that you won’t have enough time to calculate all this moves. Never leave your space before time, only if your way out will be blocked.
, Secure your back, then get after them; you’ll have a chance, to get them, and you will have a bigger space if they are that desperate.
 With practise, you will eventually figure out how big is the curve that you can make. Calculate your moves knowing this. For example, if you need to turn into a small place, go to the opposite side for a short time, so you don't have to curve all the way in.
, Believe, that you can make that move, even imagine it. This is the most important step of all. If your head is not clear, or if you are too excited, than you can't plan that much. Relax, don't take it seriously, don't think about what others may say about you; enjoy the moment, try to do your best and concentrate as much as you can. Try to play with nice people. Motivating and fun company can fasten your learning up. If you happen to play with a douche, ignore him. He is most likely to make mistakes more often, because of his negative attitude which totally distracts him.
 If you get an eraser or a switch in your camp, try to wait as long as possible before taking it. The longer you delay, the greater is the chance that some of your opponents die before the board clears.
 If you pick up a green speed or a red turtle, you can use your speed to go in front of your opponents and kill them.
 If you see a reverse (the powerup that switches the keys of your opponents snakes) nearby, you can use it to trick your opponents. Go towards the powerup and pretend that you are going to take it. Then turn away in the last second. Your opponents might think that you took it and therefore press the wrong key.
 Take a fat when your opponent is about to go through a hole. Take a green speed when an opponent is nearby. Usually, red powerups are best in the endgame when there are little space left, so try to save them.

