 By being aware of your usual purchases or sales and the likelihood of recalls in that subject category, you can stay more alert to the potential for recalls. According to the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission (ACCC), the products with the highest levels of recall in recent years include: cars, food and groceries, electrical and gas appliances, hobby and recreational goods and children's items.Other areas subject to recalls noted by the ACCC include home and garden items, phones, IT and multimedia products, fashion and clothing, industrial and business items, beauty and health products, and agricultural and veterinary products.. Most consumers are likely to make purchases in one or more of these areas. For businesses, this knowledge can help you to stay aware of any concerns that might be raised in relation to the items you're selling.;
, The ACCC provides a recalls database that you can access anytime and check by product category or through a general search. This can be found at: https://www.productsafety.gov.au/recalls?source=recalls. Bookmark the page for easy return.
 An easy way to stay updated on what recalls are happening at any current time, an email update is a simple and at-a-glance way to stay informed. You can sign up for the ACCC alerts at: https://www.productsafety.gov.au/newsletter/subscribe. You can tailor the alerts to reflect the product categories of most concern to you, such as health and lifestyle or babies and kids. For car owners, you can select the car make and stay reassured that if there are any recalls for that make, you'll remain aware of them. Simply check the boxes that are relevant to your interests and needs.


The emails can include recalls, news, standards and bans; just select the relevant boxes of interest to you.
 Visit https://www.productsafety.gov.au/recalls?source=recalls. Decide on whether to do a general search for a specific item across the whole database or a product category specific search that covers items only in that category., For the sake of this example, we'll use the term "chocolate". Type in "chocolate" to see what results return. You'll see a dropdown list appears detailing how many recalled chocolate items there are. The first return is a catch-all, then more specific terms are shown. For example, this return reveals: Chocolate, chocolates, chocolate coated, chocolate egg, chocolate bar, and many more specific terms in order of how many returns can be found. Select the one that you think is most relevant to your needs.
 Scroll down to see the different returns and determine if any are relevant to your search. You can also search by date in the drop-down menu on the top right hand corner or left hand sidebar, or by product category in the left hand sidebar.
 (In this case, we chose Chocolate Egg.) This page will provide information that helps you to:


Identify the product (this may include identifying batches, date ranges, model numbers, colours, etc., so read carefully)
The defect present (for example, it has small pieces, it breaks easily, it is toxic, etc.)
The course of action a consumer should take
Information on who has supplied the product, the traders who have sold the product, the locations in Australia (nationwide, statewide or locally) and sales dates
A recall notice.
 If you'd prefer to do a specific product category search, go to https://www.productsafety.gov.au/recalls?source=recalls. In the left hand sidebar, find the Product Category list. Click on the one of interest to you (in this case, Food and Groceries).
 You have a choice to browse all recalls or to do a search in the search bar. You can also refine the search within the category by clicking on a sub-category that is of most relevance to your search; using the chocolate example, clicking on Confectionery would make sense here.


To check all the recalls, simply scroll down, and click the numbers (or next, last options) at the base of each page for more returns, until you find the recall you're interested in.
If you want to do a specific term or product search within this category, use the same search process outlined above in the General Search method.

