 When a friend or loved one tells you that they have been diagnosed with a serious illness, your job in that moment is simply to listen. Do everything you can to stay present with them, make direct eye contact, and pay attention to what they are saying.Maintain steady eye contact.
Nod to show that you are listening.
Ask questions, but don't pry.
For instance, you might say, "May I ask what treatment plan you're going to follow?"

, Whenever we hear bad news from a friend, it is a natural reaction to try to solve the problem, or make them feel better. Unfortunately, this can make someone feel as though they are not being truly heard. Now is not the time to offer advice, remind them how it could be worse, or otherwise try to cheer them up.Your reaction may be to say, "At least you have good insurance," or "At least you don't have what Judy had." Resist this urge. That is not what your loved one needs to hear.
You may be tempted to try and cheer them up. Don't do this. Instead, allow them to feel what they are feeling.
Offer empathetic responses that acknowledge the situation. Saying something as simple as "Wow, this sucks," is sometimes the very best thing to say.
 If you feel dumbstruck, or tongue-tied, don’t allow your own discomfort get in the way of supporting your loved one. If you don’t know what to say (which is understandable), simply admit it and stay present to your loved one.They don’t need to you say anything.
They need you to listen.
It is perfectly OK to say, "I really don't know what to say."

, When a friend or family member shares this kind of news with you, it is perfectly OK to ask questions. (As a matter of fact, asking questions shows that you are really listening.) However, which details they choose to share is completely up to them. Don’t pry, or insist they answer questions. At this sensitive time, it is crucial for you to respect their privacy.Try beginning questions with the phrase, "May I ask . . ."
If you ask a question and it gives your loved one pause, you may chime in to say, "If you're not comfortable sharing that, that's OK."
You could also say, "If you'd prefer, we can talk about that later."

, An excellent way to offer support to your friend or loved one is to ask how you can help. Sometimes the ways we think we can help are not what is most needed. So ask first, and then help.Simply ask, "What can I do to help?"
It may help to offer up times when you are free. Such as, "Tuesdays and Thursdays are my open days, so if there is anything you need on those days, I'm you're person."
Think about what resources you have to give. They may need rides to appointments, help at home, or most likely, just someone who can listen.

