 This is the best way to dry large, delicate flowers such as lilies, as long as the flower doesn't drop its petals too easily.Ideally, pick the flowers when they're about half open, and dry immediately.
 A desiccant is an extra-absorbent material, that will slowly pull out water from your flowers. Whichever desiccant you choose must be completely dry to be effective. Here are the most common options:Silica gel: the fastest option, available at garden supply stores. Although more expensive, it can be reused many times (see Tips below).
Borax and white cornmeal: a cheap and lightweight option. Mix in equal quantities, or with as little as 1 part borax to 6 parts cornmeal — it shouldn't make much difference.Fine sand: this just supports the shape of the flower, allowing the air to dry it. The slowest option, but sometimes the cheapest.
 Some people suggest that salt helps the petals keep their color, although not everyone agrees.Try it with 3 tbsp salt per quart of other materials (15mL per L).
 If you have plenty of material, pick a container that can fit the entire upright stem. Most people save on materials and just cut off the flower stem, leaving a blossom that can fit in a shallow container. Different materials require slightly different setups:For silica gel, use a container that can be sealed airtight. A coffee can is a good option for a single flower.
For borax or sand, use an open container. A strong cardboard box is ideal, but check the base for holes first.
 Pour your material into the container, to a depth of 1–2 inches (2.5–5cm). Place the flowers upright in the material, making sure they're stable. Sift or slowly pour more desiccant on top of them, until they are buried.


If using sand, you don't need to bury the flowers completely. The sand is mostly for support, and air exposure can help dry the petals.
Flowers from the daisy family dry best upside-down instead.Some flowers, such as snapdragons and delphiniums, dry best when laid horizontal.If the stems are still attached, fill the container as deep as necessary to hold them.
 Store the container in a warm, dry location. If using an open container, keep it in a room with good air flow. Check after a few days, using a toothpick to probe the petals and test for dryness.


Silica gel is the fastest means of drying flowers; most take only 2-4 days to dry completely, while thick flowers can take up to a week.When silica gel turns pink, it's absorbed as much moisture as it can.
Borax mixtures can take 5–14 days to dry the flowers.
Sand takes longest of all, usually about 14–21 days., Tip the container sideways and tap the sides until the flower is exposed. Gently remove the dry flower, supporting it from underneath. Brush away the packing material with a small brush.


If the material is clinging to the flower, pour a thin stream of sand from about 12 inch (30cm) above the flower. This should dislodge the stuck particles.Removing the flowers too soon can cause drooping. Test the edge first for a crisp, papery feel before you pick it up.
Floral sealer or hairspray will postpone breakage.

