 Then be a positive role model and have an overall positive impact on other persons, and to know that things are headed in the right direction... your eternal life in Heaven.;
, You will grow and learn all of what makes a relationship work through studying the path of Christ. Discuss and grow with your partner through church, the word of the gospel and in prayer. Make Christ the foundation of your life.
 All of life's problems and solutions are written about in the New and Old Testament. If something in life is troubling you and your partner, take the time to relate the situation to the teachings of God in the Living Book.
 It is written that anything we ask for in His name, we shall receive if it is not asked wrongly. Take comfort in knowing a solution to a problem is only as far away as remembering the love, respect, compassion and trust that you based your earthly relationships on in the first place. "Anything worth having is worth working for". It may become troublesome at times when two individuals are trying to be together, but take solace in the Lord and strength to confront problems and comfort each other with solutions. All things happen for a reason and everyone needs time to learn about the other and accept/help/teach and listen to one another. Remember that we are all members in the same body.
 Read and learn how he dealt with situations and personal dealings. Know that He put love first in anything He did. Mimic Him and follow Him with all your heart and know that if it is just before the eyes of God, no one will interfere. God has a plan for all of us and He wants us to be happy, so, listen to the "voice behind the voice: because there is the truth and guidance.
 We all have tribulations and trials in our lives which are to lead us to the glorifying of the Father. Jesus Christ went through immeasurable struggles and in the end He was raised up from the dead and ascended into heaven. Use Him as your strength, as your guide, as your master in all struggles and always glorify Him through prayer. When relationship struggle starts, know that it is a test: of faith and of love. Christ in all things used love to show everyone the truth and we should do exactly the same. Let love rule in your heart just as He did and never forget the reason why you started the relationship in the first place.
 We need Him and we need each other. We need Christ to show us the way to heaven. We need each other to keep walking towards Him. We can lean on each other to help strengthen our earthly relationship and we can count on Him to guide us to what is right.
 All in time. The thing here to remember is to be patient and loving, to have understanding and growth knowing that all is revealed in time and to know that the light conquers the darkness. Use the opportunity to grow and learn from your mistakes. To look inside yourself to establish what went wrong and to grow as individuals as well as a team. When trouble arises in a relationship it is important to look to Jesus in all His dealings to guide and correct us. The most important thing He did for us can be summed up in one word "giving".
 And please always remember to have Christ in your life. To love Him like no other. Listen to God's will above all. Pray to Him for every answer in good or bad situations because then we will always have a happy and joyful relationship with not only each other but also with the rest of humanity. You know life is hard at times but remember all things are possible with God.

