 Sugar is a natural product that helps to remove dry skin and soften any hard or cracked skin. You can make a basic sugar scrub by combining brown or white sugar with a small amount of olive oil and an oil extract. You can also add essential oils to the mixture if you want so your feet end up soft and smelling good.To make a sugar scrub, combine ⅔ cup granulated white sugar, ⅓ cup packed brown sugar, and ½ cup olive oil in a mason jar. You can also add one tablespoon vanilla extract to give the scrub a vanilla scent.
You can make a soothing peppermint foot scrub by combining 1 cup of Epsom salt, ¼ cup olive oil or almond oil, and 10-15 drops of peppermint essential oil in a mason jar.;
, Soaking your feet will help to hydrate and soften any dead skin. You should try to follow a foot soak with a good scrub with a pumice stone to help remove dry skin and leave your skin feeling soft and refreshed.


Avoid soaking your feet in Epsom salt, as it can end up drying out your feet more. Instead, add ½ cup of apple cider vinegar to a warm bath and soak your feet in the solution for 10 to 15 minutes., A pumice stone is made of volcanic rock and is useful for removing dead skin on your body, including your feet. Run a warm bath and add a small amount of Epsom salt to the water. Let your feet soak for several minutes and then rub them with a pumice stone. The water epsom salt bath will help to loosen up the dead skin, making it easier to remove.Follow this foot scrubbing routine every night or several times a week. Using a pumice stone on a consistent basis will also allow any foot moisturizers you are using to penetrate your skin and soften hard or cracked skin on your feet.
 Use an all natural moisturizer to sooth and soften your feet. Avoid creams that contain alcohol, as alcohol can dry and irritate your skin. You can also use Vaseline, or cocoa butter to moisturize your feet.


Apply a generous layer of coconut oil or olive oil to your feet at night before bed and then wear socks to seal in the moisture and to keep your feet from drying out in the night.