 Schedule an approximate picking time months in advance so you get the most out of your broccoli plant. If you live in a colder climate, plant your broccoli in the spring so you can pick in the early to late summertime. In warmer climates, you have more freedom and can harvest into autumn.In general, expect to harvest broccoli about 55 to 60 days after planting.Plan to harvest two months ahead of your planting day. Mark the days on your calendar or set a phone reminder if needed.
Broccoli is a cool-season crop that harvests best in most climates during the spring or fall. Remember this in advance so you can pick during an optimum season.;
, In the morning, your broccoli will be least exposed to sunlight and fresher from a night of rest. In the evening, your broccoli plant will be least wilted from the sun's heat. Either times are the best option to pick, as the middle of the day is when your plant will have least moisture.









For best taste, pick strictly in the morning before the soil heats up.
If you live in a colder or less sunny climate, you can pick in the middle of the day without major concerns. Just take care to pick when your broccoli is not wilted.
 Head growth is the surest sign that your broccoli is ready to pick. The head should be firm and tight, and it should grow to around 4 to 7 inches (10.16 to 17.78 cm). Any larger than 7 inches, and you risk waiting until your plant is overripe.









Your central head will cease to grow when it is ready. If you have not noticed head growth in more than 4 to 6 days, your plant is ready to pick.
 Floret (or flower) size is another reliable indicator that your harvest is ready. When florets at the outside edge of the broccoli head is around the size of a toothpick, your broccoli is ready for picking.Leaf growth correlates to your harvesting yield. Broccoli plants with big, healthy leaves will have big broccoli heads. Plants with stunted leaves will have small, weak heads. Wait until your leaves look larger before you pick.
 Pay close attention to the plant's color when deciding whether to pick it. Your florets should be a deep green. If you see hints of yellow in the florets, your plant has begun to bloom or bolt. Harvest the broccoli immediately if it begins to turn yellow, as your plants may become overripe in several days.


If your broccoli flower sprouts, it is no longer edible. Ideally, pick your broccoli the day your plant begins yellowing.
 When choosing a knife or clipper, make sure your tools are sharp. Clean your tools before you use them, and avoid harvesting your broccoli with any rusty tools. Precise cuts are important when picking broccoli, which will help your plant heal and prevent it from withering before you can re-harvest later on.


Use gardening gloves or buy a pair, if you haven't already. Gardening gloves can keep your hands clean and protect them from garden insects.
Do not literally "pick" your broccoli with your hands. Without using tools, your cuts will be uneven and will not allow your broccoli to grow side shoots later on.
 Using a sharp knife, cut around 5 inches (12.7 cm) below the broccoli heads.









Try to remove the head in one clean cut so your plant can heal and produce more side shoots later. Avoid using sawing motions or cutting with multiple hits, which can decrease your broccoli harvest.,, Trim these at an angle, too, using either your knife or a pair of sharp clippers. More, smaller side shoots will grow over the next two to four days.
 Bring a bucket, basket, or bowl to collect your broccoli in after you have picked it. This will help keep your picking organized and allow easy storage later on.









Throw away any any broccoli that has gone bad. Broccoli heads that smell pungent, is a vivid yellow color, or feels limp to the touch may have rotted before picking.
 If you harvest all the heads and pull your plant at the same day, you will not get the most out of your plant. If you cut at an angle, your plant will grow more side shoots within a few days. Because fresh broccoli needs to be eaten within a small window, you may want to harvest over the course of a week rather than all at once.








The exception to this is if your plant has yellowed considerably and you suspect it will soon flower. Preferably, plan on harvesting before your plan shows yellow streaks. If it already has, harvest as much as you can immediately but check the stalks in several days for more shoots.
Picking over several days can seem inconvenient, but you are less likely to waste your harvest.
 Two to four days later, you may notice one or two smaller heads growing where you cut the first heads.Slice these off at an angle again (using either your knife or clippers), then check again in two to four days for more smaller heads.









If you do not see any additional shoots, the first harvest may have caused too much damage to the plant. After a week of no shoot growth, pull the plant and compost it.
This process should continue over the next few weeks, with the heads becoming smaller and smaller each time, until the end of broccoli harvesting season for your climate.This will be around July or August for cooler climates and up to October for warmer climates.
 Wash and dry your broccoli before storing to remove any dirt or potential insects. Store your broccoli in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. Blanch or freeze your broccoli if you plan to use it later, as it will wilt after a week.








Cold and moist is preferable for cut broccoli shoots. Because your refrigerator is dry, put your broccoli in a perforated plastic bag in your crisper.
Frozen broccoli can be stored in your freezer for up to a year. If you had a heavy broccoli harvest and cannot use all your broccoli in a weak, freezing is your best option for long-term usage.
 After the first frosts in your area occur, pull your broccoli plant before it begins to rot. Make sure you pull the broccoli plant from the roots to ensure it has been fully removed.









If you have created a compost pile, you can add the broccoli plant to the pile with other carbon- and nitrogen-rich materials such as leaves, egg shells, coffee grounds, and grass clippings. You can then mix or layer it into your garden when planting later for richer soil.

