 When you exercise, your body naturally fights cravings for sugar, junk food, and other unhealthy food and drinks you may be tempted to eat during the holidays.


Perform at least 30 minutes per day or 150 minutes per week of aerobic activities. Examples of aerobic activities are swimming, running, cycling, or use of an elliptical training machine.;
, Staying hydrated will naturally help your body curb cravings for sweets, and will also increase your metabolism. The average amount of water you should drink per day is 9 cups (2.12 liters) for women, and 13 cups (3.07 liters) for men.
 When your body receives an adequate amount of sleep, you will naturally crave fewer sweets and junk food. Lack of sleep can cause your body to experience hormonal changes that can trigger cravings for sweets and other unhealthy foods.
 Natural sugars such as those found in fruit are rich in nutrients that benefit your health in the long run; whereas foods with processed sugars can cause you to experience weight gain and other health problems.


Eat your favorite fruits in place of processed sweets you may crave during the holiday season; such as cookies, cakes, pies, chocolate, and similar food items.
 The natural carbohydrates often found in fruits and vegetables can boost your energy in addition to helping you curb cravings for sweets. Examples of fruits and vegetables high in carbs are potatoes, carrots, bananas, and oranges.
 Cinnamon, raw honey, and palm sugar are examples of natural sweeteners you can use instead of processed sugar and similar food items. For example, use palm sugar in holiday cookies instead of processed sugar to reduce artificial sugar intake.
 Instead of indulging or overeating your favorite sweets during the holidays, limit yourself to just 1 cookie, or half a slice of your favorite pie.


Use a plate at holiday parties and gatherings to keep track of the amount of sweets you eat. Eating directly from the buffet table can cause you to lose track of the amount of sweets you are eating. For example, limit yourself to just one snack plate with a few of your favorite sweets.

