 Start a conversation with those closest to you, such as family or close friends, about your need for a kidney donor. You should not put pressure on your loved ones to donate or ask them outright to be a donor. But you can get the conversation started around your need for a donor by discussing your health issue and your prognosis with those closest to you.For example, you may start the conversation with family and friends by saying, “I have spoken to my doctor and I need a kidney transplant to stay healthy. I will be going on dialysis, but it is not a long term solution. My best option is to find a kidney donor.”

, You should also reach out to your other social and professional networks, such as your coworkers, your local community groups, or your neighbors. Discuss your need for a kidney donor with people in these social groups and start a conversation about your medical condition. Talking to people in your social groups can be a good way to increase awareness about your need for a donor.You may also reach out to places of worship in your neighborhood or area, such as your local church or mosque. Try to tap into any communities that know you personally or as an acquaintance. Appealing to these groups can increase your chances of finding a donor.
 You should then field any questions your family, friends, or coworkers might have about being a kidney donor. Answering their questions can help them feel informed and aware of the process. It may also sway them to become a donor. You should try to provide as much information as you can about the role of a kidney donor and the process of becoming a kidney donor.For example, a family member may ask, “What would I have to do to become a kidney donor?” or “What are your chances of recovery if you find a donor?” You should then try to answer their questions to the best of your ability, using information from your doctor.
You may discuss the need for testing once the person agrees to become a kidney donor. They will need to go through several medical tests to ensure they are a good match for you and have a functional kidney to donate.
You may also outline when you need a kidney donor according to your doctor, such as right away or in the next several weeks. Putting a timeframe on the need for the donation may help put your situation in context for your family and friends.
 You should also be forthcoming about what exactly happens during the kidney donation and what the recovery time is post-surgery for the donor. Providing this information could help put a possible donor’s fears or concerns about donating to rest.You should explain that donor surgery is considered minimally invasive, often using a laparoscopic procedure or a minimal surgical procedure. Most donors can also leave the hospital within one to three days after the surgery.
You may also discuss the possibility of finding someone who is not a perfect match, such as a member of your extended family. Current anti-rejection drugs have allowed a wider range of individuals to become good kidney donors.
 Do not try to guilt or pressure those closest to you to be a donor. Instead, let them consider your needs and volunteer on their own terms. Having those closest to you volunteer will make the process less stressful and ensure everyone involved feels supported.If a family, friend, or coworker offers to be a kidney donor for you, you should thank them profusely. Then, you should emphasize that they are not bound to the donation and they can back out if they begin to feel overwhelmed or have second thoughts once the process begins. This will ensure your family member or friend does not feel pressured to be a donor and does not feel obligated to follow through.
You may want to try to have multiple people in your family start the process of being a kidney donor for you, if they volunteer. Having more than one possible donor can increase your chances of finding a good match.

