 If you want a more played down look, try pairing a gingham print with a neutral-colored solid. This can work if you're wearing gingham somewhere like the office or a casual get-together, where you may want not an attention-grabbing look. For example, wear a gingham print shirt with a pair of blue jeans.;
, Gingham can also pair well with other solid colored clothing items. This works well with black and white gingham. When paired with bold, colorful tops, black and white gingham can give an outfit an extra pop.For example, wear a black and white gingham button-down shirt with a pair of green pants.
Try a black and white gingham skirt or pair of pants with a bright blue t-shirt.
 If you love the gingham style, try pairing it with another pattern you love. Things like polka dots, leopard, floral patterns, and flannel all go well with gingham. When pairing gingham with another pattern, be aware of color. Pick a pattern that contains at least one color matching the gingham. For example, if you're wearing a red and white gingham shirt, wear it with a pair of blue and red flannel pants.
Go for opposing size with patterns. Small gingham patterns should be paired with larger patterns and vice versa. For example, a gingham skirt with small squares can be paired with a floral top made up of large flowers.
 If you're looking for something a little bold, try wearing two gingham pieces together. While this look may be a little over-the-top, it can work if you want something attention grabbing.To pair gingham with gingham, you can choose two similar patterns. For example, wear gingham pants and a matching gingham top.
You can also go very bold by choosing two contrasting patterns. The gingham squares should be very different sizes to call attention to the contrast you're making. For example, wear a gingham blouse made up of small patches and a gingham skirt made up of very large patches.
When wearing ginghams together, keep accessories minimal. As this is already a bold look, you don't want to overwhelm it.

