 Go to 'Members' then go to 'Practice' tap the bar next to the 'Order' button. Then chose your attribute of choice (smile, pure, or cool).;
, You will see gray circles, tap on them and choose only non-rares and above that are the same attribute. For example, if you have an ultra rare pure Eli, use students that are pure but not rare.
 This will result in either a 'success', 'super success', or 'ultra success'; these will increase her smile, pure, and cool.
 You should then tap on a team then press 'Auto Formation.' This will give you the choice of pure, cool, or smile. Press on the attribute of choice. Proceed to make a team of all the attributes.
 If you do not have a team of the muse members, then you will not get far. You'll need to tap on 'Scout' and then tap on either 'Regular scouting' or 'Honor scouting.'


With regular scouting you will have a very low chance of getting a rare or above. But with honor scouting you will always get a rare or above.
You will need to stock up on love gems. To do this, you can win love gems in an event, from the daily hand outs, from leveling up, or from maxing your bond with any idolized student. If you receive scouting tickets, it means you can honor scout for free. If you get a scouting coupon, you can either scout for supporting members or save 5 and get a super rare or ultra rare. You should save them for the super rare or ultra rare.
 Go to the home page then tap on 'Friends'. Go to friend list and choose a friend; then press the message button. The letter limit is 68 letters, so introduce yourself as a passionate player and put your heart into every message.
 Talk about your favorite character and why you love her. Ask the player what his or her favorite character is as well. Talk about how excited you are for the next event.
 You two should learn from each other.
 When you log in everyday, there should be a thing on the screen called 'Notices,' scroll down until you see the event details.


If you accidentally closed this, go to 'Other' and tap on 'Notices' from there. The notices will also show you updates and new information about upcoming daily specials and maintenance hours.
 Depending on the event, you will need to go to the home page then scroll on the box below the goals until you see it. Then tap on the image with the event title.


In a medley festival event, tap on the box below the title then select your difficulty and number of songs. You should do hard and expert songs. Never normal or easy. Hard and expert will give you the most event points, which will cause you to go up in ranking.
 If your doing multiple expert songs, pause right before the next song starts so you can relax your fingers. They will most likely hurt. Don't be afraid to take as many breaks as you need.
 Maintaining a high rank is very difficult. To check your rank, tap on the image of the event, then tap on 'Event Ranking' you can the tap the bar that says '1st' and tap on 'Your Rank' or the bar that says 'Total Pts. Tanking' and go to 'Friends' Ranking' to see how well you and your friends are doing in the event.
 Pretend you are one of the characters. For example, Maki would be completely calm during the songs. You can even try to sing in her voice while doing a song.
 Hard songs can be a bit slow, or super fast. Listen to the song for a minute to get the beat and figure out whether or not it'll be super fast or super slow before playing. Regardless of song, expert songs will be super fast.


Take a drink of your favorite drink, dance a little to the song, sing along, and/or breathe slowly before starting.
 Soon you'll get full combos and S scores all the time, even on your first try.
 Love Live! is no exception.
 For example, make a mini game where someone buys everyone love gems and everyone has to go scouting. But every other member you get, you have to remove. It'll definitely get everyone on the edge of their seats as people delete every other member they get, hoping they get to keep an ultra rare.
 party. Although you need headphones to play the audio, you can hook up a set of Bluetooth headphones and crank up the volume while doing a song, as everyone dances and sings along.


You could also cosplay as the characters as everyone takes turns doing the dances and playing the game.
 Grab some of your friends who play Love Live! and live in your area and invite them over to cosplay and role play as the characters. You can have one girl be Nico and annoy the person who is Maki as she tries to play the game without being distracted. You can make this a game as well. Since there are three mini groups in the game, you can divide your friends into those groups (Bibi, Lily White, and Printemps) and have the groups play a song as the others try to distract them, breaking their full combo. The loosing team will have to buy the winning team 6 love gems each.
 friends about anything you want. Love Live! is about being who you are and having the time of your life. Love Live! isn't for everyone, and that's totally okay. Just be yourself and enjoy the game and the stories.

