 You can use a dry paper towel or a cloth to brush any dirt off. If there are more tenacious spots to clean off, you can use a wet rag to rub them clean.

Don’t use any cleaning products. You might damage the wood, but you’ll definitely make the staining process more difficult.;
, Run your hand over the furniture to find any rough spots in the wood. If they need to be sanded down to match the rest of the surface, use this sandpaper to do so. While sanding, check often to make sure the spot is even with the rest of the wood., Before staining, you’ll want to make sure the surface is even and prepared to absorb wood stain. Sand the entirety of the surface until it becomes even and smooth to the touch.

Sand along the grain or you risk scratching the wood.
Wipe any wood dust off with a dry rag before proceeding., Use a foam brush to cover the wood in sealer. This will make the surface smoother and will give the wood stain better grip.

If you want a lighter color, you can dilute the sealer with mineral spirits., Once the sealer has started to dry, use a clean cloth to wipe off any sealer that’s still pooled atop the wood. This will prevent blotches and spots from forming on the wood. It’ll also keep the surface smooth., It should only take a few hours for the sealer to dry completely., You should sand the surface a few times before proceeding. This will smooth out any spots where the sealer might not have dried evenly.

Use a rag to wipe off any residue after sanding., You can use a variety of tools to do this. A foam or bristle brush will do fine, but you can also use a cloth dipped in stain to color your teak furniture. Apply an even coat all over.

If there are any parts of the furniture you don’t want to stain, use masking tape to protect them., Use a clean dry rag to wipe off excess stain. Use a rag you don’t mind dirtying; the wood stain would be incredibly difficult to wash out.

The longer you leave on the stain before wiping, the darker the color., The amount of time it takes for the stain to completely dry will depend on how thick of a layer you used. Avoid touching the stain too much if it’s still wet; you might end up with an uneven, blotchy coat., After the first coat has dried, take a moment to see if you’re satisfied with the color. If you want your furniture to be darker, you can add another coat of wood stain, right on top of the previous layer, following the same process., Use a clean brush to paint on the finish once you’ve gotten the desired color. After applying the finish, make sure to give it plenty of time to dry. There are three main types of finish, each with their own characteristics:

Oil finishes look closest to wood, but aren’t the best for protecting wood. Avoid using this kind of finish on outdoor furniture.
Lacquer strike a good balance between attractive finish and durability, but require multiple coats.
Polyurethane finishes are the most protective of the three, even repelling water.