 Your final pattern will look like a rectangle, even if your pillow is a square. Start by measuring the length and width of your cushion. Double the length measurement, then add 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) to it. Next, add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) to the width measurement. These will be the measurements for your pattern.For example, if your cushion is 16 by 16 inches (40.64 by 40.64 centimeters), your pattern will be 38 by 17 inches (96.52 by 43.18 centimeters).
The two short ends will overlap by about 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) when you are done.;
, Draw a rectangle on a piece of fabric using your measurements. You can do this using dressmaker's chalk or pen. Once you have done that, cut the fabric out using a pair of fabric scissors.


You can use any type of fabric you want, but sturdy, upholstery fabric from the home decorating section of the fabric store will work the best.
 Turn the rectangle so that the wrong side of the fabric is facing you. Fold the narrow, side edges down by ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) and press them flat with an iron. Fold them over by another ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter), and press them flat again.Use a heat setting that is suitable for the fabric that you are working with.
Use sewing pins to help the fabric stay down while you are ironing it.
 Use the straight stitch, and try to get as close to the bottom folded edge as possible. Pull out the sewing pins as you sew (if you are using them), and snip off any loose threads when you are done.
 You can position the overlap right in the middle of your pillowcase, or you can offset it to the left or to the right. When you are done, the pillowcase should be the same width as your cushion.
 Use a matching thread color and a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance.To prevent the thread from unraveling, sew back and forth a few times across the start and end of your sewing. Remove the pins as you sew.
 You can now tuck the cushion into the pillowcase.
 Put the pillow wherever you want it.
 Measure your cushion, then add ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) to the length and width.Cut out a piece of fabric according to that measurement. For example, if your pillow was 16 by 16 inches (40.64 by 40.64 centimeters), then your front piece will be 16½ by 16½ inches (41.91 by 41.91 centimeters).


You can use any type of fabric you want, but the thick, sturdy fabric from the home decorating section of the fabric store will work best.
 For example, if your pillow was 16 by 16 inches (40.64 by 40.64 centimeters), then your piece will be 16½ by 20½ inches (41.91 by 52.07 centimeters). This will eventually be the back piece for your cushion.You can use the same color of fabric, or a contrasting color. You can also choose a solid color if your front piece had a pattern on it.
 You will end up with two pieces that are ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) wider than your pillow, and several inches shorter.
 Take one of the back pieces, and turn it so that the wrong side of the fabric is facing you. Fold one of the long edges over by ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) and press it flat with an iron. Fold it over by another ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter), and press it flat once more. Repeat this step for the other back piece.Use a heat setting on your iron that is suitable for the fabric you are working with.
Use sewing pins to keep the fabric down as you are pressing it with the iron.
 Try to get as close to the bottom folded edge as possible. If you used sewing pins, be sure to pull them out as you sew.
 Turn the front piece so that the right side of the fabric is facing you. Place the two back pieces, right-side-down on top, with the hemmed edges facing towards the center. They will overlap by a few inches.
 Use a ⅜-inch (0.95-centimeter) seam allowance.Remove the sewing pins as you go.
 Snipping the corners will help reduce bulk, just be careful not to cut through your stitching!

,