 For general inquiries, don't hesitate to call Google's customer service line at 1 (650) 253-0000. Not only will you be able to get information for tech support issues, but also for business inquiries, advertising requests, and much more. After calling the customer support number, simply listen to the audio prompts and follow the instructions to be directed to the appropriate extension.


While on the customer service line, press "0" to be directed to a human operator. Note that, depending on the time of day you call, you may be put on hold temporarily until a representative is free to speak to you.
 Though it isn't necessarily the fastest option, it's always possible to use snail mail to contact Google about your Gmail. The Google Headquarters located in Mountain View, California is listed on the official Google contact page as the default mailing address for the company, making it a suitable mailing address for most general inquiries. The Google Headquarters is located at:1600 Amphitheatre Parkway



Mountain View, CA 94043
USA




It's also possible to fax Google HQ at 1 (650) 253 0001.
 Google is a large international company with locations across the world. Thus, the quickest to speak to a Google employee in-person may be simply to visit a regional office near you. To locate Google locations in your area, go to the Google contact page (google.com/intl/en/contact) and click the "View our other locations" link under the Google HQ mailing address.


On the next page, you'll see a complete listing of Google's office locations, complete with mailing addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers.Note that Google has offices on every continent except Antarctica.
 For official business or press inquiries relating to Gmail, use the links at the Google contact page (google.com/intl/en/contact) to help direct your inquiry. Since there are a huge variety of requests and issues that can potentially fall into this category, there are many different contact you may be directed to. A few of the most important ones are listed here:


Press inquiries:press@google.com
1 (650) 930-3555




Advertising inquiries:1 (855)290-0346 (U.S. calls)
See Ad support resources for international numbersLegal concerns:



google.com/permissions/ (for information on using Google content)
services.google.com/fb/forms/trademark/ (for reporting inappropriate copyright use)