 Generally speaking, the more you know, the more you recognize that most subjects are almost endlessly complex. If your essay is too sweeping in its claims, chances are it will serve as a red flag to your instructor that you don't really know what you're talking about.


Instead of absolute terms, use qualified statements. Rather than proclaiming something the "greatest" or the "worst," try using "among the best" or "perhaps some of the worst." Using qualified statements helps you avoid sounding foolish if you're not quite sure whether an event really was the "greatest," or an idea is, in fact, "the worst" of all time.Don't lose sight of the larger picture. You might not enjoy the current political climate, for example, but calling a particular politician or party "the worst in history" on your politics exam is more likely to elicit a chuckle or an eye-roll than admiration; your teacher knows people have been referring to various politicians and parties as "the worst ever" for hundreds of years.
Acknowledging that an issue or topic is highly complex can actually work in your favor. Write something like "It would be impossible to fully discuss the complex nature of Topic X in a limited essay, so I will focus on Themes A and B." Your teacher may be more likely to chalk up any omissions to the complicated nature of the subject -- which you've demonstrated you are aware of -- rather than you not knowing the material.
 These words are no substitute for content. You're better off stating what you do know clearly than annoying your teacher by forcing him or her to wade through extraneous fluff.
 Anachronism is the introduction of historically or chronologically inaccurate elements or ideas. Ideas about women's rights and privileges were very different in Jane Austen's time; accordingly, your English essay should engage Austen and her contemporaries on their own terms.
 Do what you can do well and at minimum you'll demonstrate respect -- and provide a moment of relief for your teacher as he or she wades through a classroom's worth of handwriting! Double-spacing your essay will help you keep things tidy and allow room to add any extra information that springs to mind as you're writing.Be wary of attempting to add length with large handwriting, fonts (if you're composing a take-home exam) or extra spacing. Your instructor will notice these common tricks.

