 Gluten is the protein found in wheat, barley and rye. Many of these ingredients are mixed and processed to make basic foodstuffs, primarily flour, but gluten can also be found in less obvious products such as lunch meats and soy sauce.A gluten free diet implies nutrition without these ingredients or their products.


A gluten free diet is the best way to treat celiac disease and to protect children who are sensitive to gluten. Celiac disease is an autoimmune disease that occurs in the intestines, with symptoms such as diarrhea, pains in the stomach, vomiting, loss of nutrients, and a delay in development.Gluten sensitivity and intolerance includes, in addition to the symptoms of celiac disease, symptoms such as pain and stiffness in the joints, headaches, and a sleepy or foggy mind.Gluten acts as a toxin for children with gluten intolerance, as it hinders their ability to absorb the nutrients found in healthy foods.But for children without celiac disease, a gluten-free diet can deprive them of the important nutrients like Iron and vitamin B, found in foods like cereals, pasta, and bread, so a gluten free diet may not be necessary unless your child suffers from celiac disease or a gluten intolerance.;
, Explain what gluten is, which foods have gluten and the reasons why gluten should be avoided to your child.


Go shopping together and walk through the aisles to discuss whether certain foods are good for them to eat or bad for them, and why. Allow your child to help choose gluten free versions of the food they love or enjoy.
Educating your child on the benefits of a gluten free diet will help to lessen the stigma of having different lunches than their friends at school and encourage your child not to share or accept food from their friends as it may not be gluten free., Always read all the ingredients listed on the label as even a small amount of gluten can be harmful to your child. Gluten free foods generally means that the food contains less than 20 parts per million of gluten.Start by checking for the more obvious sources of gluten: wheat, barley, or rye.
Though not as obvious, gluten can hide in the following ingredients: flakes, brewer's yeast, durum einkorn, emmer, farro, spelt, kamut, dinkel (types of wheat) graham flour, semolina, modified wheat starch, malt and any products containing malt (malt extract, malt vinegar, malt flavoring, malt syrup), and rye bread., Pay special attention when you purchase the following foods, as they likely contain gluten: bread, cereals, chips, crackers, biscuits, some chocolates, pasta, spices, sauces, and soups (especially cream soups that use flour as a thickener).Look for gluten free versions of these foods, as many of these products are now available commercially without gluten., Many processed foods contain gluten which can be accidentally consumed by your child, such as luncheon meats and sausages. Imitation meat substitutes may also contain gluten ingredients or grains. Imitation seafood, such as crabstick, will also contain gluten.Keep an eye out for these unsafe ingredients on packages of processed food: bread flour, cookie crumbs, edible starch, enriched flour, protein, malt syrup, seitan, and semolina., It’s always safer and easier to incorporate foods that do not contain gluten into your child’s lunch.For example:


Eggs and milk products, such as cheese, yogurt, and milk.
Vegetables such as tomato, cabbage, carrots, cauliflower, broccoli, beans, corn, and potatoes.
Fruits such as oranges, bananas, strawberries, cherries, apples, apricots, and watermelon.
All kinds of fresh meat such as chicken, turkey, pork, and fish.
Many common condiments do not contain gluten, such as mayonnaise, ketchup, peanut butter, mustard, jam, and marmalade.
 It is possible to find gluten free flour and foods made ​​from gluten free flour like pasta, cookies and bread.Some examples of gluten-free bread include: Udi’s Whole Grain Bread, Kinnikinnik Foods Brown Sandwich Bread, or Whole Foods Market Gluten Free Bakehouse All Natural Sandwich Bread. If you plan to use a gluten free flour for home baking, it is not as simple as replacing wheat flour with gluten free flour and following the same recipes. Gluten-free flours must be combined together to create similar baked good with gluten, and you will need to use a binding agent such as xanthan gum or ground chia seeds or flax seeds.So once you find a gluten free flour mix that works for you, make large amounts and store it in a cool, dry place so it will always be ready for use in your baking.
Examples of gluten-free flours include: rice flour (white and brown), amaranth flour, arrowroot flour, corn flour, hemp flour, potato flour, soy flour, and tapioca flour.Examples of mixtures that can be used for gluten free baking include: equal parts of bean flour, cornstarch powder and tapioca flour or one and a half cups of potato and brown rice flour and one cup of tapioca flour., Though the rest of your family may eat gluten, dedicate one shelf in the fridge or pantry to gluten free only products to lessen the risk of cross contamination and to make it easier for you to make gluten free meals quickly and correctly.


If your whole family is going gluten free, a gluten free only pantry and a fridge stocked with only gluten free products removes any risk of cross contamination and lessens the temptation to eat gluten.
 Creating a weekly meal plan will save you time preparing meals the night before or in the morning and ensure you child has a gluten free meal every day. , Although they may seem fussy or complicated, gluten free lunches can be full of variety and very tasty. Create different food combinations that best suit your child’s taste and make sure the food you prepare is diverse and varied so your child doesn’t get bored with their lunches.For example, avoid packing peanut butter and jelly with gluten free bread every day for a week straight for your child's lunch. Vary up the types of sandwiches you make with gluten free bread, or integrate corn tortillas or quinoa into their lunches as an alternative starch or grain.
 Fruits and vegetables are safe to include in your child’s lunch since these foods are gluten free, packed with essential carbohydrates to give your child energy, and of course, very good for them.


Slice up fruits evenly and nicely and make your fruit preparation as colorful as possible. You can also create animals or shapes out of the fruits and vegetables to make them more appetizing to your child or create fruit and vegetable kebabs. Include a dip on the side for added taste and flavor, as most children love to dip their food., A treat will act as a form of encouragement for your child to eat their lunch and then enjoy their treat at the end.Good treats include a piece of fruit, a gluten-free cookie, gluten free candy, or a gluten free chocolate bar.
 Here are some examples of possible gluten free meals for your child:


Gluten free pasta with vegetables, ham, or leftover chicken, with a treat of apricots or grapes on the side.
A sausage and veggie meal, with a fruit such as berries or strawberries as a treat.
A baked potato with cheese and ham, a boiled egg, and condiments like ketchup and mayonnaise in separate small containers to encourage dipping.
A vegetarian meal like rice, mushrooms and carrots, with a treat of yogurt and bananas.
A meal with fish, cooked potato, cabbage salad and apples as a treat.
 A lunch box and thermos with your child’s favorite cartoon or superhero will help them get excited about carrying their own special lunch, and even if the food is not initially very enticing, it will at least appear more attractive to them.Encourage them to also pick out a matching thermos for healthy drinks. Make sure the thermos seals well and will preserve flavor and freshness. When water or juice is fresh, your child will be more encouraged to drink it.
 Have your child participate in choosing their gluten free lunch and help you package their lunch in their lunch box. Offer two options for lunch and let them pick the one they prefer. Doing this will allow your child to actively participate in choosing their gluten free meal, and hopefully enjoy their selection., Reusable containers cut down on the amount of waste you throw out every day, and save you money. They are also convenient and safe to use as they are leak proof, and divided into sections so you can prepare a variety of gluten free foods for your child's lunch.Make sure the plastic, reusable containers for your child's lunch are also free of BPA. BPA stands for Bisphenol A, which is an industrial chemical that has been used to make certain kinds of plastics. Exposure to BPA can lead to health risks that potentially affect behavior, brain, and prostate glands, especially in infants and young children. There are some containers that are already clearly marked as BPA-free, and stainless steel or glass containers are naturally BPA free. You can also call the manufacturer of the containers to check if they are BPA-free.
 Giving your child’s teacher a heads up on their gluten free diet will help the teacher watch for any cross contamination in the lunchroom and keep your child’s diet in mind when interacting with the other kids.The teacher can also ensure special meal is available for your child if a class party or trip involves a shared meal, or let you know you will need to provide a special meal for your child, such as gluten free pizza for a pizza party, or gluten free treats for a birthday or holiday celebration.
 Children can be exposed to ridicule or teasing from classmates that have a standard lunch, so try to mask gluten free food to appear similar to traditional lunch foods.For example, make bread from gluten-free flour or buy gluten free bread to make sandwiches, make pizza dough without gluten and pack a pizza for your child, or make corn tortillas with gluten free filling to make burritos.
 It is not uncommon for children in school to trade their lunches because their lunch becomes too familiar or monotonous, no matter how many special treats you pack from them. However, trading and sharing food can be dangerous for a child who is sensitive to gluten or has celiac disease, as this can lead to contact with gluten and an unwanted allergic reaction.