 Most skin bleaching creams contain the drug hydroquinoneas the active ingredient. You can purchase varieties which contain two percent or less of this drug at your local drugstore, while you need a prescription to get more powerful creams. These have between four to six percent hydroquinone. Use as directed on the package or by your doctor. This generally means applying it no more than twice daily. As with any other drug, hydroquinone has its risks. They include:


Premature aging
Increased risk of skin cancer. The reason for this is that skin treated with hydroquinone is more sensitive to sunlight.
Skin discoloration
Allergic reaction

, A chemical peel is a procedure in which chemicals are applied to the skin, usually the face, which cause the skin to exfoliate and peel away. Depending on how deeply into the skin they penetrate, chemical peels come in three varieties: superficial, medium, and deep.


Superficial peels use alpha-hydroxy acid and only penetrate the outer layer of the skin. Choose this method if the skin discoloration you are trying to address is minor. Recovery time is a day or so.
Medium peels use glycolic or trichloracetic acid and penetrate the outer and middle layers of the skin. They are suitable for moderate skin discoloration. Because medium peels penetrate deeper into the skin, it can take 14 days to heal after a treatment.
Deep peels are the most invasive and as such, are suitable for the most extreme cases of skin discoloration. Deep peels use trichloracetic acid or phenol, which deeply penetrate into middle layer of the skin. Because of this, they can only be performed once in a person's lifetime. Healing time is the most extensive: 14 to 21 days.
Regardless of the type of peel, there are risks. They include scarring and the reactivation of cold sores

, Laser skin resurfacing works by targeting and destroying the unwanted skin cells with high energy light. The body then generates new skin cells and increases its production of collagen, one of the building blocks for great skin. It does this without damaging the top layer of the skin, which means that there is no downtime. The recommended treatment schedule is six cycles over a two week period. You'll see noticeable results after every treatment, which continue to improve over time.


q-Switch refers to this laser's ability to operate at two wavelengths: 1064 nm, or infrared, and 532 nm.The Nd:YAG refers to the laser's crystal structure, which is neodymium-doped yttrium aluminum garnet.
Minor side-effects such as some skin redness can occur, but this usually resolves within 30 minutes of the procedure.

