 If you have faced negativity and bullying due to Tourette’s, it can be really hard to stay positive. You may not feel like you have anything to celebrate. You may even have placed the stigma on yourself. If you are unable to stop thinking negatively about yourself, go see a counselor or therapist. A counselor may be able to help teach you how to change your thinking so you can be more positive about yourself and live a more fulfilling life., Sometimes, it helps to think positively to help remove your own self-stigmas. Using positive self-talk can help to keep negative thoughts at bay. When you are having negative thoughts, repeat positive words to yourself. Focus on the positive aspects of your life, even the smallest achievements. For example, think words similar to the following:I am a unique, interesting, funny, and caring individual.
I have a lot to offer my family and friends. I love and care for them and deserve to be loved and cared for in return.
I am creative and a great artist/writer/dancer/gamer/etc.
I had a great day at work today and completed all my work ahead of time.
Although a stranger laughed at me, I had a great time at the movies with my friends.
Although that person was mean to me, I stood up to him and defended myself in a respectful manner.
 Depending on the way your Tourette’s affects you, you may need help with certain things. Some motor function tics, like falling down or hand tics, can cause certain actions to be difficult. Asking people for help is not a bad thing.Not only does it increase the safety of you and others, but it makes your life better. Everyone needs help with certain things, so you should ask for help if you need it.
 You know what your tics are better than anyone. Try to find ways to adapt to accommodate your tics. For example, if you have motor function tics in your hands, try to adjust what you carry or how you carry them. If you fall down often, do balance exercises to improve your balance.Adapting can help you make small changes with your tics that may help you.
 Focusing your mind on other tasks can help lessen your tics if they are bothering you. This might mean doing crosswords, sudoku, or reading an engrossing book. You can also try crocheting or knitting, hand-held computer games, games on your phone, sketching, or writing in a journal.Find an activity that helps focus your mind and your hands.


Being physically active can help with your tics. Play a sport, go for a run, go to the gym, or find another physical activity you enjoy doing.