 Determine what doesn't work at all for you anymore. This includes:


Walls––wallpaper, friezes, color. Each of these needs to be assessed for appropriateness.
Window dressings––are those teddy bear curtains still you?
Beds and bed coverings––do you still want a bunk bed, does the bed still fit and are those coverings with unicorns in racing cars truly you?
Decorations––check the posters, nick-knacks and stuff here and there. Is it still reflective of you?;
, Once you've determined what you do and don't like, try to clear out the objects that you no longer need or want. Grab some boxes, donation bags and a garbage bag. It's time to spring clean. Make piles as follows:


Keep/sentimental––you know for sure that the item is still wanted and/or needed.
School––okay, maybe you don't want to keep it but you have to keep it for educational purposes. Place it in this pile.
Not sure––this is the "I need to think about it" pile. It can be gone through later, after some reflection time.
No way––these are the things you've outgrown. These can be passed on to siblings, donated or, if they're in bad shape, tossed into the garbage.
Garbage or identifiable stuff growing in corners––straight to the garbage bin.
 Use the boxes and bags to help with the piles. Once sorted, you will find you've a lot of free space to experiment with. Whether you've a small or large space, this clean slate will help you to feel much more motivated.


Take out the donations and garbage immediately.
Put the "decide later" box in a spare room to give yourself a clean slate. You can go there later and work through the undecided items.
 A clean room, exactly. Clean, pristine, and ready to fulfill your dream. Every new room design has to start from somewhere so go ahead and think in your mind how would you like your new room to look.


Sketch out a simple design on paper. It doesn't need to be high quality. Basically, all you need is to know what you want in your room and where. You might want to shift the bed to a different corner, make a study nook or create a music space. Add these things into the design.
 Following your design, make the rearrangements that you can make using existing furniture. How does it look so far? Still need to do more? Keep going.
 Provided your parents/guardians have given the go ahead, repaint the walls or change them in some way. Ask for help from your friends––painting is messy but fun and satisfying and walls aren't too hard once you get the hang of it. However, be sure to cover everything really well because paint stains are near impossible to get off carpet and objects.
 Use this design plan that you created to decide whether or not there are big ticket items missing, such as paint for the walls or new bedroom furniture. You'll be able to show your parents or guardians this design when asking them to fork out the money for the changes, or to at least help you in some way. They may have furniture stored in the attic that you can repurpose, for example.


Don't forget the wonder of the thrift store. Even if your parents aren't keen to pitch in financially, you might find old pieces of furniture at a thrift store that you can give a second lease of life to. Or, see if other family members have pieces of furniture they no longer want.
Paint, decoupage, stenciling and other decorative effects can turn something ugly into something brand new, so have your creative spectacles on when assessing secondhand options.
Buy new additions over time, if that makes the change more affordable.
If your parents or guardians offer to buy new items for your room, make sure it's what you want in your room. After all, this is your personal realm where you are king or queen as soon as that door shuts.
 Change the curtains, bedding and cushions to really move your room forward. If you can't afford new items, sew your own––use YouTube or online tutorials to know how, or ask a parent, sibling or friend to show you what to do. Sewing's a useful skill for every person to have.
 Place everything where you want it, but remember, treat your room with respect. You'll appreciate it even more when everything has a place. But it is entirely up to you to figure out that place.
 Wasn't it worth the hard work? You now have achieved your dream room, congratulations!

