 Full body shots will be best, although, there is no official cosplay costume for this. Vocaloid is meant to be interpreted in each fan's own way. Do not fret if you can't find a 100% perfect pair of pants, wig, shirt, etc, because Vocaloid is all about being spontaneous, creative and true to yourself!
, In order to do this cosplay, you will need a proper wig. These wigs can be ordered from websites as simple as Ebay, Amazon, or even Cosplay.com. (If you already have dyed your hair green you can skip this step.) Any wig that is green will be suitable. Although, if you don't feel comfortable with styling your wig, look for a shorter wig such as the one shown in the photo., Although many people may find the makeup for this cosplay challenging, it is actually not that difficult to do as it is simply a round circle under each eye made of either eyeliner or paint. You can also add eyeshadow of any desired color! This is to give the cosplayer the effect of "panda-eyes", which corresponds to the title of the song, Panda Hero. Also, feel free to add lip-gloss or lipstick for a small extra-touch., The shirt for this cosplay is just a thick-strapped black tank top. If you can't find one like this, a spaghetti strapped "cami" can also work., Gumi has the words "PANDA HERO" in bold capital letters running down her arm. Although there is no way to be sure of which arm, it appears on her left arm in most photos. These letters can be made using paint, duct tape, stickers, and many other options., Gumi's gloves are fairly simple, they are just gloves that are cut off at the fingers and often have two pink stripes at the wrists. You do not need to buy cut off gloves, but simply cut them yourself at the fingers and sew in pink yarn or use fabric paint., This part may be the hardest because there is no 100% correct way to be sure of what Gumi actually wears! Many photos feature her in cargos, short-shorts, khakis, and camouflage pants. It's up to you!, Gumi's shoes for this are usually portrayed as ankle-high converse tennis shoes of any color. Purple, green, pink, black, any color., The hat that Gumi wears here is a half orange and half black "baseball cap" or "snap-back" that can be easily made.

Take a black baseball cap and orange fabric paint.
Draw a line on the side of the hat and cross it over the button on the top of the hat and over the other side of the hat (parallel with the bill of the hat).
Fill in the space you drew between the line and bill with orange fabric paint, but not the bill itself!

, The goggles Gumi wears here are hard to find, but some things as simple as motorcycle goggles and "Steampunk" goggles are just as fitting for hers. Here, hers are just black with pink lenses, which can honestly be easily made from even swim goggles since they just rest on her hat and are not actually worn., While searching for reference photos, you probably noticed Gumi is blowing a blue bubble with a mouth on it. To make this, simply locate a blue balloon and paint or draw with a marker a face on it with an open mouth (optional)., Gumi often is seen with a baseball bat for Panda Hero, too. If you plan on cosplaying in an area where a baseball bat is allowed, use a metal bat which is white or black and paint the words "PANDA HERO" on it. If you plan on attending a convention, make a bat of foam or plastic (depending on your resources) (optional).