 It's a green app with black horizontal lines. Doing so will open Spotify's home page if you're already logged in.


If you aren't signed into Spotify, tap LOG IN and enter your Spotify email address (or username) and password.;
, This is where you'll see featured playlists, recently played music, and a few different popular genres.


If Spotify opens to a page other than the home page, first tap Home in the bottom-left corner of the screen.
You can scroll down this page to see highlighted categories of music (such as the "New releases" category).
Spotify will often display an "Inspired By Your Recent Listening" or a "You Might Also Like" on the Home tab. The suggestions in these sections are based on your recent listening history.
 This tab is at the bottom of the screen, just right of the Home tab. You can scroll down on this page to view each different genre that Spotify offers, or you tap one of the following options near the top of the page to search by category:



Charts - See the top 50 songs both in your country and in the world.

New Releases - View all of Spotify's newly added music.

Videos - See music videos and music documentaries hosted on Spotify.

Podcasts - Browse Spotify podcasts.

Discover - See music and genres that are tailored to your Spotify listening habits.

Concerts - View upcoming concert events in your area.
 It's the magnifying glass-shaped icon in the bottom-center of the screen. This is where you can look up specific artists, albums, song names, and playlists by name.


As you type, the page below the "Search" bar will populate with search results. You can tap a search result to navigate to its specific page.
 It's on the bottom of the screen. This will take you to the Radio page, where you can view radio channels which you've created or to which you've subscribed.


To create a new radio station, tap the radio icon in the top-right corner of the screen and then type in an artist or song name.
 Regardless of your preferred search or browsing method, doing this will open the item's page.
 This green button will be either at the top of the page; tapping it will prompt the song, album, or playlist to begin playing.


If you opened an artist's page, you may have the option of selecting a specific album; otherwise, tapping SHUFFLE PLAY will usually begin shuffling through the artist's most popular songs.
You can also tap the three dots in the top-right corner of an artist's page and then tap Go to Radio (sometimes Go to Song Radio) to view their station.

