 One of the most important things you can do to keep your kids safe is to make sure the hill where they are sledding is safe. The hill shouldn’t have any kind of obstacle on it. Obstacles are dangerous, not fun things for the kids to dodge. Running into trees, fences, boulders, and other things in the sled path is a common way kids get injured.Check out potential sledding areas before it snows. Pick out the area ahead of time so you know what is under the snow, like rocks, bumps, open water, roads, and other obstacles.Avoid snow ramps. When sleds fly through the air, they can become uncontrollable. Children have died after hitting snow ramps, losing control of their sleds, and landing on their head and back.;
, Not all slopes are safe for kids. Though a steep slope may seem like an exciting ride for your kids, it can also be extremely dangerous. Make sure the slope is no steeper than 30 degrees.The slope should have a couple of inches of snow on it for your children to be able to sled down it.Make sure the hill is safely away from busy roads.
Make sure the bottom is flat so there is some place for your children to reduce speed and stop. There should be ample space between the end of the hill and any dangerous obstacles like roads, ponds, and trees.
 When you take your kids sledding, make sure the hill is not crowded with other people. This can cause unsafe conditions. You increase the risk of collision if you sled on busy hills., You should only let your children sled when there is snow on the ground. Never let them sled in icy conditions. Ice is a lot harder and sharper, so it can cause injury. Additionally, ice can cause sleds to go faster and be harder to control, which can be dangerous.Check under the snow to make sure there is not a layer of ice beneath it.
 You should only let your children sled during good visibility conditions. This means not letting them sled at night or when light is too low to see where they are going. If you go sledding at night, make sure there is plenty of light.You should also keep them indoors if there is dense snow coming down.Make sure that you can see more than six feet in front of you. If you can’t, don’t let your children sled.

