 When you are working remotely, you need to know what your employer expects of you. For example, if your job is reviewing and editing computer code for a programming company, you should know how many lines of code you are expected to produce in one day. If you are not aware of some general expectations, you should have a conversation with your direct supervisor.


Problems can arise if you are working under one assumption about your productivity, and your employer has another. It is best to clear up any misunderstanding as early as possible.
 If you produce work products that you are proud of, you are going to be more inclined to work diligently and stay disciplined in the work that you do. You need to realize your purpose and function to the company, and you need to know that what you do matters in the big picture. If you ever find yourself doubting any of this, you should stop and review what you have been doing., Always keep in mind that your purpose is the success of your company, whatever that may be. Your company succeeds when all the individual workers succeed and are performing well. If you spot any conflicts or problems, it can be easy when working remotely to avoid them. But avoiding conflicts generally does not resolve or correct them, it only makes them hang around longer. Especially when you work remotely, you need to be alert to any conflicts that arise and be diligent in addressing them.As a remote employee, you may have special problems or concerns that other employees do not experience. Address them early, to keep the problems small.
 One problem that can occur when working remotely is that others in the office may not see or fully understand the work that you do. This can lead to ineffective work if the remote employee becomes disgruntled and feels unappreciated. It is important to realize that your particular job may be more about the thinking that goes into something, and less about a physical product. If you have concerns about your role, you should talk with your direct supervisor.