


You'll need: 3 cups packed fresh basil, 1/4 cup pine nuts, 1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil, 1/2 cup Italian cheese (Parmesan, Romano, etc.), 2 cloves of garlic (depending on taste) and salt and pepper to taste.
Spread the pine nuts on a baking sheet and toast until golden brown. Place the pine nuts underneath a broiler until golden brown or simply bake in a 400 degree Fahrenheit oven for 5-10 minutes, checking often.
Alternatively, toast the pine nuts in a pan over low or medium-low heat on a burner. Stir often.
Pine nuts burn very easily, making them somewhat finicky to work with. When toasting pine nuts, pay attention closely and move them around often. The difference between perfectly toasted pine nuts and burnt pine nuts is often a matter of seconds.
Chop the garlic, cheese, and nuts (optional). Chopping before they are put into the food processor makes a finer ground pesto in the end.
Add the chopped ingredients and basil into a food processor. Add the extra virgin olive oil in the spout gradually as the food is being processed.
If you don't have a food processor, you can also use a blender in a pinch. (Pesto will turn out finer and less grainy when using a food processor.)
Add salt and pepper to taste. Give the food processor one or two more pulses. It's now ready to use on pasta, salad, or bread.



Gather some basil leaves. You'll need 1 1/2 cups (packed) fresh basil leaves and 3/4 cup olive oil.
Blanch the basil. You'll only want to have them in for 10 seconds.
Shock the basil. Drain and rinse them under cold water immediately. By doing this, you will stop any cooking done.
Use paper towels to dry the basil.
Add the basil leaves to a blender.
Puree the basil, while slowly dripping the olive oil in.
Puree until you get a smooth texture.

Store the basil oil in an airtight container. Use within 3 days.
 When infused in butter fat, the distinctive basil flavor is heightened. It is great with steamed vegetables, hot bread and drizzled over cooked fish.


You'll need 225g/ 1/2 pound butter, softened to room temperature and 1 cup fresh basil leaves.
Wash the dry basil. Shake dry.
Chop or tear the basil into small pieces.
Cream the butter. Knead with the back of a wooden spoon.
Add the chopped basil to the butter. Blend through with the wooden spoon.
Lay out wax paper on the work surface. Place the blended basil butter onto the paper. Roll into a sausage shape. Sprinkle with more chopped basil.
Roll the wax paper around the butter log. Place into the butter log in the refrigerator to chill.
Serve. To serve, simply slice small pieces off the log and use as needed, either for spreading or adding as a dollop on meat, fish, hot vegetables or hot bread.



You'll need 10 fresh basil leaves, chopped very finely; 4 tablespoons olive oil; 2 tablespoons hot water; 1 1/2 tablespoons vinegar; salt and pepper to taste.
Mix together the basil leaves, olive oil, hot water, and vinegar. Stir well.
Leave to stand for 10 minutes. This allows the flavors to infuse.
Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Pour into a suitable serving container. The vinaigrette should be stirred again prior to serving.
 When making your usual favorite dip, add some pesto either mixed into the dip or sitting as a topping on the dip.

