 Having this knowledge will narrow down you options and make it easier to reach the right conclusion.


There are more than 700 tree species in the United States alone. You will vastly improve your chances of correctly identifying trees if you focus your efforts on local trees instead of trying to memorize over 700 varieties.
When choosing study resources, stick with resources that are limited to your geographic region or state. If you cannot find ones that are this specific, at least stick with guides that are limited to your half of the country.;
, Look at the shape of the leaf, the color, the size, and the vein pattern. This information should narrow down your selection even further.


Needles are thin, bluntly-pointed leaves that usually appear in bunches.
Scales are broader than needles, but also have a pointed tip and also appear in clusters. Scales overlap one another.
Broad, flat leaves have a wide shape and lie flat.
Simple leaves can either be broad or narrow, but they are typically flat with smooth edges. By contrast, jagged or serrated leaves are similar to simple leaves except for the fact that they have pointed ridges along the sides.
Lobed leaves are broad leaves with large bumps or "hills and valleys" along the perimeter.
Palmate leaves have multiple skinny leaves coming off one stalk, while pinnate leaves have multiple skinny leaves attached to their own stalks.
 Factor this data in with the information you have already gathered.


Ridged or grooved bark tends to be one of the most common types. Deep indentations run up and down along the bark of the tree in no apparent pattern.
Scaly bark also has deep crevices, but these crevices appear to form small blocks of overlapping bark along the tree.
Smooth bark has few if any ridges. The ridges or indentations smooth bark has are fairly shallow.
 In particular, look at the pattern of the branches and the manner in which the twigs at each end are arranged.


Sharply ascending branches are fairly spread apart but rise up at a sharp angle. In contrast, ascending branches are spaced apart in a similar way but rise up at a less severe angle.
Spreading and open branches are spaced far apart. They rise up slightly but are nearly horizontal when viewed from above.
Ascending spreading, or recurved, branches start to angle upward before bending and turning down or straight across.
Crowded branches have sharply ascending angles, but the branches themselves are closely packed together.
 Look at the type of fruit the tree produces. If the fruit is not yet ripe, you could look at the flowers on the tree, instead. Also pay attention to the arrangement of the buds on the tree.


Cone or catkin fruit consists of a cluster of woody, scale-like pieces formed into a conical or cylindrical mass.
Flesh or soft fruit tends to include berries or edible fruit, like apples and pears. The flesh is soft and has a little "give" when pressed.
Hard or woody fruit has a tough exterior. Acorns and nuts are included in this category.
Pod fruits contain several seeds or hard masses inside a single protective pod or enclosure.
Winged fruit consists of a hard seed at the center of the fruit with lightweight, paper-like skin surrounding and coming off of that seed.
 The size of the tree is the final piece of data you need to identify it, along with its overall shape profile.


Conical or spire trees are narrow and tend to have pointed tops. The side profile looks similar to a triangle.
Spreading trees have broad, wide shapes, and the branches tend to extend out far from the trunk of the tree.
Upright trees are similar to spreading trees, but the branches do not spread out as far, giving the tree a more narrow look.
Weeping trees have branches and leaves that curve downward and hang low.
 You can learn a lot about identifying trees on your own, but if you are really serious and want to learn more about trees and how to identify them, taking instruction from a local expert can provide you with the knowledge you need more quickly and more thoroughly.


Look for local courses and workshops. You can improve your knowledge of the trees in your geographic area if you take a class taught by an expert. Look for classes and workshops provided by universities and community colleges, as well as any offered by environmental organizations, hiking organizations, agricultural extension offices, and local, state, or national parks.
Spend one-on-one time in the field with an expert. While a formal class is likely to teach you all you need to know and offer some fieldwork experience in the process, you might be able to learn just as much if you can arrange to meet with an expert on site at a park or arboretum.
 Whether you have some form of professional education or learn everything on your own, one of the key components in improving your accuracy and ability to identify trees is thorough knowledge of a wide variety of trees in your area, especially those which appear most often. The only way to obtain such thorough knowledge is to frequently study the characteristics of such trees.


Your studying should include plenty of field practice. You can study books and other resources, as well, but field practice will likely help you learn identification practices at a quicker pace.
Initially, you will need to take resources—like books, charts, and cell phone apps—with you into the field to help you identify trees on the spot. As you gain more experience, though, you might reach a point at which you can identify most local trees without such resources.
 Invest in a picture encyclopedia of trees. The best books will use easy-to-understand language, and the trees in the book should be categorized according to their identifying characteristics rather than being identified by name.


Take a good look at the drawings found in the book. They should be detailed but easy to interpret.
Avoid books weighted down with technical descriptions at this stage. If you want to know more about the technical side of things once you have gained experience and polished your skills, you can come back to these books later.
 As a general rule, it can be a good idea to print a basic chart of trees in your area. A chart is more portable than a heavy, thick book, so you can keep it with you even and do a little unplanned identification when you find an interesting specimen you do not recognize.


You can make your own chart based on other resources, or you can look for one from a book, manual, or online source.
Butler University has a small chart you can look at for basic reference. Use it to identify trees or as an example chart from which you can create your own. Take a look at it here: http://www.butler.edu/herbarium/treeid/idchart.html


, Nowadays, there are smart phone apps that can help you identify trees as you come across them. Research which one suits your needs best or test a few out before picking one.


A few tree identification apps worth checking into include:


What Tree Is That?, which asks you identifying questions to narrow down which tree you are describing.

Leafsnap, which requires you to take a picture of the leaf or bark of a tree so that it can identify it from its built-in database.Each app works differently, so you will need to read the instructions or play around with each one to determine how to use it.
 If you do not have a smart phone or cannot find an app that works for your purposes, you might have better luck looking online for answers. Do an Internet search for “tree identification” and browse through the results until you see a website that will help you narrow down the specimen you spotted according to its identifying characteristics.


Websites that allow you to filter your results according to certain characteristics tend to be more helpful than broad indexes or alphabetical listings.
You can also access the What Tree Is That? app online if you do not wish to use the mobile app.
The University of Wisconsin also has a helpful tree identification tool you can access online: http://www.uwsp.edu/cnr-ap/leaf/Pages/TreeKey/treeToIdentify.aspx?feature=Main

Kew Gardens has another online app you can use to help you identify trees: http://apps.kew.org/trees/?page_id=17


, There are multiple types of pine trees, but as members of the same broad family, they tend to share similar characteristics.


Loblolly pine trees are tall trees, usually reaching heights between 98 and 115 feet (30 to 35 m). These trees have needles that are usually found in bunches of three, and the trees produce cone-type fruit. The bark is scaly, and the branches are largely clustered at the top of the tree.
Lodgepole pine trees are thin, narrow trees reaching heights of 130 to 160 feet (40 to 50 m). The top of the tree tends to be flattened, but they also have needles and that come in clusters of two and cone-type fruit.
 As with pine trees, there are a few different variations of fir tree within the fir species, even though most do share similar traits.


Douglas fir trees are one of the tallest tree types in the world, reaching heights between 200 and 246 feet (60 and 75 m) on average. The bark is thin and smooth on young trees but thick and corky on old trees. These trees produce cone-like fruit with a narrow shape and red-brown scales, and the needle-like leaves are arranged in spirals, lying flat along the shoots. The top of the tree is somewhat cylindrical.
Balsam fir trees are a smaller variety, reaching heights between 46 and 66 feet (14 and 20 m). The top of the tree is narrow and pointed, giving the overall shape a conical appearance. The bark is smooth ad gray on young trees but rough and scaly on old trees, and the leaves are needle-like. The cones ripen to a brown color but disintegrate and release winged seeds in the fall.
 Oak trees are usually divided into a white oak group and a red oak group, but other variations exist, as well.


White oak trees have simple, lobed leaves without bristled tips. They produce acorns, and the bark is usually a light gray color with a scaly appearance.
Red oak trees also produce acorns, but they have lobed leaves with bristled tips. The bark is scaly and a dark red-gray to red-brown color. The branches are thin and initially appear bright green before turning dark red and, eventually, dark brown.
 Maple trees are all fairly similar, but there are also multiple types within the broader species.


Sugar maple trees have five rounded leaf lobes. In the spring and summer, the leaves are green, but they turn bright yellow, orange, or bright red-orange in fall, and the fall coloring tends to be uneven. The bark has ridges in it and the fruit it produces is winged.
Silver maple trees have sharp leaf lobes that are deeply cut. While vibrant green during the summer, the leaves are only a pale yellow in the fall. The bark tends to be smooth and silver on young trees but gray and shaggy on old trees.
Red maple trees have sharp leaf lobes that are shallowly cut. The leaves are green during the summer but usually turn a vibrant shade of red during autumn. The bark of the tree is smooth and pale gray in young trees, but older trees get darker bark with a plate-like texture. Red maple trees also produce double-sided winged fruit.

