 Failing to turn off the phone can result in a shorted circuit. To turn off your iPhone 7, press and hold the Lock button on the right side of the phone's casing, then slide the slide to power off switch at the top of the screen right.;
, The Lightning port is at the bottom of the phone. You'll need a 3.4 millimeter Pentalobe P2 screwdriver to remove the two screws here.
 Doing so will loosen the adhesive that holds the screen in place, which will allow you to lift the display up later. Leave the heating pad for five minutes before proceeding.
 Place it at the bottom of the screen, directly above the Home button.
 The screen should only lift a fraction of an inch away from the case. Pulling too hard may rip the display from the case, so be gentle.


Hold the rest of the iPhone down with your other hand while you pull the suction cup.
If the screen won't come up, try heating the bottom of the iPhone for another few minutes.
 There should be a space created by gently pulling up on the suction cup, and your spudger should fit snugly into the gap.


Make sure you're using a plastic spudger and not a metal one, as a metal spudger will damage your phone.
 Twisting the spudger back and forth should gently pry the screen away from the phone's casing. Do not use the spudger near the top of the phone--there are plastic clips that hold the top of the screen in place, and doing so will break them. Instead, only move the spudger about halfway up each side.
 Lifting the screen any higher than this will break the fragile display cables, so err on the side of caution when doing this., Doing so will unstick the last of the adhesive there.
 You should only have to pull it a few millimeters down to clear the plastic clips at the top of the iPhone

, It should fold open like a book, with the interior of the iPhone now exposed and the still-connected display and screen face-down to the right of the case.
 This silver bracket is on the lower-right side of the iPhone's interior; there's a ribbon connecting it to the display part of the phone. You'll find four screws attaching the bracket to the phone, three of which require a 1.2 millimeter screwdriver and one of which needs a 2.6 millimeter screwdriver.
 You'll see two black strips of plastic beneath it: one running parallel to the battery, and one running perpendicular.
 This strip is the battery connector; detaching it will disconnect the display from your iPhone's battery.
 Doing so will detach the ribbon here from the iPhone's interior, thereby disconnecting one of the two display ribbons.
 This silver bracket is at the top-right corner of the phone's interior. You'll find three tri-point screws here: one 1.3 millimeter, and two 1.0 millimeter.
 You should see another black piece of plastic that's perpendicular to the battery; this is the connector for the second display ribbon.
 Doing so will remove the second display ribbon from the iPhone's interior.
 It should be completely removed at this point.
 This black bracket is in the bottom-left corner of the iPhone's case. You'll find a 2.9 millimeter screw and a 2.1 millimeter screw holding it down.
 You should now be looking at the Taptic Engine's connector, which is a black piece of plastic like the rest of the connectors you've unattached so far.
 Doing so will disconnect the Taptic Engine from your iPhone's logic board, which will in turn allow you to remove the Taptic Engine.
 All three of these screws are 1.5 millimeter screws.
 With the Taptic Engine out of the way, you're finally ready to remove the iPhone's battery.
 You'll want to use a pair of needle-nose pliers or tweezers for this step.
 Do this gently, since wrinkling or tearing the adhesive strip will make it extremely difficult to remove your iPhone's battery. After enough pulling, the strip will slide out from under the battery.


If one of the adhesive strips tears and renders the battery impossible to remove: lay the iPhone on a heating pad for a few minutes to loosen the adhesive, then pry out the battery with a thin plastic card inserted on the left side of the battery.
 Make sure you're holding down the battery while pulling out the last one so that the battery doesn't get ejected from the iPhone's interior.
 At this point, you can place a new battery in the iPhone, or let the phone dry as needed if it has suffered water damage.

