 In order to make a good decision about when to say no, you will want to identify what your own personal priorities are in life. To do this, take some time to reflect on the top 10 things that you feel make your life worth living. Don't worry about choosing things you "should" choose - this list is about what makes you happy.


After completing the list, put it away.
A few days later, write another list (without looking at your first list). Put that list away.
Repeat again a few days later.
Look at all three lists and combine them into one. Note where ideas repeat, and combine items that seem similar to you.
Rank your priorities.Use the final list as a resource to help you make decisions by asking yourself how different decisions might effect your priorities.
 If you are feeling overloaded already, saying yes to one more thing can have very negative consequences for the work you are doing, for your physical and mental wellbeing, and for your relationships. Small things in your work might start to slip, you might get sick or have a breakdown, or your relationships with friends and family might suffer.Remember that your health and well-being is ultimately more important than taking on another task.
 Business experts say that people are often too optimistic about how quickly and well they will be able to accomplish something. Take the time to reflect honestly about whether or not you have the skills, abilities, and time to do what is being asked. Don’t say yes thinking that you can "change the rules" later on. Be clear and honest from the start with yourself and others so that you know when to say no – and know when the perfect time to say yes comes along.
 If you are not sure about whether saying yes is a good idea, honestly tell the person asking that you are not sure. Then take some time – even a few days – to reflect, research, and seek advice., Sit down and make a list – on paper, on your computer, or even on your mobile phone – of the reasons to say yes and the reasons to say no to the opportunity before you. Doing this can help you make a good decision because you will be able to see if the "great" opportunity you initially feel you can’t pass up is as great as it really seems.


When you look at your list, think about where you want to go in the future. If you say yes now, will that decision help you get where you want to go?