 Before you decide to not attend college or university you should look at your reasons for doing so. By examining your reasons for not attending college you will be able to make an informed choice and better plan for your future. Review the three main reasons that prevent people from attending college to learn what effect they have on your choice:Financial limitations. You may not have access to enough funding or loans to attend. Speak with the college's financial aid department before deciding college is impossible to finance.
Academic requirements. Often times, colleges will require certain grades from a potential student. If you don't meet these criteria, it may still be possible to attend or to find a school that will accept you despite your previous academic performance.
Not enough time. It may be that your schedule is too busy to allow for course time. However, many colleges can work with you, offering on-line courses with flexible deadlines or by letting you attend at a “part-time” status.;
, Both choices, either attending college and not attending college will come with their own benefits and hardships. Neither one will have clear advantages and in most cases these will vary due to your own personal situation. Examine how attending college or not will impact your life.Pro of attending college – Dedicated teaching staff can provide you with excellent instruction.
Pro of attending college – Having an accredited degree can be attractive to employers.
Pro of not attending college – You can potentially save a large amount of money.
Pro of not attending college – You can still provide yourself with a good and working education.
Con of not attending college – It may be difficult to prove your level of skill without a degree.
Con of not attending college – Getting noticed over someone with a degree can be challenging.
Con of attending college – Expensive tuition can leave you in a large amount of debt.
Con of attending college – Having an advanced degree does not guarantee success.
 Whichever choice you make, you will need to be fully committed to making it work for you. Choosing not to go to college can be a great decision but you will still have to work just as hard at developing yourself as if you had gone. If you have chosen to not attend college, fully commit to this choice and begin working towards your professional goals in a strategic and well planned manner.

