 Maine Coons have a long, shaggy coat. The fur is not thick, but it is plentiful. Its paws, tails, and ears are covered in fluffy tufts of fur.The fur on the cat’s back should be shorter toward the front of the cat and longer toward its rear. Fur on the cat’s sides, likewise, should gradually get longer from front to back.The brown tabby pattern is the most common color pattern for Maine Coons.However, Maine Coons are available in 75 different color combinations.;
, Maine Coons are the largest of all cat breeds. They have a sturdy and rugged look about them. Some people have even likened them to small bobcats. If you have a cat that seems unusually large, it might be a Maine Coon.Male Maine Coons tend to weight 15-25 pounds. Females tend to weigh 10-15 pounds. If your cat falls within these weight ranges, you just might have a Maine Coon.
Males are usually 10-16 inches (25-41 centimeters) tall and 40 inches (101 centimeters) long. Females tend to be 8-14 inches tall and around 40 inches (101 centimeters) long. Use a yardstick or tape measure to obtain your cat’s length and height.
 Maine Coons have a coat that has been variously described as silky or oily.The fur should be fine. Their bodies are firm and muscular.Maine Coons tend to be oily to keep their fur from getting too wet in the snow.
 Maine Coons have muscular legs that are medium in length. The legs should be proportional to the body. Maine Coons have tails that are wide at the base, then narrow gradually. The tail should have long, flowing fur. Finally, look for tapered ears. The two ears of the Maine Coon are wide at the base and taper to a point. They will be positioned relatively close together, with no more than one ear’s width between them.The ears will have tufts of fur growing inside them.
The cat will wrap its tail around itself to stay warm in cold weather.
 The Maine Coon’s eyes are slightly oblique (slanted), not perfectly round. They are typically green or gold, though they might be blue, too., Most cats reach their full size when they are nine to 12 months old. Maine Coons, however tend to grow for at least two years. Some have been known to grow for four years. If you’ve a cat that just seems to keep growing, it might be a Maine Coon.