 If you have a lot of chickens that you need to vaccinate, the backpack sprayer is one of the fastest ways to get the job done. This device actually gets worn like a backpack on your back and can vaccinate many chickens at once.
 Test spray by spraying four liters of distilled water in the backpack sprayer, and take note of the time it takes before the device is completely emptied. Ensure that the particle size of the nozzle is correct.


For chicks (day 1 to 14) this should be at 80 to 120 microns, for older birds (day 28 onwards) this should be between 30 to 60 microns (1).Desvac®, and Field Spravac have color coded nozzles with different particle sizes.
 The total amount of distilled water will depend on the amount of birds to be vaccinated, and the age of vaccination. As a rough guide:


500ml to 600ml of distilled water is needed for every 1000 birds at 14 days of age, and 1000ml of distilled water is needed for every 1000 birds at 30 to 35 days of age. For example: for a 14 day old flock of 30,000 birds; 30 x 500 = 15,000 ml or 15 liters (4.0 US gal) of distilled water.
 Only mix the vaccine together when you are completely ready to vaccinate the chickens. Open the vaccine vial first, and pour distilled water into it before mixing it in the clean pale with the correct amount of distilled water (see Step 2).


Mix the vaccine thoroughly using clean plastic stirrers.
 Prepare the house by setting it to minimum ventilation rate, and dimming the lights to calm the birds. Always vaccinate in the cooler parts of the day.
 After preparing the house and the vaccine, start vaccinating by letting one person walk slowly ahead to part the birds, and the vaccinators behind him to the left and to the right. The sprayers must slowly walk and direct the nozzle 3 feet (0.9 m) above the birds heads.


While you spray, maintain the pressure of the nozzle at around 65 to 75 PSI. Each backpack sprayer brand is different but there is always a way to read the pressure on the device.
 After vaccination, immediately restore the ventilation settings to normal. Turn the lights back on after a few minutes (5 to 10 minutes), to give the chickens time to rest., Clean the backpack sprayer with 4 liters (1.1 US gal) of water, by shaking it and spraying it until it is emptied. Always check the parts of the backpack sprayer and replace as needed. For battery operated sprayers, always recharge after every use.

