 Focus your attention entirely on the speaker. This will not only help you remember the conversation, but it will help your listener feel more comfortable sharing more personal information. We are more likely to delve more deeply into a conversation if we believe the other person is hearing us.


Have your conversation in a quiet area where there are no distractions. Put away your phone, or turn off music.
Active listening can be draining, as it requires much more focus than the usual listening we do on a day-to-day basis. Focusing your attention so closely on someone for a long period of time will likely leave you depleted at the end of your conversation. It is a skill that takes practice!;
, Maintain a physical stance that makes you appear open and receptive to hearing what the other person has to say. To help you remember what open body language looks like, think of the acronym SOLER:Squarely face the person. This shows you are present and attentive, and will also help you best read nonverbal cues.

Open your posture. Keep your arms at your sides or in your lap. Avoid crossing your arms or turning your body away.

Lean towards the sender. If you’re sitting, sit up tall and lean forward on your chair.

Eye contact while listening.

Relax while listening. Avoid fidgeting or moving around while engaging in active listening. It may make the other person feel tense or distracted.
 Eye contact is an easy way to indicate to the other person that you are paying attention to them. Sometimes eye contact feels uncomfortable, but force yourself to do it. It will get easier with practice.


It's okay to break eye contact -- you don't need to stare them down. Too much eye contact can be unnerving. Natural breaks would include watching their hand gestures, looking where they are pointing, or looking away as though you are deep in thought.
If you find making eye contact with another person uncomfortable, you could try looking somewhere on their face instead, like their forehead.
You can also nod while you make eye contact with the other person, to encourage them to continue speaking.
 Sometimes important conversations happen over the phone or in the car, or other places where it may not be possible to show attentiveness with your body language. In this case, convey you’re listening by interjecting minimal encouragers. These are vocalizations to let others know you are listening.For example, you could say things like “mm-hmm,” “yes,” “uh-huh,” “I see,” or “oh.”
You can also use minimal encouragers in person, though attentive body language is more effective in conveying presence and willingness to listen.

