 Before you can weave in and out of structures and defeat member upon member, you have to understand how the game really works. The focus point of DTM is to destroy (hence the name, destroy-the-monument) the other team's obsidian. These monuments are located on either side of the spawn point. Each time you respawn into your team's headquarters, you will be equipped with materials such as a stone or iron sword, golden apples, a diamond pickaxe, so on and so forth.;
, Unless you buy ranks gold, emerald, or diamond, you cannot choose the team you're placed on. Don't be discouraged, however! The teams are equally divided among the players so no one team is overpowered. Depending on the team you are placed on, you will be assigned a different color. This color is the color of the base and armor so you do not confuse your teammates as enemies.
 Some games can have up to 80, or possibly more, players on a team, so it is essential to stock up on armor and golden apples. The closer you get to a monument, the more you may be attacked in efforts of saving the obsidian. Iron and diamond armor is the best for this type of gameplay. Three blocks of either iron, gold, or diamond is enough for a full set of protection, so don't take more than you need!

, Diving headfirst into a crowd of the opposite team probably isn't the best idea, nor is going alone. You want to gather some friends, or teammates to say the least, to go along with you. The bigger group you have, the better chances you have of destroying the monuments. The best routes to take conclude of either going underground, above, or around the bases. For the journey you will need a lot of blocks to get you there!

, Though crouching may be a slower way of moving through the map, it covers up your name tag so others can't pinpoint you. This works best if you are underneath a base, for the other team will be able to see the name tag sticking above the ground! Make sure that your path is not too close to the middle, either. It takes more blocks and time the further away from the spawn point you go, but it also makes it hard to get shot down by flying arrows.
 The moment you get to the obsidian, it's best that you cover yourself with a hard material (such as wood) to give yourself some time to break the obsidian.
 Throughout each map, there will usually be 2-3 monuments around a base. Go from one to another for the best result! Breaking monuments gives you an increased stat rate, and hey, perhaps a reputation!

