 Every state has a list of minimum requirements for liability auto insurance. You need to make sure that when you get an estimate that includes the right minimum coverage to stay in line with state laws. This liability is the maximum amount of money the insurance company is legally obligated to pay if you are at fault in an accident. Most insurance companies should know the state laws, and provide the minimum, but it is always good to know the limits before you start shopping.State liability limits will cover three kinds of limits. These are bodily injury for one person in an accident, injury for all people injured in an accident, and property damage for one accident. In Illinois, for example, the three limits are $20,000, $40,000, and $15,000. These are usually explained in shorthand by the thousands, so you would see this listed as 20/40/15. You can certainly purchase more, but you need at least that much.
In addition, some states require you to include uninsured/underinsured motorist coverage with your policy in case the person at fault in an accident does not have insurance, or it can’t cover the cost. This coverage is required in Connecticut, DC, Illinois, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wisconsin.;
, If you are receiving a loan to purchase your car, the lender probably has coverage requirements as well. Some may simply require that you have your state's minimum required coverage, but some lenders may want more coverage. Most lenders require that replacement costs are covered with collision and comprehension insurance., Once you know the minimum that your state requires and if your auto lender has any requirements, you may consider increasing your coverage when you get quotes. When you think about your coverage, consider your driving habits and environment.A general recommendation for liability limits after meeting state minimums is 50/100/25. When considering your limits, make sure you buy enough to help cover your personal assets. The more money you have to your name, the more you can lose if you are at fault in an accident.
Liability coverage does not limit the amount that can be awarded in a law suit. Consider a general liability policy in addition to auto insurance if this is a concern.
Things to look at in your driving habits include your past accident history, commute time and driving conditions, and where you park your car at night.
 In addition to damage liabilities, you can also consider a variety of other coverage options. The most common are collision and comprehensive coverage. Collision helps to pay for damages from an accident, while comprehensive pays for damages from another cause, such as vandalism, theft, or weather.Other potential coverage options include rental reimbursement, which pays for a rental car while yours is in the shop, or roadside assistance to cover a towing. If you are a member of an auto club (like AAA), you may already have some of these items covered, so you won’t need them from your insurance company.
When considering supplemental coverage, you will also want to think about the value of your car. A car that is older and/or low-value may not be worth supplemental coverage, since insurance will only pay up to the estimated fair market value of your car, which may not be worth the price of additional coverage. If your car is newer and/or high-value, then these supplemental coverages may save you a significant amount of money if your car is damaged., Additional coverages come as deductibles — that is, agreeing how much you will pay out of pocket before the insurance kicks in. The higher your deductible, the lower your premium payments, meaning you will have to pay the insurance company less.Make sure that if you go with a high deductible, you actually have the money to cover those costs.
 Much of your potential insurance premium will be based on your driving record, in addition to the model, age, and use of car being insured. Insurance companies will want to know how much of a potential risk you are before offering coverage. Your record should be available through your state’s department of motor vehicles, which should be tracking any legal issues that have come up due to your driving.If you notice any errors on your driving record, be sure to contest them. You don’t want these causing you to pay more for insurance.If you know that recent traffic violations, like speeding tickets, are going to come off your record shortly, consider waiting to get quotes until after they are gone. Losing those points will help get you lower payments.
 Before you start calling insurance companies for quotes, you will need some information handy. Every company you call will ask for this information to get your quote, so having it with you will make this process go more quickly. Information you’ll need for a quote includes:The number of drivers in your household, the age and sex of potential drivers, and their state driver's license numbers
The make, model, year, and vehicle identification number (VIN) for your car
The type of coverage and limits you want
The location where you park your car at night

, One of the most important parts of getting auto insurance is to call several companies to shop around for quotes. Every auto insurance company calculates your risk slightly differently, so you can get a variety of premiums to pay. This will help you compare prices and get the best deal for yourself. You can get insurance quotes from a variety of sources. Many large companies will allow you to get a quote online, while in other cases you will need to call an agent directly. Talk to friends and family as well to get a list of potential names to call., Every insurance company will be willing to offer discounts to drivers as a way to induce them to get their policy. When asking for quotes, ask what kind of discounts the company has available. Many of them are related to your past behavior or things you have purchased for your car.The National Association of Insurance Commissioners recommends that you ask specifically for discounts related to a good driving record, a good credit rating, good grades (for young drivers), driver’s education courses, multiple automobile policies, safety equipment on the car, or for longtime policy holders.
Ask about the potential for bundling your auto insurance with renter's or home insurance. This can get you a lower rate on your auto insurance.
Your place of work, college, or professional group may have a side deal for additional insurance discounts. Be sure to ask those groups as well to see if there are particular groups you should shop with., Once you have gotten several quotes, compare what you have. You don’t necessarily need to take the lowest price, but at least you’ll know what it is. Remember that each company is also offering a variety of discounts and services. When you compare prices, think about the kinds of services each is offering.


When thinking about prices, consider the monthly premium. Your insurance may have you pay a monthly payment with interest, or they may give you the option of paying in a lump sum twice a year. Consider whether you have enough money to make two large lump-payments and calculate how much your policy would really cost once you factor in any interest.Be aware that checking multiple quotes beyond a single 30 day period may adversely affect your credit score.
 Once you have a company you want to go with, or at least have a couple in mind, be sure to check out their history. Insurance agents have past records as well, and you may be sacrificing good customer service to pay a lower premium. You can check your agent’s through the NAIC website to see if there are outstanding complaints.Check your state's insurance board records as well. You can search for your insurance agent or broker or for the company itself.
 Once you have decided which policy and insurance company you want to go with, make sure you meet with an agent face to face. Even large insurance companies will have local agents and offices, so there should be someone you can talk to directly.Hopefully you won’t deal with your agent much after signing the policy. That being said, it can be good to have some familiarity and comfort with the agent and his or her customer service style if you do need to file a claim.
 Once you have the policy in hand, and before you sign on the dotted line, read through the policy one more time. You’ll want to make sure that what you have is what you intended, and that everything meets state requirements.When reviewing your policy, look at the details for certain types of repairs. When your policy talks about repairs, see if it uses terms like “new factory,” “like kind and quality,” or “aftermarket parts.” This will prevent you from getting into disputes with your insurance company when things need to be replaced., Once you’ve purchased insurance, that shouldn’t be the end of your process. Your coverage will come up for renewal every six to 12 months. When you start getting close to that time, start shopping around again to see if you can get a better rate or policy.Remember that your driving record, and your insurance needs, will change all the time. Checking with insurance providers regularly will help ensure that you are always getting the best plan for you and your circumstances.

