 Do some research by going to your local library, looking at some good Catholic websites such as catholic.com, and sit in a pew and observe Mass at the local church;
, Mass is the source and summit of our Faith as the Bread and Wine offered at Mass according to Church doctrine becomes the Body, Blood, Soul, and Divinity of Our Lord Jesus Christ. Also frequently praying and partaking of the Sacraments brings us closer to God and makes us stronger in our Faith. There are numerous prayers that have been written throughout the Catholic Tradition. Some parishes sell Catholic prayer books to help you with your prayer. Pray the Rosary (at the bottom of the article), say the Our Father, the Jesus Prayer, or just have a conversation with God. Remember to ask for the intercession of Jesus Christ to the Father, and that of Holy Mary, the Mother of God and the saints in your prayer. We are not worshiping the saints and Mary but praying (communicating) with them to God.
 Pick a passage or set a time of maybe ten minutes to read the Bible each day. You can also look for Catholic Bible commentaries that may be sold at a parish or through an online Catholic website to assist you with trying to understand the Bible more

, Give charity to the poor, visit those in prison, give food to the hungry, forgive, clothe the naked, give drink to the thirsty, and bury the dead.
,, Catholics are required to attend church on every Sunday and Holy Day of Obligation (HDOs for the Byzantine Metropolitan Church of Pittsburgh are listed in the tips).
 The leader of the Church as a whole is the Pope, although various Churches have their own leaders (e.g. the Metropolitan of Pittsburgh of the Ruthenians; the Patriarch of Antioch of the Maronites; the Metropolitan of L'viv of the Ukrainians, etc.). Hold true to the Traditions of the Faith as the Faith has been passed down from Jesus Christ to the Apostles to their disciplines through the numerous saints to this present day. Research and look into what the Church actually teaches by going to good Catholic websites and by reading good Catholic books. The Catechism of the Catholic Church lays out point by the point what the Church teaches and believes.
 The most common of these is the Roman Church. The others are known as the Eastern Catholic Churches. Almost all of them (except for the Maronite and Italo-Albanian Churches) have an Orthodox counterpart. The members of Eastern Catholic Churches are not pleased when people refuse to accept the fact that they are in full communion with the Bishop of Rome.
