 The dropped "r" is a classic New York sound, though it is actually going out of style. The tricky part is to remember when to subtly drop the "r." It only disappears when it is before a consonant, though the disappearance is slight -- listening to native speakers will help you find the sweet spot. So, for example:Park → "Pak."
Nurse → "Nuhse."
Water → "Watta"
River → "Rivva"
Fear → "Feah"Note, however, that some New Yorkers also add "r"s where they aren't needed, like "idea-r" or "law-r and order." These are generally colloquial and common in older speakers.;
, This is found in the cliched New York accent expression "toity-toid street" ("33rd Street"). But it is not always so cliche -- dropping the softer, whispery "thhhh" sound for a harder "ddd" or "tttt" sound is very New York.


The → "teh"
That → "tat" or "dat"
Three → "tree"When making "d" or "t" sounds, place your tongue against the back of your bottom teeth. Note the subtle difference., So the word dog, for example, would sound like "dawg", and "coffee" would sound like "cawfee."


Talk → "Tawk"
Though → "Tawwt"
The short "o" sound is pretty rare in New York English. Words which include the long "i" in the middle, like "liar", use a very similar "aw" sound, so "liar" should sound almost like "lawyer"

, This is a tricky one, because it requires turning one syllable into two. Some linguists actually believe it is near impossible for outsiders to learn, but you can pick it up with a bit of practice. Check out the following examples and see if they make sense, trying to get through the first syllable quickly and sliding it naturally into the next.


Cab → "ca-AHB"
Avenue → "ahav-enue.", Furthermore, most New Yorkers get their words out quickly, speaking with a pace just a bit faster than the average American. Test out a few words, phonetically spelled out for you, to get used to the accent before diving in. The capitalized letters are for emphasis.


Sunday → "sun-dA"
Monday → "Mun-dey"
Tuesday → "Twos-dey"
Wednesday → "Wehn-s-dey"
Thursday → "Thuhs-dey" (err being kind of rolled r)
Friday → "Fry-dey"
Saturday → "Satuh-dey"