 Buddhism of all traditions but particularly Theravada, often describes four foundational, integral qualities one should to keep to be able to develop a practice. For best results, one should place as much importance on each of the four. These are: dana - which means giving or generosity; sila - virtue or ethics; samadhi - meditation; and finally panna - wisdom or deep understanding.


Often people never really get their practice started because they try to bypass generosity and virtue, but these are like the fuel in the vehicle, or the walls of the house. Without these, the practice never develops and falls over very easily - meditation stays too shallow and wisdom too superficial to be of any changing value. Eventually, each one develops the other in a circular pattern, going deeper and more revealing.;
, This is never as simple as making monetary donations from a distance, but is a moment to moment practice of being generous of yourself to yourself and others both in helping and assisting them, such as volunteer work; donating support, such as food, clothing and medicines to those who are practicing higher virtue and wisdom; and finally being generous supporting those in need with your care, patience and kindness.


Your intention actually underwrites all of these practices, so the aim is to develop compassionate and wise intentions. It must also be both ways so that kindness extends to yourself as well as to others. For this, it is an expression of a heart that has been developed by virtue.
 For lay people, there is often the choice of five or eight precepts, five being the more common for everyday Buddhists. Although there is no harm in breaking precepts by accident or unawareness, the longer you can keep your precepts the deeper and more beautiful the practice becomes.


The functional role of precepts is fascinating because virtue builds a sense of confidence in life - essentially your lifestyle grows in a way where wise people praise your qualities and you're not a target for criticism. But its deeper role is a sense of having no regrets, which is incredibly powerful in meditation.
 Meditation is all about learning the true nature of your mind, as well as how to skillfully and wisely develop it to reduce the hardships of life. In the early Buddhist texts, it is stated throughout the canon that a practitioner should aim for both the deep states of stillness (known as Samatha), as a way into the deeper insights known as vipassana (or 'seeing clearly'). Stillness practices allow the aspects of the mind that prevent clear insight fade away, as otherwise it can be like looking through foggy or blacked-out lenses.


The Dhammapada sums this up very neatly - there is no jhana without insight, no insight without jhana. Having both, one is close to Nibbana.
 This ultimately means applying your understanding in each moment, and allowing your wisdom to grow, as every situation is different. This particular skill is a result of the other three aspects, so while it can be developed on a simple level by reading early texts, listening to good lectures and taking personal retreats, this mode flowers slowly, but is perhaps the most beautiful flower of the four.


Wisdom is often put into effect and boosted by generosity, since it is easy to follow one's innate preferences, but to be patient, kind and wise in challenging situations is an expression of a generous mind.
 The early texts tend to be the most simple and straightforward in their presentation, however over the last 100 odd years, there has been a great deal of research into which texts that may be recognised and determined as inauthentic. The complication is that these recent distinctions are not always known by those starting or keeping a practice, so teachers can often innocently present later ideas and concepts traditionally thought as being authentically of the Buddha. Fortunately it is becoming much more easy in the 21st century for every-day practitioners to be able to find out for themselves.


What distinguishes most forms of Theravada is an emphasis on the ancient teachings of the Buddha, rather than later interpretations and new goals of Buddhism, this is largely due to geographical distance between the schools. Therefore some of the characteristics of Mahayana and Vajrayana schools are not present at all. Theravada does have its own later ideas however, such as those found in the Abhidhamma and commentaries such as the Visuddhimagga, which were complied many centuries after the Buddha.
 There is a great deal of fantastic meditation and life manuals from all the three traditions of Buddhism, so when used as a way to learn tricks and skills to develop your practice, they are an excellent tool. The early texts function as a central point of reference of what the Buddha actually taught, but the later texts can give personal experiences of other practitioners in their interpretation of the early texts, that can be very inspiring.


There is usually no problem in reading non-Theravada texts as scholars have noted strong similarities, particularly between Theravada and Zen. But the practitioner should know the later doctrinal ideas so as to be able to recognise what is and what isn't of the Theravadan tradition and avoid complicating their practice.
 The early Buddhist texts do not seem to have any one-sided practices - such as awakening through study only, through meditation only, through virtue or confidence only. But they are all themes that can be more dominant as part of the whole. So it is the essence of the practice to reflect and study, to practice samatha and vipassana meditation, to develop generosity and virtue.


Exceptions to this case are actually very rare and are a result of conditions such as kamma, or (more often) the texts themselves have been proven to be late or corrupted.
 At the beginning, it is very useful to take the occasional weekend to stay at a respected temple or monastery. This does, almost invariably, involve volunteer work, such as helping the monastics around the grounds and buildings or with other volunteers and monastic trainees (often known as Anagarikas) in the kitchen, but is an important foundation of generosity as well as developing your ethical and wisdom skills when dealing with people.


Monastic life in good monasteries can be very demanding for monastic residents, generally because the temple functions as a central facet of cultural expectations and holy days, as well as offering services such as teaching, counselling, funerals and other services of what is more known as religious Buddhism. For this reason, secular or non monastic Buddhists can learn a great deal about how one can develop a strong practice in the face of high expectations and service demands in a confined environment, often with very little expenditure, that monastics have to meet 7 days a week.
 Generally, this is for more advanced practitioners staying for the whole 3 months of the wet season. Around the world many hundreds of people book for the retreats in their preferred monasteries, so it is best to make contact a year in advance especially for well known monasteries.
 Theravada, in an orthodox practice, tends to be very plain, simple, minimalist and down to earth. Cultural Theravada in contrast is often distinguished by routines, regular group ceremonies and chanting, as well as focus on technique based styles of meditation. For many people, Orthodox Theravada can seem very dry, un-engaged and boring, but that is because its focus is to make the practice take the priority.
 Ordinations, generally are of benefit after at least a year of keeping the 8 precepts, but the longer the better. Ordination in the more respected monasteries (which are now very rare in Southeast Asia), is often deeply confronting and challenging as it features few group or social activities and maximum time in seclusion to be able to develop a strong practice.


It is best to dedicate several years for the monastic practice, as in most cases the practice really only starts to take an effect after 5-6 years as a full monk (known as a Bhikkhu) or nun (known as a Bhikkhuni). Temporary ordinations alternatively are fantastic for a cultural experience.
 In a monastery, it becomes very easy to become strict and inflexible - especially for visitors. This quality of kindness is foundational to be able to develop your generosity, virtue, meditation and ultimately your understanding of the world.

