 There are a litany of organizations available you can join or donate to that are dedicated to reducing cruelty towards animals worldwide. Do some research and find which organization appeals to your views.


The Humane Society of America is one of the world's largest animal advocacy organizations. They target puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, and the slaughterhouse trade. The organization works through both large-scale political initiatives and hands-on efforts to rescue and care for unwanted animals.The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) is another one of the better known animal advocacy organizations. Much like the Humane Society of America, they oppose most forms of cruelty like slaughterhouses and puppy mills and also help curb animal population by encouraging spaying and neutering of house pets. They also encourage the development of no-kill shelters and provide practical assistance such as transporting adopted animals to new homes.People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a well-known but somewhat controversial animal rights organization. PETA focuses primarily on factory farms, the clothing trade, laboratory testing of animals, and use of animals in the entertainment industry. PETA often conducts investigations of companies and labs and encourages direct political action in the form of protests, petitioning, and boycotts.PETA, however, has met criticism for being more dedicated to publicity stunts than actually reducing cruelty to animals. In 2013, allegations surfaced that PETA had euthanized many of the rescued animals at their Virginia headquarters.You can also find a local animal shelter in your area and volunteer there.
 If no existing organization appeals to you personally, you can always start a neighborhood watch in your area. Invite your friends and neighbors to get to know the animals in your area and keep an eye out for suspicious behavior.


Be aware of the animals in your area. By being vigilant, and encouraging others to do the same, you'll be likely to notice potential problems, such as a formerly friendly dog suddenly becoming aggressive or skittish around people.There are many signs of animal abuse. Physical signs include collars that are too tight, open wounds or signs of recently healed wounds, fur infested with fleas or ticks, patches of missing skin or rashes, and extreme thinness.
Pay attention to the animal's environment. Are they tied up alone frequently? Are they kept outside despite poor weather conditions, like intense heat or cold? Is an animal kept in a small kennel, or one crowded with many other animals, for extended periods?
Encourage all members of your watch to stay vigilant, and if you notice any of the above signs of cruelty report it to your group and decide as a group how to proceed.
 Animal cruelty is a crime, and if you see abuse happening do not hesitate to report it to the proper authorities.


Where to report cruelty depends on your state. Contacting the local humane society is a good first step, as the workers there usually know what law agency to contact. You can also visit a local police station and ask for help.When you know who to contact, provide concise written statements that includes the dates of the incident or incidents, and any other witnesses besides yourself.
If possible, get photographic evidence of the abuse., One of the most important things you can do to endorse animal welfare is being a model for friends, family members, and co-workers.


Share your views. Do not be shy about explaining your opinions on animal cruelty and welfare. Many people are not informed about the conditions of slaughterhouses, animal testing facilities, and puppy mills. If animals come up in conversation, take this as an opportunity to keep others informed.
Use social media to your advantage. Post lists of animal-based ingredients hidden in many products, links to petitions to end animal testing, and local listings from your animal shelter of dogs at-risk for euthanasia.
If you have kids, talk to them about treating animals with kindness and respect. Young children often do not differentiate between a living dog and a plush dog. Explain to them animals have feelings and thoughts similar to our own, and need to be treated with compassion and care.

