 The best nail art is accomplished on a clean slate, so prepare your nails in such a way to make them easy to paint. Clip or file them to your preferred shape, and then buff off the tops to create a smooth base. Add a clear base polish to seal the nail and prevent yellowing.


;
, Ideas of outer space conjure up images of swelling darkness full of stars. Recreate this deep and layered backdrop by painting the base-most layer of polish black. You can use shiny polish, but for an interesting effect try using matte nail polish.
 To make your nails look like a realistic starscape, you need to give the illusion of distance. Create the appearance of distant stars by adding a layer of clear polish with very small silver glitter flecks in it over the top of the black base. Do not use polish with large glitter flecks, because things far away should appear smaller while things close up appear larger.
 We’ve all seen them - the swirling clouds of colorful nebulae captured by the Hubble space telescope. Galaxies come in nearly every color, so choose 2-3 of your favorite complimenting shades to recreate on your nails. If you aren’t quite sure, find an image of a galaxy you like and pick out 2-3 of the primary colors in it.






Popular hues to use are bright blue, green, purple, and pink.
Choose colors that are solid (don’t have any glitter) and completely opaque.
 To add layers of color, you will be using a sponge rather than the brush that comes with the nail polish. Grab a makeup sponge and rip of a piece small enough to fit over the center of your nail without touching your cuticles. To keep your fingers polish-free in the painting process, you can use a pair of tweezers to hold the sponge.
 Choose any of your galaxy colors, and use the bottle’s brush to dab some of the polish onto the sponge. Aim for a very small amount, otherwise the polish will be too gloppy and completely obscure the backdrop you already created. Dab the sponge over different areas of each nail to create a cloudy blotch of color.
 Use the same sponge and a different color to add layers and texture to your galaxy background. You can do as many layers as you want, but be careful not to blot out too much of the black background. In this case, less may be more.
 As a result of using the sponge, you likely have dabs of color along your cuticles and the skin around your fingers. Use a q-tip dipped in nail polish remover to get rid of any color on your skin and to add a finished look to the background color.





