 If you have a garden or a greenhouse, you should consider adding more ladybugs to the environment. Ladybugs are very useful for controlling aphids. Aphids are tiny insects that can destroy vegetable and flower gardens.Ladybugs tend to hibernate during winter months. If you live in a climate that has regular temperatures above 65-70 degrees, you can purchase ladybugs at any time. If you live in an area with cold winters, wait until late spring to buy your ladybugs.
You can purchase ladybugs at most nurseries or garden centers.
Many online retailers also ship ladybugs. You probably want to order 100-200 in your first shipment.;
, Once you have obtained a good supply of ladybugs, you need to select a time to release them. Plan to set them free in the early evening. This is the optimal time for releasing ladybugs, as it gives them the whole night to find food and water and start to feel at home.Between purchasing and releasing the ladybugs, place them in a sealed bag in your refrigerator. This will help them calm down after being transported.
Ladybugs really like moisture. If your garden is especially dry, sprinkle some water around before releasing your ladybugs.
 When introducing ladybugs to your garden or greenhouse, you want to make sure they have plenty to eat. If they don't have a good food source, the ladybugs will find somewhere else to live. Ladybugs need a good source of pollen and nectar, especially if they are going to reproduce.Provide your ladybugs with plenty of flowering plants and legumes. Peas, daffodils, and beans are great choices.
Try planting clover and alfalfa for your ladybugs to eat.
 If you do not wish to purchase ladybugs, there are ways that you can naturally draw them to your garden or greenhouse. Aphids are the preferred food of a ladybug. In fact, a single ladybug might consume up to 5,000 aphids in its lifetime. Aphids are a common problem for most gardeners. It can be tempting to spray chemicals to get rid of them. But consider allowing the aphids to remain on a few of your plants. The aphids will attract ladybugs.
If you have a greenhouse, make sure that the ladybugs cannot get out once they are in. Routinely check your screens or glass for holes.
You can plant fennel, dill, and cilantro to attract ladybugs.
 One of the best ways to protect your ladybug population is to avoid spraying insecticides. Ladybugs are especially sensitive to chemicals. Additionally, if their food population (other insects) are destroyed by sprays, the ladybugs are not likely to lay eggs in your garden.Consider safer alternatives, such as soap sprays or botanical pesticides.
You can easily make your own soap spray by combining 1 cup of vegetable oil and 2 teaspoons of a liquid soap. After mixing the two, add 1 quart of water. Use this to spray your plants instead of chemicals.

