 Lodging is a big expense on a vacation, so think about what you really need to still have an awesome time. Are you going alone, with your family, a group of people? Do you want to be close to the attractions and not rent a car? What types of amenities do you want? How much money have you budgeted for lodging? While chain hotels are the traditional way to go, there are other options, especially if you want to cut corners. Here are some examples and sites to visit for each.


House-swapping with another family or individual (HomeExchange.com); staying for mere pennies in one of over 50,000 hostels around the world (Hostelz.com); renting a condo, apartment or home with all the amenities to share with your family or a group (HomeAway.com); going to a Bed & Breakfast with home-cooked meals and a local's scoop on the area (BedandBreakfast.com); camping, which itself might be the vacation; or staying with a friend or family member.Finally, staying at a resort hotel is often the best option for certain vacations beyond the traditional “island resort” vacation, even if it's not cheaper. Sometimes, for instance, staying at one of the hotels at Disney World, right on the tram, just makes sense.
 If you’ve decided to stay at a chain hotel, the best way to start is to a) know that booking in advance will save you money, b) explore within your 2-week time frame and c) begin your comparison searching on either TripAdvisor.com or Hotel.com. TripAdvisor doesn’t sell rooms or offer deals, but instead finds rooms based upon criteria you select, such as your budget, parking preferences, if there are free breakfasts and Wi-Fi, if you want to be downtown, etc. It also provides reviews of guests’ experiences. Hotels.com, on the other hand, books rooms by linking with chains and travel sites.


Remember: As with all online reviews, there will be fakes so watch out for the extreme reviews.
Hotels.com has a Welcome Rewards program where you get a free night for every 10 nights you book., Consider staying in a suburb or the town next door, where the room rates can be considerably less. Also think about staying in a business district. Since businessmen go home on the weekends, hotels there often have discounted rates on nice rooms and suites on Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights. Another way to trim expenses is by switching hotels mid stay. If the hotel you’re staying in is more expensive on Saturday and Sunday nights than the three nights you’d be there before or after, book the other three nights at a different hotel.Look at the rates for suites and compare them against getting separate rooms if you're traveling with your family. A 2-bedroom suite may be cheaper and still afford you privacy., When you’re choosing a room, look closely at the amenities. If you have a pet with you, do they allow pets? If so, do they charge extra? Do they have free Wi-Fi for your computer? Is there a refrigerator and microwave, which can save you a lot of money in eating out if you buy groceries. Is there a pool? If so, is it indoor or outdoor and will that align with the timing of your vacation? If you have kids, the pool can be a free feature of the vacation.


Some of the “budget hotels,” like the Hampton Inns, have upgraded and added things like oversized tubs, sitting areas, kitchenettes and separate bedrooms., Many chain hotels have reward programs that help you get free nights and room upgrades. Many also have best-rate guarantees, meaning if you find a better rate for the same hotel and type of room at a better price from a third-party site, they’ll beat the rate or lower yours. Ask about family deals, such as discounted meals for children or room upgrades.


Start collecting coupons and special deal offers in tourist and travel brochures, magazines and booklets, on the backs of supermarket receipts, on hotel and local tourist board websites, etc., You may get it, you may not. But plenty have, so it could be worth a try. Go to BetterBidding.com, which will show you what other people paid for comparable rooms through sites like Priceline.com and Hotwire.com. Then enter a similar or lower bid and see if it’s accepted.