 Talk to them to get some specific ideas about how to make this date successful.For example, you could ask, “Is there something special you would like to do? Or is there anything you absolutely don’t want to do?”
Or you might even ask, “So, what would be your idea of a great date? What would you do? Where would you go?”

, Although you may want to go out on the date as soon as they say ‘yes’, slow down and plan when you will go out. Your date will be more successful if you figure out the right day and time to go out on the date.


Talk to your date about their schedule. Find out when would be a good day and time for the date.
For example, you could ask, “When will you be free over the next couple of days?”
Also find out what time of day will be best for the date. Although dates are often at night, a day date might work out better.
 The location of your date can have a big impact on how successful the date is or even if the person agrees to go. You can ask your date where they would like to go or you can think about places your date might enjoy going on your own.


You might say, “Is there anywhere in particular you would like to go on our date?”
Consider fun places like an amusement park, county fair, or the zoo.
Think about some place romantic like a floral garden, cozy restaurant, or live play.
 You may decide to go somewhere on your date that requires tickets (like the movies, a live show, or special event) or a reservation (like a fancy restaurant). If so, you can set the date up successfully if you go ahead and make reservations or purchase your tickets.


Doing this in advance takes away the stress of doing it later and risking ruining the date by not being able to get tickets.
Also, if you have to change the plans for the date because you couldn’t get tickets or reservations, you will have time to do so.
 Take the time to think about how you and your date will get to the location(s). Especially if you are planning on going to more than one place, work out transportation for the date.


If you drive and are picking your date up, do you need to get gas or clean out your vehicle?
Will you be using public transportation? If so, do you have bus, train, or subway schedules? Do you know what car services are available?
If you aren’t picking your date up, how will they get there? How will they get home?
If your date activities are within walking distance, have you checked the weather report for that day?

, Unless it’s a surprise, let your date know what you have planned and make sure everything works for them. Checking-in with the person will help you be confident that you have successfully set the date up.


This will give your date the opportunity to let you know if anything has changed or if they don’t like anything that you have planned.
You might say, “Hey, I was thinking we could go ice skating Friday afternoon around 4 PM and then have hot chocolate. I can pick you up.”
Try to check-in with them a couple of days before the date if you don’t already talk to them on a regular basis.

