 State and municipal parks often offer a variety of affordable after-school activities, including nature walks, horticultural classes, and educational programming relating to the biology of local plants and animals. These programs are often free or steeply discounted. Contact your local parks and recreation department for more information., Public libraries often host multiple free after-school activities for kids of all ages. Your child might be able to participate in book clubs, movie nights, and clubs for both board games and videogames. Police departments in some cities also offer free activities, including athletic and recreational programming.Contact your local library, police station, or other community organization – or check their events calendar online – for information about what sorts of after-school activities they offer.
 Early registration can often translate to a savings of 10% to 30% off the regular registration fee. Contact the sports league or organization of your child’s choice and inquire when the early registration period begins, as well as what the early-registration discount is at each stage. Sign up as soon as possible if early registration is allowed., Local businesses sometimes offer sponsorships or scholarships for children who want to participate in after-school activities – especially after-school sports programs – but whose families are facing financial challenges. The organization that runs the after-school activity might itself offer sponsorships or financial assistance for kids whose families cannot afford the fees. Talk to the organizers of the after-school activity your child is interested in to find out more about what sorts of financial assistance is available.If you demonstrate a financial need, your child might be able to participate in the after-school activity without paying any fees.
Write a sincere thank-you note to the business or organizational leaders who assist you and your child financially.
 Tell your child to choose just one or two of their favorite after-school activities each year in order to save money. Or, instead of limiting their after-school activities to a discrete number of activities, you could limit their activity to a certain dollar range. For instance, you might decide not to spend more than $100 per year on after-school activities.The number of activities you choose to limit your child to depends on their ability to balance their activities, academic, and social lives. If your child continues to remain stress-free and do well academically despite participating in several activities after school, don’t discourage them from participating in their activities.
The financial limit you place on your child’s after-school activities, likewise, depends on your family’s financial situation.

