 One thing you can do to strengthen your marriage, keep it strong, and protect your relationship from adultery is to talk with each other on a daily basis.Talk about the important things and the minor everyday things. Communicating on a regular basis will keep you and your spouse connected with each other. It will also prevent either of you from seeking someone else to share with.


Send your spouse an “I love you” text or instant message in the middle of the day just to let them know you care.
Share your successes and failures with your spouse. For example, call your spouse when you get the promotion you’ve been trying for.
Talk in the evenings about world and local events. For example, you might decide that each evening you two will discuss politics over dinner.
Try communicating via text, email, social media, or video chat. It doesn’t matter how you communicate with each other, so be creative with it.;
, Effective communication is one of the keys to making a marriage work.It is also one of the main ways that can try to protect your marriage from adultery. The better you and your spouse communicate, the easier it will be for you to resolve conflict and keep your marriage working.


Remove distractions when you and your spouse are having serious conversations. Cut off the TV, wait until the kids are asleep, and put your electronic devices on silent or vibrate.
Let your spouse know you want a distraction-free conversation. Say something like, “Hey, babe, would you mind cutting the TV off so we can talk about the situation at your mom’s last night.”
Look at your spouse and ask your spouse to look at you when you all are discussing things.
Listen when your spouse is talking instead of letting your mind drift or thinking about what you will say in response. Try to ask as many questions as you need to fully understand what they are saying. Reflect back to them what you heard so that they can confirm or clarify.
 One reason people have affairs is because their needs are not being met within their current relationship.You may turn to someone outside the marriage to fulfill your needs if you don’t feel your spouse is meeting them. You can protect your marriage from adultery, though, if you make sure that you and your spouse are both letting each other know what you need from the marriage and from each other.


Tell your spouse when your needs aren’t being met in the relationship. For example, you might have to say, “Honey, I know we’re both busy, but I need us to spend some quality time together.”
Give your spouse the opportunity to express their needs. For instance, listen and pay attention if your spouse tells you that they need more communication or intimacy. You can also heck back in periodically to see how you're doing, such as by saying "How am I doing in this area?"
You might even say, “Sweetheart, let me know what you need from me and from our marriage.”

