 Use a small propane torch set to a low flame to heat a quarter-sized area on the side of the plastic jug. Continue heating the same spot until it turns clear.


Note that a quarter is just a little under 1 inch (2.5 cm) in diameter, so the circular spot you heat should be about 1 inch (2.5 cm).
It might be easier to do this if the milk jug is on its side instead of standing upright.;
, Carefully and quickly press the pointed end of a plumb bob into the center of this soft spot. This should form a dimple in the plastic.


Hold the plumb bob in place just long enough for the dimple to become cloudy.
The spot should now look like a cone.
 Use scissors or a sharp knife to carefully cut away the side of the jug with the dimpled cone on it.


If you plan to make several darts, you should make several of these cones in the same manner before you cut out the wall of plastic. Make sure that you leave a little space in between each cone as you form them.
 Using a saw or similar tool, slice the end off a piece of electrical metallic tubing with a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) diameter. Keep the cut end sharp.


This may not be necessary if you can find a piece of metallic tubing that already has a sharp end.
For ease of use, the tube should only be between 4 and 12 inches (10 and 30 cm) long.
 Center the sharp end of the tube over the plastic cone. Tap on the back of the tube with a hammer. The sharp edge of the tube should cut out the cone.


Keep the sheet of plastic on a hard surface that will not suffer from being struck or scraped. A wooden block would work well.
Make sure that the pointed side of the cone faces up during this process.
 Carefully yet firmly push the pointed end of a drywall nail through the point of the cone.


Push the nail through from the inside of the cone.
Slide the cone down the entire length of the nail until it reaches the blunt end.
 Apply a small dab of silicone sealant behind the metal nail at the base of the plastic cone.


Note that clay could be used instead of silicone sealant.
The sealant secures the structure of the dart while also sealing out any moisture or oil. It also gives the dart a little more weight, which will allow it to fly better.
 Once the sealant is dry and the two pieces are firmly set in place, the dart is ready to use.

