  The flip side to this is that after enough time the sand will no longer be able to filter the water well enough.  From a manufacturer standpoint it is recommended that you change the sand in your filter every 3-4 years.  This will maximize the effectiveness of the filter and help you to maintain clean and clear water.;
,  The sand in an old filter can actually be laden with bacteria so it would be better if you minimize your direct contact with the sand.
  This water helps to absorb any impact of the falling sand on the lateral assembly.  Many professional installers skip this step but that would not be recommended if this is your first filter sand change.
  This sand is between 40-50mm in diameter and is available from most swimming pool supply stores.  Do not substitute other types of sand or you will almost certainly have problems with your filter and potentially damage the pool also.  

,  You must be certain to find accurate information about how much sand to use in your filter.  Over filling or underselling the filter will at least cause the filter to not function properly, and at worst cause damage to the filter.  Filter sand sizes range typically from 100 or 150 lbs all the way up to 600lbs or more for large pools.
  It is difficult to get the sand actually into the filter without getting it in the sandpipe so you may like to tape up the standpipe opening to prevent this spilled sand from making it back to the pool through the return lines.  It is also very important that the sandpipe is directly in the center of the filter as once you have filled with sand you will not be able to adjust the position of the sandpipe.  If not centered you will not be able to get the valve head back on the filter and will need to start all over again.
  This is where a skilled hand is helpful as if you overtighten the filter head then you may actually  crack the filter body which would require replacement of the entire filter tank - something you definitely want to avoid.
  You should start this process by over filling the pool and then backwashing for as much as 3 to 5 minutes, followed by a 60 second rinse cycle before setting to "filter".

