 Aim for antioxidant-rich foods such as berries, beans, apples, avocados, almonds, oranges, and pears.The antioxidants protect your body’s tissues against the stress and inflammation caused by illness while boosting your immune system. Try to eat foods containing omega-3s (such as salmon), which stimulate blood flow and also boost immune function.Add a little onion and garlic to your meals. Garlic is known to have anti-viral, antibiotic, and antiseptic properties, and onion can soothe congestion and other respiratory issues.

Make yourself a smoothie. There are many simple smoothie recipes that you can make. Smoothies are easy to digest and give you a dose of powerful vitamins that your immune system needs to recover from an illness.Avoid foods high in sugar and fat. Sugar can suppress your immune system and fat is harder for your body to digest when sick.You need more calories than usual when you're sick because your body is working hard to heal itself, so don't be afraid to indulge moderately in comfort foods. Keep your portions reasonably sized and avoid overindulging in any one food.
Opt for healthy versions of your comfort foods - if your comfort food is ice cream, for example, go for a low fat ice cream or sherbet., Staying well-hydrated benefits your respiratory system and helps your immune system work optimally.Keep a glass or bottle of water near you at all times and try to drink as much as you possibly can.


According to Ayurveda, drinking hot water with honey and lemon is a great way to feel better when sick as well as to cleanse your body.
Add some lemon to your water for a tasty boost of vitamin C. Lemon also supports your immune system.
 Herbal tea will help keep you hydrated while offering many additional health benefits. For example, drinking ginger tea can help with fever reduction and stimulates your circulatory system. Ginger also has a soothing effect on coughing and other respiratory issues.Chamomile tea will soothe you and help you get to sleep more easily. Elderberry tea can lower a fever and has blood purification properties.Add a little raw honey to your cup of herbal tea for additional benefits. Honey can soothe a sore throat and has antibacterial, antimicrobial, and antiseptic properties.
Add a slice of lemon for a vitamin c boost. Lemon can also help reduce phlegm., Gentle stretches will help ease aching muscles and get you moving around a bit. This will increase your blood circulation. If you feel up to it, try some simple yoga poses along with your stretching.


If the stretching hurts or makes you feel worse in any way, stop immediately.
 Our bodies recover from illnesses during sleep. Getting plenty of it keeps your immune system functioning at an optimum level. Get at least seven to eight hours of rest every night for a faster recovery.Take plenty of naps throughout the day, along with getting a full night’s sleep.
If you find that you are unable to sleep or just not sleepy, at least lay down and relax.
 Vitamin C, zinc, garlic and vitamin E are great supplements to support your system when sick with cold and flu.Check with your doctor before starting any new supplements, especially if you are on medication.

