 Some children wake up early in the morning due to hunger and have a hard time going back to sleep until they get something to eat. This can then lead to a very early breakfast for your child and for you, and throw off the rest of the day’s meals. Prevent morning hunger by ensuring your child eats a substantial dinner two to three hours before bedtime.You can also prevent an early morning breakfast by putting off breakfast in the morning. Instead of giving your child breakfast as soon as she wakes up, try to postpone giving her breakfast. Do this gradually by waiting ten minutes after your child wakes up to make breakfast. Add on ten minutes each day until you can postpone breakfast for an hour. Your child will be less likely to wake up early for breakfast if she knows she will need to wait anyway for a meal.
 Keep in mind your child only needs 10-12 hours of sleep within 24 hours, and most of those sleeping hours should be done at night. You do not want your child to fulfill her sleep requirements by napping too much during the day. Limit daytime naps so they are only 10-15 minutes at a time and occur once or twice a day.Be sure not to limit napping during the day too much, as you do not want your child to be overly tired by the end of the day.
 Many children are woken up by noise or light in the morning. Minimize the morning light in your child’s room by using thick curtains or shades and making sure they are drawn before your child goes to bed.You should also note if there are any sources of noise, like an appliance in the kitchen, or a rowdy dog sleeping in the hall, that could wake up your child early in the morning. Move the source of noise away from your child’s room so she can sleep in peace. You can also keep your child’s door closed and muffle any outside noise with heavy curtains.
Some parents put the lamp or light in their child’s room on a timer so it does not come on until the child’s wake up time. This can help your child remember when it is time to wake up and ensure she is not woken up before her wake time.
 You can do this at night and in the morning. Give your child some toys to play with or a book to read in bed. Make sure the entertainment is quiet entertainment that does not involve lots of running around or loud noise. Turn off the lights and shut the door, leaving your child to play on her own quietly until she gets tired and goes to bed.Allowing your child to play quietly in bed in the morning will also ensure she does not wake you up too early and will remember to stay in bed until her set wake up time.


Avoid using television as a source of entertainment at night or in the morning for your child. This can lead to a delayed bedtime or a very early wake time, as your child will see television as a reward for waking up very early.
It’s important that you get comfortable with keeping your child waiting in the morning. If she calls out to you, do not go to her right away. Wait five minutes to see if she goes back to sleep or resumes quiet playing on her own. Try to lengthen the wait time in increments of five minutes each morning so your child can get used to occupying herself in the early morning.
 Show your child some basic morning stretches she can do in bed on her own. This way, she can take her time getting out of bed and learn to move slowly, rather than jumping and yelling in the morning.You can make the morning stretches a game, and instruct your child she needs to do a series of stretches before she can come wake you up in the morning. This can give you more time to sleep and ensure your child stays in bed later.

