 When it comes to digestion, everyone’s stomach responds differently to particular foods. The best remedy is to figure out which foods your stomach can’t handle and simply avoid them.See if you are having trouble with acidic foods. Some people respond poorly to foods with a lot of acid, such as tomatoes or oranges.If this is the case for you, try avoiding acidic foods.
 Many people have lactose intolerance, which can be mild or severe. If you experience cramps, nausea, bloating, diarrhea, or painful gas after drinking milk or eating cheese, you may be experiencing symptoms of lactose intolerance.If you experience lactose intolerance, you should try dairy substitutes. If you pour milk on your cereal in the morning, try replacing your regular milk with soy milk, rice milk, or almond milk.If you have trouble digesting cheese, try eating tree nut cheese or vegan rice cheese singles. You should be able to purchase these non-dairy, vegan cheese alternatives at your local health food store., Stress and anxiety impact your cortisol levels, which plays a role in digestion.If you are feeling stressed out, you may want to avoid any foods that you have had trouble with in the past. In addition, you may want to avoid alcohol, caffeine, acidic foods, greasy and spicy foods.


Record your stress levels in your food diary. If you find certain foods make your stress levels worse, remember to avoid them in the future.
 Onions, cabbage and cauliflower can cause indigestion in some people, so figure out if you have trouble with these or other vegetables. If you have trouble with vegetables, you may also want to try cooking them another way to see if this makes a difference.


Make a list of all the vegetables you have had trouble with and try replacing them with other vegetables.
For example, if you usually fry vegetables in a stir fry, try steaming them instead.
 Foods with refined carbohydrates, fructose or high-fructose corn syrup are difficult for many people to digest. They are also a staple of many western diets, including in many fast food recipes.


Avoid fast foods with a lot of sugar and refined carbohydrates.
Avoid purchasing white bread.
Avoid recipes with a lot of sugar, white flour, or high-fructose corn syrup.

