 Choose a gift that is modest and fairly priced. For example, a DVD, a CD of a favorite rock band, etc. Choose something small that you know the child would like to have.


If the child is young, think building blocks (Legos or Lincoln Logs), small dolls, board or card games, or sports play toys (Frisbees, Nerf balls, etc.)






If the child is older, think articles of clothing, CDs or DVDs, a subscription to a magazine, or sports or entertainment memorabilia.





;
, This is the day for kids to think about giving to others, highlighting the spiritual values of Hanukkah. Ask the kids what their favorite charity is, then give a donation to that charity under their name. Make sure the child knows why giving is important. Instill in them how lucky they are to have what they have. Make sure that they see the receipt in their name and be sure to have a shared discussion about the importance of charity.
Do they sigh at the sight of a stray dog or cat? If yes, give money to a local pet shelter.






Do they wince when they see a homeless person or family go to a homeless shelter? If yes, give money to Goodwill Rescue Mission.






If they wish they could help every sick person, give money to a hospital nearby.
 Education is the focus on this day. Give the kids a gift that is both educational and fun, something that will teach them about the world, or maybe something about themselves. If you want to make the greatest impact, get them a gift in an area you know they'll enjoy.
There are plenty of excellent ideas here, including science kits, rock tumblers, crystal growing kits, chemistry sets, electronics projects, etc.






Books can also be a great gift idea, although not all books are equal in the eyes of children. Get a book that is engaging and a bit edgy instead of dry and academic. Try books about dinosaurs and ships for young boys, or perhaps books about horses or fairy tales for girls.






Some other gifts might be a butterfly garden, a no-stress chess set, a microscope, telescope, or an educational tablet for kids.
 For the next night, give them "gelt," a Yiddish word for money. If they are young, give them chocolate coins. If they are older, give cash (ranging from $5 to $20), or coins of any amount. You could also simply deposit an amount direct into their savings account.
Kids might get a kick out of older coins, especially if they are older. Old Silver dollars or two-dollar bills might be a good idea.






Give kids money in a different currency and encourage them to travel. For example, give them shekels and tell them that they can use them if/when they go to Israel on Birthright.
 Give them a gift related to Judaism on this day. For teens and tweens, such items as religious books, a symbolic necklace, a snow globe, or a bookmark would work well. For younger kids, good choices include picture books, jewelery, games, etc., with a religious theme. Dreidels work well for kids of all ages.
 Be kind to the Earth this Hanukkah and give them an eco-friendly gift, such as a durable water bottle, a small compost bin, a recycled purse, or a plant to grow. Wrap it in last week's newspaper and present it to the kids.


Other gift ideas include an indoor gardening kit or indoor greenhouse, organic sculpting dough, an ecosphere, as well as solar toys.
 Give the kids an outing with the family. Either plan to go and do something together on this day, or purchase tickets for an upcoming event that you'll all attend together. Another alternative is making an IOU for something you know the whole family really wants to do, or a small family vacation to be taken later.
 This is the day for the most expensive and fun gift for your child. A new bike, a play set, a pool, a play piano are good for non-living gifts. Or, if you're up to getting a pet for your child, get a family pet, but be sure to tell your kid about the responsibility he or she now has.


Some nice gift ideas for girls include: fancy clothes (a nice dress or a cashmere sweater, for example), jewelry, a musical instrument, perfume, a handbag or a makeup set.






Some nice gift ideas for boys include: a musical instrument, a sports-set (basketball hoop, or hockey pads, for example), a computer or video game (it doesn't have to be educational), or tickets to a sports game.
 While one child is affordable, many children can soon blow the budget with 8 days of gifts! Sort out how many of the days you think you'll give gifts for, as well as the types of gifts you can afford, and what your budget can handle.


Keep in mind that observing the spirit of the occasion is the most important aspect.
If giving gifts to siblings, keep in mind that each gift will need to be similar in price and value for each child.
If children consistently complain about the gifts they get, prepare to leave gifts out of Hanukkah for one year: Teach your kids how lucky they are to be in a position to receive gifts at all.
 On each of the eight days, the tradition is for a gift of a particular sort is given to each child. However, it is important to recognize that the gift-giving part of Hanukkah does not need to be followed strictly or even observed on each day – it depends on your budget, your enthusiasm, and, of course, your interpretation of this part of celebrating Hanukkah. Approach Hanukkah gift giving in the the way that your family believes is the most appropriate.


For some parents, giving very modest gifts of the same kind several times over is not unusual (for example, giving small amounts of coins or chocolate coins several times during the week), while other parents favor one single large gift at the end, with extremely modest gifts in between (such as Hanukkah decorations), or daily donations to charity in the child's name.
 As with any religious holiday where gifts are involved, it is important to spend a little time relating the gift giving to the occasion being celebrated. Make it an enjoyable time of learning, with the whole family involved in talking about Hanukkah and celebrating it together.


Read How to celebrate Hanukkah for details on celebrating Hanukkah as a whole.
If you're a teacher, read How to teach about Chanukkah in the classroom for more ideas.

