 Each person plays a slightly different variation of 20 Questions. Know who you're playing with, what rules they adhere to, and come to an agreement.









The questioner generally gives the category forthright; however, he/she has two options:

Is it an animal (alive and breathing)? A vegetable (does it grow?) Or mineral (isn't alive, doesn't grow, comes from the ground)? This version can be a bit tricky as one object can fit a couple different categories (like a leather belt).
Is it a person, place, or thing? This variation is much more straightforward, though it opens up more abstract ideas, like "San Francisco."


The players can establish whether or not the object must be in sight. This is better for shorter games or those with goldfish-like attention spans.
Some players are kind enough to volunteer a guess at the end of the 20 questions asked if the object has yet to be determined. Sort of a "Hail Mary" type of thing.
Responses can be a straight "yes" or "no" answer, or include adverbs like, "usually," "sometimes," or "rarely."
Someone must keep track of the number of questions asked. This is usually whoever has their hands free to hold up the appropriate amount of fingers.;
, The game is started and you have no idea how to guess. Going from "Is it bigger than an elephant?" to "Does it smell better than a skunk?" is not going to help you. Start big and get smaller.









Begin with a general question, like "Is it bigger than a breadbox?" If the answer is yes, ask another along the same pattern ("Is it bigger than a refrigerator?"). When you get a no, stop. Go along a different route (color, etc.) until you can combine two pieces of information.
 Starting out with narrow questions will just guarantee you a handful of head shakes. Think bigger, broader questions (at least to start with) to get a yes, leading you on the correct path.









For example, a question such as "Does it involve technology for communications, entertainment or work?"is a carefully thought out question. If yes, you can narrow it down from there. If no, you have eliminated a whole bunch of possible prospects.
 Your second question should not be, "Is it a goat?!" Unless you can read the other person's mind, this probably isn't going to happen. Only guess when you have a pretty good idea.









That being said, once you start getting nearer to the 20 mark, save a couple rounds for guesses. Each one counts as a turn! And if you've absolutely no idea by number 16 or 17, shoot away.

If you had no idea because the object at hand was the questioner's pinky toe on their right foot, that is grounds for an objection. Speak up! That's unfair game play.
 If you won (guessed the object within 20 questions), it's time for vengeance! It's now your turn to choose an object and your partner guesses.









If you didn't guess the object in 20 guesses, think about your questions and start guessing in a second game. Now that you know how the other plays, how can you change your strategy?

