 It needs certain things in order to run well. When it doesn’t have exercise, for example, the muscles will not be strong and you may not have the same level of endurance or stamina. What you might not realize is that your blood is also affected by a lack of exercise. You can actually reduce your cholesterol levels by adding more exercise, and thus more fitness, to your life. Reducing your cholesterol will help you add more energy to your life and more years to your lifespan.;
, When your blood is moving through the body, it is not only carrying oxygen to your muscles and your brain, but it is also helping to transport out wastes like excess cholesterol from your diet. If you work out regularly, your heart will be in great shape to keep the blood from being filled with things your body doesn’t need. Plus, your arteries and vessels will be able to stay wide open to prevent blockages even if you do have some troubles with cholesterol. You need to get your heart pumping a bit in order to see the most benefits, but activities like walking can work if you’re just getting back into exercise.
 If you are fit, you will be able to increase the HDL cholesterol levels in your blood stream – the good cholesterol – while also reducing the LDLs in your blood – the bad cholesterol. In doing so, you will reduce your overall cholesterol while also making sure it is in the right ratios. Exercising regularly allows you to process the cholesterol that you do need in your body and use it effectively, while removing the cholesterol that can clog arteries. Have these levels checked before you start an exercise program so that you can see how these levels change as you workout over time.
 Working out will also help you lose weight, which is another way you can help your cholesterol. The more weight you lose, the easier it will become to lose the high cholesterol numbers as well, often without medications to help. By working out every day for at least thirty minutes, you will be able to lose weight or maintain a health weight which will support your heart.

