 Generally, the more time and money that is invested into the creation and publishing of the material, the more likely you are to find reliable information. A poorly designed website or pamphlet, or a site that is covered in unsightly advertisements and pop-ups, is not likely to provide information from an individual or organization invested in preserving their reputation or image.


Look for high-end, professional finishes to websites and print publications.
Note that this does not mean that all information found in well-packaged sources is credible. Templates for well-designed websites are inexpensive and easily available.
 A source is more credible if written by someone with a degree or other credentials in the subject of interest. If no author or organization is named, the source should not be considered highly credible. However, if the author is presenting original work, evaluate the merit of the ideas, not the credentials. Credentials have never guaranteed innovation and the history of science tells us that the big advances in sciences tend to come from outsiders, not the establishment. Some questions that you should ask about the author are:Where does the author work?
If the author is affiliated with a reputable institution or organization, what are its values and goals? Do they benefit financially by promoting a particular view?
What is his or her educational background?
What other works has the author published?
What experience does the author have? Is s/he an innovator, or a follower and promoter of the status quo?
Has this author been cited as a source by other scholars or experts in the field?
In the case of an anonymous author, you can check who published the website with http://whois.domaintools.com. It will tell you who registered the domain name and when, how many other domains they have, an email address to reach the person or organization as well as the mailing address.
 Find out when the source was published or revised. In some subject areas, such as the sciences, having current sources is essential; but in other fields, like the humanities, including older material is critical. It's also possible that you're looking at an older version of the source, and an updated one has since been published. Check with a scholarly database for academic sources (or an online bookstore for popular sources) to see if a more recent version is available. If so, not only should you find it, but you can also feel more confident about the source — the more printings or editions, the more reliable the information.
 The institution housing the information can often tell you a great deal about how credible that information is. For example, you should feel more comfortable trusting information found in The New York Times or The Washington Post — two newspapers with proven track records of journalistic integrity and public retraction of errors — than that found in a source like Infowars, which has a wide readership, but often publishes misleading or blatantly incorrect information., Scan the document in question for tone, depth, and breadth before absorbing the information in it. Are those three elements appropriate for your project?Using a source that is too specialized and technical for your needs may lead you to misinterpret the information given, which is just as hurtful to your own credibility as using an unreliable source.
 You should make use of resources like Book Review Index, Book Review Digest, and Periodical Abstracts to determine how and why others have criticized the source. If there is significant controversy surrounding the validity of the source, you may wish to avoid using it, or examine it further with a skeptical eye.
 Citing other reliable sources is a sign of credibility. It is, however, sometimes necessary to verify that the other sources also show a pattern of credibility and are used in context.
 If the source's author is known to be emotionally or financially connected with the subject, be aware that the source may not fairly represent all views. Sometimes research is necessary to determine relationships that indicate the possibility of bias; look up the author and the publishing institution to see if they have been accused of biased work in the past.


Be conscious of wording that indicates judgment. Conclusions that describe something as "bad or good" or "right or wrong" should be examined critically. It is more appropriate to compare something to an objective standard than to label it with words that represent abstract concepts — for example, "...these and other illegal acts..." is preferable to "...these and other despicable acts..."
The former describes the acts in terms of the law (an objective source, somewhat) whereas the first example judges the actions according to the author's own belief of what is a despicable act.
 Sources that apply different standards to those who agree and disagree with them are suspect. If your source praises one politician for "changing to meet the needs of his constituency" but criticizes an opposing politician for "changing his position with opinion polls," then it is likely that the source is biased.
 Determine the sources of funding for the work to get an idea of the potential influences on it. Various sources of funding can sway the information presented or the way a study is conducted in order to align with their own agendas.


For example, the BMJ (formerly the British Medical Journal) banned all tobacco research funded by tobacco companies in 2013 because they determined that the special interests of the research funders would lead to biased, unreliable conclusions.