 You may choose to talk to this friend about the value of the relationship and how to make it better. If the friendship is worth saving but the behavior is something you just can’t live with, suggest that you and your friend brainstorm some solutions.Be prepared to either work on the relationship or go with the changes that result if things do not change. Friendships change and this might be a time where you start to grow apart.
Remember you both have different personalities and perceptions so take the time to have an honest dialogue about why you are friends, whether you want to continue the friendship, and how to go forward.
Be sure to tell your friend how much you love him or her and value the friendship. This isn’t about hurting feelings or blame; it is about making the friendship stronger because you see value in it.
 Whether it’s a relationship with a friend, romantic partner, or family member, all healthy relationships should respect the individual boundaries of each person involved.If your friend is often unreliable, you may not have clearly set boundaries regarding what you are willing to accept and not accept in your friendships.


Put your well-being first and make sure that everyone in your life understands how you expect to be treated. Show them the same courtesy in kind. If the unreliable friend is often late, be assertive and tell him this is unacceptable. “Zack, every time we go out you’re nearly an hour late. I always show up when I say I will. I will stop making plans with you if this keeps happening.”
Setting clear boundaries about how you communicate and interact will help this process. It might just be a misunderstanding or something that happened unintentionally. But, once you make your boundaries clear, the behavior should improve.
 Many people with unreliable friends who have proven incapable of changing simply learn to work around the problem. This might be a suggestion for you if you have tried to help your friend change and nothing seems to help. Ways to work around your friend may include:Never making plans with this friend alone. That way if he or she is late or bails, it won't ruin the entire outing.
Having someone else to wait with instead of being on your own
Anticipating that any plans with this friend probably won't go as expected
Not stopping what you're doing to wait for your friend's arrival. Tell the person to text or call when they're right outside

, In an extreme case, you may just decide to end the friendship. If there isn’t a long-term friendship or you feel like this friend is not really invested in improving his or her behavior, this is probably the best move.If you feel like it is time to end the relationship, make a clean break without drama if that is possible. If this is a co-worker, agree to remain friendly but set a clear boundary about leaving the relationship strictly at work.

