 If you are not comfortable swimming in deep water, take a few swimming lessons. You do not want to be upside down and hitting your head in the shallow end, that's why a deep pool is essential.;
, Try running around the block three times a week or going on a treadmill is good. You don't have to be bodybuilder fit, but enough so you won't get tired after fifteen minutes.
 Movements upside down require a surprising amount of effort from your core. Crunches and "the plank" are good things to do.
 If not, using some light (no more than ten pound ones) weights is an excellent way to build up arm strength.
 You want to avoid injury as much as possible. Stretches such as lunges, pigeon, butterfly, straddle, pike position are the most influential. Synchronized swimmers often test their flexibility by using splits (left, right, and middle). Try attempting them, but don't force yourself to go flat. It takes years to get that amount of flexibility. Don't forget to stretch your arms as well.
 Here is a good list:

A good one-piece (no bikinis) swimsuit






1 swim cap (I prefer silicone caps myself, latex caps damage your hair, even though silicone is more expensive.)






At least one pair of goggles, as sometimes they break






1 or 2 nose plugs (I find it better to get the professional or competitive nose clips. They stay on your nose much better than the cheap plastic ones. Usually they are peachy-coloured, making them quite easy to lose.)






1 or 2 towels






1 pair of flips flops or 'Crocs' to wear on deck. (You can often pick up a virus from walking barefoot on the deck, resulting in nasty warts or infections.)






Shampoo, conditioner, or other hair products






1 hairbrush






1 large bag to carry everything in.
 The best way to give you a good introduction to synchronized swimming is to start with a qualified coach (not just the lifeguard at the local pool). Check with your region's local synchro organization. Often they will direct you to a club or coach.
 (Not literally!)

, Then, get into the pool and start swimming. You can do freestyle (front crawl), backstroke, breaststroke, fly, whatever gets you warmed up. A good rule is to stop after ten minutes.
 Headfirst scull: Lay your hands flat on the water, palms facing the bottom of the pool. They should be under your bum. Tilt your hands so your thumb is just in the water, and like a paddle push your hand outwards. Now tilt your hands so your pinkie finger is just in the water, and pull your hand back into you. Do this with both hands at the same time. To keep yourself stationary, don't point your fingers upwards, as it will make you move forwards. Sometimes, making a slight figure-eight will help people, too. You can do this scull laying on your back. This scull will work if you lay on your stomach, but scull underneath your chest, instead.
 Lay your hands in the water, palms facing upward towards the ceiling. Pull your hands towards you so that they are parallel with your side. You arms should be in a shape of an "L". Hold your hands flat and touch your pinkies together. You should feel like you are holding a tray and they are clanking together. Repeat to yourself, "in, out, in, out".
 Your shins should be breaking the surface. Lean back underwater so only your legs are tucked into the somersault. Try support scull then. You should feel your shins being lifted out of the water.
 Put your shoulders back and chin up. Remember the headfirst sculling I explained? Stick your hands on either side of you, so you are making an "L" with your arms in the water and start sculling. Now the hard part. With your left leg, make a counter-clockwise circle. With your right leg, make a clock-wise circle. Keep alternating leg circles, keeping a fast pace. You are now doing eggbeater! Remember to keep sculling at the same time. This is what swimmers use to keep themselves out of the water when they are lifting their arms out of the water.
 Lay on your back. Bend down so that your head and your feet meet. Next scull at your feet. Now push up so that your feet and your calves are in the air.
 Or better yet, keep trying to further expand your skills with a coach!

