 Recently made locks are designed to be shim-proof by the manufacturers, although in some cases it is still possible to pick them. This method will work better on older locks.
 In order to use a shim properly you need to be working with the place where the shackle locks, as working on the hinge will not accomplish anything.


Usually the locking mechanism is on the left side if you are looking at the lock with the shackle on top and the dial facing you.
 You can create a shim for yourself by cutting up a soda can.Use scissors to cut off the top of the can, down the length and then to cut off the bottom.


You should be left with a single piece of aluminum that was once the body of the can and is now a wide strip of metal.
 Turn the aluminum horizontally, so you are cutting the shorter side of the material. This piece will be used to make the shim.


Cut a strip a little over one inch wide.
If any of the edges are ragged, trim them., Hold the small strip of aluminum horizontally and cut two curves from the bottom, somewhat resembling the letter U.


Center the U in the middle of your strip.
Do not cut all the way to the top.
 Cutting from the bottom of the metal around a quarter of an inch from the base of the U, cut diagonally upwards to intersect with the top of the U and remove the triangles of material.


The result should be a strip of metal that looks something like the letter M, with the middle of the M curved instead of pointed. This will be the shim.ddd

, Turn the top of the metal downward an eighth of an inch or so. Then fold the sides upward around the top of the strip of metal.


Folding the sides allows you to have a handle on the shim that will not cut your hand with a sharp edge.
 The U of the shim should face downward.


You will want to wrap the shim carefully around the outside first so it molds to the shape of the shaft.
When you have got the shape you want, turn the shim so the U is on the inner part of the shackle and your handle is on the outside of it.
Remember to do this on the side of the shackle that has the locking mechanism.
 Using your other hand, slowly work the shim into the crack between the shackle and the lock itself.


It will take a few minutes and you should not rush or force it.
When you have worked it in as far as it will go, stop.
 Pinch the shim with one hand. With the other hand, press the shackle down then pull it up. The lock should open.