 An inexpensive and less complicated way to build your own tumbling composter is by creating an “on the ground” tumbling composter, which is simply a container outfitted to hold compost that you “turn” by simply rolling the container across the ground. Purchase or obtain a large cylindrical container with a lid that fits tight. A garbage can works best, and is likely the easiest to find. Select either a plastic or metal garbage can that will hold at least 30 gallons; large containers used for composting hold 55 gallons. Wash the garbage can or container thoroughly if it has been used. Additional materials you’ll need include:


Two 48" lengths of 1/2" metal/aluminum pipe
One 36" length of 1/4" steel threaded rod (zinc plated)
Four 2" long 1/4" bolts
Eight 1/4" nuts
A 1/4" metal drill bit
A 7/8" drill bit
Drill
Hacksaw
Measuring tape
Ear and eye protection
2 elastic bungee cords that are the same length as the can's diameter (optional);
, The holes you’ll drill into the lid need to be 4” from the outer edge of the lid and directly across from each other, or specifically 180 degrees apart. The holes at the bottom of the container need to be 2” from the edge. You’ll need to place the holes at the bottom in a sunken part of the container’s base because you’ll be sticking metal or aluminum pipes through these holes and you want your tumbling composter to be able to stand upright once assembled.
 Drill several holes, about 15-20, into the top and bottom and along the sides of the container using your drill and a 1/4” drill bit. Space the holes evenly. The holes will allow oxygen to flow freely throughout your tumbling composter.
 Make sure to place them as close to the end of pipes as possible. Doing so will enable your tumbling composter to stand up properly.
 Once the pipes and connected rod are placed inside the container, the rod will need to rest in the middle of the container. Therefore your two additional holes must measure at half the height of your container. Measure the height of your container and divide that measurement by two. The number you come up with will be the length you measure on your two pipes to determine where your two holes will be drilled. Use your 1/4" metal drill to drill the two holes straight through the pipe.


Before you thread your rod through the new holes, it’ll need to be cut down to size in order to fit inside your container. To do this, measure the diameter of the container at the point where the pipes’ holes will be. You found this point earlier by dividing the height of your container by two. When you come up with the diameter of the container, cut the rod 1” shorter than that, so it’ll fit easily inside the container.
Slide one end of the rod through one of the pipes until the pipe is about 3” from the other end of the rod. Then screw onto the rod two of the 1/4" nuts. Start at the end of the rod that is farthest from the pole. Each nut should be about 4" from each end of the rod. Once secured, the first nut will be right next to the pole, while the second nut will be about 4" from the end of the rod. Once the second nut is secured, slide the rod through the second pipe, stopping when the pipe touches the 1/4" nut. Secure the two pipes by screwing an additional 1/4" nut on the outer edges of the rod next to each pipe.
 Place the structure inside the container and then turn the container on its side to make it easier to thread the ends of the pipe through the two 7/8” holes in the bottom of the container. Secure the pipes by sliding a 2” bolt through the 1/4" holes you drilled into the ends of the pipes, and then screwing two 1/4" nuts onto the ends of each bolt. Stand the container upright and then secure the lid by threading the tops of the pipes through the two 7/8” holes.


You’ll need to drill holes into the length of the pipes just above the lid, so that once bolted the lid will stay secure when you roll it on the ground.
Use a marker to mark the spots where you’ll drill your holes, and then to ensure your holes are even, disassemble your tumbling composter, and lie the pipes flat on the ground when you drill them.
Drill two holes straight through each pipe using the metal 1/4" drill bit, and then reassemble your tumbling composter.
 To secure the lid, follow the same method used to secure the pipes to the bottom of the container. Use two bolts and nuts on each side of the bolts, after you’ve filled your tumbling composter with composting ingredients. Slide one bolt through each of the 1/4" holes you've just drilled, and then secure those bolts by attaching a 1/4" nut to each end of the bolts. If necessary, you can secure bungee cords over the top of the container by laying them in a crisscross pattern over the lid and securing the cords either underneath the handles of the lid or through a few newly drilled holes.
 Make sure your lid is tightly secured by rolling it across the ground. If dirt begins to spill from around the top, adjust your bolts, or tighten or obtain bungee cords to further tie down your lid.

