 Start by dividing one sheet of paper into three columns. Label one 'Reason', another 'What?', and the last one, "Improvement". Seeing what is distracting you will help you improve your grades in any subject whether it is hard or easy.;
, Are you doing your homework? Are you spending time studying for tests? Do you pay attention in class? Do you put school before social events and sports? Sit down and write down all the reasons why you think your grades have dropped underneath the 'Reason' column. Number them from the biggest problem to the smallest problem. Always work on the hardest problem first, then eliminate the smaller ones.
 For example, instead of "I don't do my homework" you could write, "I don't have a quiet place to do my homework, because my siblings are too loud". Or next to "I don't pay attention in class." you might write, "I have a hard time paying attention because I don't get enough sleep." Write that in the 'Why?' column.
 If the reason column said "I don't do my homework", and the Why? column said "I don't have enough time because I play too many sports", in the Improvement column, you might write "I will drop one sport and set aside an hour every evening for studying and homework".
 Pick one item from the 'Reason' column to improve on. This part varies for every person. Start with the biggest problem and work your way down. If your biggest problem is that you can't pay attention in class, and your improvement is getting more sleep, then start doing that.
 You'll be amazed how fast you can check everything off and how fast your grades will begin improving.
 Don't be a slacker! Try whatever techniques work for you. Some people may write down that they will study 20 minutes every day for three days before a test. It's up to you to figure out how to study! Many people like flashcards, others like games, and others prefer just to read the material. Try a little of each and give yourself a mini-quiz after to see how well you remembered the material. Whichever works the best you should use everyday.
 This guide doesn't tell you exactly what to do to improve your grades. You need to be a judge of that yourself. You may just need to study harder or you may need to approach a teacher and ask for after-school help. Be responsible and don't expect everything to just happen overnight.
 Don't stop being a good student now! Keep up your habits.


Sure, sacrificing a shopping trip or an hour on Facebook may seem horrible now, but, once you get your report card, it will be worth it.

Remember to reward yourself after completing a task so you feel more confident and you have something to push yourself when trying to get to your goal.
 Studying with friends isn't always the best idea because every student learns things a different way. Find out which ways help you learn better, and use it.
