 Heat cramps are painful muscle spasms that result from dehydration, typically due to exercising or working in hot environments.Heat cramps are not simply caused by heat or being in a hot environment, as the name might suggest. Intense sweating from the exertion results in a loss of both fluid and the electrolytes (salt) needed for proper muscle function.Though you can experience heat cramps in any muscle group, they are most common in the calves, arms, abdominal muscles, and back muscles., Heat cramps are not something you “push through” during exercise. They are your body’s way of telling you that it needs a break. The first step to treat a heat cramp is to cease the exercise routine or activity that led to the cramp., Heat cramps are most commonly associated with overexerting yourself in the summer heat. If this is the case, get out of the sun as well. Find a cooler spot in the shade or indoors and give yourself time to rest and cool down.You can help your body cool down by applying a wet towel to the back of your neck.
 The cramp is a response to dehydration and loss of electrolytes, so you should also drink lots of fluids while you rest, preferably a sports drink (Gatorade, etc.) or an electrolyte beverage such as Pedialyte.Sports drinks with 25 – 200 mg of sodium are best.


Clear juice is also an option that will provide both the fluids and electrolytes you need.If all you have available is water, then dissolve a quarter or half teaspoon of regular table salt into one quart of water.It might not taste as good as a sports drink, but it will do the trick.
 You can also help make the cramp go away more quickly by gently stretching the muscle group. Use range-of-motions stretches rather than intense stretches.This will help reduce the spasming and pain in the muscles.
 By resting and replacing lost fluids and electrolytes, heat cramps usually subside fairly quickly. Note the time when the cramp first began. If the cramp hasn’t gotten better (or has gotten worse) after an hour, then you should call your doctor., The subsiding of the cramp alone does not indicate that you’ve adequately replaced the lost fluids and electrolytes in your body, so don’t take that as an indication to resume the exercise. You should continue drinking fluids and wait several hours before resuming any strenuous activity.Otherwise you risk another cramp or even a worse heat-related condition such as heat stroke.
 If you work outside in the summer or prefer to run as exercise, you can’t exactly avoid the summer heat, but you can prepare and minimize the risk of future heat cramps. Keep yourself hydrated before you before exerting yourself and take periodic drinks of a sports drink as you go to prevent developing a heat cramp.


You may still experience heat cramps for the first few days, but once accustomed to the hot environment, your adequate fluid replacement alone should eliminate any cramping.If the heat index is between 103 – 115°F (39.4 – 46.1°C), you should be drinking at least four cups of water an hour.