 Baking soda does not actually spoil like other foods. When it gets old, however, it loses some of its strength and may no longer work as a leavening agent.To get a general sense of whether your baking soda is still good, look for the sell-by or use-by date on the package. Baking soda tends to work best when used before this date.Baking soda does not have an expiration date listed on the package, as it has an indefinite shelf life. Do not look for an expiration date on baking soda, as you cannot find one.
You may still be able to use baking soda past the sell-by or use-by date, as these are just rough estimates. You can use vinegar to test your baking soda's freshness if the use-by or sell-by date has passed.;
, Add roughly three tablespoons of vinegar to a small container. You will be adding baking soda to the vinegar to see if it fizzles. Make sure to choose a bigger container. If the vinegar fizzles, you do not want it to spill on your counter.A measuring cup or mixing bowl works well for this test., You’ll only need to add about a quarter teaspoon of baking soda to the acid to find out whether it’s still good. Dump in all your baking soda into the vinegar., Fresh baking soda will begin to bubble and froth as soon as it comes into contact with the vinegar. If it bubbles slowly or not at all, the baking soda is no longer fresh.If there’s any doubt about whether or not a particular batch of baking soda is still good, it’s usually safest just to pick up a fresh package.
 If your baking soda passes the vinegar test, estimate its shelf life. Unopened baking soda lasts indefinitely, but once you open your baking soda it will start to lose its strength.Most baking sodas last around three years after being opened., Baking soda should be stored somewhere with a mild, consistent temperature. A normal pantry or cupboard is the best option, but it may also be okay in a covered jar on the countertop. Excess heat or cold or drastic changes in temperature can weaken baking soda.Store your baking soda away from the oven, stovetop or broiler.
 Baking soda starts to lose power as soon as it's opened. Do not open baking soda prematurely. Keep the container sealed until it's necessary to use your baking soda.After opening your baking soda, consider transferring it to another lidded container such as a condiment jar or piece of Tupperware. This will protect it from exposure and let you get more use out of it., Steamy kitchens or humid earthen cellars are not the best environment for baking soda. To prevent moisture from ruining your baking soda, keep it covered and store it a safe distance away from sinks and other water sources.Measure out the baking soda you need for a given recipe, then put the package away rather than leaving it to sit out.
Clumping is a clear sign that moisture has ruined your baking soda. Clumped baking soda should be replaced.

