 If you have lawnmowers, shovels, rakes, pitchforks or other garden tools, you need to store them carefully.


Avoid throwing all of your garden tools into one corner of the garage.Make or purchase a garage rack to store your garden equipment. You can purchase a garage storage rack for rakes and shovels from your local hardware store. If you are feeling ambitious, you can make your own rack with a few pieces of plywood.Whether you buy or make a rack, you want to make sure the tools are safely inaccessible to children.
Lawn tools should be stored in a manner so that they do not fall on children.
Store any tool that has a pointed or sharp edge out of the reach of your kids.
 If you have a cabinet in your garage, you may choose to lock your power tools in the cabinet. If you have shelving installed, you may choose to keep your power tools on higher up shelves that are inaccessible to children.Keep other workshop items away from your children. If you have vices, power cords and other workshop equipment, you should make sure they are inaccessible to your children. You may choose to store them in a cabinet or another secure spot with your power tools.
Any tools such as vices, hardware, clamps, bolts, nuts and screws should be put in a secure location so as not to present a choking, pinching or cutting hazard.
Store your brooms and shop vacuums away from kids so that they are not tempted to play with them.
 Start by making sure all of the containers are properly sealed. Next, store these items in a secure location that is inaccessible to children such as a storage cabinet or crate.If you have other flammable liquids such as lighter fluid or lamp fuel, you should also store these in a locked cabinet., You should store sports equipment away from the reach of your child. You should also make sure it is stored securely, since you do not want it falling on your child., Your garbage and recycling containers should be safely sealed and beyond the reach of your children.Use rope or cord to secure the top of your garbage and recycling containers., If you have pet food, cat litter, storage containers or other pet items in the garage, make sure these items are safely stored out of the reach of your children., If you use five gallon buckets for painting or window washing, you need to make sure they are empty and safely stored. It only takes a small amount of liquid for a small child to drown.Store buckets upside down so that liquids will not accumulate in them and cause a drowning hazard.

