 This should take five minutes minimum and an hour maximum, you should start at around 10 am or even lunch. Then contact as many friends as possible, and get them to join in on this noble adventure! If they decline, tell them that it is a short film and is going on YouTube, if the person refuses this idea, ensure you promise them around 5% of final profits, if you are selling the film online or even at a retail outlet. You need to have at least 2 people on board by the end of the day. Also loosely think up a plot. You could even nag those friends and make them come over and watch films, help in script writing etc.;
, Begin at 9 am, and the loose script should be done before 10 pm. If this is a short film, and you are creative, then the whole thing may be done before 5 pm but keep in mind that a full film script may take at least a day. Get everyone to pitch in.
 At lunch you could go to Starbucks or something quick and resume recording at about 1:30 pm. During lunch, get a helper to go to the local fancy dress store and buy some props. You may be in luck and have a friend who owns cosplay outfits and is willing to share. For a horror or fantasy, you should buy some "colour hair-spray" which dyes your hair for the day and the next day washes out like magic. If your script still isn't done, work on it during lunch. Don't worry, at 5pm you can have dinner/tea and you shouldn't starve yourself. Eat properly during this conquest!

, Upload it to a computer, make edits using Adobe Premiere, or After Effects, or both (the trial versions are freely available) and blur out everything that is illegal. Cut some scenes, add some slow motions, add titles, and random bits and bobs then before you save, get a friend to look at it. Don't worry, this carries over tomorrow so you may as well re-record any rubbish scenes today and film extra scenes as well. You could forget the edits today and do them all tomorrow, it's entirely up to you.
 If this stage is done then wow, you work fast! If you finished then today you can get someone to work on a box cover of the DVD (if you are having them. You may sell them online) then rest and relax. Just re-watch and show everyone.
 Start selling online through amateur groups or post it on YouTube. Boost sales by advertising for free on Tumblr, Twitter and Facebook.
, This should take five minutes minimum and an hour maximum, you should start at around 10 am or even lunch. Then contact as many friends as possible, and get them to join in on this noble adventure! If they decline, tell them that it is a short film and is going on YouTube, if the person refuses this idea, ensure you promise them around 5% of final profits, if you are selling the film online or even at a retail outlet. You need to have at least 2 people on board by the end of the day. Also loosely think up a plot. You could even nag those friends and make them come over and watch films, help in script writing etc.
, Give everyone a script. The first recording may be rubbish/garbage. See how it goes. Sometimes, it will be perfect first time but don't forget, you have a whole week. Relax.
, Bravo!

,,,,