 This is a very important distinction, as restricting your students to only five vowel sounds, as opposed to the over 14 possible different vowel sounds in English, will ensure they are pronouncing Spanish words properly.You should also point out that unlike English, where the context of the word in the sentence affects the pronunciation of that word (i.e. “I live in that house” vs “I saw the band at a live show”), in Spanish the position of the word does not affect the pronunciation of the vowel in the word.;
, For example, take the letter “O”. When you say the letter “O” in English, it can sound like “Oooohwa”. In Spanish, it is much shorter and staccato and will sound like: “Oh.”While this is not an integral detail of learning pronunciation as a beginner, it is important to understand and apply this spoken rule if your student wants to achieve s native-like speaking ability of Spanish.
 Doing this will give them a guideline to refer back to as they work on getting their vowel sounds right and making them sound more natural.“A” will always sound like the “a” in “father”.
“E” will always sound like the “e” in “elephant”.
“I” will always sound like the “e” in “be”. This letter can be confusing as it sounds the same as the letter “e” in English, so clarify this for your students.
“O” will always sound like the “o” in “oh” or “October”. It will always sound short and without an “ooh” sound.
“U” will always sound like the “u” in “flute” or in the Spanish word “uno”.
 Once the student is aware of the five basic vowel sounds, they can sound out combinations of these vowels.


When two vowels are next to each other, one strong (“a”, “e”, “o”) and one weak (“i”, “u”), or two weak vowels ( “ui”), the student needs to learn to combine the two vowels into a syllable, forming a diphthong., They should make the sound for the first vowel in a word and then make the sound for the second vowel in the word. They should then repeat this faster and faster until it sounds like one syllable. For example:“ai” or “ay” should sound like “eye” in English. Such as in the Spanish word “aire”.
“ei” or “ey” should rhyme with "hay" in English. Such as in the Spanish word “rey”.
“oi” or “oy” should sound like “oy” in English. Such as in the Spanish word “voy”.
“ui” or “uy”, such as in the Spanish words “muy” or “Luis”.
“ia” should sound like “piano” in English. Such as in the Spanish word “media”.
“ie” should sound like “eh” in English. Such as in the Spanish word “cielo”.
“io”, such as in the Spanish word “delicioso”.
“iu”, such as in the Spanish word “viuda”.
“au” should sound like “ow” in English. Such as in the Spanish word “auto”.
“eu”, such as in the Spanish word “europa”.
“ua”, such as in the Spanish word “cuadro”.
“ue”, such as in the Spanish word “cuesta”.
“uo”, such as in the Spanish word “cuota”.
 Draw a bowl-shaped line on the board, like a smile. Write the vowels in a row, from left to right, just under the line, in this order: “i, e, a, o,u”.Label or draw the end with “i” so it is the front of the mouth and the end with the “u” so it is the back of the mouth at the entrance to the throat. Don’t worry about drawing this well, as long as it is looks relatively clear and easy to see.
If you are skilled enough to draw a sagittal view, go for it. A sagittal view is a cut-away view that shows the head, mouth, nose, and neck, like the ones you might see in a doctor’s office.
Ask your student to listen as you pronounce the five pure vowels, with no breaks or coming up for air, moving your mouth and lips in a slow, exaggerated way as you speak. The “i” sound should be pronounced with your lips spread wide like a toothy smile but as you move to the “u” sound, your lips should tighten into a smoochy pucker. This may elicit a few giggles or laughs, but that’s fine, as long as it makes them pay attention to the movement of your mouth.
Make sure you stress the movement of your tongue as you model the vowels. The tongue should begin in the forward position at the “i” sound, raise up as you continue through the vowels, go into a relaxed position as you say “a” and then back up towards your throat on the “u” sound.
Once you have shown this to your student a few times, ask them to try it on their own. Have them practice moving their mouth in a slow, exaggerated way as they say each vowel.
 You can use any restaurant you’d like, but choosing a familiar fast food chain like Taco Bell may help your student ease into the activity.Make photocopies of a menu from Taco Bell and give it to your student.
Have the student read the items aloud, pronouncing the words as they normally would in English.
Then, have the student re read the items with the correct Spanish vowels.
Ask your student to circle at least five spots they mispronounced and then discuss these issues with them. Create a list on the board of all the words the student had trouble with.
Focus on helping the student re read the menu with the correct pronunciation of the Spanish vowels they circled and had a hard time with.
As a fun follow-up to this activity, take your student to an authentic Spanish restaurant and have them order foods with Spanish names they may not know (and with the correct pronunciation, of course).
 Use an existing Spanish sing a long onlineor build your own using a blackboard and chalk or a dry erase pen.Write out the lyrics to a Spanish song that uses many vowel words on the blackboard. Make sure there is enough room between each line of the song so the student can read the lyrics clearly.
As you point to each word in the song, have the student try to read the word out loud. Eventually, have the student string together each word to read or sing aloud one line of the song.
Encourage them to continue until they can sing one verse or section of the song. Offer suggestions on their pronunciation and how they can improve their vowel sounds.
If there is a recorded version of the song you chose, play it for the student so they are aware of the proper pronunciation of the vowel sounds.

