 Weighing yourself regularly when you're trying to lose weight will help you monitor and track your progress and let you know how effective or ineffective your diet program is. Regular weight check-ins will show you your progress over time and may help keep you motivated.


Weigh yourself about 1-2 times a week. Weighing yourself each day will not give you an accurate perspective of your progress. Daily fluctuations in weight (either a gain or loss) are normal and may be due to what you ate, drank or did at the gym the day before.For the most accurate method of weighing, take your weight on the same day of the week, at the same time with the same clothes (or no clothes).
Regular weigh-ins have also been shown to help prevent weight-gain., With any weight loss plan, it's important to check-in every month or two to see how effective your diet is. Review how much weight you've lost, how much more you'd like to lose and how your new diet is helping you reach your goals.


If your weight loss is steady or if you've reached your goal, the diet has most likely been successful. Keep on going!
If your weight loss has been slow or has stopped, take time to reevaluate the diet, how you've been eating and following the plan. It might make sense to keep a food journal for a few days to make sure you're truly sticking to the diet.
Also take into consideration how easy to follow your diet is and how it's making you feel. For example, if you're finding it overwhelming to have meat at each and every meal, you might want to make some changes to your plan to make it fit better with your lifestyle.
 Support groups can be a great tool for weight loss. Whether it's friends, family members or other dieters, a support group can encourage and motivate you throughout your progress.Ask friends or family members if they'd like to join you on your meat-based diet. It's can be more fun if you have a whole group of people with the same goal.
Get competitive with your support group. Set an end date for your weight loss competition and have an exciting prize for the winner.

