 Boil ½ a cup of water either on the stove or in the microwave.


The water has to be hot enough so the Epsom salt can dissolve into the water.;
, Mix in 1 teaspoon of Epsom salt with 3-5 drops of iodine.Stir the mixture thoroughly to ensure the Epsom salts dissolve completely and the iodine is blended in.
 The solution should be warm, but cool enough to stick your finger in for a few seconds and not feel uncomfortably hot.


The warm solution will be soothing to your face as it works on the blackheads.
 Dip a cotton ball into the solution and dab it on the affected area. Let the solution dry completely (5-10 minutes).


The cotton ball will absorb a lot of the solution, so be careful not to drip any on your clothes.
For acne on other parts of the body (back, chest, upper arms), it’s more useful to take an Epsom salt bath.That way, you can soak bigger areas of your body at the same time.
 Use clean, warm water and a washcloth to gently rinse the solution and any blackhead residue off your face.


Repeat this process regularly for the best results.
 It can be tempting to use any means necessary to try and get rid of blackheads, but it’s important to be gentle to your face when trying to control acne. More people actually do more harm to their skin than good when they try to get rid of their blackheads.



Don’t pinch of squeeze your blackheads. Squeezing or pinching can make your skin inflamed and infected. Your hands also have natural oil on them that could transfer to your skin and make your blackhead problem even worse. Instead, loosen the blackheads by putting a washcloth that has been drenched in hot water and wrung out, on the affected area. Once the washcloth has sat on your face for about 10 minutes, use a spot treatment to target the blackheads.Don’t use any sharp tools on your skin. These small extraction tools trap bacteria and can bruise your face if used improperly.

Don’t sleep with makeup on. Makeup contains ingredients that could significantly clog your pores as you sleep (talc, titanium dioxide, etc.). Be sure to clean your face with a mild cleanser before bed to prevent further build up of oil from your hair, oil you’re your hands, sebum, and chemicals from makeup.Don’t go overboard with scrubbing. Harsh scrubs can irritate your skin and make your blackhead and acne problem appear worse, so avoid large grain exfoliator cleansers such as almond or walnut exfoliators.Instead, use a gentler cleanser (such as rice or jojoba exfoliators) to remove dead skin off the surface of you face., Use an oil-free face wash to wash your face both morning and night to remove daily impurities and excess sebum. Sebum is the oily substance underneath your skin that builds up and creates whiteheads and blackheads. Just like the makeup ingredients, sebum can clog your pores too., Benzoyl peroxide is an ingredient found in many acne treatments that is extremely helpful in diminishing acne spots. Benzoyl peroxide could dry out some areas of your face, but you can always apply a moisturizer after you have let the benzoyl peroxide work its magic.Retinol is also known for its acne fighting abilities, but the trick is you need to find products that contain enough of the ingredient to actual help your blackhead situation. An amount that would prove to be useful would be about 0.5 or 1.0%.Any product with less retinol than that, or a product where the percentage isn’t listed probably only has trace amounts of the ingredient, and won’t be enough to effectively treat your acne.
Salicylic acid is another gentle alternative, but not it is not as helpful at removing blackheads.
 . Wash your pillowcases at least twice a month, wipe and disinfect your cellphone along with glasses, and any other item that can transfer and hold onto oil from your face.Wash and disinfect these items once a day to help stop bacteria from spreading from the different surfaces to your face.

