 Poke holes in the top of the lid. Then, fill it with water, screw the lid on and use it as a watering can.;
, Set it on your desk and place your laptop on top. It will keep your laptop cooler, so the fan doesn’t have to work as hard.
 Write on bread bag tabs and attach them to the end of cords so that you can keep them straight., Wash it and dry it, then flour the surface thoroughly before rolling out your dough.
 A metal cookie sheet with a lip works well to store wet galoshes or shoes near the entryway to your home.
 Fill them with seeds and shake them on your garden beds when it’s time to plant.
, Store your spaghetti and fettuccine pasta inside to keep it fresh.
 Fill with batter and your pancakes can be perfectly proportioned.
 They will be protected from dust. File them in a drawer horizontally.
 They will keep your tank top and dresses from falling to the bottom of your closet.
 The lids to your pots and pans will slip neatly into the area between the rack and the cupboard, leaving drawers less cluttered.
 The slightly dull blade will keep you from cutting a hole in the knitting. Shave just above the surface to remove pills.
 They are excellent for cleaning tarnished silverware; mud off boots and hard to reach places. They can also remove the silk from corn cobs efficiently., Take them with you when you travel to a cabin or a cookout.
 It will allow you to store them in a small space and pull them out one and at a time., Protect the rest of your clothes from outside dirt.,, Stack it, cut it in half and staple the stacks together. You can make scratch pads for to-do lists., It will improve the luster of a surface when applied to metal items. You can also store it with silver jewelry to reduce tarnishing., Place them in the bottom of your trash bags, at the bottom of your refrigerator or around defrosting food. Wrap bouquets or place them beneath a small child’s bed to avoid accidents.
, String charging cables through them to make a charging station for your devices., Dry them completely, cut them with scissors and place them upright inside the boots.
 Hang it on the wall and use it as a magazine rack.
 Paint the surface and lacquer it. Use it as a tray.

