 Many itch creams area available for purchase from drug stores and supermarkets. These could help soothe an itch.


Look for the following ingredients when selecting creams, as they're particularly effective in combating itch: camphor, menthol, phenol, pramoxine, diphenhydramine, and benzocaine.These remedies numb nerve endings and therefore reduce itching. They can be applied every few minutes until symptoms stop.Try calamine lotion with up to 4% concentration of menthol.
You should always be sure to read any warning labels on any products you purchase and check for any potential allergens. Make sure you know what to do in the event of an allergic reaction.
 Antihistamines are often the first line therapy for people with wide-spread itching.


Use non-drowsy antihistamines during the day. This will include over-the-counter allergy medications such as cetirizine (Zyrtec) and loratadine (Claritin).Make sure you talk to your doctor about your itch as only she can determine if it's caused by allergies. If it's caused by other factors, antihistamines may not help you with your itching.
 Hydrocortisone creams are a variety of over the counter topical ointments designed to reduce itch. They can be helpful in some situations, but are not always the right option depending on the cause of your itching.


Hydrocortisone creams only help ease itch caused by certain rashes, such as eczema. Over-the-counter creams are often somewhat weak, containing only 1% cortisone, but if you have eczema or another skin condition such as seborrhea they might still provide some relief.If your itching is caused by an allergic reaction, bug bites, or dry skin it's doubtful hydrocortisone creams would help at all.As always, only apply over-the-counter creams as necessary and talk to your doctor if you have a reaction.
 Itching is usually not a medical emergency, but if your itching is paired with certain symptoms or is severe you should seek medical care.


If your itch is severe enough that it disturbs your sleep, you should see your doctor as soon as possible to determine the cause.If itching lasts more than two weeks and does not improve, you should talk to a doctor.If your itching affects your entire body, seek medical care as soon as you can.See a doctor if itching is paired with symptoms like weight loss, exhaustion, change in bowel habits, fever, or redness and rashes on the skin.