 Read through the script thoroughly to decide which part would be the most fun and rewarding for you.


Think about what role falls within your ability; if you want the lead role, but that part has a large number of lines and you don’t have the time to rehearse or have difficulty memorizing, then that part may not be right for you.
Consider what role will have the most competition from other students auditioning for the play. Try for the lead role(s) if you want to be up against many others, or try a smaller part that not as many people audition for a greater chance at getting it.
Also be prepared for the chance that you won’t have the ability to pick a particular role, and will simply audition first before you are assigned to a part.;
, Pick your scene, monologue, or song and memorize it thoroughly so that you can perform it easily without reading off of a page.


Sometimes it’s perfectly acceptable to have the script with you at your audition to consult, but it always helps to memorize to the best of your ability so you don't sound like you're reading from it.
Give yourself plenty of time to commit the material to memory. Practice for an hour or two at a time, then leave it and go do something else or get a good night’s sleep before you return to it.
 If you’re asked to choose a monologue or song that’s not from the play itself, choose something that’s comfortable, age-appropriate, and within the given time limit (usually two to three minutes).


Prepare two different monologues or songs if you can. Memorize a serious speaking part as well as a comedic one, and choose a ballad to sing as well as a lighter up-tempo song.
Choose a monologue that’s about one minute long, and/or a section of a song that is 16 or 32 bars long., Find a friend or another student interested in auditioning for the play to help you rehearse a scene if you plan to audition with material that involves more than one character or vocalist.


It may help to choose someone who is confident and a good actor, as he or she will help influence your own confidence and ability, both in rehearsals and during the audition if you can or want to audition with them too.
Make sure the same person is available to rehearse when and as much as you need to, or that you have several people or backups to help you out when one person can’t.

