 After your doctor performs a patch test, you should know what triggers are causing or intensifying your eczema. Do the best that you can to prevent any exposure to these triggers. Switch to a different type of household cleaner, ask someone else to handle the food that is causing your eczema, or wear gloves to create a barrier between your hands and the substance., Eczema of the hands may also be caused by dyes and perfumes in soaps and moisturizers. Steer clear of any soaps and moisturizers that include artificial fragrances or colors. Look for products meant for sensitive skin or all natural products. If you know that a certain soap or moisturizer causes your eczema to flare up, do not use it.Consider using plain petroleum jelly in lieu of a moisturizer; it is less likely to cause a reaction and may even be more effective at moisturizing.Don’t wash your hands too frequently. While it is important to remove irritants from your hands if you are exposed, frequent hand washing may cause your eczema to get worse. Avoid washing your hands except when they are soiled., Hands that are often wet or damp are at increased risk for hand eczema. If you spend a lot of time washing dishes by hand or doing other things that keep your hands wet, try to cut back on these activities or reduce hand wetness any way that you can.For example, you could use a dishwasher to wash dishes instead of hand washing them or at least wear gloves to keep your hands dry while you are washing dishes.


Dry your hands immediately after washing them or getting them wet. Make sure that they are completely dry.
Take shorter showers to reduce the amount of time that your hands are wet., A good moisturizer is essential to preventing eczema flare-ups. Make sure that you use a moisturizer that does not irritate your skin. Ointments are usually the best options for hand eczema, they moisturize better and cause less stinging and burning when applied to irritated skin. Keep a small bottle of moisturizer with you at all times to make sure that your hands are always well moisturized. Moisturize your hands anytime that you wash them or whenever they begin to feel dry.You may want to ask your doctor about a prescription moisture barrier such as Tetrix.This can be far more effective than store-bought moisturizers.
 If you cannot avoid using chemicals and other substances that irritate your hands, get some cotton lined rubber gloves to protect your hands from exposure to these substances. Wear the gloves any time that you will be exposed to the substances that irritate your hand.


Wash the gloves with perfume and dye free soap when they need it. Turn them inside out and hang them up to dry completely before using them again.If you need the gloves for both cleaning and cooking, make sure that you have separate pairs for these activities.
 Rings can cause substances that make your eczema worse to get trapped right next to your skin. As a result, you may have more flare ups in the areas under and around your rings. Try to remember to remove your rings before exposure to your triggers and before washing or moisturizing your hands., Using a highly diluted solution of bleach and water may help to reduce the amount of bacteria on your hands, which helps some people with their eczema. Of course, if bleach is an eczema trigger for you, then you should not try this treatment. Talk to your doctor before you decide to incorporate bleach hand soaks into your routine.Remember that the bleach you use in a hand soak should be diluted in plenty of water. Only use about 1/2 teaspoon per gallon of water.
Be careful not to get the bleach on your clothes, carpet, or anywhere else that it might harm the color., In some cases, eczema flare-ups may be caused or intensified by stress. To help eliminate this factor, make sure that you incorporate relaxation techniques into your daily life. Exercise daily and set aside some time each day to relax. Some relaxing activities you might try include practicing yoga, doing deep breathing exercises, or meditating.