 That means that you should do your homework every day at the same time. (One idea is to keep an alarm clock set to, say, 4:00 P.M. on your desk.) You should strive to wake up at the same time and go to bed at the same time every day, even on weekends so that you don't get the usual "Monday crash.";
, This may sound like it contrasts with what was previously written, but the facts are that nothing is permanent. The chances are that you will quit or retire from your job or graduate from school before the Reaper comes, sickle in hand. So while it is a good idea to excel in these areas, it is a terrible idea to rely on them. Take your education and finances into your own hands. In fact, if you are up for the challenge, you could try learning a second language. Knowing something like French is bound to be a plus, no matter how you cut it.
 Stay with those people with actual talent, however. Stick with the smart people and the creative people, and their ideas may just rub off on you.
 You may be a bit peeved that your parents keep lecturing you on the danger of substances and the consequences of unprotected sexual intercourse, but they have been around longer than you have. It's likely better to listen to them instead of your friends on certain "touchy" issues.
 A daily planner, also called an "agenda book," is a valuable asset in any profession. For those of you in school, it lets you keep a copy of your schedule and a record of your homework assignments every day. For those of you working at jobs, it can be used to track appointments, keep you on track, record your finances, etc. It really is a godsend to have one, because it frees up your memory for other, more important tasks.
 Relying on others to help you out is a bad habit to get into. Take initiative and do things yourself! After all, a little help now and then is helpful, but if you wake up one day and you find yourself hoping for dear life that your brother will let you stay for "one more night," and you've been doing that for a while, you've gone wrong somewhere.
 The Canada Wide Science Fair or Shad Valley and the Deep River Science Academy can be great ways to show that you are a somebody.

