 Hands should be in good condition and washed first. As always, they should be washed with a gentle soap or hand wash to get rid of germs and be clean. Short nails usually look better than long and are less high-maintenance, so quickly cut with nail scissors/clippers once a week s they surprisingly grow quickly. Nourish tired,dry hands with a rich cream.;
, Dry thoroughly,cut and rub on some cream. Carefully file of any rough edge but only push back cuticles if you need to, you don't want to cause pain or rip the delicate skin there. First of all you need to paint on a base coat (or just clear polish) which can be used as a top coat too (helps keep your polish fresh for longer). You will need good hand wash, cream, nail cutters and some lovely polishes of your choice.
 Here are some classy, simple and fun looks to try ( you may need to use other tools other than the nail polish brush but it can be an efficient painter too)-

Subtle. Choose a soft baby pink, creamy white or glossy clear as your shade. Unlike other use in nail polish, you can skip the base coat because your basically wearing it alone anyway, but still used two coats. Paint one thick stroke down the middle and two thinner ones down the side. Repeat and leave to dry. This is the best polish for school as it is noticeable but not obvious, also the shades are soft and sweet and out shopping.






Bright and Beautiful. Let your true colors shine! Some colors suit some while they don't others but there are always a few which look amazing on you. Test your skin tone. Fair skins suit fair too, like baby blue, pale pink, light green, pastels and tanned dark, like fuchsia, black, and rich red. Medium green,blue and coral/salmon pinks can suit nearly everyone. Use the same nail painting technique as before but go a little more slowly as color shows any uneven streaks more than a barley there one does. This is a good look for the weekends or just casually chilling.






Spots and Stripes. A really fun look. Choose a base color, let it dry than dab on the pattern on top and let dry as well. Contrasts really stand out here ( such as pink and white polka dots or black and purple stripes). Even though it can look really original, you might want to avoid using a whole crazy ranges of patterns as colors, this can look a little over the top. Great for parties or special occasions.






Strawberries. Specially sweet! Paint the nails first in either a light or dark red. This is the flesh of the fruit. Using some white or orange/yellow polish, dab random little dots all over the nails. These are the seeds. When everything else is dry, add a splash of green at the top to be the stalks. Try these in the summer.






Floral flowers. Elegant and pretty. Paint the base color something plain like white or blue, then take your time to paint loads of flowers in different shapes and shades all over the nails. Nice for celebrations or just when you feel like having a florist shop at your fingertips!






Music Notes. Music fans will love this. To make the nails look like some pages of written music, paint the nails a rich cream and after wards, do some simple lines across ( where the notes are placed) and add some little notes ( use a black or dark blue polish for this). This can be difficult, so only go for the notes when you try the first time. In the name, paint them like this when going to see a concert or local gig.






Super Stars. Unique and optimistic. Just paint a clear coat on nails, you only want color in the patterns. Use as many colors as you like to draw loads of little stars or sparkles on the nails.







