 A professional surveyor can mark the legal boundaries of your property according to the deed, which will alert you to any potential conflicts or property description issues.A survey can help you determine if your property blocks a neighbor's access to the road, or to a shared asset such as a lake or beach.
Surveys also mark the location of underground cables, drains, or pipes used by water, gas, and other utility services.
If the property description in your deed uses natural barriers such as a river or a cliff, these may have moved with time depending on when the description was written.
Similarly, if the property line runs with an artificial barrier such as a highway, the legal description may be problematic if that artificial barrier has been destroyed or altered.
 Written contracts protect your land rights by ensuring that someone's continued use doesn't diminish them over time. Without a written contract, users can acquire prescriptive easements that restrict your rights to the land.For example, if you have lakefront property and the person who owns the land next to yours uses a path that runs through your property to get to his favorite fishing spot on the lake, and you're okay with that, have him sign a contract describing that use.
Your contract typically doesn't need to use any formal language or legalese, but it does need to describe who has the right to use your land, how they have the right to use it, and for how long.
Keep the term of these contracts relatively short so you can revisit the situation every few years.
Include a statement in the contract that the other person acknowledges that your land is private property and you reserve the right to terminate their usage at any time.
You also want to make the usage rights conveyed in the contract non-transferable. The contract only applies to you and this person – if they move away, your new neighbor can negotiate a new contract with you.
 Any contract that defines an agreed use of a portion of your land, or a compromise regarding a fence or other structure, should be recorded along with your deed so an easement can't be created.Keep in mind that while there aren't any legal formalities for the contract itself, there might be if you want it recorded.
Many states, for example, require contracts having to do with the sale or use of land to be signed before notaries and witnesses.
However, keeping the contract with your deed ensures there's never any question about your ownership and protects your rights.
You must pay a fee to record the contract, typically under $50. Call your county recorder's office or visit their website to find out the specific requirements.
 Since someone using your property can create a prescriptive easement with as few as five years of continuous use, it's important to regularly walk your property and look for signs of use by others.Particularly if you have a large parcel of land, you may not be able to keep watch over all of it all the time. However, it takes years for another person to assert rights to your land based on their continual use.
For large parcels, you might want to consider breaking it up into zones and going over one zone each month.
When you walk your property, bring along some caution tape or signs. If you see signs of use, such as litter or a worn-down path, place a marker there with a sign warning the interloper that this is private property.
Make a note of spots where you noticed signs of use so you can check them more frequently.

