 Press the dough with the heel of your palm into a rectangle roughly 20-25cm or 8-10 inches long. Fold this dough in half (width-wise) and press to seal. Fold again in half to make a long loaf. Find the seam and pinch it shut if it seems open.;
, Using your palms, start at the middle and roll the dough outwards. The bread should end up a little fatter in the middle and thinner at the ends. The seams should be well sealed, otherwise pinch them shut again.


The loaf should be about 40-50cm or so long, ideally longer if your oven may permit its size. In practice, do not roll out a loaf bigger than you can bake.
 Use a floured linen or cotton tea towel, or use a baguette mould. If using a cloth, place the loaf seam side up (so the good side is face down) and pleat the cloth to support the bread and leave in a warm place. Repeat with the other half of the dough if desired or make other shapes.


To apply sesame seeds, poppy seeds or other grains (which are not traditional on French style Baguettes, mist the top of the dough with a spray bottle of water and roll the baguette gently into a tray that has the seeds spread into it before you place it on the cloth or baking tray. This gives a more even coating than sprinkling by hand.
 When it has proofed and ready to bake, gently turn the bread over (so it is now good side up) and use a sharp razor blade to slash the bread very gently on a regular diagonal pattern 4–5 times.


Kitchen knives are typically too blunt to do this well. Cut only a millimetre or so into the bread.
 Close the door quickly and bake 20-25 minutes, turn off the oven but leave them in for another 10-15 to further form their crust.


You may also use this method to make a long very thin loaf, which you may then cut up (or divide the dough up into smaller loaves) to make thin bread sticks like the Italian grissini loaves.
You may also divide the 1kg dough into 10 portions and follow the same method to make hot dog rolls, or from hot dog rolls, press the two ends together to make a loop like a bagel.

