 This can be an old fur coat/stole (if you don't have one of these lying around the house, your local antique store or garage sale probably does). If you prefer, you can make the coat/stole out of faux fur. Some people have also made nice looking ones by sewing together feather boas. The idea is for it to look old and ragged, and usually it is either brown or gray. Her coat is one of the most recognisable parts of her costume.;
, If you don't have one of these, the thrift store probably has one at a fairly cheap price. Don't buy a brand new one unless you plan to wear it other times; a new dress can be quite expensive if it's just for a costume. Wear grayish tights with the dress. If you want, you can dye/paint black markings on these to look more cat-like. Grizabella also often wears high heels, but any nice shoes will work.
 (If you include these, they will probably have to be homemade, as stores will likely only sell them around Halloween, if at all.)

, This is one advantage she has over the other Jellicles: her wig is much easier to obtain. You can probably obtain a curly gray wig online or at costume stores. For her ears, simply wear a cat ears headband over the wig (the headband can be easily hidden in the hair). If you want, you can put gray faux fur on the cat ears to make them look more like Grizabella. Alternately, if the wig is short, you can style it to resemble cat ears (this is done by twisting two bunches of hair and gelling them in place).
 Start by putting a light grayish foundation all over your face. Now add some blackish marks around your eyes to look like messed up mascara. (To get an idea of what this looks like, think about what mascara looks like when someone cries.) Then put on a bright red lipstick, and make blotches with a darker red to look like bloody, cracked lips. If you want, you can also smear the lipstick. After this is done, add some cat-like black and white markings. Also, make your nose black like a cat's nose and draw a thin line between your lips and your nose. Usually there will be two thin black lines extending from the outside corners of the lips to resemble a cat's mouth. However, don't add this if you can't get it to look right; it's not supposed to look like a smile (which can sometimes happen).

