 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the pound cake, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat. Next, lightly grease two 9-inch (23-cm) loaf pans with butter and dust with flour to prevent the cakes from sticking.You can use nonstick cooking spray to grease the pans if you prefer.
To flour the pan, sprinkle a couple of pinches of flour into the bottom of the pan. Shake and tap the pan to distribute the flour evenly across the entire interior surface of the pan. If all of the sides aren’t covered, add a little more flour and repeat the process. Dump out any excess flour before pouring the batter in.
You can use one bundt pan in place of the two loaf pans if you prefer.
 Add 3 cups (375 g) of all purpose flour, 2 teaspoons (10 g) of baking powder, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of salt, and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of nutmeg to a large bowl. Stir with a wooden spoon to thoroughly combine the ingredients, and set the bowl aside for the moment., Add 1 cup (225 g) of softened butter and 2 cups (450 g) of sugar to a large bowl. Use an electric hand mixer to blend the two together on low. Raise the speed to medium, and cream the mixture until it is light and creamy.You can use a stand mixer to make the batter if you prefer.
 Once the butter and sugar are combined, add 4 eggs one at a time to the batter with the mixer on low. Next, stir in 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla and mix until the ingredients are fully combined.You can substitute almond or rum extract for the vanilla if you prefer.
 When the eggs and vanilla are fully incorporated, alternate adding flour mixture and eggnog. Start with a small amount of the flour mixture and follow with a small amount of the eggnog until you’ve added all of both and the batter is smooth.Keep the hand mixer on low or medium low so you don’t make a mess as you’re mixing.
Make sure to mix the batter after each addition before adding more of the ingredients.
 Once the batter is fully mixed, carefully transfer it to the prepared pans. Use a spatula to smooth the batter into each pan in an even layer., Place the filled pans in the preheated oven. Allow them to bake for 50 to 55 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean.If you don’t have any toothpicks, you can use a fork to test the cakes for doneness.
 When the cakes are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Allow them to rest in the pans for 20 minutes, and then carefully turn them out onto a wire rack to cool completely, which should take another 20 to 30 minutes.If you like, you can add a glaze or icing to the cooled cake. The eggnog frosting recipe from above would work well with the pound cake.

