 Do you want the thrill of winning one big chunk, or would you rather win several smaller pots? Do you need to make a particular amount of money, or is simply playing for a while and coming out ahead enough? How high do the stakes need to be? Are you just looking to have fun in an exciting, social setting? Don't just gamble for no reason—decide before you start what you want to get out of it.
 If you want to have a chance of coming out ahead, you need to pick a game that offers you decent odds.

Avoid roulette, keno and slots. These games involve very little skill, and the house always has an enormous advantage.



 


Steer clear of newfangled table games. Virtually all of these are constructed to give the house a significant advantage, and learning the skill elements is more difficult.






Lottery tickets might tempt you with the potential of enormous jackpots, but your chances of winning are astronomically low.
 In craps players bet on the outcome of dice rolls, either against each other or against the house. By taking or laying odds on a number, you can lower the house edge. There is also a relatively new method for increasing your chance of winning called dice control. Controlled shooters hold the belief that they can control the outcome of their rolls by tossing the dice a certain way.
 Blackjack is one of the most basic casino games. You and the house each start with two cards, and then flip over random cards hoping their added value will get closest to 21 without going over. The key is knowing the odds that you will hit the desired sum and betting on those statistics conservatively. Some variations of blackjack can actually give the player the advantage (although this is rare).
 Poker is unique amongst casino games in that you play against the other players, not the house. There are many variations, but usually players bet on the strength of their cards as their hands develop over one or more iterations. More than just chance, it's a game of deception, as the best players learn to use the size of the bets to bluff when they have a bad hand, draw others into the pot when they have a good hand and read their opponents to know when to fold.
 It can be fun to put money on boxing matches, horse races or other sports, but the odds offered are designed to tempt you into betting on long shots. Long shots are bad beds by definition.

