 When people get depressed, they'll start pulling back from their friends and family. If you want the audience to think you're depressed, put a little more space between you and the other characters on the stage. If you seem like you don't want to hang out like you usually do, people will get the visual message.


Instead of standing on stage, sit on the floor, in the corner, and hug your knees. Bonus if you've got a hood to pull up on your sweatshirt., Instead of looking open and excited about what other people are saying, try a grimace. Look like you're trying to solve a complicated math problem at all times, when you're really just listening to people talk. You'll look depressed.


If it helps, try focusing really hard on something complicated or difficult. Try to remember all the lines to your favorite song in your mind to distract yourself. Make a concentrating face.
Don't over-do your frown, just furrow your brow and make a face like you're concentrating really hard on something, especially if people are laughing and joking. You shouldn't look like a sad clown, which will be over-the-top and fake looking. You don't want to look like you're acting.
 The right prop can do a lot to communicate that you're depressed. Try carrying around any of the following depressive signifiers:


Books like "Perks of Being a Wallflower," "The Bell Jar," or "Crime and Punishment," which are about depressives.
A cane, as if you expect to need help picking yourself up.
An old tattered umbrella, as if you expect it to rain at any moment.
A sad-looking tattered stuffed animal, as if you just need it.
 To get in the right mood for a performance, try listening to sadder, slower, and quieter music than you might normally be used to listening to. This will have the dual function of getting you in the mood to act sad, as well as clueing anyone who's listening in to the fact that you're "depressed." Try out the following acts:


Nick Drake
Elliot Smith
Dashboard Confessional
Nico
Joy Division
The XX
The Cure
Digital Daggers

, One of the quickest and most convincing ways to seem depressed is to stop laughing at things you would normally find funny. Instead, sigh heavily and look down at the ground. If you can't even be made to laugh like you usually did, you'll seem depressed.


It can be hard to stop yourself from laughing, so try to keep a go-to depressing thought in your mind if you feel you're about to laugh. Start thinking about polar bears dying or global warming.
Sometimes, gently pinching your cheek with your teeth, or snapping a rubber band on your wrist can offer a quick jolt of pain that will keep you from laughing, as well. Don't over-do it.

