 Wash the baby potatoes well to remove all dirt, then wipe them dry. If the potatoes are small, leave them whole. If they're larger, cut them in halves or quarters. Heat your oil in a deep fryer or shallow skillet over medium heat. Add the potatoes and fry until completely cooked.Test the potatoes for doneness by sticking a fork or knife through the center of a potato. It should easily slide through, offering no resistance.
 Take your soaked cashews and soaking water and blend them in a food processor until the cashews blend into a paste. Set this mixture aside., Place your onion, ginger, and garlic into a food processor and blend until the ingredients are completely smooth. Set this mixture aside for a moment., Blend your tomato in a food processor until it's completely smooth and pureed. Set the tomato puree aside for a moment., In a large skillet, heat 2 to 3 tablespoons of cooking or mustard oil over medium-high heat. When the oil is hot and shimmering, add the black cardamom and cinnamon stick. When it smells fragrant, add your onion-spice paste.
 Reduce the heat to medium and cook the onion-spice paste in your fragrant oil until it becomes golden brown and the oil starts separating on the surface. This should take 9 to 10 minutes.If you notice the onions turning brown very quickly or beginning to burn, reduce the heat even more and let it cook slower.
 Carefully stir in your tomato puree. Use caution as it may sputter a bit. Let the mixture keep cooking for another 3 to 4 minutes., Add the turmeric powder, coriander powder, red chili powder, garam masala powder, and fennel powder. Stir well and keep cooking over medium heat until the oil starts to separate or pull away from the sides of the skillet. This should take 10 to 12 minutes., Stir the cashew paste and optional yogurt until they're well combined. Keep cooking the mixture until the oil separates again, about 3 to 5 minutes., Add 2.5 to 3 cups of water to the mixture and stir well. This will keep the mixture from sticking to the bottom of the pan when you add your potatoes., Stir in your fried potatoes and let them simmer in the gravy mixture for 4 to 5 minutes. The mixture will begin to thicken up., If you didn't add yogurt earlier, stir in the lemon juice. Add the salt and stir to combine the mixture. Garnish with chopped cilantro/coriander leaves and serve with rotis or rice.