 A pair of slacks is great, especially if they match your suit jacket. Chinos are also acceptable, but a two-piece suit is preferable, so try to have your slacks match your jacket.A dark color, like a blue, grey, or black, is probably your best bet as it looks flattering on everyone and makes you seem more professional.


No jeans. Jeans, however tailored or designed, are not suitable for a job interview. Do not wear them, because the company that is interested in hiring you will not take you seriously and think that you aren't interested.
No loud prints. Stick with simple patterns.
Make sure your pants are tailored. You want them to be form-fitting without being revealing. No overly baggy pants allowed.;
, Because the norm is a matching two-piece, you want to try to complement your pants with your suit jacket. If you can find a matching two-piece, that will leave the best impression.


Again, dark colors and simple patterns are the norm here. A tailored suit jacket to go along with your tailored pants is what you're after.
A blue blazer is acceptable in most cases if you cannot find a suit jacket to match your pants.
 You don't want to look too flashy with a brightly colored shirt, and striped (and especially patterned) shirts are a little less formal. A starched white or blue shirt is perfectly acceptable, even if it seems a little bit plain.


Wear long-sleeve shirts, even in summer. It may be a bit uncomfortable, but long-sleeve is what's expected in a traditional workplace.
A straight collar is also more formal than a button down, but button downs will work in a pinch. Choose one with a medium spread. If you have a particularly large neck, a wider collar may look better.
 Stick to solids, diagonal stripes, or small patterned ties. A red tie may give a friendly politician look, while a blue tie may give a more serious FBI agent look. Both are acceptable.
 Most ties will look great with a dark-colored suit, so don't worry too much about it.

Stay away from neons and pastels.
Bow ties are not acceptable for formal interview attire. Always stick with a regular neck tie.
 It’s redundant. If you're a suspenders kind of guy, get buttons sewed into your trousers and wear suspenders that button on, not the cheap clip-on kind.
 Your shoes and socks may not be the focal point of your outfit, but they're important nonetheless. Choose dark, polished shoes, black or brown, stringed or loafers and dark socks or match them to either your shoes, pants, dress shirt or tie. Make sure they are knee length, as you don't want any skin to show when you sit down and your pants ride up. Also pay attention to their texture, they should be dress socks, not sport socks.


A pair of black oxfords or cap-toed oxfords is a good choice of footwear. Get ones that don't have super thick soles so they won’t look like boots. Boat shoes are not acceptable for business formal.
 In fact, cologne is not necessary if you shower and smell good as it is. Having no smell at all is preferable to having an off-putting smell. If you feel like you absolutely need to spray on the cologne, keep it light and cap it at one or two sprays at most.

