 You might see a lot of people around Paris wearing black, navy or grey, and with good reason - those colors tend to be slimming and flattering on most people. Consider adding the following pieces to your wardrobe:


Knee-length pencil or A-line skirts. Mini skirts or super-long skirts are more difficult to pull off, and might not look as Parisian. Wear dark colors in the winter, and consider light colors or delicate floral prints for summer.
Slender or skinny-cut trousers in dark colors. They can be cropped or full-length.
A dark-wash skinny jean with no visible rips or tears.
Crisp blouses in neutral colors such as white, beige, cream, navy, grey, or black. Make sure they fit you well and don't sag around the waist.
A "little black dress" for formal occasions. It doesn't necessarily have to be black (though it should be in a darker, more slimming color). The hemline should fall somewhere between mid-calf and mid-thigh.





;
, Flats, riding boots,thin sandals, and pumps are all appropriate Parisian shoes. Avoid trainers, flip-flops, or heavy boots (such as Uggs).


If you're going to do a lot of walking (or your balance in heels just isn't great), stick to flats or boots. They are cute and you can wear them anywhere

, Trench coats, pea coats, feminine leather jackets, and cropped or fitted blazers all look chic without being fussy. Avoid sweatshirts or anything with a loud label.
 They go with skirts and pants, and they are light enough to wear in spring and summer.


Tie-front cardigans are okay, just make sure you wear a white or differently-colored camisole beneath them.
 Don't wear too much jewelry. Remember: wear pearls during the day and diamonds at night (real or fake). You can also wear a scarf, a cute headband, large sunglasses, or a sophisticated handbag.
 Parisian women aspire to look fresh-faced and healthy, but not overly made-up. Try sticking to powder foundation, a light dusting of blush, undereye concealer, and one coat of mascara on the upper lashes.
 Dress with confidence, and carry yourself proudly. Try to greet the world with a sense of politeness and calm.

