 Laughter is contagious, thanks to mirroring.As you watch and listen to others laughing, your mirror neurons start to exit in a way that helps you understand the emotional experience of those laughing. This then primes you to begin laughing yourself. Laughing becomes even easier as others catch on and the joke becomes even more amusing.


In fact, mirroring can be so powerful, there doesn't even need to be a joke to stimulate it. You might try watching videos or listening to recordings of babies laughing for no apparent reason. You might notice you begin to smile.;
, Watching funny shows, movies and clips are a great way to induce laughing, but they lose efficacy with repeated exposure. After a few viewings, you may notice, while you still acknowledge the humor, you no longer laugh out loud. You can rejuvenate the video by showing it to someone else. Your anticipation of others' laughter will make you laugh.


You will find that rather than watching the clip, you probably actually watching the person you are showing it to. The anticipated reaction of the viewer now becomes the source of laughter, rather than the video itself.
Free video sharing sites, like YouTube, are a convenient resource for funny clips., Memorize several jokes, so you are prepared to make others laugh at any time. Different types of humor will appeal to different individuals, so memorize a variety to ensure you are prepared to make others laugh in any situation.


Comic strips and joke books are good resources for finding jokes in a variety of styles. You can also find plenty of jokes online., Considering dressing up in costume or doing something outrageous in your photos. You'll likely find posing for the photos as funny as the photos themselves.


If you aren't in the mood for a photo shoot, use an app or photo editing software to alter old photos to be funny.
 People tend to find humor in the unexpected.You can capitalize on this by taking something others are familiar with, like a popular song, and changing it slightly to create surprise. Find the lyrics to song and try replacing a few key words. They next time you hear the song with your friends, you can sing along with your version.


You can find examples of music video parodies on YouTube and other video sharing sites.

