 Though they may develop in the course of a few days, some symptoms of Lyme disease may take months to develop. Severe headaches, stiffness in your neck, or arthritis-like pain in your joints may indicate an untreated infection. See a doctor immediately if you're experiencing any persistent stiffness, particularly in your knees, shoulders, elbows, or ankles.Muscle, bone, joint, and tendon pain from a Lyme disease infection may be intermittent.
Numbness, or tingling in the hands and feet are also cause for concern.
 Bell’s palsy is a condition in which the muscles on your face lose definition or begin to droop, and may be caused by Lyme disease. In fact, any issues with your facial muscles may indicate a Lyme disease infection. If any part of your face becomes weaker, or it seems as though you’ve lost control of muscles on any part of your face, see a doctor as soon as possible., Lyme carditis is a rare condition that occurs as a symptom of Lyme disease and affects the regularity of your heart beat. Watch out for heart palpitations or any irregularity in your heart beat, including sudden, drastic changes in heart rate. Dizziness and shortness of breath may also indicate Lyme carditis.See a doctor as soon as possible if you're experiencing any of these symptoms.
Note that these and many other symptoms related to a Lyme disease infection may come and go, or even disappear without treatment. The infection, however, may still be present, and will require treatment to prevent any further health complications.
 The important neurological issues to watch out for include numbness, cognitive problems, and shooting pains. These may indicate inflammation of the brain or spinal cord, and need to be addressed immediately.Shooting pains in any part of your body that occur at night are a readily recognizable sign of neurological issues.
Numbness or tingling sensations in your extremities may also indicate potential neurological issues caused by Lyme disease.
Any cognitive issues you notice, even simply changes in your short-term memory, may also indicate neurological complications.
 If initial symptoms are mild, you may not notice a Lyme disease infection for years. Weakness, especially weakness associated with severe fatigue is a cause for concern, as is any partial or complete loss of short-term memory. Further, if any of the following symptoms also occur, especially in combination, you should see a doctor immediately:Heightened sensitivity to light or sound.
A noticeable loss of appetite.
Pain that moves around your body, or pain behind your eyes.
Any loss of feeling or recurring numbness in the extremities.
Trouble swallowing.
Depression or seizures.
Hepatitis of other liver complications.

