 Lunges are a great bodyweight exercise for fat-burning and strength training. To perform a basic lunge, step forward and bend your leg until both knees are at 90 degree angles. One leg will be in front of you, the other behind you. Step your front foot back to the original standing position. Then repeat the same movement with the other leg.









Your knee should always be directly over your foot, and never extending beyond it. This can lead to injury.
You can modify the exercise to emphasize different movements and muscles. Try a reverse lunge, side lunges, curtsy lunges, or even walking lunges.
 Squats are an effective lower body exercise that almost anyone at any fitness level can do. They are also easily done no matter where you are. To squat, start with your feet hip-width apart. As you lower your body, make sure you push your hips back as you bend your knees. Keep your chest lifted. Your weight should be in your heels. Squat down as far as you can, preferably until your lower body is parallel with the floor. Hold for a moment, then slowly stand back up.









Lift your arms as you squat to help keep your balance.
Avoid letting your knees go forward over your toes. This may lead to injury.
If you are not very flexible through the hip and pelvic area, you may not be able to go down as far as others. This is okay. Focus on form and work on improving your flexibility as you perform squats.
You can add dumbbells to make squats harder, try plie squats, or try one-legged squats. You can also try split squats by holding one leg out in front of you and balancing on your other leg then lowering the body down to a seated or nearly seated position.
 Calf raises strengthen your calf and lower legs. You can do this on the floor or place a board or mat under your feet that adds two to three inches. Place the balls of your feet on the additional lift if you are using one. Your heels should be flat on the floor. Slowly raise your heels off the ground. Then, slowly lower back down.Try single leg calf raises to really increase the work of the calf muscles. Lift one foot behind you and lift the heel of your other leg.
 Step ups are an exercise in which you step up onto a box, step, or bench. Start on the floor, then lift your right foot onto the bench. Make sure the foot is fully and securely on the bench. Then, place your weight in your heel as you lift your body and left leg onto the bench. Then, lower the left foot back to the floor, then your right foot. Repeat the movement again, starting with the left leg.To modify, you can make the platform shorter or taller.

