 They’re sold at most pharmacies and beauty supply stores, and there are a ton of different brands and styles on the market. If your goal is to make them look natural, you want to avoid the dramatically long, the unnaturally spiky, and the outrageously full ones. If you want them to look real, bigger is not necessarily better. Choose a pair that look like your dream natural eyelashes.


If you can’t find any that look natural in the store, check online. You will endless options if you order online, and you can also read reviews from others who have tried particular brands or styles.;
, For most people, your false eyelashes won’t be ready to go right out of the box. First, you’ll need to trim them so that they fit your own, unique eye perfectly. Before applying any glue to them, hold them up to your eyelid and determine how much you’ll need to trim off the end. Use small scissors to carefully cut the lashes. The finished lash strip should be the same length as your natural lashes.If you skip this step, the extra length will rub against your skin as you blink and cause the eyelashes to come loose. Not to mention they won’t look very natural!

, There is a bit of a debate about which eyelash glue is best, so you can weigh your options. Some pairs of eyelashes come with glue, but often you’ll need to buy your own. Eyelash glue is sold at pharmacies and beauty supply stores in small tubes that you can use for many applications.


The most common type of eyelash glue comes out of the tube white and then dries clear. If you’re skilled at applying false eyelashes, you can apply them carefully and avoid any clumps of glue showing.
You can also purchase black eyelash glue. This works well if you line your lash line with dark eyeliner before applying your lashes, because any black glue will blend into it.
 Using dark brown or black eyeliner, line the entire length of your lash line. This helps your false eyelashes look more natural by giving the illusion of thick, full roots. The eyeliner will create a base for your false lashes and help them to blend into your natural ones., Read the instructions on whichever lash glue you are using to make sure you are applying it properly. For most lash glues, you will apply it evenly along the strip of eyelashes and then wait for about a minute while the glue becomes tacky. Once the glue has thickened up on the lash, it is time to apply it to your lid., Once the glue is tacky, carefully hold your lashes by the tips and line up the strip with your natural lash line, starting at the outer corner. Gently press the strip down, curving the band along the natural curve of your eyelid. Once you’ve pressed the entire strip down, double check to make sure that they’re lined up properly.
 Once you’ve confirmed that your lashes are in the right place, press down on the glued strip with more pressure so that the glue dries securely. As you’re pressing down, pinch your false lashes and natural lashes together. This will help to ensure that your false lashes dry in the correct position, lined up with your natural lashes.








Let the glue dry for a couple of minutes before you move on to the next steps.
 Once the eyelash glue is completely dry, grab an eyelash curler. You’ll want to curl your false lashes and your natural lashes together so that they look most natural. Gently insert all of your lashes through the curler, and press down on your lashes firmly at the base. Hold for a couple of seconds, and release.
 This is the final step to make sure your eyelashes are blended together. By applying mascara to your false and natural lashes at the same time, they will bind together with the makeup. You can help to darken up your natural lashes and give them a little bit more volume and length to camouflage them into your false lashes.








If you want your eyelashes to look light and natural, use only one coat of mascara.

