 Getting the caravan in proportion is important, and it's easy to make the floor too narrow. Test this with a few bits of paper to make sure it's how you want it. Very thick cardboard is good for this like cardboard from a ring binder folder. Be extremely careful not to amputate any fingers when cutting this. It does take a bit of time because you need a decent sharp Stanley knife. Scissors are not ideal because they will bend or crease this thick cardboard, or the scissors may even break.
 Follow the shape as closely as possible. When it's done, allow the glue to set, and then sandpaper off any excess so you've got a smooth shape (like it was before you added the balsa wood.
 These are easy, as it's just straight edges with holes for the windows. This can be just done with cereal box cardboard for now.
 Allow the glue to set well before attempting to stick the ends on. And make sure the sides are aligned correctly before gluing the ends on, or the caravan might look like a crooked house or an insurance write off.
 Now you have a choice. Do you want this caravan to have an interior or not. If you have the time and inclination, go for it. If not, it will look fine anyway, but you need to make some curtains. If you're going for an interior, plan it now. Definitely don't wait until you've stuck the roof on.
 Glue this in and you're ready to start putting in the roof beams. These are the same size and length as the two you've just glued in at the top of either end. (parallel to the ends). 5 is a good amount. Distribute them evenly spaced apart all along the length of the roof. After this is done, you can cut sections of cardboard to use as the roof. If you want authenticity, and have a steady enough hand to cut very narrow strips of cardboard trim, do it. Also, this trim is good for covering up the joins in different sections of cardboard used to make the roof.
 This saves getting dust or paint on them. It's slightly tricky to fix curtains in position once the roof is on, but if you've got this far, you'll manage.
 For strength, it can be made to run far enough under the caravan so the suspension can attach to it, but it isn't essential.
 Make a mould of one, using plastic padding car body filler, and then use glass fibre resin. Pour into the mould. The only problem with this is that it's hard to stop the resin from sticking so well to the mould that it breaks when you try to separate them. Use Copydex glue, painted into the mould, as this helps to get the wheel out afterwards.
 Once it's properly dried, and if you want a nice smooth finish, lightly rub it down with some fine (1000 or 1200 grade) wet and dry sandpaper.
 Putting on the top coat. Take care to get rid of all the dust before you do this, or it will show through the paint and spoil the finish.
 To make them look like they have frames, cut thin strips of masking tape, and stick this around the outside edges of the plastic. You will need to do this on the inside as well as the outside because the glue holds them in better if there is masking tape on the inside where it fixes to the walls of the caravan. You can paint the masking tape with aluminum coloured Humbrol paint.
 The quickest and easiest way is a single phone card with a piece of coat hanger wire attached. Put a slight bend in the phone card. A cigarette lighter works well for this, but you may have to experiment with a few until you get it right. Make two holes in one end of the card, attach the axle to the other. Fit the wheels. Fix them on (and to stop them coming off) using small strips of electrical wire insulation. You can expand this so it fits properly by sliding it over a wooden cocktail stick. A brief bit of heat from a lighter helps it to stay the size you need it to be. Once the wheels are on and you're happy that they're in the right position, you can put a tiny bit of glue on to hold them, but this is optional.
 When the wheels are lined up with the wheel arches, mark the position, and then glue it on. To give it some extra strength, you could glue a layer of cereal box cardboard over this to hold it. You could use very short self tapping screws to hold this on.

