 Payday loans are a way to get quick money without good credit. You can use payday loans to cover unexpected expenses until your next paycheck. However, the interest rates are high on these types of loans. The interest rate will depend on what state you are getting the loan in.The interest rates at Check Into Cash will vary from 260.71% to 782.14% on a 14-day loan. For example, in Utah, the interest rate on a $300 payday loan is $75. In Illinois, the interest rate on a $300 payday loan is $46.50.
You can use the online interest rate estimator tool on the Check Into Cash website to find out the rate in your state.
 Fill out the application on the Check Into Cash website. To apply you will need to have the following:Proof of a checking account open for at least 90 days. You will need to provide your bank account number so Check Into Cash can automatically deposit and deduct cash from your account.
Proof of 21 years of age, such as a Driver’s License
Proof of US Citizenship, such as a passport or a permanent residency card
Proof of a current phone number and address, such as your rent agreement or mail with your address and phone number on it
Proof of employment, such as a recent paycheck from your employer
Check Into Cash might also contact your employer to verify employment.
 If you’d prefer to apply for the payday loan in person, find a Check In Cash location near you. Bring all the required supporting documents and fill out the loan application. There is no application fee for this loan.You can apply for payday loans that range from $100-$1000, depending on your need. Maximum loan amounts are determined by state rules.
Going in person to apply can also allow you to ask the Check In Cash associate about the interest rate for the payday loan in more detail.
 Payday loan applications submitted online should be processed within a business day and the money will be deposited in your account immediately. In person applications will be processed instantly. You can use Western Union to process the loan money and deposit it into your account.You can receive an online payday loan in Alabama, Alaska, California, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.
 When you receive the payday loan, you will need to agree to a set date when the loan amount plus interest rate fee will be automatically deducted from your bank account. Make sure you have enough money in your bank account during this time so the loan can be repaid.If you do not have enough funds, you may be charged additional fees. Failure to repay the loan on time can also hurt your credit.

