 Yes, many guys do enjoy a good meal, love watching sports, and think about sex almost constantly. But, you aren’t trying to make “many guys” happy — you want to make your boyfriend happy. Showing that you know his particular wants and needs is perhaps the best way into a man’s heart.


The advice in this section may be applicable to your boyfriend, or it may not be. Take it with a grain of salt, and rely on your best judgment.
 Your boyfriend may be more than content to hang around with you while you’re in sweats, but deep down he probably wants to see you make the effort to get “fancied up” for him at least sometimes. At very least, keeping up with basic hygiene and showing that you care about how you present yourself to the world will probably make him happier.Yes, there is a superficial element to it, but your boyfriend almost certainly chose to be with you in part because he was attracted to your looks, and he wants to continue to be attracted to them. The longer you’re together, his love for you as a whole person will make your appearance on the outside beautiful to him no matter what. But, the fact that you’re putting in the effort to be attractive can show that you care about both yourself and him.
 This might be the ideal Sunday afternoon for many guys. If your boyfriend likes food and football, indulge him at least sometimes. Maybe he wants you to watch the game with him, or maybe he’d rather just watch it with his friends. Use your knowledge of him to decide what’s best.


Of course, maybe your guy hates sports and is on a strict diet. As mentioned, this isn’t “one size fits all” advice. However, the larger principle — giving your boyfriend what makes him happy sometimes, even if it is a bit annoying for you — remains true for most any type of guy.
All relationships require some sacrifices and compromises. Sometimes you have to let him have things his way, in spite of your instincts. Of course, you deserve to expect the same from him as well., Yes, we’re talking about intimate relations here. Most guys think about sex a lot, and want it a lot. Odds are, no matter how much (or how often) you give, he’ll want more. While you should never feel obligated to do anything you’re not ready for, satisfying his wants at whatever level of intimacy you are at is part of making him happy.Many guys have an amazing capacity to ignore tiredness, stress, or a whole host of other obstacles or problems when there’s an opportunity for some romantic action. Your boyfriend may well be “in the mood” far more often than you are. Try to meet him in the middle.
Of course, no matter how long you’ve been together, no matter what you’ve done or not done, you always have the right to say no. If he can’t accept that, get a new boyfriend.

