 As an adult, you should visit an eye doctor every couple of years to ensure good eye health. If you don't already see an eye doctor, ask your family doctor for a referral, or ask friends and family for recommendations. If you experience conditions like vision loss, pain, or irritation, make an appointment immediately; many eye conditions are treatable if addressed early. Eye doctors will test for disease and measure your visual acuity; they may give you a prescription for eyeglasses or contact lenses, or recommend corrective eye surgery depending on the condition of your eyesight., Whether you use artificial tears to relieve dry eyes or medicated drops prescribed by an eye doctor, eye drops are an important part of treating and protecting your vision. While many people have trouble inserting eye drops, it is important to know how to do it properly to ensure that your eyes receive the necessary care. To correctly put in eye drops:Wash your hands and remove contact lenses, if necessary.
Lie down or tilt your head back and keep your eye open, concentrating on a spot on the ceiling.
Place your finger about an inch under your eye and pull downwards, creating a small pocket under your eyeball.
Use your free hand to hold the eyedrop bottle (or eyedropper) downwards over the pocket above your lower eyelid.
Squeeze the bottle or eyedropper lightly to insert one drop.
Remove your hand from your face, gently close your eye, and wait for the drop to be absorbed.
 Diet is an important part of staying healthy, and eye health is no exception. Try to eat foods containing vitamins C and E, omega-3 fatty acids, zinc, zeaxanthin, and lutein to promote vision health. Foods rich in these nutrients include:spinach
kale
grapefruit
strawberries
brussel sprouts
oranges
almonds
sunflower seeds

, Your eye health is greatly affected by whether or not you get enough sleep. In the short term, fatigue can cause eye strain, dry eyes, eye spasms, and blurred vision. In the long-term, lack of sleep can lead to damage to the optic nerve, which can cause pain and impaired vision.To prevent these issues, improve your sleep by:


going to sleep and getting up at the same time every day
getting outside more during the day
exercising regularly during daytime hours
limiting caffeine and nicotine

