 Consider taking a comfortable vehicle and a professional chauffeur who can escort you around the enormous city of San José. Limo drivers of any good reliable San Francisco limo service know all the landmarks and the routes of San Jose and they can guide you throughout your journey.;
,, Usually limo rental companies have their itinerary well drafted but it is up to you to decide whether you want to follow their standard itinerary or chalk out your own schedule.
 Check out the oldest municipal park in California called the Alum Rock Park and indulge in bicycling, horseback riding etc.
 The best place for kids include the Happy Hollow Park and Zoo, which are located inside the vast Kelley Park. In the Zoo, kids can have a look at some of the rare and endangered species ranging from lemurs, Parma wallabies to Jaguar. The amusement area of the park offers various attractions for kids such as maze play area, house of mirrors etc.
 Enjoy rides in spine tickling roller coasters such as The Demon, Flight Deck, Invertigo and other attractions such as Carousel Columbia, Action Theater, Rue Le Dodge, Thunder Raceway and lots more.
 If you are a history buff, visit the amazing Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum which is home to some of the most fascinating Egyptian artifacts from the pre-dynastic times. The architecture of the museum which is inspired by the Temple of Amon at Karnak would definitely leave you awe-struck.
 Have a picnic here or soothe your senses by checking out the fragrance garden which has a number of aromatic plants.
 Around 189 varieties of beautiful roses here would surely bring a smile to your face.
 You can find live music, cultural festivals, art fairs, food shows, and open-air theater - pay an evening visit to the Plaza de César Chávez located in Downtown San José.
 These can be found at reasonable prices in the largest open air San Jose Flea Market.
 San José has something for ardent Beethoven fans too. Check out the Ira F. Brilliant Center for Beethoven Studies which serves as a museum as well as a research centre. Here you can find magnificent and the largest collection of Beethoven works outside Europe.
 Enjoy the performances, drink beer and gorge on the mouth watering delicacies served here.
 There is something for the wine enthusiasts too. Have a wine tasting session at some of the local wineries such as J. Lohr Vineyards & Wines, Savannah-Chanelle Vineyards, Thomas Kruse Winery etc.
 When visiting San José, take a respite from harried life and enjoy an evening of relaxation in a laid back environment in some of the amazing spas here. Unwind with a relaxing, luxurious massages, steam baths etc. at some of the popular spas here.

