 Some dog breeds are more prone to the cold than others, while some breeds are adapted extremely well to the cold. Dogs that do not do well in the cold should not be outdoor dogs. However, even dogs that do well in the cold need warmth and shelter to thrive as outdoor dogs.


Dogs that are great in the cold include Alaskan Malamutes, Siberian Huskies and Chow Chows.Dogs that find it harder include Dobermans, toy dogs, low hair or hairless dogs, and Greyhounds. Any shaven or excessively clipped dog will fall into this category as well because the thick winter coat is a dog's insulation.
 It is optimal if your dog can remain indoors throughout winter, going outside for exercising and answering nature's call only. This will ensure that your dog doesn't get cold while you're out or asleep. Young puppies should not be left outside as they don't have the ability of older dogs to keep themselves warm outside.


If you have an outside dog (such as a sled dog), ensure that it has access to a shelter and bedding inside the shelter. Fresh straw provides a suitable layer of insulation against the cold of the ground for an outside shelter.Be sure to change it regularly though.
An outdoor dog shelter should have a sloped roof, insulation and heating, especially for very cold climate locations.For rainy winters, ensure that the entrance way is protected so that rain cannot get into the shelter.
 In an outdoor kennel situation, consider creating a false floor that is lifted 4 - 6 inches off the ground. Place insulating material such as straw or bubble wrap in this gap, to prevent cold radiating up from the ground. You can also use this gap by placing a hot water bottle beneath it to give under floor heating on a particularly cold day.


On top of the false floor, ensure the dog has plenty of warm bedding. Whilst blankets are good, make sure the dog has deep straw on top of the platform. Provide a minimum of 6 inches of compacted straw, but consider banking it up around the walls, and providing extra loose straw so that the dog can circle around and create a nest to snuggle down into. This will help keep the heat in around the dog's limbs and also reduce drafts.
Remember, if it's not warm enough for you to spend the night in, then the kennel isn't warm enough for your dog.
 The wind chill factor significantly magnifies the intensity of the cold. Always make sure outside dogs are completely protected from the wind. If they are kenneled, perhaps add porch onto the entrance so that wind into the kennel is reduced, Work out which way the prevailing wind tends to blow, and then face the entrance in the opposite direction. This also gives you the opportunity to put insulation around the kennel, especially on the side the prevailing wind strikes, in order to reduce heat loss. To get an idea of the wind chill factor you can look online for relevant meteorological websites sites., Remember the more layers of insulation you add, the cozier the kennel will be. Consider covering the kennel with an old duvet and then throwing a tarpaulin over that, to help beef up the protection.
 Wet and cold are far more dangerous than dry cold. Also check the bedding is warm and dry. A dog lying on soiled bedding will quickly develop sores and infected patches of skin.

