 You'll need 2 cups (650 g) of prepared mashed potatoes. You'll have an easier time rolling out the gnocchi dough if the mashed potatoes are at room temperature. You should also run the mashed potatoes through a strainer if they seem lumpy.Avoid using mashed potatoes that have bits of the potato peel in them.
You can use garlic mashed potatoes for a slightly flavored potato gnocchi.;
, Clear a large space on your counter to combine the dough. You'll also roll out the dough on this space, so it should be large enough to comfortably make the gnocchi. Put 1/2 cup (62 g) of the flour onto the counter. You can spread the flour out to about a 12-inch (30.5 cm) circle.You can use plain or all-purpose flour for the potato gnocchi.
 Scoop the mashed potatoes directly onto the flour circle. You don't need to mix the flour and mashed potatoes at this point. Instead, scoop a little well in the center of the mashed potatoes so you can add the beaten egg.Don't worry if your work space gets a little messy or if the mashed potatoes fall over the flour. You'll soon be mixing the dough.
 Beat one egg in a small bowl with a whisk or fork. Pour the beaten egg into the mashed potato well and sprinkle it with 3/4 teaspoon of salt. Sprinkle the remaining 1/2 cup (62 g) of flour over the beaten egg.You may need additional flour when you roll out the dough, so keep your flour out.
 Use your hands to mix the flour, mashed potatoes, eggs, and salt together. Knead the dough so that it comes together. It should take you a few minutes to get the dough to come together into a ball. Sprinkle a little extra flour if the dough is too sticky to handle.If you don't want to use your hands for this step, you could use a bench scraper to mix it together.
 Use your hands to form the dough into a circle. Use the bench scraper or a sharp knife to cut the circle into four even pieces. If the dough is still sticky, you can dip the bench scraper or knife in flour in between cutting the slices. This will keep the dough from sticking to the blade.Dividing the dough will make it easier to roll out the gnocchi.
 Take one piece of the dough and roll it into a ball. Roll the ball into a log by rubbing your palms back and forth against the ball. The dough will roll into a long cylinder. Keep rolling the cylinder until it's about 3/4-inch (1.9 cm) in diameter. Repeat this for each piece of dough so you have four cylinders.Keep in mind that you'll need to move your palms along the cylinder so that it's even.
 Use your bench scraper or sharp knife to carefully cut each cylinder into pieces. The pieces should measure 3/4-inch (1.9) so that the gnocchi will be bite sized. Do this for each cylinder of dough.If you choose to adjust the size of the gnocchi, keep in mind that the recommended cooking time may be different.
 For the simplest shaping technique, just press the center of each piece with your thumb. This will make a basic indentation on each gnocchi. For another shaping method, you could roll each piece across the tines of a fork. This will give your gnocchi distinctive lines.Shaping the gnocchi will help the smooth gnocchi hold sauce.
 If you want to store the gnocchi for later, individually quick freeze the gnocchi. Sprinkle flour on a rimmed baking sheet and set the gnocchi on it. Place the sheet in the freezer and freeze them until they're completely hard. Remove the sheet and transfer the frozen gnocchi to a freezer-safe container.


You can freeze the gnocchi for up to one month. Don't bother defrosting the gnocchi when you're ready to cook them., Heat a five-quart pot of salted water on high. When the water boils, carefully add the potato gnocchi and stir them. Let the gnocchi boil until they're cooked. This should take about two minutes. Drain the gnocchi.The potato gnocchi will float when they're completely cooked.
If you're cooking frozen gnocchi, you may need to boil them for an extra minute.
 Potato gnocchi can be served simply with a little melted butter, salt, and pepper. Or heat your favorite marinara sauce to pour over the cooked potato gnocchi. You could also serve the gnocchi with:Creamy white sauce
Melted cheese and garlic
Fresh mozzarella and fresh basil

