 Simply use some kitchen twine to tie the veal shanks up across the width. The goal is to bind the meat to the bone in the center, which will keep it intact for a full shank per person. Cut the twine off right before serving., This french technique isn't as difficult as it seems. To make one, simply combine the following herbs in a loose-leaf tea bag, tied up cheesecloth, or muslin bag. Tie the bag up tightly and dunk it into the liquid as it cooks, then remove it once the veal comes out of the oven. This allows you to get all of the herbal flavors without the strands of loose herbs and greens in the sauce., This simple parsley-based topping will be served with just about any restaurant osso buco you can find,and you can whip it up quickly and easily at home for a fresh green condiment. To make gremolata:

Peel an entire lemon.
Mince the peels into small pieces
Finely mince three cloves of fresh garlic
Chop 1/4 cup fresh parsley.
Combine garlic, lemon peel, and parsley. Chill for 30 minutes and use., Deglazing is the wine you pour right after the tomato paste, helping you scrape up the flavorful brown bits on the bottom of the pan to make your veal sauce. Depending on your tastes, you can use a variety of liquids, and which one you use will affect the final flavor:


White wine tends to be lighter and crisper, frequently with citrus tones.

Red wine tends to have a deeper, more savory flavor, lending more richness to the dish
Smell a wine before adding it -- the flavors and scents you pick up will subtly influence the final dish.
 This step is definitely optional, but will take your osso buco to the next level. Once the dish leaves the oven, let it cool slowly to room temperature. When done, remove the shanks and strain the liquid through a fine mesh strainer, saving the vegetables for later. You can then bring the sauce to a boil quickly, reducing the heat after it boils and simmering for 10-15 minutes. As it does, use a skimmer or spoon to remove any foam or grease from the surface. After the sauce has thickened, add the veggies and veal back in and warm together before serving.