 While the Wall itself is open 24/7, if you want to avoid large crowds, the best time to visit the Western Wall is on a weekday, either earlier in the morning or later at night, and also on days that are not major Jewish/Israeli holidays. In addition, keep in mind that the Wall will be more crowded than usual on Monday and Thursday mornings for Bar Mitzvah reading celebrations which are frequent, as well as Friday nights and Saturdays which is the Jewish Sabbath.


You will also find the Wall virtually deserted during periods of inclement weather, such as heavy rain or snow. While it may be uncomfortable being outside at these times, it can also be a blessing for the undeterred tourist as there will be few people about, and you will have greater privacy if desired.;
, While there is no official dress code, remember that you are visiting a religious site, so your clothes should be generally modest in nature at the very least. All men should wear a yarmulke (kippa) head covering at the Wall, and women should wear a headscarf if possible. These articles are typically available to borrow at the entrance for those without.
 The Dung Gate can be accessed by car, bus, or foot and is the most practical way to get to the Wall. Some other methods are as follows:


Buses #1, #3, and #38 have stops near the entrance to the Wall.
Take a taxi to the Dung Gate.
Car parking is available for an hourly rate at the Old City entrance near Jaffa Gate, then walk to the Dung Gate.
 This is simply to ensure your safety, and should only take a few minutes with your full compliance.
 This area is typically filled with tourists and worshipers alike, and is a great place to take dramatic photos looking toward the Wall.
 Here, you can say a prayer, contemplate, or simply admire the massive ancient stonework.
 This step is optional, but it is a time-honored tradition to place a note with a prayer or personal message into the Wall, and many famous people and foreign dignitaries have done this themselves.
 You can then feel free to spend time taking pictures, sitting in one of the plastic chairs to watch the crowds, etc.

