 Drinking water serves a two-fold purpose in a liver cleanse. Consuming adequate amounts of water each day will naturally help flush toxins out of your body, which will aid your liver.Drinking water also becomes important if you're using a detox drink that causes you to have more frequent bowel movements.


Any time your body loses more fluids than it takes in, you run the risk of becoming dehydrated. This is particularly common during bouts of diarrhea or vomiting.Typical signs of dehydration include thirst, infrequent urination, dark-colored urine, dry skin, fatigue/dizziness, and light-headedness.
If you experience diarrhea, your body also loses electrolytes. Electrolytes are the minerals like sodium, potassium, and chloride that your body needs in order to continue functioning properly.Water is the best beverage to stay hydrated, but it will not replenish lost electrolytes. Try drinking a little fruit juice in addition to water, or adding sliced lemons, limes, or cucumbers to your water to ensure you do not lose electrolytes.Any detox drink that causes severe bouts of diarrhea or vomiting should be discontinued.
 Not all liver cleanse plans involves a detox drink, but many do. The ingredients will vary, depending on the plan you've chosen. Two common liver cleanses are the Five Day Liver Detox and the Dr. Clark Liver Cleanse.


For the Five Day Liver Cleanse, mix eight ounces of fresh citrus juice, eight ounces of spring water, one lemon, one clove of garlic, one teaspoon of olive oil, and a one-inch piece of ginger in a blender. Some versions of this cleanse recommend adding an additional garlic clove and an additional teaspoon of olive oil each day of the cleanse.As the name suggests, the Five Day Liver Cleanse takes five days to complete, and this cleanse drink should be prepared and consumed for five consecutive days.
For the Dr. Clark Liver Cleanse, you'll dissolve four tablespoons of epsom salt into three cups of water and measure out four 3/4 cup servings, and drink one serving every two hours. At 9:45 pm blend and drink a half cup (120 ml) of olive oil, one large or two small pink grapefruits freshly juiced, one dose of ornithine, and 10 to 20 drops of black walnut tincture.Unlike the Five Day Liver Cleanse, the Dr. Clark Liver Cleanse can be completed in a single day.
If you're following the Dr. Clark Liver Cleanse, you should not eat or drink anything but the detox drink and epsom salt water portions after 2:00 PM. You will also avoid eating anything that contains fat the day of the cleanse.Again, speak with a doctor of pharmacist about any current medications (including supplements) to make sure they don't interact with grapefruit.
 Many liver cleanses advise that you avoid taking unnecessary vitamins or medicines before and/or during the cleanse, though it goes without saying that you should continue to take all prescription medications as usual. The biggest change will be to your regular diet, before and/or throughout the course of the cleanse.


Some cleanse plans advise eating a no-fat breakfast and lunch, like oatmeal, fruit, fruit juice, or bread with honey. Others advise eating no fat whatsoever during the day of the cleanse, though this may not be manageable for multi-day cleanses. Depending on the plan you're following, you may also have restrictions on what times of day you can eat.Avoid processed foods, high-fat foods, and high-sugar foods, both during the cleanse and as part of your regular day-to-day diet to help keep your body healthy.Drinking lemon water is often considered a low-stress way to help cleanse your body, especially during the course of a liver cleanse.Garlic is thought to help rid the body of toxins, and can be added to your diet both during the cleanse and in the days leading up to your cleanse.The antioxidants in green tea may help flush toxins out of the body. Green tea can be consumed during the cleanse, as it shouldn't violate most cleanse guidelines. It can also be incorporated into your daily diet.
Some studies suggest that incorporating avocados into a healthy diet may protect the liver from damage, though further research is required to determine how avocados help the liver and at what dosage.However, avocados do have a relatively high fat content, and may therefore be incompatible with certain cleanse plans.
Turmeric is commonly used to alleviate liver problems. Consider incorporating turmeric into your diet, especially during the cleanse., Some herbal supplements are thought to help the liver, especially in people with pre-existing liver problems.Talk to your doctor before taking any supplements, as they could interact with other medications in dangerous ways.


B vitamins may help improve liver function in some people, though further studies are needed on how effective vitamins are in assisting the liver.Milk thistle contains silymarin, which has been shown to treat and prevent liver damage.Schisandra supplements are derived from the plant of the same name. Schisandra is often used to treat liver diseases and to protect the liver from toxins/poisons.Selenium may also help improve liver function.

