 When using essential oils for perfumery, the best place to start is with scent groups.The major scent groups are floral, woodsy, earthy, citrusy, oriental and spicy. Oils that are in the same scent group usually blend very well together. The most popular and easy to find essential oils for each scent group are:


Floral scent group: lavender, rose, neroli and jasmine.
Woodsy scent group: pine and cedarwood.
Earthy scent group: oakmoss, vetiver and patchouli.
Citrusy scent group: orange, lemon and grapefruit.
Spicy scent group: clove and cinnamon.
Oriental scent group: ginger and patchouli.
 To make 8 ounces (1 cup) of perfume mist, you will need ½ tablespoon of essential oils. This is approximately 110 drops.To make a floral perfume mist using the formula already presented, try this recipe:


40 drops lavender essential oil;
35 drops neroli essential oil;
35 drops jasmine essential oil;
10 tablespoons of alcohol;
4 tablespoons of distilled water;
½ tablespoon of vegetable glycerin.
 Once you get the hang of it, get creative and try your own experiments with different proportions of the essential oils. For example, you could modify the above formula to be a lavender-heavy scent that only includes 2 oils from the scent group – lavender and neroli.


Adjust the lavender amount to be 70 drops.
Adjust the neroli amount to be 40 drops.
This amounts to 110 drops total, which is what the recipe calls for. Follow the rest of the formula and you’ll have an altogether new floral scent.
 Once you get the hang of it, experiment with the proportions, just like you did with the floral group. To get you started, try this recipe to create a woodsy perfume mist:


50 drops oakmoss essential oil;
40 drops patchouli essential oil;
20 drops vetiver essential oil;
10 tablespoons of alcohol;
4 tablespoons of distilled water;
½ tablespoon of vegetable glycerin.
 Some scent groups mix well with other scent groups. Floral and citrusy oils are two scent groups that generally mix well together.Using the same formula as before, create an energizing citrusy floral mist by modifying it with a lavender oil and grapefruit oil blend:85 drops lavender essential oil;
25 drops grapefruit essential oil;
10 tablespoons of alcohol;
4 tablespoons of distilled water;
½ tablespoon of vegetable glycerin.
 Aside from floral and citrusy, there are many other scent groups that compliment each other and mix well together. Use the same formula as before and reference this general guideline to get you started mixing across scent groups:


Florals blend well with oils from the spicy, citrusy and woodsy scent groups.
Oriental oils blend well with oils from the floral and citrusy scent groups.
Woodsy oils usually blend well with all scent groups.Experiment! By trying different the oils, mixing across scent groups and modifying proportions, the possibilities are almost limitless.

