 Use your social media platforms to tell your friends and family about the reality of horse slaughter. On Facebook, post on your timeline and the pages of friends who you think will be interested in joining your efforts. Whatever platform you use, post photos, videos, or facts, and urge those viewers to help stop horse slaughter as well.For example, post something like “Join our efforts to protect horses and keep our meat supply safe! Help us end a terrible and dangerous practice.”
Use hashtags such as #EndHorseSlaughter.
Include informative of engaging content, such as facts, videos, or infographics. Encourage viewers to repost this content. The Humane Society, as well as the ASPCA make resources freely available for this purpose.
 The best way to inform the public is by getting prominent news organizations to cover the issue of horse slaughter. Write an op-ed to your newspaper, local television station, and radio station. Remember to include each of the key points you’ve identified about horse slaughter, or cite facts provided by the Humane Society or another recognizable organization.Include links to videos and other marketing material that news organizations might want to feature.
Local or national animal rights organizations will be happy to help with media relations. They will help you prepare a statement, and their support may help you get more coverage.
 Find a horse rescue facility in your area and submit a volunteer application. Expect to be tasked with cleaning, feeding, and grooming horses if you have experience doing so. You can also help by assisting with fundraising and organizing other volunteers.If you do not have time to volunteer at a horse rescue facility, considering donating money or other resources.
Contact the Homes for Horses Coalition or the ASPCA for help locating an organization you can work with or donate to.
 Old school activism tactics still work in mobilizing energy, participation, and resources. Hand out flyers or hang posters on college campuses or other places where people may be interested. Set up an information booth at a local food or art market.


Consider protesting peacefully at facilities where horse slaughter takes place. You may also want to protest as places that use horse meat or other body parts to produce food or other goods.

