 Common problem areas for post-fake tans occur around the jaw line, edges of the face, or on the neck where skin is sensitive and left vulnerable for skin irritation. If you find yourself with fake tan blotches in these areas, instead of removing them, try to cover them first to protect your skin. Use either a foundation or a tinted moisturizer to disguise the blotches.


First, exfoliate your skin by dampening your face with warm water and then gently rubbing your skin in circular motions with a cream or wash cloth.
Then, apply a generous amount of face lotion, again rubbing in circular motions which will help restore your natural tone.
Lastly, apply the foundation or tinted moisturizer, covering your face and neck evenly resulting in a fresh face. Stay away from heavier foundations that may draw attention to any uneven colors.;
, Adding a third shade of tan to your face will only exacerbate the problem. When choosing the right foundation color for you, don't match it only to the tone of your face. It is wiser to match it to the tone of your neck so you do not have two different skin tones visible.


Next time, don't use fake tan on your face. Instead, buy a foundation that matches your skin with the fake tan. You can then play around with your foundation by mixing it with your lighter color to match your fake tan as it fades.
 Sometimes, it can look like you just dipped your arm into a can of orange paint. The best solution for correcting tan lines on hands and wrists are to simply add more tanner and blend them in.


Apply a small amount of additional self tanner onto a cotton ball. Do not apply the tanner directly to your hands or wrists, but instead start from the middle of your arm work your way down to ensure a gradual transition. Use a circular motion as you apply.
Plan where your stopping line will be so you can better blend in the tanner. It should be near where your thumb connects your wrists.
Be sure to tan the top of your hands but not your palms! You do not want tan arms and white hands. Use your finger to make small circular motions around the area where the side of your hand meets your palm.
 A lot of people are afraid of tanning their hands because they don't want their knuckles to turn orange. The skin in this area can be rough and dry, causing it to absorb more tanner and turn out too dark.


To avoid this, simply moisturize your knuckles or any dry, rough area before applying fake tan products. This will prevent rougher areas from looking too dark because the lotion keeps some of the tanner from absorbing.
 These areas have multiple skin types in close quarters which makes it easy for dark blotches. To fix these streaks and spot, gently exfoliate with a warm wash cloth and then add more fake tan.


Put the fake tan on a cotton ball and begin apply midway up your calf. Work your way down using circular motions. The closer you get to your foot, the less fake tan there should be on the cotton ball.
Without applying anymore fake tan, keep applying all around your ankle and feet.
Stop along the bottom sides of your feet.
 Organic sugar scrubs, as will products with lactic acid, AHAs (alpha hydroxy acids) or BHAs (beta hydroxy acids), help cell turnover. The best type of sugar to use is organic brown sugar because the grains are softer and smoother. Simply mix one part sugar with two parts water together in a bowl. After you have your mixture ready, softly spread it onto the problem areas with your fingers and rub it onto your skin for about one minute. Let it sit for three to five minutes before rinsing off with warm water.


This sugary fix helps to hide unnatural hues and it’s a safe and natural alternative to lathering your skin with synthetic chemicals that may do more harm than good.