 Garlic is a herb rich in immunity boosting antioxidants such vitamin B6, vitamin C, and manganese. Garlic also has anti-viral and anti-inflammatory properties that may help decongest the sinuses by reducing inflammation in the nasal passages. Researchers believe these medicinal properties are the result of a sulfuric enzyme called alliin, the active ingredient in garlic, which helps protect against viruses. Garlic is best taken as a raw clove to release alliin. Each clove is approximately one gram. To make it more edible, you can also crush the garlic into a spoonful of honey or olive oil.


You can also add 2-4 grams of fresh, minced garlic cloves to spice up your meals or cook it by lightly browning it over low heat so as not to destroy its active compounds.
There are many other forms of garlic available, such as garlic seasoning, garlic powder, and garlic salt. Usually available in liquid or capsule form, aged garlic extract can be added as dietary supplement to your daily or weekly routine. Freeze-dried garlic is also available as tablets and capsules.
Too much garlic may cause bad breath and low blood pressure, so limit your intake to 2-4 cloves of garlic a day. Garlic should not be used prior to surgery or if you have a bleeding disorder. If you experience side effects such as bloating, fatigue, loss of appetite, muscle aches, vertigo, allergies such as an asthmatic reaction, skin rashes, and skin lesions, stop using garlic and see your doctor immediately., Elderberry is commonly used to treat respiratory illnesses, sore throats, coughs, and fevers due to its anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties. It also stimulates the immune system. Steep 3-5 grams of dried elder flower in a cup of boiling water for ten to fifteen minutes to drink as an herbal tea. You can have up to 3 cups per day. You can also take elderberry extract, which can be found as a syrup, lozenge, or dietary capsule supplement at most nutrition or drug stores.


Prolonged use of elderberry is not recommended, therefore it is better to take it, whether as a tea or supplement, every 2–3 days. Elderberry is also a blood thinner and may not be recommended for people with low blood pressure.
Do not use unripe or uncooked elderberries as they may be poisonous.
Speak to your doctor before taking elderberry. It may have some side effects for pregnant women, people with autoimmune disease, and people taking diabetic medication, laxatives, chemotherapy drugs, or immunosuppressants., Peppermint contains menthol, which works as a decongestant to thin mucus and help break up phlegm. It also can help soothe sore throats and dry coughs. Peppermint is available as lozenges, extracts used in dietary supplements, herbal teas, essential oils, and as a fresh herb. Use fresh leaves as a garnish or flavoring in your meals. Also try brewing peppermint tea, which can be taken 3 times daily by steeping one tea bag of dried peppermint leaves in a cup of hot water.


Don't use peppermint or menthol for children under 2 years of age.
Peppermint oil is often used in aromatherapy or as a rub. Never take peppermint oil orally., Eucalyptus’ active ingredient is a compound called cineole, which works as an expectorant to fight respiratory infections, reduce congestion, and alleviate coughs. You can get eucalyptus as lozenges, cough syrups, and vapor baths at most drug stores. You can also get topical ointments containing eucalyptus leaves that can be applied to the nose and chest to relieve congestion and loosen phlegm. This will help prevent mucus from aggravating the throat.


Try fresh eucalyptus tea, which is made by steeping 2–4 grams of dried eucalyptus leaves in a cup of hot water for 10–15 minutes. You can drink this 3 times a day.
Eucalyptus can also be used as a gargle. Steep 2–4 grams of dried leaves in one cup warm water for 5-10 minutes. This can be used as a gargle after meals to reduce bad breath, promote mucus drainage, and soothe the throat 3-4 times a day.
Do not take eucalyptus oil by mouth because it can be poisonous. People with asthma, seizures, liver or kidney disease, or low blood pressure should not use eucalyptus without asking their doctor., Blue vervain works as an expectorant to loosen phlegm and mucus from the chest and throat, which eases congestion. Blue vervain is available as a supplement, tea, and syrup at most nutrition stores and pharmacies. The recommended dose for blue vervain supplements is one capsule taken with a meal and glass of water, at least 1–2 times per day.


To make tea, steep 1/2 teaspoon of the herb in 1 cup of boiling water for 3–5 minutes. Strain and drink up to 2 times per day, especially before sleeping.
Blue vervain should not be used if you are taking diuretic medication or caffeine, as it may cause dehydration. Ask your doctor before using blue vervain if you are pregnant, have a digestive problem, or are taking any other medications., Lemon balm contains antiviral and anti-inflammatory substances called tannins that boost your immune system. It also helps ease nasal congestion and sinus headaches. It is available as a dietary supplement, topical cream, tincture, and herbal tea at most nutrition and herbal medicine stores. The recommended dose for dietary supplements containing lemon balm extract is 300–500 mg, up to 3 times daily. To make lemon balm tea, steep 1/4 teaspoon of dried lemon balm in 1 cup of warm water for 3–5 minutes. Strain and drink immediately without adding any sweetener.


The lemon balm essential oil should be diluted with a carrier oil such as jojoba oil before being applied to the skin. To dilute the oils, add 5 drops of essential oil to 1/2 fluid oz of carrier oil. Store any unused portions in a dark-glass dropper bottle that has a tight screw top. Massage the oil onto your forehead, back of your neck, or wrists for 3–5 minutes. Essential oils should not be used for infants or children.
Topical application of lemon balm cream is considered safe for children. You should speak with your healthcare provider or a pediatrician to determine the recommended usage for your child or infant.