 Federal legislation defines child abuse as “Any recent act or failure to act on the part of a parent or caretaker which results in death, serious physical or emotional harm, sexual abuse or exploitation"; or “An act or failure to act which presents an imminent risk of serious harm." Take some time to consider whether you and your parents are simply have a rough patch, or if you experiencing abuse., The first step in taking serious action against this abuse is to gain the support of a trusted adult. This might be a teacher at school, your guidance counselor, your therapist, the parent of a close friend, or another relative. Explain to them everything that has happened to you, and ask for their help in stopping the abuse.
 The adult who is helping you should contact Child Protective Services (CPS). Sit down with your adult helper and generate a list of any and all abuse you have experienced. Include as many specifics (details and dates) as you can. Then find your local CPS office and have your adult go in person (with your list) to submit the report., Do you have another parent or grandparent who could gain custody of you? You may want to talk to them about taking your abusive parent to court. This requires a visit to a lawyer who can assist your parent or grandparent with filing the appropriate paperwork.Be aware that this can take a long time, and you may need to be in contact with your abusive parent during this time.
These laws vary from state to state, but in most cases the count will strongly consider the opinions of the child.
 If you are a teenager and you are supporting yourself financially, you may want to consider legally emancipating yourself. This involves filing a petition for emancipation (at your local Circuit Court), paying a fee ($150-200), and attending a court hearing.Before you pursue emancipation, you must be employed, and you must secure a place to live outside of your parents home (and be able to prove this to the court).
Depending on your district, filing for emancipation can usually be done without a lawyer.
The emancipation process is much smoother if your parents agree.

