 There are a wide variety of home health screening kits available from online retailers. The general health screening kits basically test for the same issues, so if you are looking to assess your dog's general health, these should all work similarly.


In order to narrow down your choices, look at online reviews of home health screening kits and pick one that has good reviews.
You can also choose a kit based on the price. However, remember that in many cases you get what you pay for.;
, If you are concerned about a specific health issue, there may be a specific health test that you can give to your dog. For instance, there are home test kits for testing blood glucose levels if your dog is diabetic.This specific testing kit will probably be most helpful to people with pets that already have a diagnosed issue with diabetes.


Another specific at home kit is a DNA test to check your dog's breed and any genetic issues it may have. You can also get worm tests that can be done at home.
 If you are concerned with your dog's health due to an ongoing medical issue or a family history of health problems you should discuss this with your dog's veterinarian. They may have suggestions for specific products to use or they may suggest an alternative, such as getting veterinary testing more often.


Even if your veterinarian says that home health screening is not necessary, it is still your right to choose to do it. As long as the testing does not replace annual veterinary exams, it does not hurt your dog to test it more often at home.
 The risk of doing health screening at home is getting a false positive or negative result. To eliminate most of the risk of a false result, follow the instructions very closely. They are designed to get you the most true results possible.


Different tests may have slightly different directions. If you have done a home health test on your dog before but are now using a different brand, be sure to read the instructions on the product you are currently using.
 A general home health screening kit will analyze your dog's urine for signs of a potential health issue. In order to do this, you will need to collect its urine.If you know your dog's bathroom schedule and follow it when it goes out to go, you should be able to get a sample while it urinates.


Your testing kit may come with gloves you can wear while collecting your dog's urine. Even if the test doesn't come with them, find some gloves to wear so that your hands stay clean.
Some tests sell an optional stick adapter that will help you to collect the urine. If you are nervous about collection, this tool may be helpful.Home health screening kits do not require much urine. You will only need around a teaspoon to complete the test.
 Once you have collected your dog's urine you will need to put the urine on the test strip. Make sure the test strip is thoroughly saturated in urine in order to get the clearest results. Then wait the specified amount of time before evaluating the results.The way you cover the testing strip in urine will vary depending on your specific product. Follow the directions provided.
Results from the test will show up in colors on the test strip. These colors will need to be interpreted in order to understand what the test is telling you.
 The instructions that come with the kit will not necessarily connect test results to a specific diagnosis. This is due to the liability that may create, as well as the need for a trained veterinarian to take a variety of factors into consideration before giving a specific diagnosis. With this in mind, you may need to do some research to find out what certain results may mean for your pet.


Some of these kits have apps that can be used to help you analyze the results. Once the test strip results appear, you can take a picture of it with your smart phone and upload it to the app associated with the testing kit. The app will then give you more specific information about the results., If there are any abnormal results you should have your dog looked at by a veterinarian and discuss the results. The at home test is most useful for alerting you of a problem that you then get treated by a veterinary professional.


Following up with your veterinarian can be especially helpful if you don't know what the results indicate. For instance, a pH level that is off could indicate a variety of health issues, such as kidney disease or bladder stones, that only a veterinarian can diagnose.Do no use a home health screening kit as a replacement for your dog's annual veterinary exam. These tests do not check on everything a veterinarian does and they cannot evaluate a variety of symptoms in conjunction like a veterinarian can.