 You should see your dentist regularly, so it's important to choose someone with whom you feel comfortable. Try asking friends or family if they have a dentist they like. You can also ask your primary care physician or pharmacist for a recommendation.Choose a dentist whose office is convenient to your home or place of work. If it is easy to get to the office, you'll be more likely to keep appointments.
Make sure the office accepts your insurance plan. If you don't have dental coverage, ask the office staff if they offer payment plans.
Ask for an initial consultation. This will give you a chance to see if you feel comfortable in the office and with the doctor.
 When you are visiting your dentist, make sure that you are prepared to get all necessary information. You might find it helpful to jot down a list of questions to ask. Your dentist should be willing to take the time to thoroughly answer all of your questions.


Ask her if your mouth looks healthy. This is a good general question that should give you a good overview of your oral health.
Ask if there are any issues that you need to talk to your primary care physician about.
If your dentist recommends a procedure, don't be afraid to ask if it is necessary or optional.
 Clenching or grinding your teeth can seriously weaken them. Grinding can cause chips and cracks in your teeth. Stress often causes people to clench. Many times, you grind in your sleep without even knowing it. The only symptom may be a headache in the morning and pain in the masseter muscles.


If you grind or clench, your dentist will be able to tell. If this is happening while you sleep, talk to your dentist about the possibility of wearing a mouthguard while you sleep.
If you grind or clench while awake, be mindful of the issue. Consciously think about keeping your teeth from rubbing together. Your top teeth should not be touching your bottom teeth unless you are chewing food.
 It is recommended that most people visit the dentist twice a year. This is so your dentist has an opportunity to treat any recurring issues. It also gives him the opportunity to prevent tooth decay and gum disease.Some people might need to visit the dentist more frequently. If you have a family history of gum disease, for example, he might want to observe you more frequently.
Try scheduling your appointments well in advance. Dentists tend to be very busy, so it can be hard to get an appointment at the exact time that you want. If you can, try scheduling your next appointment each time you leave the office.
 Dentists are great at maintaining the overall health of your mouth and fixing any general issues. If you have a problem with your gums or nerves, your dentist may refer you to a specialist.There are many types of specialists who provide oral care. Each of them has different methods to keep your teeth strong and your mouth healthy. For example, an endodontist specializes in the nerve endings attached to the teeth.
A periodontist works primarily on gums, and tackles issues such as gum disease, gum recession, loose teeth, bone loss, and dental implants.

