 Keep a list of interventions that you can do to feel better when you experience negative feelings. Think of interventions that you can do by yourself, with other people, and some physical activities. Having interventions that fall in all three categories will ensure that you always have an intervention no matter what situation you are in. Make sure your interventions are things that you have done before and are feasible. Interventions you can do by yourself include journaling, reading, listening to music, or meditating.
Interventions you can do with other people may include talking to a supportive friend or talking to a counselor.
Physical activities that are good interventions include taking a walk, going to the gym, playing a sport, or doing a workout video at home.
For example, if you become upset, you may listen to a specific song, talk to your best friend, or go for a walk. Knowing your response to a situation can keep you from experiencing unwanted feelings.
 Regularly participating in positive activities will increase the amount of positive emotions that you experience. Try to make these activities a part of your daily life. Find activities that you enjoy (e.g. spending time with friends, read a book, watch your favorite TV show).


Other positive activities include writing down what you are grateful for at the end of each day or counting the number of times you were kind to someone else each day. Activities that require your full attention and focus are best for promoting positive emotions.
 When you experience unwanted feelings, those feelings tend to take over your present mental state. You can become distracted or consumed by those feelings. Practicing mindfulness teaches you to focus on your present, regulate your emotions, and react less to emotions you experience. The most common way to learn mindfulness is to practice focused breathing. Sit in an upright position and take deep breaths. Focus on the air moving in and out of your body and all of the sensations that you experience.
The more you practice, the better your ability to focus on the present and manage your emotions will be.
 If you are unable to deal with your unwanted feelings on your own, you may need to work with a professional counselor or therapist. They can help you identify the source of your unwanted feelings and give you tools to handle your situation. Look for a therapist that is licensed and has experience with your specific problem.


For example, if your unwanted feelings are due to trauma you have experienced, seek out a therapist who specializes in trauma.
You can call 1-800-950-6264to find resources in your area or visit the American Psychological Association website to find a licensed psychologist in your area. 