 Glue a plain T-shirt shape to a patterned pant cut-out and write the party information on the T-shirt. Ask guests to bring an old pillowcase to use for a craft.;
,, Include a small hairbrush and a pair of flip-flops to use for a craft. These items can be found at a dollar store or craft store. Other fun things would be a small mirror and sparkly hair accessories.
 Press small and chewy candies onto a store-bought vanilla-frosted cake. Keep the cake in the refrigerator until guests arrive.
 Walk down a pretend catwalk to music. Don't forget to smile for the camera.
 Draw a shape, such as a star, on a piece of fleece and trace around it, leaving a border. Cut it out. Repeat until you have 4 different sizes. Using fabric glue, attach the shapes to the pillowcase. Let dry. Tie a ribbon around the bag to close it. Use the bag for your next slumber party-it's perfect for holding your sleepover gear.
 Cut a slit near the top and string a ribbon through. Tie it to your zipper and trim the ends.
 Tightly tie ribbons into tiny bows around a stretchy headband. Trim the ends of the ribbons.
 Trace each flip-flop onto fleece. Cut out the shapes, and cut a slit where the thong needs to fit. Glue the fleece to the flip-flop. Glue a craft boa to the thong. Let dry.
 Blend well. Pour into glasses. Serves two.
 Glue rhinestones to one side. Let dry. To use, separate squares, place a thin layer of hair in between the squares, and press together.
 Let dry. Do the same to a mirror.
 Girls stand in a line with their eyes covered. No one opens her eyes until she has been tapped on the shoulder. The girl at one end starts by opening her eyes, tapping the girl next to her, showing her a dance move, and then covering her eyes. The second girl taps the third girl, shows her the dance move, adds her own dance move, and covers her eyes again. Keep passing the dance on until everyone has added a move. The last girl says, "Eyes open!" and shows everyone the entire dance routine.
 Each girl turns to the person on her right. In the middle of the circle is a pile of hair accessories-headbands, barrettes, and hair elastics. On "Go!" everyone must style the hair of the girl in front of her in only 5 minutes. You can't check the hairstyle from the front to see how it looks--just try to make the silliest hairstyle you can! Be careful not to pull or tangle anyone's hair.
 Pass the book around to your friends. At the end, read everyone's answers aloud.
 This game is fun to play when you're lying your sleeping bags. Start the game by passing a stuffed animal back and forth to each girl. Every time you get the stuffed animal, you have to add one word to the story. See how long-and silly-your bedtime story gets. No sleeping until the story is over!

