 You should work on forming solid friendships with people who bring you up rather than down. Make friends with people who are kind and supportive. In school, stick by these friends. The buddy system can keep bullies away.Always have a group of friends nearby. Eat lunch with a group of friends and walk between classes with your friends.
Bullies often target people who seem alone and isolated. If you look like you have a solid friend group, a bully may be less likely to seek you out as a victim.;
, Avoiding places where bullies hang out can help prevent bullying. As you navigate your school, stay away from areas where bullies are likely to congregate.Bullies often gather near areas where there is not a lot of supervision. Bullies may hang out in areas like the locker room or secluded hallways, for example. Try to avoid these areas.
If you have to enter an area where bullies may be gathered, always bring a friend.
 Bullies are more likely to target people in the absence of adult supervision. Try to stay near adults in your school. During lunch, for example, you and your friends could sit near the teachers. Between classes, avoid lingering in the hallway. Go to your classroom right away to avoid attracting a bully., The best means to deflect a bully is often to suppress your emotions when insulted. You want to act like whatever the bully said did not bother you. Showing a reaction will only fuel the bully; however, it can be hard to suppress your emotions in the moment. It's a good idea to have a number of ideas on hand for distracting yourself. This is a good technique if you're stuck in a situation where you cannot simply leave.Think of things you can use to occupy your mind in the event you're targeted by a bully. Could you count backwards from 100? Could you recite a poem or song lyrics in your head? Could you try spelling words backwards?
You should not suppress your emotions forever. If a bully hurt your feelings, you should talk this out with a friend or family member; however, wait until you're in a safe environment to react emotionally.
 If someone makes comments about your appearance, personality, or anything else, just ignore it. When you can walk away without saying anything, do so. Bullies thrive on a reaction and will be less likely to target those who do not react. This is where you can employ certain techniques to distract yourself.Act like you did not hear anything when a bully lashes out at you. Continue with what you were doing and then walk away as quickly as you can.
If a bully sees you do not react to his or her tormenting, the bully is more likely to look for another victim.
 If a bully persists in tormenting you, even after you've tried ignoring them, you should assert yourself; however, do so in a way that is confident without being emotional or aggressive. If a bully thinks they've successfully got under your skin, they'll keep going. A calm and collected approach is best if you need to stick up for yourself.Use a loud voice to say something like, "No. Stop it." Then, immediately walk away. You do not want to get stuck in a screaming match with a bully. Tell them to stop, and then continue on your way.
If a bully tries to bait you into an argument after you've asserted yourself, say something like, "I'm happy to talk this out with you, but I'm not going to argue or fight."
Use assertive body language. Stand up straight, look them in the eye, and speak in a clear, audible tone.
 Giving physical or verbal abuse back is exactly what a bully wants. It is a reaction, and will only serve to escalate the situation. Never fight a bully, especially not physically. If the situation becomes aggressive, try to remove yourself as quickly as you can., Bullies often target people who do not think highly of themselves. If you have low self esteem, find ways to feel good about yourself. This may naturally ward off bullies.Think about things about yourself you want to change. Maybe you wish your grades were higher. You could work on studying harder, watching less television, and doing your homework after school.
If you feel more confident in your grades, your self esteem will rise. This will make bullies less likely to target you.
 Cyber bullying is a major concern as well. There are certain actions you can take to avoid coming into contact with bullies online.Avoid sharing anything that could be potentially embarrassing for you in the wrong hands, like awkward pictures or videos. Extend this same courtesy to friends. Be careful what you post about others, as cyber bullies may target your friends.
Always keep your password a secret from everyone. If someone gets your password, they could hack your account and post damaging information about you online.
Check your privacy settings. You can avoid cyber bullies by making sure your information is only shared with close friends.
 No one wants to feel like a tattletale, but bullying is a serious problem. If you or your friends are being bullied, this can cause major damage to your emotional well being. If bullying is physical, it can be dangerous to let it go on.Find an adult you trust. A teacher, principal, parent, or a worker in your school can help you address bullying.
You are not tattling over a small matter. Bullying is serious. If you are getting bullied, chances are other students in your school are as well. You are doing everyone a favor, including the bully, by making sure the situation is appropriately addressed.
You can request to change your schedule to avoid bullies.
 You should never stand by and let bullying happen. If you see other people being targeted by bullies, step up and say something. Consider how you would feel in the same situation. You would likely want someone to help you.Show kindness to anyone being bullied. If you know a student who's a frequent target of bullies, try to befriend him or her.
If you notice a student is being targeted a lot, you should tell an adult. This student could probably use help deterring the bully.
 If you're unsure of how to cope with bullies, talk to other kids in your school. Other students may be being targeted by the same bully or group of bullies. You can strategize with other students and look into ways to stick together and stand up to the bullies.