 Your dog should be indoors (and in the A/C or in front of a fan) as much as possible during really hot days and not left outside in the heat.If he does spend a lot of time outside, make sure he has a shady area where he can cool down out of the sun and plenty of fresh water to drink.The car is never a safe environment for a dog on a warm day--even if it's not that hot, even if you are parked in the shade, even if you crack a window and are only gone fora little while. The temperature in a parked car can quickly soar to 140째F (60째C).Garages, beaches with no shelter, or hot, sunny rooms are also not suitable environments for your dog on a warm day.A shaded, wooded area with a pond or shallow, running water is an acceptable place to walk your dog when it's hot. Be sure he has plenty of water and you watch for signs of fatigue and overheating.Provide a water dip for your dog to stand in if he is outside. Fill a tub with some cool water and allow him to cool the pads of his feet by sitting, standing, or sometimes laying in the water.
 Especially if your dog is older or a breed with a short muzzle (like Pugs, bulldogs, Pekingese, and Boston terriers), too much activity on a hot day can cause your dog to overheat. Try not to take your dog on a long run or walk on hot days. If you do go out, notice if she's seeking out shady spots and lying down. This is her way of telling you "it's too hot, let's get out of here."Dogs sometimes don't know their limits, especially if they're field dogs that love to run, hunt, and play. They may push themselves until they collapse and their lives are in danger. It is your responsibility to watch her for signs of overheating or save the hunt for a cooler day.Dogs with short muzzles are not as efficient at cooling themselves because they can't pant as well as other dogs. Panting is the main way a dog can cool himself.Even normal activity can be too much for these breeds on a hot day.
 Morning and early afternoon or evening are the best times to walk your dog--taking him out at high-noon is asking for trouble. Aside from the hot rays of the sun and the warm air, the hot asphalt, concrete, or sand can burn the sensitive pads of your dog's feet and cause them to blister.If it's too hot for you to walk barefoot, it's definitely too hot for your dog too.


If you take your dog out before or after the sun goes down, you can fit in adequate exercise so he won't become bored or destructive during the day.Try to keep your dog on the grass or even alternate between the sidewalk and the grass so his food pads don't get too hot., A cooling vest or collar can help keep your dog from overheating on hot days. Some use cooling packs that are built into the side, others just need to be soaked in water to cause the heat to evaporate off your dog's core. Look for one that is reflective and lightweight.You may also want to get your dog a cooling mat or elevated bed so he has a comfortable place to rest when he gets too warm. These are usually very portable and rely on different cooling methods, from gel mats to evaporation cooling to water cooling to inserts, you have tons of options to fit your space and lifestyle., Though you may imagine your poor dog suffering in her fur coat in 100째F (38째C) temperatures, your dog's fur actually provides insulation and helps her regulate her temperature.Just as it keeps her warm in winter, it also keeps her cool in the summer.If your dog has long hair, it's okay to give her a little summer trim or summer cut.Make sure you keep her fur clean and brushed, as this allows for better air circulation.Your dog's coat also protects her from UV rays and keeps her from getting sunburned or skin cancer., Keeping your dog well hydrated is essential to keeping him safe from overheating. If he is dehydrated and his tongue is dry, his method of cooling himself (panting) will be rendered ineffective. If you are out with a field dog on a hot day, make sure he is drinking water at least once an hour, if not more often.If your dog is not overheated, it's okay to give him some ice or a frozen treat to munch on. Try making him ice cream or ice pops. Just remember that feeding an overheated (not just warm) dog ice or frozen food can be very dangerous and can cause him to go into shock.

