 Most universities offer opportunities for students who need a little help. Typically, you have to be receiving financial aid to qualify for a work-study program. If you do, you will be able to work up to a certain amount of hours doing jobs around campus such as assisting in dorms, working in the cafeteria, or helping in the library.Check with your school's financial aid office to see if your school participates in the program. Then fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). This form will assess your financial standing and determine whether you qualify for the program.;
, Many students need help with their classes. Use your grasp on course topics to help fellow students or underclassmen. Inquire if your university organizes tutoring programs, or freelance by advertising your services on campus and online. Put up flyers on notice boards, send out a message on a relevant listserv, and post on your class year's Facebook page.


Many companies that hire tutors allow them to choose their own hours, meaning you could work strictly on weekends.
Tutoring can be done entirely online, connecting with students through Skype.
Check out Cardinal Scholars, Aim For A Tutoring, and Tutor.com amongst other tutoring companies.
 You’ve probably seen these people on your campus, handing out free samples and promoting products. Products can be anything from laptops to energy drinks, but they are all geared towards college students. Companies look for communication skills, and outgoing and friendly personalities when they hire reps. Advantages of this job include flexible hours and gaining experience in marketing, social media, and sales.Chipotle, Apple, and Redbull are amongst the companies who routinely hire brand reps for college campuses.
 College professors are often doing research projects with which they need help. This is especially true if you are attending a research university that works with bioscience, chemistry, or medicine. Professors in the humanities will often also be looking for assistance with research for upcoming papers. Inquire with your professors about working in a lab or doing part-time research for them.


This may be a great opportunity to not only make money, but to gain valuable experience and earn a recommendation for future study or employment.
 Universities are always raising money, especially by contacting alumni. Most universities will have a call center staffed with current students. Your job would be to dial up former students and ask for donations. While this work may sound tedious, picking up a few occasional shifts can help pad your wallet. Contact your school's call center to ask about employment opportunities, or apply directly if you see a flyer or other posting for a call center job.
 Art classes need living, breathing models for students to draw and sculpt. If you are comfortable being partly or fully nude in a room full of art students, for hours at a time, this could be the job for you. You could try to ask the art department at your school whether they need models for classes; alternatively, you could find a local art studio and inquire there about modeling opportunities.

