 You each take turns asking the other about random things like "favorite books", "favorite movies", et cetera. This isn't the most important thing to know, but it helps a couple connect.;
, If you have totally different tastes in pets, this can make eventually settling down with this person a bit more difficult and maybe unpleasant.
 If you ever end up living with this person, this is important so you can agree on things like dinners and medicine.
 Morals, convictions and beliefs are a very important thing to consider. If you can't accept the other person's religion and ethical views, then starting a family with them is going to be a very hard task. Things like places of worship to attend (churches, temples, meeting houses, et cetera) are best spent together on that sabbath morning.
 Holidays and celebrations could also fall under the above category. Say your partner was Christian, and you were Taoist. Your partner might want a huge celebration on Christmas, with a tree and everything, but you may want to just have it be a normal day. Most people could accept their partner's views on this topic, but some can't handle it.
 If you despise your mother-in-law, or if your husband's friends are total slobs, living in a house where these people visit every once in a while isn't going to be pleasant.
 From the number of children, to how you raise them, to what their names should be (if you're like most couples, you figured that one out in middle school), children aren't an easy topic to agree on.
 Hopefully if you don't agree you can come to a compromise, traditionally based towards the bride's family's views. Some families believe weddings should be small and only invite the people very close to the two families, and others like weddings to be huge and extravagant.
 Some believe sex is post-marital only, some take it a little more lightly. Some even like it a bit more... unorthodox. You might not want to make love to someone who's already been there before. Talk to your partner about this.
 Make sure you feel good about the decisions you are making.

