 If your coworker is constantly putting you down or trying to humiliate you, chances are untrue statements and wild excuses are being used. Instead of ignoring your coworker, confront your coworker. Force your coworker to explain the reasoning behind the statements being made. Your coworker is most likely unable to explain the reasons as there is no logic or truth behind those statements. Your coworker will soon realize picking on you isn’t worth the effort., Some of your coworkers will be smarter than you, and they know it. Unfortunately they may also take every opportunity to make sure you realize it too. Coworkers like this are unlikely to agree with ideas you come up with, because the idea didn’t originate with them. Instead of expressing an idea you know won’t be agreed to, explain the idea in the form of one or more questions. Ask how your coworker would approach the problem. Let your coworker explain an idea that would solve the problem. Low and behold, your coworker will present an idea that actually came from you without even knowing it., You most likely have coworkers who are not smarter than you, but who think they are smarter than you. These coworkers normally have nothing useful to contribute and reduce overall productivity with bad decisions. When you need to work with someone like this, behave nicely enough that your coworker thinks you’re cooperative, but then ask questions that highlight the holes in your coworker’s logic.The key is to do this subtly so it doesn’t appear as though you are vengeful or mean. The purpose here is not to humiliate your coworker, but rather to help you coworker understand you see through the deception.
 Coworkers with tempers who scream and shout are impossible to deal with when angry, so it is better not to try. Instead, walk away. On the one hand you do not deserve to be treated that way, and on the other hand nothing useful is going to result from any remaining interaction. Approach your coworker again after a cooling off period and complete the interaction.Keep in mind, especially if this type of reaction is unusual for your coworker, that there may be a personal problem causing this behaviour. Providing your coworker with the opportunity to cool off also helps your coworker save face by not saying something that may be regretted later.
 Some coworkers try very hard to please everyone by saying ‘yes’ to everything. These coworkers don’t understand the limits of their abilities (or they understand their limits and are afraid to admit them). They may also come across as extremely nice and helpful, but if you think about it you will soon realize they never actually accomplished anything. These coworkers need constant approval and are get upset when someone doesn’t like them. They need a comfortable and open work environment in order to open up and be honest.When trying to get a commitment from a coworker like this, be explicit. Work together to develop a detailed plan which is written down. Develop a specific timeline which is agreed upon. Follow-up with a confirmation email. And most importantly, outline the consequences of what may happen if the timeline is not met.
 Some annoying coworkers are annoying because they couldn’t make a decision to save their lives. They go back and forth between options endlessly until it’s too late. When dealing with coworkers like this, the best option is to gently push them towards a specific option and reaffirm that they’re decision is a good one. These coworkers likely can’t make a decision because they lack confidence, so give them that confidence.You can lead a coworker like this towards a specific outcome in one of two ways:

You can explain all possible options (including all pros and cons) and wait to see which option appeals most to your coworker. Once you know which option is preferred, use your influence to build your coworkers confidence towards that specific option.
You can explain all possible options (including all pros and cons) but include an opinion as to which option you believe is the best. You can then provide additional evidence as to why you believe that option is the best and help influence you coworker to select that option.
 Negative coworkers can be very depressing to work with, and can bring a whole team or department down with them. No amount of logic or rationalization is going to make these coworkers see the positive in any situation. Instead of arguing with these coworkers, agree with them. When they point out some negative aspects, point out some additional negative aspects. Eventually you’ll have pointed out so many negatives that the only other options available are positives. Consider this the reverse psychology method., Certain coworkers seem as of they have no emotions, and their body language is so silent you have no idea what they’re thinking. Sometimes coworkers in this category also tend to say very little when asked a question or opinion, which can be a problem if you need that answer or decision in order to do your work. Approach these types of coworkers with only open-ended questions. Do not ask them any questions that will only require a yes or no answer.