 Runny paints work best for drip painting. Liquid acrylics are generally cheap and can be found at general stores and art supply stores. Combine colors to personalize your palette, such as by adding brown to darken a color.A drip painting can be done with only one color. You can also layer multiple colors to create unique effects. How many colors you use is up to you.
The colors you choose also depend on your artistic vision. Some colors commonly go well together. Red, yellow, and blue are primary colors that stand out on their own and can be combined into other colors. Colors like yellow, red, and orange will give your painting a warmer feel. Colors like blue and purple will give your painting a cooler feel.;
, Water changes the consistency of the paint. You’ll need to do this to most paints to help them drip. Add the amount of paint you need to a plastic cup. Slowly pour in water. Mix the paint and add water until it reaches the consistency you desire. More water will thin the color and cause the paint to drip faster.More expensive acrylic paints are paste-like. Mix them with an equal amount of water and a medium such as Golden Clear Tar Gel or Liquitex Pouring Medium. Alternatively, opt for fluid acrylics.
Fluid acrylics pour well enough on their own, but you may thin them out further by mixing them with water.
 Lean your canvas upright against a stand or wall. For acrylic paints, cotton canvasses are a popular choice. Some artists also choose wood boards or thick paper. Any of these surfaces work well for drip painting. It’s also useful to have newspaper or other thick material beneath the canvas to catch paint runoff.You may also lay the canvas flat on the ground. Gravity won’t cause the paint to drip, but you can practice techniques such as spattering or dripping.
 Place paint at the top of the area you wish to drip paint. Paintbrushes, turkey basters, or other objects can be used to apply different amounts of paint. You can also squirt or pour paint directly onto the canvas. When the canvas is held upright, the paint will quickly begin to drip., How long you let the paint dry is up to you. To establish a solid color layer, allow the paint to dry completely. If the paint is still wet, new paint will drip down and mix into it. This is a good way to get very unique, organic designs. When you’re finished, allow the paint to dry.