 A solid study schedule is a good way to make sure that you are spreading out your study time. It will help you remain disciplined in your studies and keep you motivated on days that you are less than excited to look at the periodic table again. While there’s no set rule on how much time it will take you to learn about the elements on the table, you should expect to set aside about two hours of study time for every hour of class time dedicated to the periodic table., There are many different ways to expose yourself to new material, and most people prefer one or two over the others. In the classroom, the instructor often dictates how material will be presented. However, during your study time, you should strive to present yourself with material in the way that you learn it best. The different learning types are:Visual - You prefer to include pictures, images, videos, etc.
Auditory - You like hearing information and/or integrating music and sounds.
Linguistic - You learn information when it is in the form of language (written or spoken).
Kinesthetic - You are a “hands on” learner. Movement and physical touch help you retain information.
Mathematical - You rely on systems of logic to learn.
Interpersonal - Most of your learning occurs in a group setting.
Intrapersonal - Learning alone suits you best.
 Research shows that cramming does not work. You will retain much more information with the same amount of study time if you spread it out over the course of days or weeks. Divide the periodic table into easy to conquer goals and learn it slowly over time. You should also take a study break every forty-five minutes or so to let your brain rest.Be sure that you go back and review material that you have already learned from time to time. If you keep moving on to new material without reviewing the old, you are likely to forget some important details.
This can be a great way to use your notecards. Keep them handy, and when you find yourself with a few minutes to kill in a waiting room or between classes, pull them out and put that time to use.
 Even if you prefer to study alone, you can benefit from a little bit of group study. This is where you will see different points of view on the same material and expand your understanding of the periodic table. Other students may notice trends that you weren’t familiar with, or they might have unique ways of learning the elements. Be sure that you contribute your ideas and knowledge to the group as well.Another way that you can utilize social learning is to teach someone else about the periodic table. As you teach them, you will become more familiar and comfortable with the table yourself.
If you are struggling with learning the periodic table, you can also consider finding a private tutor.
Sometimes the class will move on and you will simply be given the assignment to learn certain parts of the periodic table.
 The periodic table is full of vast amounts of information on chemical elements, groups, and recurring trends that are found in similar elements. This can be a lot of information to commit to memory, and information is best organized and retained in your brain during sleep. Staying rested by getting seven to nine hours of sleep per night will do wonders for your study results., Your brain’s memory system is closely tied to your olfactory sense (sense of smell). You can use this to your advantage by studying in the presence of a unique (ideally inoffensive) smell. If you then take an exam in the presence of the same smell, it will spur your brain to pull of the information from your study sessions.A good example would be to eat peppermints while you are studying the periodic table, and then eat the same peppermints during the exam. Be careful to only use this for one subject at a time, if you eat peppermints all day then it won’t form an association specifically to the periodic table.

