 Put on your favorite clothes. Make sure they make your features stand out, e.g. got nice muscle? Your shirt should help show them off. Got a great stomach? A shirt that's tied in at the middle or has a belt can make it look amazing. Do whatever you need to make your best features stand out.;
, This can really help, browse Google and find some amazing scene pictures, study the angle of the camera and the person's expression. Makeup and hair helps too. You can print these pictures if you want but drawing works nicely too.
 Where can you take your shots? Is there anywhere you can tape up a cool bed sheet or a large piece of fabric for a cool backdrop? Note down these places and ideas.
 What can you drag into the picture to make it look even cooler? Maybe a plush toy like Hello Kitty or Invader Zim? What about a mobile phone or iPod? A NERF gun? Perhaps a hair bow or jacket? Find something to show off or use.
 This can take a long time and needs practice. When you've got it just right, add a bow or accessory to jazz it up.
 If you can change the saturation, lighting, theme, maybe you can control the color, learn how to zoom in and out (duh!) and how to use your camera's self timer as this comes in handy.
 Facial expressions, poses, lighting, accessories, plush dolls, toys, hair style, clothing, it all plays a part. Don't be afraid to take hundreds of pictures.
 Editing photos is a must for almost all scene or emo kids. Photoshop is the most popular editor but you can also use Gimp or an online service like Picnik, which can be hooked up to your Facebook.
 Remove blemishes, redness, escaped hair and frizziness. Never try to Photoshop makeup onto your self. It looks unrealistic and you will be labeled and most likely hated on.
 Facebook is good but your friends may think the photos are ugly and that you're self-obsessed for posting so many pictures of yourself in one folder. Spread the pictures around on different sites: Myspace, Youtube, Tumblr, Twitter, Formspring, PhotoBucket, Flickr, the list is endless.
 Black and white is very popular but nay color or effect will work, just try them out and see what looks best.

