 Becoming a good listener can take practice and a great deal of effort. When your guy is telling you something, even if you don't agree with it and even if it makes you angry, don't interrupt him.Listen actively, meaning while he is talking to you try not to construct your counter points in your head.Let him get all of his thoughts and feelings out before you respond and ask him to give you the same courtesy. This opens a free flow of communication without judgment or anxiety.
Avoid using the phrases, “Yes, but...” or “I know, but...”
Instead find places where you can agree (without the use of “but”) by stating “I understand” or “I can see your point.”

, Sometimes, in a conversation, you'll be able to feel it heading south. Either you'll say something out of line or your man will. When this happens, instead of getting angry and lashing out, call a time-out. This will help to defuse high emotions and allow you to return when you feel like you're ready to start again.You would rather take a time-out than hurl insults, blame, and foster bad feelings.


If taking a time out isn't working and you cannot seem to de-escalate the situation, consider picking another day or time to pick the conversation back up. Discuss it with your man, and agree on a time.
 Try to step outside of yourself for a little bit and consider your partner. Give your guy comforting feedback about what he's saying when he talks to you. Take the time to acknowledge his emotions, even if you don't understand them.


If you see he is anxious or if he's showing you he's upset say, “I can see that this has you really worked up. Do you want to talk about it?” or “I would be really upset, too.”
Phrases like, "I'm sorry this is happening to you," or “I can't imagine how that feels,” will make him feel comfortable and let him know that he has nothing to fear by confiding in you.
 Getting reactive is easy, controlling it is a little more difficult. When your man is being open with you, try to distance yourself from making automatic reactions like sighs, rolling your eyes, etc. These only serve to show him that being open just makes you upset or angry with him. This will only cause him to feel unsafe with you and will just result in him trying to avoid the fight.