 You obviously won’t be using this flashlight for anything other than the light saber, so make sure its not an expensive flashlight that you may need later.

Lay out newspaper outside (preferably on the driveway or a table) before spraying the flashlight and cover the top with duct or masking tape. You don’t want to spray the top of the flashlight with paint otherwise you won’t be able to “see the light force” when it’s turned on.
Spray the entire body a silver color. You may want to take a few passes with the spray paint. In fact, you don’t have to spray your saber silver either. Ask your young Jedi--he/she may desire a different color such as sparkly pink or purple. Making a homemade light saber allows you to fully customize the toy to your child’s liking.
 If you could only pick up a regular flashlight, have no fear. Your light saber can have the color of your choosing using special colored paper.

Place the flashlight, light side downward on your paper. Trace the outside of the flashlight opening so that the paper circle is slightly larger than the flashlight opening.
Cut out the paper and place over top of the flashlight. You can secure it using glue, silver duct tape or even (if large enough) a rubber band.
 Make sure the sword tubing is the desired size. Also, before you purchase it, compare the width to the size of your flashlight to ensure it can easily slip over the flashlight mouth.

Use an exacto knife to size and cut the tube to fit. However, depending upon the girth of tubing you may need to use a hacksaw to do the job. If your Jedi is especially little, you may not want him/her to play with an extremely long saber so determine what he/she can handle and cut accordingly.
Use excess tubing to “top” your saber. You will want the tube to have a top to it, so use residual plastic to create a topper. Use the top of your saber as the guide, however make the circle approximately ½ inch larger so you can completely cover the top of your tube. Use clear glue such as liquid nails or a hot glue gun to adhere the top to the sword.
 Duct tape and a little elbow grease can help this light saber show you that the force will be with you.

Slide the tubing over the top of the flashlight until the tubing covers approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm) of the flashlight top. You will want the tubing to cover enough flashlight real estate so that it stays in place and doesn’t fall off during battle.
Glue the tube to the flashlight using liquid nails or Super Glue. Your first step to adhering the tube to the flashlight is to glue it together. Use small dabs of glue around the top of the flashlight and then slide the tube over it. Hold in place for several minutes to ensure it sticks.
Secure the tube and flashlight using silver duct tape. You can also use other colors, however if you spray painted the flashlight silver, the silver duct tape will match best. Wind the tape around the tube and flashlight several times taping the tube both above and below the flashlight mouth area for full coverage.

