 Talk with your doctor about whether you have normal testosterone levels. Testosterone has a peculiar relationship to hair loss. Not enough testosterone and your chest hair won't grow.Too much and it gets converted into DHT, which shrinks hair follicles.Try to have a healthy balance of testosterone; of course, because there's no testosterone test available over the counter, you'll need to seek the advice of a doctor.


Start working out. Both weight loss and weightlifting can boost a man's testosterone levels.Hit the gym, back up onto the bench press, and do some serious exercise. You'll feel stronger and grow some chest hair while you're at it.
Take testosterone supplements if your doctor diagnoses you with low-T. Only take supplements if your doctor has diagnosed you. Again, if you have normal levels of testosterone and you take supplements, an enzyme will convert the excess testosterone into a follicle-shrinking hormone. Not a good recipe for hair growth.
Talk to your doctor about estrogen inhibitors. Your doctor should know if you taking estrogen inhibitors is advisable for chest hair growth in your specific case.;
, Anabolic steroids pose serious health hazards. As there are dozens, if not hundreds, of different anabolic and androgenic steroids, each with different side-effects on the body and implications for your hair, it's not considered safe to use steroids for hair growth.
 If you have any chest hair already, shaving will help it get thicker, not help hair grow where it isn't. (This one of the reasons girls wax instead of shave.) Shaving cuts the hair at its root, where it's thickest; when it grows out, the hair will be thicker for its whole length. See How to Shave Chest Hair.


Shave your chest every 2-4 weeks.
 In the mornings, after a shower, massage the chest area with Daktarin. This method has been reputed to stimulate the growth of new hair, although not medically verified.



Note: Miconazol Nitrate is a fungus-busting crème used to treat foot and vaginal infections. Use in moderation, and with caution.
 Rub the onion onto your chest using a circular motion. Once the surface of the onion is dry, cut about 5mm of the onion and continue; this can stimulate hair growth because onions contain sulfur, a mineral known to help with hair growth.


This method should probably not be used during the day, because of the smell. So let it do it's work during the night, and shower the next morning.
 It may be embarrassing, but ask someone you trust about their own experience growing chest hair.


If the male relative wants to know why, you have two options:

Tell the truth, mention your intention of growing chest hair and maybe they can let you in on their secrets. You may have nothing to worry about.
Just say that you were wondering and wanted to talk about something random.
 The growth will probably only start after about two weeks and will be only dramatically noticeable after some time. Be patient and stick with your treatment. It may not necessarily seem this way, but there are many more important things in life than chest hair, so chin up!

, There are some well-intentioned myths out there about how to grow hair and what it takes to have a manly mane. Many of them have been debunked by science and are demonstrably false.


Increasing blood flow doesn't increase hair growth.Maybe you've been told to brush your chest with a toothbrush to increase the blood flow to the area, which is supposed to stimulate growth. It's not scientifically true. Brushing your chest will not get you chest hair.
Unclogging pores won't help you grow hair. Some say that blocked pores can cause hair to be trapped beneath the surface of the skin, and that the secret to hair growth is simply unclogging those pores. It's simply not true. While scrubbing away dead skin and unclogging pores is definitely a good thing, it won't help stimulate chest hair growth.

