 Just like on your scalp, dandruff of your beard may respond well to washing with an anti-dandruff shampoo.Be aware that there is different information on using anti-dandruff shampoos and some people feel products like Selsun Blue and Head and Shoulders may be too harsh for gentle facial skin.Do a patch test on a small piece of skin that no one can see. Leave your anti-dandruff shampoo on for about 5 minutes and see if you have a reaction. If not, go ahead and use your chosen product. If you do have a reaction, consider using a specific beardwash or dandruff treatment product. Both of these are gentler on your skin than regular dandruff shampoos.
Wash your face with a gentle cleanser or baby shampoo to remove excess oil before applying the medicated shampoo. Then apply the medicated shampoo and leave it on your skin and beard for at least five minutes. This allows the product to penetrate into your beard and skin. Rinse thoroughly so you don’t have a buildup of residue, which can make dandruff appear worse. Comb your beard when you’re done.;
, Beard dandruff may be caused or exacerbated by environmental factors such as cold air. This can sap your skin and beard of precious moisture and result in flakes appearing in your beard. Use a deep conditioner, especially during cold winter months, to keep your skin and beard moisturized.Use any type of deep conditioner you like or consider trying a conditioner specifically designed for beards. Look for ingredients to soothe and moisturize your beard and underlying skin such as cotton, great tea, oat and willow bark extracts.
Apply the conditioner after you shampoo your beard and leave it on for a few minutes while you’re in the shower. Make sure to thoroughly rinse out the conditioner to prevent residue from building up and making your dandruff worse.
 A good oil can keep your beard soft, shiny and smooth. But it can also treat and prevent beard dandruff.This is especially true if you live in a dry or cold climate. Applying a beard oil after shampooing with a medicated product and deep conditioner can help relieve and cure beard dandruff.


Look for beard oils that contain grapeseed, jojoba, argan or coconut oil. If you have itchiness, acne, or sensitive skin, read labels for products such as rosemary, hempseed, or safflower oil.
Rub a pea-sized amount of oil into your beard and moustache.Incorporate beard oil as a part of your regular skincare regimen to keep your skin and beard soft and moisturized.
 Hands can carry a lot of bacteria and fungus, especially if you are not vigilant about washing them. Touch your face as little as possible to prevent dandruff in your beard.Remember that scratching can irritate your skin and may make dandruff worse.
Make sure to wash your hands whenever you use the restroom or if they are dirty. This can keep inadvertent touches of your beard from turning into a dandruff problem.
 If you find that your beard dandruff is accompanied by red and itchy skin, you may need something to soothe inflammation. Rubbing a hydrocortisone cream on red or itchy areas can relieve discomfort, prevent infections from spreading, and revitalize your skin.Apply the hydrocortisone cream or lotion, which you can get at pharmacies, at least twice a day. Talk to your doctor if the problem becomes very acute. Your doctor may prescribe a more powerful hydrocortisone cream.
 If you can’t seem to get rid of your beard dandruff, consider shaving off your beard. This can quickly improve the condition. Once your skin is calmed and revitalized you can grow back your beard. Just make sure to use good skincare to prevent further bouts of beard dandruff., Beards can attract a lot of dirt and dust. Wash your face and beard twice a day to get rid of excess dirt and oil. This can keep them from clogging your pores and causing dandruff.Chose a gentle cleanser or a face wash specifically designed for men with beards. Look for products that will not only cleanse but also moisturize your beard.
Treat your beard hair gently when washing it. Massage your cleansing product in your hair and into your skin. Rinse your skin and beard thoroughly with clean, lukewarm water.
Avoid overwashing your face and beard. Although it’s important to keep your skin and beard clean, it’s also important to not overwash them. It could inflame your skin, strip its oil, and lead to beard dandruff., Sweat, dirt, and oil can easily get trapped in a beard. If you are very active, take a shower when you’re finished. This can keep bacteria that may cause dandruff at bay as well as maintain the softness and volume of a beautiful beard.


Use the same gentle cleanser after activities that you use for your regular routine.
Dry your skin gently with a soft towel by patting your face and beard. Rubbing may spread bacteria or dirt you didn’t wash off and could also irritate your skin.
 Whenever you wash your face, make sure to comb your beard as a part of your regular skincare regimen. This can exfoliate skin and clear out tangles.Use a beard comb or soft brush on your beard. Always make sure to comb or brush it when it is wet. Comb downwards until your beard feels soft and smooth and doesn’t have any tangles.
 Part of keeping your skin healthy and flake-free is moisturizing it every day. This can keep the skin around and under your beard from getting dry and flaky as well as maintaining its luscious appearance. Use a general moisturizer all over your face and a beard oil for your beard and underlying skin.Choose a skin-type specific moisturizer to use all over your face. You can easily find products for oily, combination, dry, and normal skin types.If you are unsure of your skin type, ask a doctor or other skincare professional.
Get a beard oil with moisturizing ingredients like tea tree oil or argan oil. Rub the product thoroughly through your beard and on the underlying skin.
 Excess or dead skin on your face can contribute to beard dandruff. Exfoliating your face once a week can remove built up or dead skin and help ward off beard dandruff.Apply a gentle exfoliator made with synthetic or natural beads that are a uniform shape. Lightly massage these into your skin for a minute or two. Make sure to thoroughly rinse off the exfoliator with lukewarm water to prevent itchy or flaky residue.
Use a damp and soft washcloth to wipe your face if you don’t have or want to use an exfoliator. This will naturally and gently exfoliate your skin.
 Garments like balaclavas and hats can hold in heat and moisture. This may promote an environment conducive to beard dandruff. Wear loose-fitting items and use natural fiber bedding to keep your skin moisturized and supple, which can also keep your beard looking fabulous.


Wear sweat or moisture wicking hats, helmets, or balaclavas, especially during cold and dry winter months. These can keep sweat away from your skin and help prevent beard dandruff.
Sleep on bedding—or at least a pillowcase—made out of cotton or another smooth, natural fabric. This can prevent skin irritation, which may otherwise lead to beard dandruff. Make sure to regularly wash any garments or bedding that come in contact with your skin and beard. Use a mild detergent to remove dirt, oil, and bacteria that can clog and irritate skin., Most commercial beard oils are made out of a mixture of essential oils and a carrier oil. Essential oils are pure extracts that are distilled from a plant’s leaves, flowers, bark, stems, or roots.These oils can help treat your beard dandruff and keep your beard soft and supple. Consider using one of the following essential oils to help with your beard dandruff and related skin conditions:Lavender
Cedarwood
Tea tree
Patchouli
Rosemary
Bergamot

, Essential oils are very concentrated and can irritate skin if they are not diluted. A carrier oil such as grapeseed or jojoba will dilute essential oils while giving your skin an added boost of moisture. Consider some of the following carrier oils to dilute your essential oil and moisturize your skin:


Grapeseed oil
Jojoba oil
Avocado oil
Argan oilSweet almond oil

, You can mix your essential and carrier oils daily before you use them or make a batch of beard oil in an amber bottle. A 1-ounce amber bottle will keep the sun or other light from degrading over time. Consider mixing different essential oils and carrier oils to make your own version that meet your skin needs and smells pleasant.Use 1 ounce of carrier oil to 10-15 drops of essential oil. Gently swirl the oils together to incorporate them into one oil.Try mixing different essential oils and carrier oils for your own personal blend. For example, you could mix 1 ounce of carrier oil with 8 drops of patchouli oil, 4 drops of bergamot oil, 2 drop of lavender oil and one drop of black pepper oil. Another blend you can try is ½ ounce argan oil, ¼ oil jojoba oil, ¼ ounce sweet almond oil, 7 drops lavender oil, 5 drops rosemary oil, and 3 drops cedarwood oil.
 Once you have your oil mixed, do a patch test to ensure that you don’t have a bad reaction to it. Leave it on for 5 minutes on an area of your facial skin isn’t visible or obvious to other people. If you don’t have a reaction, you can use your beard oil daily.
 Massage 5-7 drops of your beard oil into your skin and into the beard hair every day if you like. This can help control beard dandruff and related skin problems.Watch for sensitivity to the oil. If this occurs, either add more carrier oil or use the beard oil every other day until your sensitivity stops.

