 If you’re a student, chances are you probably have some homework or classwork you could get done, or get ahead on. Spend some time on your rainy day getting work completed, or even checking back over work you’ve already finished and are getting ready for submission.


If you’re out of school or on break, you could try getting prepared for school to return by creating a calendar or schedule for upcoming projects, assignments, and events. You can make this by hand on paper, or you can use an online or digital tool to create one, like My Study Life or Google Calendar.
 If there are piles of clutter all over your house, spend a rainy day getting things back into order. Start with a certain room in the house, and make your way through to each one. Go through loose papers and receipts, fold and organize clothes, and put away things that have been left out.


If you have a lot of loose paper around, make separate folders to keep it in. Keep a folder for receipts, a folder for mail, a folder for important documents like bank statements, and even one for school papers. Putting things in order will help you find them later.Try organizing the cabinets and drawers in your bathroom. You might be surprised how much clutter can accumulate in those places. Throw out empty shampoo bottles, corral all the loose cotton balls and swabs into proper containers, and keep your cleaners and wipes in one spot.
 Everyone has chores, and if you happen to be behind on yours, use your rainy day as a way to catch up on them. Run a load of laundry, wipe down countertops, make the bed, and do the dishes.


Make cleaning fun! Put on music, and sing and dance along while you work. You could also make mopping fun by rubber-banding some sponges or old towels to your feet and dancing across the kitchen floor to mop it!, Through all your organizing and cleaning, you might come across some items you don’t use or need anymore. Rather than tossing these things in the trash, donate them to a local donation location, like a church or Goodwill store.


Go through all of your clothes, in both your closet and your dresser. Make separate piles for keeping, donating, and and taking to a consignment shop to sell. Once you’ve decided on what to keep, put it away neatly and in an organized way.If there are other people in your household, ask them to pitch in for donations, too. Your parents, siblings, spouse, or children can all take a look through their clothing and belongings and get rid of anything they don’t need.
 Sometimes rearranging the furniture can make a room feel refreshed and re-energized. There are certain methods to arranging furniture in the best way possible, such as placing the sofa across from a central focus, like your television.You could also try moving the furniture in your bedroom. You might find that moving the furniture in a different way could free up more space in your room.
 There are millions of step-by-step instructions for homemade decorations, crafts, and do-it-yourself household projects on the internet. Maybe you already have a few you’d like to start or try, but haven’t gotten around to it yet. A rainy day is a great opportunity to finally get started!


Pinterest is a great place to find a large number of step-by-step instructions for homemade decor, and do-it-yourself projects. Just type in what kind of project you want to do, and pick one you like!

, Check to see what you have on hand in your kitchen and try throwing together a recipe you haven’t tried before. Cooking or baking on a rainy day can be especially fun, and the best part is that you get to eat something delicious when you’re done.


Use the internet or a cookbook to find a recipe, or even just try your hand at coming up with your own. Use ingredients you have on hand at your house so that you don’t have to make a special trip to the grocery store in the rain. If you’re missing something, you could try asking a neighbor—just take your umbrella!

