 Autistic children may not develop speech in the same manner or time frame as their peers do. They might engage in abnormal speech patterns, including echolalia – the repetition of words or sentences spoken by others, sometimes in the same tone or accent.In addition, autistic people may have some of the following language issues:


Confusion of pronouns. Autistic people may confuse “I” and “you” regularly, for example. This is part of the language learning process, so don't worry.
Literal thinking. Autistic people may not understand figures of speech, jokes, and teasing.
Receptive language difficulties. Even if a child has a vast knowledge of vocabulary and syntax, she may not process spoken words well. You may need to repeat yourself.
Frustration. These difficulties can be very frustrating!

, The best approach to language and communication issues depends upon your child’s ability levels. If your child cannot speak at all, for example, it’s best to start with basic signs – even just teaching your child to point at what he or she wants. If, on the other hand, your child speaks in words and phrases, you can work on teaching simple sentences.


Don't feel bad if your child never learns to speak. Nonverbal autistic people can be very happy and successful in life, like Amy Sequenzia. Your child may learn to communicate very well in alternative ways, such as sign language, typing, facilitated communication, and more.
 Speech therapists can help with clarity, sentence structure, and reciprocal behavior. Many therapists are respectful and kind, so your child may look forward to therapy every week!

, Be conversational, even if, for the time being, the conversations are one-sided. Explain why things happen the way they do, especially if your child seems upset or confused about something. (For example, "Going to the grocery store means that we can have enough healthy and yummy food for the week. You can help me pick out good things when we get there.") Recite poems and sing songs.
 Tell your child stories daily – especially at bedtime, when he or she is tired and ready to listen. Encourage your child to tell a story of their own, whether you can understand it or not; this will make your child more confident and less frustrated.


In general, it’s best to avoid making your child feel too awkward. During these stories, appreciate what your child is trying to convey, and ask a question or two if you want to understand better. Sometimes you may have to pretend to understand.
 Repeat the words that you want your child to learn, while pointing at or touching the desired object – “This is your bed. Bed. Can you say bed?” – and praise your child for repeating after you and participating.
 Have pictures of important things your child might want to communication – for example, food, drink, a book, a favorite toy, bed. Your child can then use these pictures to show you what they want.

