 A few weeks before school starts, try to find some good back to school clothes that fit well. For girls, a pair of nice and well-fitting jeans along with a cute top would look great! Make sure your sandals and accessories match, too! For boys, some jeans that fit, sneakers, and nice tee-shirt or polo shirt should do the trick.


If your school requires uniforms, make sure that you are in full uniform on your first day.Then you may do your hair fashionably and different to make you stand out.If your school doesn't require uniforms, make sure you follow the dress code carefully on the first day of school.





;
, If you are new, walk up to a group of kids that look friendly and smile. Say, "hi, I'm new here. My name is (insert name.") Then, wait for them to respond. They likely will state their names and say hello as well.
, Put in any binders and supplies you brought with you inside. It's a good idea to bring a locker shelf, too. Save the decorations and locker accessories for later.
 You'll be glad for it later. Even though school hasn't officially started, teachers will take this time to start giving your workbook, textbooks, and multiple folders to keep up with.
 Whatever you do, try to not be late for class. It makes a bad, first impression.
 Try choosing a seat in the front or close to it. This gives your teacher an impression saying that you are ready to learn. If you're going to doze off, sit at the back. If you want to make a really good impression on your teacher, ask him/her how their summer was, then sit down after that. Make sure you have some necessary supplies with you.
 Ask people questions and sound interested in what they are saying.
, Sit up straight and don't fool with your hands. Look like you know what you're doing and walk with stride. Hold your head high, but not TOO high. If you're a girl, cross your legs or don't spread them apart. Guys, don't slouch too much. It comes across as uninterested.
 Ask him/her questions and smile. Tell them that they look great, and that it's good to see them!

,, Socialize with friends until your ride gets there and head on home. You have now survived the first day of junior high!

