 Hard water stains will likely look like a chalky white residue on the surface of your counter. There are several cleaners specifically made for removing these kinds of marks. Spray your choice of these solutions on the stain, let it sit for about 1-2 minutes, and then rinse and dry the area., There are a few natural solutions that may be able to stand in for chemical cleaners. Spray lemon juice on the stain and leave it on for ten minutes, then rinse and dry the area. Also, try wiping down the spot with a mixture of half water and half distilled white vinegar. Rinse and dry the countertop after you clean with this solution., Pour a small circle of liquid mild abrasive cleaner on a damp sponge. Wipe the damaged area with the cleaner in small circular motions, going forward and backward as well as side to side. Clean the entire area, and then thoroughly rinse the spot down with warm water. Dry it with a soft cloth, and check if the damage has been removed. This should take care of most stains and blotches as well.You may need to repeat this process a few times before the blotch or scratch is removed. Apply more pressure with the sponge the second and third times.
 For a natural abrasive cleaner, mix distilled white vinegar with baking soda and clean in the same way you would with a chemical cleaner. Add enough baking soda so that the mixture is more of a paste than a liquid. Do not, however, use this solution as an alternative to cleaning your counters with soap and water., DuPont recommends using Micro-Mesh Soft Touch Pad kits on Corian countertops. These kits include several different “grit” options that allow you to slowly move from low-grit to higher-grit options, depending on the severity of the scratch.Be sure the area is thoroughly washed before you begin sanding. Leave the surface wet during sanding. Repeat the cleaning process once you’re finished sanding.
Start with the peach-colored 1500 AO material. Next, try the blue 4000 AO pad, and finally the gray 12000 AO option. Lightly rub the pad over the scratch in a single-line motion, rather than a circle. Change your direction about 90° periodically, so that you’re making a box with your sanding motions. Rinse and dry your pad if too much residue builds up.Avoid pressing too deeply, as this may cause an indentation or deeper scratch.