


The most convenient way to order Philadelphia Phillies tickets is to buy them at the Phillies' official website. A link is listed in the Source section of this article. Once on the homepage, click on the "Tickets" tab at the top of the page and you will be taken to the ticket sales page.
Next, click on the "Buy Tickets" button and you will be taken to a page that lists all of the remaining home game dates and times. Any promotions scheduled for that day will also be listed. Click on the "T" box to check availability for your selected game.
There is a good chance that there will be no tickets available when you check for your selected game date. If this is the case, the site tells you that tickets may be made available at a later date. These will probably be Standing Room tickets, which will be described later in this article.
If tickets are available for the game that you have chosen, you will be prompted to select your seats from those available. You can print your tickets at home after paying with a credit card. This will save time, since the tickets will not need to be mailed to you and you will not have to pick them up at the Will Call window at the ballpark.;
,


Speak to a sales representative by calling the Phillies' ticket office at 215-463-1000. The representative will guide you through the process of finding the best available seats for a game.



Like the telephone representative, the ticket window representative will be able to help you find the best available seats for an upcoming game.
The Phillies will usually open up a certain amount of Standing Room tickets for that day's game if the game is sold out. These tickets go on sale 3 hours before game time and must be bought in person at the ticket window. There is a limit of 2 tickets per person.



There are many online ticket brokers where hard-to-find tickets can be bought. Many of them allow ticket holders who cannot go to the game to sell their tickets, sometimes at a discounted price, to those looking for tickets. Check each broker's website for the process of buying the tickets.

