 You usually know what your class is going to be about because your teacher assigned you some kind of material ahead of time. As you are getting to class, think about what you will be covering that day, mentally preparing yourself for the time ahead. This process will get you in the right frame of mind and help you absorb information better., If you're in high school, you really don't have the option not to show up, but in college, you're in charge of your own time. One of the easiest ways to earn good grades without studying much is to show up to your classes and listen to what your teacher has to say. That means not just showing up but being attentive as well.In addition, many professors will make attendance and participation a part of your grade. Therefore, just attending will contribute to you making better grades. If you don't show up enough, you lose those points., It may be tempting to sit in the back row, out of sight and mind of your professor. However, you'll be better able to see what your professor is writing on the board at the front, and you'll be able to hear her better. You'll also be less tempted to let your mind wander.
 If you're confused about something, don't be afraid to ask a question. Your teacher will be happy to shed some light on what's confusing you, and other students will likely have the same question.
 It may sound difficult to do, especially if the subject is something you don't like, such as math. However, start out by feigning interest, if you have to. Psych yourself up, saying how much you love math. Try to find parts of it that do interest you, even if it's a small part. Being interested in what you're learning helps you to take in information more effectively., Your teacher will likely clue you in to what's important by writing main ideas on the board or emphasizing it with her voice. She may even repeat the main ideas to make sure the class is understanding what's important. Constantly be asking yourself what the main ideas and main points are, so that you are using your time in class to think about and absorb the ideas., Taking good notes does not mean writing down every word your teacher says. In fact, that often means you aren't absorbing the information, just re-writing it on the page. You also won't be able to keep up, unless you are taking notes on a computer and can type very fast. Therefore, it's best to write down notes with a few words or short sentences that capture the main points.For instance, if your teacher says, "We're talking about verbs today. Verbs are the action of the sentence. There are two main types of verbs, being and action verbs." You could write: "Verbs: action of sentence. 2 types: being, action."
It's a good idea to use shorthand or abbreviations to make your writing faster, but be sure to be consistent so that you always know what you wrote.Though you can capture more with a computer, studies have shown that taking notes by hand actually helps you learn more than taking notes on a computer., It's tempting to stop being interested if the room is too hot or people are talking. Maybe the day is really nice outside, or you just don't feel like being there. Commit yourself to paying attention. Block out what's distracting you, and focus only on what the teacher is saying and the class discussion.Everybody's mind wanders sometime. When you find yourself drifting away, bring your focus back to what your teacher is saying.
If you absolutely cannot focus or you find yourself going to sleep, try going to the bathroom for a short break to splash water on your face, if your teacher will let you.
 If you hand-wrote your notes, try typing your notes when you get back home. Typing them will reinforce the information in your brain, helping it to stick for longer. If you typed your notes in class, try re-reading them when you get back home.