 Some find it useful to go and watch other stand-ups, but remember that the more you see of how other people approach it, the harder it is to be original. Ask some friends about funny stories or jokes that they might have, then stretch it a little. Make it very interesting. Have you noticed that some comedians make fun of the scariest things that have happened to them? Well, you can too! There has to be at least a couple of scary moments that have occurred.;
, This may require some patience as some clubs have a long waiting list of acts. If no clubs in town are ready for you, look into schools, talent shows, anywhere that will have an audience. Always tell jokes to anybody even if they are somewhat strangers to you. For instance, let's say you run into this lady at the supermarket. You grab the same can of peaches or something. Say sorry and try to tell a joke that related to that situation, any joke that comes to mind. Just try to get a humorous vibe with everybody.. If that doesn't work just tell jokes about sex you never had, who knows? That might be a club owner who is looking for comedy acts. So, always keep a positive funny attitude with anybody.
 Learn your material inside-out. Practice saying it out loud. This may seem uncomfortable at first, but it will help to hear your set spoken out loud. Most comedians try to rehearse alone or with their manager or club owner. Try to stay away from asking your friends to watch you rehearse because then it spills the beans and gives out your comedy act. Practice makes perfect right? Well, perfect practice makes perfect so if you are practicing with little perseverance you might as well not practice at all.
 Listen to the MC and the other acts, and note how loud they are, and where they are holding the microphone. No matter how crazy the audience goes, never yell. That will totally get them out of the mood and maybe even hurt their ears!

, Many comics use vibrating watches so that they know when their time is up without the annoyance of an audible alarm going off.
 The cool thing about having a datebook is that if some club calls you and asks you to do a comedy act with them you can say, "Oh, I'll have to check my datebook." Then they will be like, "Whoa they got a datebook, must be pretty successful." See? Works every time, seriously.
 Be really critical. If a bit really doesn't work, re-write it or ditch it and write something that does. Repeat this process.
 If you asked for it don't ignore it but remember it is only an opinion. If what they suggest doesn’t feel right to you ask yourself why, and use your own common sense to see if their suggestions would work for you.
 By that I mean, be prepared to act like a total baby when someone doesn't like your joke. Some people will not find you funny, (because you aren't) the big stars avoid most audience critics due to ticket prices discourage the casual dissenter, however they still get soft-hecklers, those who want their minute of fame. You, the aspiring comic, will have to deal with both soft and die-hard hecklers. This may happen at any time but it is most likely after one of your punch-lines has failed to entertain. When you are heckled, you can do one of three things. The first is to ignore it and carry on, which is often the most sensible option for new comics, who have no way of knowing whether the audience is with them or not. The second and third are both to make a response. You may either merely make a dismissive response, or attempt to make a joke out of the heckle and/or heckler. Try to avoid personal insults, they don't go down well. The best responses are those that win you the moral victory. Keep retorts short and sweet. If you think of a good one later, keep in for the next time you hear a similar heckle, it is amazing how often the same heckle will occur.

