 St. John's wort is a plant with bright yellow flowers and a few black dots along the margins of the flower (depending of the species). The leaves of the plant have transparent dots. Each flower will have five petals. You can find the flower growing in fields and pastures in sunny areas. Flowers bloom from late June to early September.To harvest the plant cut off the upper first third of the plant. Dry the flowers by hanging them upside down in a cool, dry place.Once the flowers are dried, store them in an airtight glass container. You can keep them for up to one year.
Find a picture of the flower and take it with you when you go harvesting.
 You can buy seeds and grow your own St. John's wort as well. Plant your seeds in early spring after the last frost. To be safe, plant your seeds indoors first, and then replant outside in late spring when the plant is about two inches tall. Your flowers will not bloom until the second year. If you need your St. John's wort immediately, it is best to harvest the plant or buy the dried flowers.
 If you do not want to grow or harvest your own, you can buy dried St. John's wort from a store or online. You can then make your own tea and oil with the dried plant. Look for plants that were grown organically and harvested within the last year.
 Take the flowering tops and a couple of inches of the plant and place them in a glass jar. Cover the flowers with olive oil. Set the jar in a sunny window for two to four weeks until the oil becomes bright red. Once the oil is red, use a strainer to separate the flowers and the oil. Pour the oil into a bottle with a lid and keep it in a dark cupboard. The oil should last for a year., You will need 1/4 a cup of the plant if you are using fresh St. John's wort for your tea. If you are using dried plant, you will only need two teaspoons. Pour a cup of boiling water over the plant and let it sit for 5 minutes. Strain the water to remove all of the plant and drink the tea. You can add honey and lemon to improve the taste.

