 Vocal pauses include words like "um..." "uh..." "like..." and "yeah". For example, "I, like, had so much fun at the... uh... yeah!! That place! You know..." These small words go unnoticed in everyday conversation, but using them now makes you look unprepared. Your audience will lose focus as a result. You should try to add emphatic pauses to key points, without filler words. Let the audience hang onto the words a bit after you've made an important point, then move on to the next statement without any ums or ahs.


For a masterclass in dramatic pauses, watch one of President Obama's speeches. Note how he goes silent after major points that he wants to sink in, but only for 1-2 seconds.
 A great oral presentation feels a bit like a circle, and by the time the presenter is back to the beginning the audience is already onboard. A good introduction includes a surprising statistic or anecdote, grabbing the audience's attention for the speech. The conclusion brings you back to this important, enthralling statistic, issue, or story. When you return, you've illuminated the fact in a new light. When you "retell" the intro the second time, the audience has a new appreciation for it, and maybe some ideas about how to address the problems or ideas., You want your points, especially your final, overarching idea, to be actionable. Actionable means that the audience can do something or get involved. For the sandwich shop, this might be an invitation to invest a certain amount of money or sign a contract. But even informative/academic presentations can benefit from this strategy. Ask yourself: where can the audience learn more or get involved? If the audience feels engaged with your presentation they are much more likely to remember it.
 The human brain remembers short, repeated phrases easily, and you can use this to your advantage. You may not know that full text of the speech, but "I have a dream" became one of the most iconic phrases of the 20th century because it perfectly summed up King's point. It was quick, on-topic, and repeated frequently.
 The internet is a treasure trove of great oral presentations, all of which have something to teach you. From the casual information dumps of TED talks to the speeches of great orators like Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr, watch a few speeches to get a sense of how the best conduct themselves. More likely than not, you'll notice a few patterns:


The ability to work the crowd. Get a few laughs early on, go slow, and lay out exactly what you are talking about. Great speakers get the audience on their side so that there is thunderous applause to cap the best points.
Simplification of ideas. Even the most complex ideas are boiled down into 1-2 easily comprehended, coherent points. When neuroscientists talk about the brain for TED talks, most of the science may go over your head. But if the main finding or idea is presented clearly, early, and often ("your brain both resists and adjusts to trauma," "synesthesia is the mixing of two senses in the brain"), you can still get the important information across, even if the finer details are lost.
Relevance to the audience. Why should your audience care? How does what you're saying affect the people in the crowd? A great oral presentation makes everyone in the room feel personally affected. It brings them into your world and helps them see your point of view as their own.