 Cats most commonly get tapeworms by ingesting a flea that has tapeworm larvae. Because of this, you can prevent tapeworms by using a flea preventative on your cat. If your cat already has fleas, you need to use a product to get rid of them. To control the fleas, and therefore the exposure to tapeworms, around your cat, you need to treat the cat and the environment.There are many topical products that work to control fleas on your cat. Flea medications include Revolution, Frontline, Advantage, Seresto flea and tick collar, and Capstar tablets.;
, If you find fleas on your cat, after treating the cat you will need to clean and treat your home to get rid of any fleas and eggs that have contaminated the home. If your cat got tapeworms from the infested environment, there is a high risk of other fleas carrying tapeworm larvae and reinfecting your cat. You should treat areas both indoors and outdoors, along with the area where your cat lives, plays, and sleeps. Otherwise, the fleas will continue to be a threat to your cat for up to eight months. You need to vacuum all floors, rugs, and furniture.The contents of the vacuum will need to be thrown away in the garbage and brought out of the house to prevent reinfestation.
Floorboards, tile, hardwood floors, rugs, carpets, and furniture should all be vacuumed to remove as many fleas and eggs as possible.
Pet bedding or any washable items, like sheets or towels, should be washed in hot water and dried in a dryer. Bed mattresses should also be vacuumed on the top, sides, and bottom.
After a through vacuuming, washing, and drying, the home will need to be treated with an insecticide.
For the best results consult veterinary staff or an exterminator for help in choosing the best product to eliminate fleas. An important component is to use a product which has residual effect on killing any new infestations and eggs in the future.
 You may want to use a monthly medication to help control worms in your cat. Many heartworm medications will help prevent tapeworms. Talk to your veterinarian about putting your cat on a monthly worm medication. Don’t put your cat on any medication without talking to your vet first.Outdoor cats that hunt a lot may need to be frequently dewormed against tapeworms in order to keep tapeworms from becoming a problem.
 You may want to consider keeping all your cats indoors. Cats get tapeworms from coming in contact with fleas or contaminated feces or rodents. By keeping your cat indoors, you eliminate his exposure to contaminants.Keeping your cat indoors doesn’t eliminate fleas completely, but it helps significantly reduce the risk of your cat contracting fleas.

