 Go to counseling as soon as possible so you can discuss how the family fracture is affecting you. It's best to talk about this with other people rather than keeping it to yourself, and a counselor is the perfect person to help you.;
, Learn to forgive them, and realize that it is they that have the problem, not you. If they want to block you out of their lives, sometimes there is nothing that you can do about it - it's their loss.
 Start a journal that helps channel your feelings about this matter. You never know, it could end up being a best seller, and if not, it's a great way to get your emotions out instead of bottling them up.
 Just because you are related to someone, doesn't mean they are a good person.
 Start a new hobby and join interest groups. By keeping busy, especially while doing something that you really enjoy, it will help keep your mind off of your grandchildren. Have fun and begin to realize that you can live your life to the fullest, even without them.
 If you'd like, join websites like Facebook and add close friends and family members that you're still on good terms with as your friends. This will help you stay connected to the people that you love and who love you, and it will also help to fill the void in your life.
 Try contacting them, but don't push it as it may make things worse, especially if its an emotional letter. Slowly does it. If they still don't want anything to do with you, step back. Sometimes forcing them to contact you will ruin your relationship.
 Live your own life and trust in Karma to bring balance back into your life. Think good thoughts and do good deeds every single day, because by doing so something good is bound to come back to you.
 Be productive and contribute to your community and you will find a new family to love and fill your life. Sometimes the best family are the people you choose to be in it, not the ones you are related to by some accident of birth or marriage.
 In Australia, the Laws changed in 2006, making it an offense to block access to grandchildren except in the most extenuating circumstances (eg: pedophilia, psychopathy, etc). But, consider the long lasting effects on both your family and yourself if you do go down this path as there is no turning back.

