 You must be a LEED GA to certify as an Associated Professional. LEED AP's have specific, detailed knowledge of one area of LEED certification, from building to interior design to home construction, allowing them to work on complicated projects and systems., There are five specific LEED AP certifications, each with their own test, eligibility, and requirements:



BD+C: Building Design and Construction. Plans and builds green structures in any sector-- commercial, home, healthcare, educational, etc.

O+M: Operations and Management. LEED O+Ms update existing structures to be more sustainable, resourceful, and efficient.

ID+C: Interior Design and Construction. Design and build indoor home and commercial spaces to make them more healthy, efficient and productive.

ND: Neighborhood Development. Designs, plans, and develops large living spaces as walkable, comfortable neighborhoods.

Homes: Specializes in designing healthy, durable homes with minimal waste and efficient energy consumption., The test is administered at specific testing sites throughout the country. To register for the test, you must apply online here. You will be asked to locate an exam center near your and schedule an appointment to take the test.


To save money and time, you can take both the GA test and your specific AP test together., Each test has different questions and requirements to pass. Be sure to buy the correct study materials for you test a few months in advance and take a class if you need. Exam prep guides for each test can be found on the LEED website here.
 Make sure that you bring a valid, non-expired photo ID or you will not be allowed to take the test. You will be seated at a personal computer and given 100 questions to answer within a two hour window. You must answer all of them, though you can "flag" questions to return to later if you wish. When you are done, you will be given your score instantly.


Like the GA test, you must score 170 points or higher to pass.
You will be given a 10 minute break midway through the test.
 AP's must prove they have earned 30 continuing education (CE) hours (six must be LEED-specific) every 2 years to maintain their credential. This can include building projects, classes, or internships.


If you do not document your CE hours, you will have to retake the test after two years.