 Just like the lead line draws people into your article, the front page story needs to draw people into your paper. Choose a story that is relevant, timely, or especially unique and make sure you have a quality picture accompanying it.


Think about what story will grab the most people's attention. It may be a dramatic sporting event, or a piece of breaking-news, but no matter what it needs to have wide appeal.
 Usually the editors, not the reporters, write headlines. The goal is to give the reader a brief, catchy hint at what the story is about without giving away the entire article. The best headlines are short and eye-catching and promises the reader new information, or force them to ask a question they want answered.


Use numbers whenever possible. They communicate a lot of information without a lot of space.
Use active language, interesting adjectives, and expressive verbs. Ex. "Rouge Deer Smashes into Deli Window." , This is crucial the bigger the paper gets. No matter how good your stories, some people only pick up a paper to read sports, or check out the opinion pages, or do the puzzles. Group similar articles together in a format that works for you, and remain consistent in every issue so your readers become comfortable.


Put a small table of contents on the first page or your homepage to help people search.
Order your paper so that your most compelling sections come near the front. , Whether online or in print, having paid advertisements is essential if you ever want to turn a profit on your newspaper -- subscriptions and sales are too small of a market to rely on completely. Once you determine how much space you want to devote to ads, ask friends and local businesses if they want to take out an ad, or if they know anyone who does.


Give potential buyers options at different price ranges: small, black and white ads are cheap, but full page color advertisements are going to cost a lot extra.
Many blogs and websites allow you to sign up for already designed advertising programs, where you get paid per advertisement clicked. Check your website host or use Google AdSense to find advertisers for free. , Once you've chosen your stories and ads, you need to decide where they all go. Also know as paste-up, laying out your newspaper is a full-time job requiring journalism, design, and computer skills. Today, desktop software such as Scribus (free), Serif PagePlus (cheap) or Adobe InDesign provides templates and tools to create any layout you can imagine. In general, newspaper layout has only a few hard and fast rules:


Remember, clarity before everything else. If it is difficult to read or find articles then you need a new design.
Edit, cut, or change stories to make them fit if you need.
Bold and center your headlines so they stand out.
Never use anything smaller than an 11-point font.
Use no more than two fonts to prevent confusion and clutter.
Be sure to set your computers to a CMYK color scheme instead of the default RGB, as ink printers refer to CMYK when printing.
Fill up any remaining space with ads, puzzles, comics, or miscellaneous stories. Look up some of your favorite designs, or research some award winning newspaper layouts for ideas if you're stuck.

