 Make sure you have a range of people: you need some with creativity when it comes to characters and plot, some who can write, and some who can draw. Remember, if someone is an amazing artist but doesn't work very much, you are probably better off with an adequate illustrator who would like to help you out more.;
, Maybe write things up on a whiteboard, have everyone bring a notebook or whatever you want. Hopefully by the end of your meeting you will have selected a genre for your new comic.
 You could divide the group so that one half writes the script, whilst the other half designs characters and the setting, but it is best to have everyone sitting down talking about the characters and story together. Try to have designed at least 1 character and have a basic story planned out for your comic.
 Have everyone put in some effort and start allocating roles to everyone (e.g. 2 inkers, 2 drawers, 3 writers etc.), create as many characters, write as much story and draw as much concept art as possible so you can get going with your comic. You might want to do some research in case your comic is set in a certain time period, e.g. if your comic is set during the Golden Age of Piracy, research some pirates, locations and general information about your comic.
 Finish the story for one book/novel by the end of this meeting.
 Plan a script for each panel/page so you know where the comic is going.
 You may want to add gutters or spaces between your panels so it is obvious when one panel ends. Make sure the reader can understand the ordering of the panels.
 Once the drawings are perfect and everyone is happy, ink them with a drawing pen. I recommend using 0.05mm-0.3mm Pilot or Staedtler pens.
 Hopefully you will finish the comic and continue to be a productive team the entire time. But don't get worried if there are small arguments- it is completely natural for this to happen between friends or team-mates, but they don't last long.
 If you are the team leader, hear everyone's ideas out and keep everyone happy. Make sure everyone gets a break or goofing off time- yourself included!

