 If you are underweight, try to lift weights about three times a week, either at home or at the gym. Do not worry about how much weight you might gain, whether it is fat or muscle. John is built with a balance of both which compliment his fighting abilities. Also, do power-exercises, but do not focus so much on running. If you are overweight, begin losing weight by running much more and getting in shape by doing explosive, military exercises. Eat within your calorie intake; you can consume three meals a day, but make sure it is in large quantities.;
, Do stretches and do yoga, try and gain more flexibility. John Cena is both big in stature, but has a lot of flexibility despite his size. What big guy do you know can jump, extend their legs, and kick someone in the jaw?

, Incorporate a lot of jumping in to your exercises. Jumping rope, jumping jacks, and box-jumps. Anything you can do that increases your ability to get explosive leg strength.
 Most of your power comes from your hips, but John uses his hips a lot. Therefore, any attack that comes, try and use your hips.
 Bend your head downwards slightly while looking straight ahead of you. Walk with a very stiff, consistent movement. You should not appear that graceful.
 Now that you have mastered all five steps, it is time to learn new techniques. Get a friend, first of all, within your weight range. You do not want to hurt yourself if your opponent is heavier than you. You also do not want to hurt your friend if he is lighter than you. Challenge them to a friendly, wrestling match. The rules are simple, you start off in a squat stance, and your goal is to stay in that stance if you are ever on your feet. The way to win the match is by pinning your opponent or getting him to submit, this is a good way to practice a football tackle.
 It is time to learn some of John's tricks to how he does his movement. Buy a punching bag, first of all. Start in a horse stance which is like a squat stance, except widened. Your knees should not extend in front of your toes. Begin with punches and jabs while trying your best to incorporate hip movement. For kicking, just work on front kicks. Stay straight and try to not move from the position you are in.

