 After waking up, you may notice your face looks slick and shiny, especially in the t-zone area (forehead, nose and chin). Before you fix your makeup, it’s important to get rid of it. Applying a fresh coat of makeup on top of it can lead to clogged pores, damaged skin and serious breakouts. Blotting papers can quickly and easily soak up the oil, and best of all, they will leave your makeup intact.Press the blotting paper firmly against your skin and you’ll see the paper soaking up the grease. If you are prone to oily skin, you may need to use two or three blotting papers to get rid of the oil.
Blotting papers can be purchased at any drugstore. Look for them on the skin care aisle and keep a packet in your makeup bag.;
, Whether you tossed and turned in your sleep or experienced watery eyes when you woke up, chances are your mascara is now smudged. Inspect your eye area for any black smudges. Use a pre-moistened makeup remover wipe to gently blot your skin and remove the smudges. Be gentle. The skin around your eyes is fragile and can become irritated from vigorous wiping.


Only blot where you see smudges. Do not wipe your lashes or remove your mascara completely unless it has been smeared beyond repair.
If your lashes are stuck together or if most of your mascara is now on your skin, you will probably need to remove it completely.
 Upon waking, your lips are probably going to be dry. If you were wearing lipstick when you fell asleep, it has likely soaked into the dry skin on your lips or stained the area around your mouth. You can take care of this easily by using a fresh makeup remover wipe to dab around your lips. Take care to get in the corners of your mouth and remove any last traces of lipstick from the skin around your mouth.If your lips feel particularly dry, follow up with a layer of lip balm.
 These specialty products can refresh the way both your skin and makeup appear. They plump up the skin with hydration, which creates a dewy surface. As a result, your complexion looks more luminous and your makeup becomes moistened and refreshed.After you spray it on, use a damp makeup applicator sponge or beauty blender to pat any areas that look streaky or blotchy. This will blend the makeup back into your skin evenly., Take a good look at what’s left of your makeup so that you know what you need to fix. Check your foundation first. Is it smeared or streaky at all? If so, run a makeup applicator sponge or beauty blender under warm water, then wring it out so that it’s damp but not wet. Pat at the streaky areas on your face gently with the sponge to blend the makeup back into your skin.


The warmth and dampness of the sponge help smooth the foundation out., After blending away streaks, your foundation should look fairly even. However, you may need to touch up a few areas that require more coverage. Pick up a very small amount of BB cream or lightweight foundation with the damp sponge, and then lightly pat it onto your skin. Use the sponge to blend the new makeup into what you already have on your face.Even if you feel tempted, avoid reapplying foundation all over your face because the results may look very obvious and unnatural.
Stick to sheer layers of coverage only in the places where you need it.
 Most of your blush is probably gone from your cheeks at this point. Refresh it with your favorite blush product. Use a light touch – you can always add more blush, if you need to, but once you apply too much, it's harder to fix. Start slowly and brush it onto the apples of your cheeks. Blend the blush outward very subtly along your cheekbones.


Consider using a cream blush. Cream blush is very sheer, whereas powdered blush may look cakey when applied on top of BB creams and liquid foundations., Refresh your eyes by adding one very light coat of your usual mascara to your top and bottom lashes. Be sure to wipe excess mascara off the wand before you start putting it on your lashes. Since you already have mascara on, adding more on top of it can easily result in clumping if you’re not careful. Resist the urge to apply more than one coat., Since you just woke up, your complexion – especially around the eye area – may appear a little dull. This is normal! Your usual glow will kick in once you start moving around, but help it along by dusting a light layer of highlighter right above your cheekbones. Aim for the area between your eyes and cheekbones. This will help to brighten up your face and eyes a bit.
 Since you’ve already cleaned your mouth with the makeup wipe, you have a fresh canvas to work with. Apply your favorite lipstick as you normally would.Adding a clear gloss over the color will add a little sparkle to your face and make you look less tired.


If you aren’t a lipstick person, applying clear gloss to your lips is still a great idea because it will brighten up your natural lip color.
 Don’t wear the same face of makeup for longer than 18 consecutive hours.The next day, take a day off from applying makeup, if possible. Your skin is going to need a break after wearing a double layer of makeup the day before. You can avoid major breakouts and other skin issues if you skip makeup the next day and let your pores breathe.
 If you are in the habit of falling asleep with your makeup on, your skin may start to show the effects. Your complexion may start to look dull because your dead skin cells aren’t being washed away often enough. This can also make your skin look older and emphasize wrinkles. If you already have acne, it may worsen over time. You also run the risk of getting a skin infection or rash.Strive to always wash your face before sleeping to avoid dealing with these unpleasant problems.
 Even if you’re incredibly tired and already in bed with a face full of makeup on, keeping these wipes on your nightstand will make it easy for you to reach over and grab them. Wiping your makeup off in bed shouldn’t take the place of regularly cleansing your face at the sink, but in a pinch, this technique can help you avoid many of the negative effects associated with sleeping in your makeup.