 Keep your dog cozy indoors with a great dog bed suited for its particular needs. If your dog is shorthaired and often shivers, get it a cave-like bed with a fluffy overhang. If your longhaired dog is prone to getting hot, use a cot-style bed without any fluff.Consider getting an orthopedic memory foam bed for your older dog with joint problems.;
, A good rule of thumb is to let your own comfort guide your sensibilities when it comes to your dog. Dogs are a lot like humans in that they don't handle wide swings in body temperature very well. While there's no specific temperature that's right for all dogs, most will start to overheat when the temperature reaches the mid-80s Fahrenheit.When you feel hot, keep in mind that your long-haired dog has a fur coat that doesn't lose heat as well as your perspiring skin. During hot spells, air conditioning is best. Cold water and wet towels are also helpful.
Like humans, most dogs are comfortable in the high 60s to low 70s. Try to maintain this temperature in your home.
If you take your short-haired dog for a walk, give it a sweater when the outdoor wind chill or feel like temperature is below 45 degrees Fahrenheit.
 Since dogs are den animals, crate training can be an effective way of offering them a safe, comfortable space. It’s best to start crate training early when the dog is a puppy, but older dogs can also be crate trained. The key to crate training is to avoid using the crate as a form of punishment.


If your dog misbehaves, don’t immediately pick it up or grab it by the collar and throw it in the crate. Crate training is only successful when the dog comes to associate the crate with security.
Some dogs enjoy a crate with a blanket draped over it for a little extra security and coziness.
If your crate trained dog associates the crate with security, it can be among the most comfortable options for leaving your dog alone. Your dog will feel safe in its den. As a bonus, it won't get into anything it shouldn't while you're away from the house.
If you want to keep it cozy and out of trouble while you're away but your dog resists crates, a blocked off room with a window is a good substitute.
 Your dog won’t be comfortable inside if you find yourself constantly yelling at it for getting into things it shouldn’t. If your dog consistently gets into bathrooms, areas in the kitchen, or jumps onto bedroom furniture, consider using baby gates or closing doors to prevent it from entering areas.


Try to be consistent about all house rules. Your dog wants to obey rules and will be most comfortable when rules are consistent. If you don’t want it to jump on furniture, don’t make any exceptions. If you don’t want to it beg for food or nip at you when you’re making food, never give it anything except dog food and treats.

