 Screen Savers were originally an application used to avoid a static picture from being branded on the screen. However, nowadays' screens don't suffer of that problem, which makes Screen Savers unnecessary- And keeping your screen active wastes energy. Instead of the screen saver, apply the option of Shutting Off Screen after five minutes of being unused, so no energy will be wasted on it while it isn't being used.;
, Black doesn't demand pixels to be activated- Which means there's less energy used for this aim. Seriously, you don't practically NEED for a wallpaper- It is merely an extra, that does not justify the waste.
 Not only they waste way less energy, they also last much longer than heat bulbs. Nowadays you could find Fluorescent with a warm, pleasant light that look just like heat bulbs, so nobody would notice the difference except for your Energy bills.


Make sure to dispose of fluorescent bulbs correctly. They contain Mercury, and thus need to be separated and disposed of along with toxic waste such as batteries. See How to Dispose of Hazardous Waste.
, They add more oxygen to the air and breath Co2, which means a less polluted air. If you don't have a green thumb, choose something that is rather easy to case. "Lucky Bamboo" or Aloe are especially good for that, since they demand nearly no attention. If possible, grow more than one plant.
 This way you'll enjoy more of daylight and won't need for electric lights.
 Before throwing it away, think-, If the answer is Yes, consider handing it to a second hand store or donate it. This way there will be no need to produce another similar item for the use of somebody else.


Is its material usable? If the answer is Yes, consider recycling- Either by changing the item's purpose, or by handing to material-recycling.
Is it organic? If the answer is Yes, separate it from the rest of your trash and give away all your organic trash to someone who has a composter. Or consider getting one yourself. Using organic trash for composts not only saves materials from being wasted, it actually HELPS plants grow better.
 Seriously. Except for maybe medicines, the rest of examinations are no more than just tormenting animals.
 The Meat/Leather industry causes great pollution, on the top of being terribly wasteful. And of course, you'll reduce animals tormenting.
 Good. Don't get more of them. Ironically, producing them creates more pollution than producing plastic bags. This doesn't mean you should use plastic bags- Just don't get more bags than you actually need.

