 Dry-aging your meat is the natural way to cause enzymatic tenderization. Enzymes in the meat will break muscle fiber down and make the cut more tender, and more flavorful, as the meat ages. Note, however, that this process can take 20 or more days., You want to look for large cuts of meats that are cooked using a quick cooking method. This means the porterhouse steak, New York strip steak, and rib steak the best cuts for dry-aging. It is important that you get a really large cut--you will not be able to dry-age individual steaks, as you will need to cut away the exterior before you cook your meat, and a small steak will wither down to next to nothing if you dry-age it.If you are dry-aging ribs, go for the 109A (which is a cut of rib--ask your butcher and he will know what you are talking about). It is a cut that has had chine bone almost entirely sawed off, but the fat cap is put back on.
 You will either need space in your refrigerator, or your own mini-fridge that you can use solely for aging meat. A mini-fridge is really the best way to go, as dry-aging meat can get a little smelly and may stink up your normal fridge.


You will also need to add a small fan to your fridge--a normal desk fan will work fine. Cut a hole in the fridge door’s seal so that you can run your fan’s cord through it. The fan is important because it helps to create an even dry-aging environment that will result in a piece of meat that is evenly dried on all sides.
 Your meat must be aged on a rack rather than on a plate or directly on the surface of your fridge. The plate does not allow your meat to dehydrate and could very easily result in your meat rotting away.
 Generally, you will want to shoot for a minimum of 20 days of aging. 14 to 28 days is generally the average time restaurants take to age their steaks. 28 to 45 days is when really intense flavor starts to emerge and the meat gets very tender. Anything after 45 and the flavor gets incredibly strong (some would even say too strong) but that really depends on your preferences in flavor., When you dry-age meat, you will need to trim it down before you eat it and cook it. You will want to cut your meat down into individual steaks.

