 You can find good options for welfare. Choose your state and city carefully, as many cities have a nice array of housing, food, medical programs, etc. The more a city is offering, the more you might get, as long as you have chosen to live in the right one!;
, If you work, and make more than the arbitrary amount deemed as a minimum by the welfare entity, you could lose some or all your benefits for a certain period of time, for months, each year. Know the annual amount allowed. Check with agencies in your nation, state or local area. They are full of people who know the rules, and they will help guide you so that you don't accidentally make enough money that you will be required to pay tax. Paying much tax is a good way to lose money, so you probably would not want to do that.
 You may want to get back or keep more of what you make, if so then you may be careful not to earn too much.
 It may not pay if you want to receive entitlements (unearned assistance). The harder or smarter you work, or the more time you spend working, the more money you can get in the long-run. This sounds good, until you realize the facts. "Accumulating" a certain amount of money/savings/property, can knock you out of eligibility for several kinds of programs similar to:
Medicaid, (do not confuse this with earned insurance like Medicare),
Rent support,
Free preschool, etc.
 There is no reason that working hard has to get in the way of collecting state benefits, or being a professional student, as long as you don't get paid much for what you do. So, work some to try to stay productive and on top of your normal life.
 Here, you can "earn" national, state, or city benefits, and you (often times) can't be fired for many reasons. Government workers are not always expected to be particularly hard-working or motivated. Government structures government jobs with some protections for the worker. They don't want you to lose the job because of lackluster performance, and they don't usually have any pesky sales goals or anything else to measure you by. So you can sometimes mark time, do the minimum, and still collect a nice paycheck with a virtually guaranteed future.
 If you have lived a productive life as a high-earning doctor or something, you can stop at any convenient time and collect the benefits the state may offer you when not employed. This can lead to more time with your family, etc.; so don't knock it.
Check the limit the assets you hold by working with an attorney to gift your assets to your children in the proper manner. Once you have given almost everything away, you get closer to becoming eligible for all kinds of government programs.
Many middle class Americans help their elderly parents to get on to Medicaid programs in that manner. It is legal, if you follow strict rules, and will allow the parent to go into a state-funded nursing home. Nursing homes cost money, so they are a drain on the resources you may have built up over your life. Some people will move assets from the parent to the child about three to five years before the parent is expected to need nursing home care.
 Consider joining your local political action group or volunteer for your union or party if that works for you. One may pay you to show up at health care rallies and other events, as long as you agree to chant loudly what you demand. They will (many times) provide a bus and free food. Community action groups are looking for people like you, because when you show up and state why you agree with that group, that gives the community action group a reason to exist.
 They can help you seek more generous housing programs, more food giveaways, free dental care, or whatever you need to help yourself. Your governments may be happy to tax their citizens in order to develop more and more generous programs for the people who don't find it possible to pay all the costs for one reason or another, so do not miss this avenue. You can write, call or just show up at their offices and plead your case. Point out that you don't have money, and that dictates that the government protect your fair chance, such as for equal opportunity in employment.
 Keep in mind that churches like to do a certain amount of charity work and may be willing to give you some resources if you seem deserving.

