 The cat-cow exercise is taken from yoga, and involves moving between the cat pose and the cow pose while synchronizing your movement to your breath. If you perform cat-cow regularly, it will increase flexibility in your spine.Start on all fours with your back flat. Your wrists should be directly under your shoulders, your knees directly under your hips.
On an inhale, drop your belly towards the ground and lift your chest and pelvis towards the ceiling to arch your back into cow position.
As you exhale, round your back towards the ceiling, tucking in your tailbone and dropping your chin to your chest. Repeat the movements for 10 to 20 breath cycles. Breathe slowly and deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth.
 The sphinx pose helps increase blood flow to your lower back, which can help heal lower back problems as well as build muscle. To start, lay on your stomach with your legs extended behind you.Raise up onto your forearms, keeping your elbows directly under your shoulders. Press down into the floor with your feet and your palms, pushing your pubic bone forward until you feel your lower back engage.
Hold the position for 1 to 3 minutes, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth.
 Downward facing dog is a classic yoga pose that provides a good whole body stretch as well as mental calm and focus. By stretching your hamstrings in particular, you help strengthen your lower back.Get on all fours on your mat with your knees directly below your hips. Your wrists can be directly below your shoulders or a little in front of your shoulders. Connect to your breathing, inhaling slowly and deeply through your nose and exhaling out your mouth.
On an exhale, lift your hips towards the ceiling, straightening your arms out in front of you until you form an inverted "V." Keep your shoulders rolled back and your neck loose.
As you inhale, think of lifting your hips up even higher towards the ceiling, drawing weight up your arms and way from your wrists. On the next exhale, focus on your legs, drawing down through your heels to stretch your hamstrings. Stay in the pose for 10 to 20 breath cycles, then release back down to all fours.
 The two-knee twist effectively stretches and strengthens your entire core and lower back, while the twisting motion opens and invigorates your spine. Start by laying on your back on your mat with your legs extended.Stretch your arms out to your sides directly from your shoulders, so you are making a "T" shape on the floor. Then bend your knees up to your chest.
On an exhale, lower your knees to the ground on the right, taking care to keep both shoulders pressed firmly on the mat so that you twist only from your lower back.
Inhale your legs back to center, then on your next exhale, drop your knees to the left side. Repeat 5 to 10 times on each side.
 Child's pose is a classic pose to end a yoga session, and also provides a good stable stretch for your lower back. You can get into child's pose from all fours – simply lower your hips back and fold your torso over your thighs, extending your arms out in front of you.If you're flexible enough, you can rest your forehead on your mat. Don't fold any further than you can comfortably, though.
Spreading your knees slightly further apart will make child's pose easier and may be more comfortable for you.
Since child's pose is a resting pose, you can stay in it as long as you like, breathing deeply.

