 Do you struggle with quadratic equations? Do you get stuck on grammar questions? Think about what you need to improve and set aside more time for it in your study plan. Not only will this help you on that particular subject, it will also help you feel less stressed overall.;
, This may seem counter-intuitive, but while it's good to give attention to weak points, you don't want to lose sight of what you can do well. Devoting all your energy to that elusive perfect score in the writing section can make you forget some of those basic math skills you had under your belt. It's also important to remind yourself that you are an intelligent person with many strengths and beating yourself up over the hard stuff is only going to make you feel stressed-out and incompetent when it comes time to take the test.
 Some people learn better when they read the problem, others do better when they listen to it. Some people need to visualize it in their heads. Think about how you learn information and apply it to your study program. If you learn best while listening, then listen to some lessons on CD while you drive. If you learn best by looking at the words, then go ahead and make packs of flashcards.
 The time for deep, focused studying is in the month (or months) before the exam, not on the night before. Studies show that studying for longer periods of time increase knowledge more than short cramming sessions.
 When we try to accomplish anything long-term, be it studying or exercising or writing a novel, it can be very easy to say, "Oh, this is too much, I'll do it tomorrow." The problem with putting things off is that finding the motivation to start them again becomes twice as hard. Give yourself a short, accessible goal for each session. For example, "I will get a 75% on this practice quiz," or "I will finish writing one short essay tonight."

, When you meet your goals, go ahead and treat yourself. Go get an ice cream cone. Play an hour of your favorite game. Go window shopping at a nearby store. This will keep your motivation high.
 The College Board, the official makers of the SAT have released The Official SAT Study Guide, which is a good starting point for your SAT resources. But there is also a plethora of study books out there for students to choose from. Your local and school libraries are likely to have a good selection so flip through them and see which appeal to you.
 The College Board website (http://www.collegeboard.org) includes study tips, practice tests, a new SAT question of the day, and test day simulators. They also provide a feature to help you plan your own personal study guide, tailored to your needs.
 Private tutors can be a great resource, especially for students that don't know how to practice good study habits. There are many companies that offer private SAT tutoring, including The Princeton Review, Kaplan, and TestMasters. You can also ask your school guidance counselor which local tutoring service they recommend.
 There's a reason that books and websites keep offering practice tests. It's because there's no better way to find out what's going to be on your test. When you take a practice test, pretend it's the real test. Sit in a quiet space where there are no distractions and time yourself. Do not look ahead to the answers at the back of the book. At the end of the test, assess what you did right and wrong.
 Practice reading long, comprehensive passages on a topic that will test your understanding. Try to stretch yourself by reading up on topics that you don't find interesting or don't know much about. Then have somebody test on you what you learned or write down a short analysis. This will force you to increase your attention span, analyze a topic, and practice close reading skills.
 Studying doesn't always have to feel like a chore. Cool down at the end of a long session by playing a math or vocabulary game on your computer. This will not only help your skills but will also help you relax.
 Take a night off. There is such thing as burnout. If you burn yourself out too much, you may get depressed, and begin to see major drops in your scores. Read a book, watch a movie. Go for a stroll around the block.
 Getting a good eight or nine hours of sleep is essential for feeling awake and healthy the next day.
 Oatmeal, yogurt, granola, and eggs are all good choices. Peanut butter is a good source of protein. Fresh fruit is a nice supplement and gives lot of natural sugar. Avoid processed sugars and refined carbohydrates like those found in doughnuts, muffins, and other pastries; those are likely to give you a brief energy surge and a deep "crash" later in the day.
 The last thing you need is to be worrying about whether or not you'll be late for the exam. Have your destination planned out ahead of time so you can focus on staying calm and remembering your facts.
 Unwanted bathroom breaks will take time away from your test so just drink enough to keep yourself hydrated.
 Get the questions you know out of the way first so that you'll have more time to focus on the challenging ones.
 Sometimes you run into a particularly difficult question and before you know it, you've just spent fifteen minutes scratching out answers to that one problem. If a question is just beyond your ability to guess, then go ahead and skip it.
 Even while you're working on the test, be aware of the clock. Know how much time you have left and how many questions you have to do. This will help you avoid giving too much time to a particular section or problem.

