 This is fairly straightforward, as each participant will be randomized, and his/her allocation will be noted on paperwork inside the envelope.


Envelopes should be opaque, meaning that they cannot be seen through. This is important to help reduce bias. However, opaque envelopes can sometimes be seen through if they are held up to bright light.Have a method for sealing the envelopes. Licking envelopes with your tongue is fine with a very small number, but when you have a larger number of envelopes, another method is preferred. Look for envelope moisteners, small sponges, a wash cloth, a glue stick, or double-sided tape.
 Whatever information you need to give them about the trial, activity, game, et cetera should be included inside. Names should not be included on paperwork inside the envelopes, because the names could be seen through the envelope if it is held up to a bright light.


Plan to keep track of the participants by documenting their group, based on the information in the envelopes they randomly receive, once they have opened their envelopes.
You will need to give further information about what the participant needs to do, to whom they need to report, and other such important information.
The information in each envelope will vary slightly depending on which group is assigned (i.e. control or treatment).
Remember to use whatever method you chose for sealing a large quantity of envelopes.
 Depending on how you plan to store the envelopes, this can be done a couple of different ways.


Shuffle the envelopes like you would a deck of cards. You could also “cut the deck” multiple times.
Lay all of the envelopes out on a table or on the floor and pick them up randomly.
Ask someone else to shuffle the envelopes, someone who never saw the stuffing process or the participant list.
 As you get participants for your trial or activity, pull the next envelope in the front or at the top for each participant. This helps to keep the assignment of participants random, because you do not know what information will be in each envelope.
 As you go over the information in the envelope with the participant, you will know to which group he/she has been assigned.


Document the names in a table or spreadsheet in a word processing program or Excel.
Write the names down in lists or columns on a piece of paper.
Add the names to specific notes in a notepad app on your smartphone.

