 Go to facebook.com and use your Facebook account and password to log in. The login fields are found on the upper right corner of the page. Click the “Log in” button to proceed.;
, Click the down arrow icon on the header toolbar, at the top right corner, to bring down a menu. Select “News Feed Preferences” from here.
 The first view in the News Feed Preferences menu is “Summary.” It contains all the people, pages, and groups you are following on Facebook. All posts from these appear on your News Feed. The Summary view is sorted with your most seen posts at the top. These are the people, pages, and groups whose posts you’ve seen most over the last week. Beside each of them, there’s a drop-down “Following” button, which means you are following them so their posts will appear.


By default, you are following all your friends, interests, and groups, and that’s why their posts appear on yours News Feed. If you don’t want to see posts from a particular friend, page, or group, click the “Following” button and select “Unfollow.” By doing so, their posts won’t appear in your News Feed anymore. Unfollowing a friend, a page, or a group doesn’t remove your connection to them on Facebook. You’re just opting not to see their posts on your News Feed.
 From the left panel of the News Feed Preferences window, click “People.” The list of friends you have on Facebook will be displayed. Beside each of them, there’s a drop-down “Following” button, which means you are following them so their posts will appear.


If you don’t want to see posts from a particular friend, click the “Following” button and select “Unfollow.” By doing so, their posts won’t appear in your News Feed anymore. Unfollowing a friend doesn’t remove your connection to them on Facebook. You’re just opting not to see their posts on your News Feed.
 From the left panel of the News Feed Preferences window, click “Pages.” The list of companies, organizations, celebrities, etc. that you’ve liked and followed on Facebook will be displayed. Beside each of them, there’s a drop-down “Following” button, which means you are following them so their posts will appear.


If you don’t want to see posts from a particular page, click the “Following” button and select “Unfollow.” By doing so, their posts won’t appear in your News Feed anymore. Unfollowing a page doesn’t remove it from your interests on Facebook. You’re just opting not to see their posts on your News Feed.
 From the left panel of the News Feed Preferences window, click “Groups.” The list of Facebook groups you belong to or are a member of will be displayed. Beside each of them, there’s a drop-down “Following” button, which means you are following them so their posts will appear.


If you don’t want to see posts from a particular group, click the “Following” button and select “Unfollow.” By doing so, their posts won’t appear in your News Feed anymore. Unfollowing a group doesn’t remove you from the group on Facebook. You’re just opting not to see their posts on your News Feed.

