 Sewing in a patch is the most comprehensive, but also labour-intensive, way to fix a larger hole in the crotch of your jeans. This requires some basic command of a needle and thread or sewing machine, but when done well it could be neater and more reliable than gluing or ironing on a patch. Begin by finding a patch for the hole in your jeans.


If placing the patch on the interior, choose a colour that closely matches the colour of your jeans to make it look more natural.
You can be creative with your patches if you want to make a statement or have some fun.Make sure the patch material isn’t thicker than the material of your jeans. If it doesn’t give when you move, it will force the jeans to tear around it instead.
 If you’re cutting the patch from a weave material (like denim), cut diagonally against the weave; if you cut straight along the criss or the cross of the weave, the edges will be more likely to fray.
 Make sure there is no bunching or pulling or the patch will end up bulky and stressed. Unless you’d like to place a colourful or conspicuous patch over the damaged area, slide the patch into the interior of the jeans, which should be kept right-side out.


Another option is to use an iron on patch. Instead of pinning it, you can iron it on and then sew it in for more durability.
 Sew around the perimeter of the hole, removing pins as you go. Don’t sew too near the edges or the torn material will fray and the stitches will fall out. Use the machine's zig-zag stitch. You can also use a straight stitch, but use a back and forth motion which will itself lend a zig-zag shape to the stitching.
 If you sew it in by hand use an overcast stitch. Poke the needle up through the patch near the edge. Plunge the needle and thread back down through the denim just outside the edge of the patch and somewhat forward from where your needle emerged, creating a single diagonal stitch. Once again poke the needle up through the underside of the patch (near the edge and slightly forward) to create another diagonal stitch on the underside of the material.


Repeat until you’ve covered the entire perimeter of the patch in diagonal stitches. When you’re done, do the entire process over again only this time, move in the opposite direction to create diagonal stitches that cross the first set you made. The resulting effect will look like a string of Xs.
Be careful and make sure you are not sewing two sides of your jeans together, or sewing the material from the inside of the pocket to the jean leg or crotch., Now that the patch is firmly in place, you can also sew closer to the edges of the tear to hold it down for a cleaner look. Re-sewing will reinforce the strength of the patch. But be aware that adding layer upon layer of stitches can lead to your jeans becoming stiff and uncomfortable.
 Once you have sewn in the patch, take some pinking shears or scissors and trim away any excess material from patch. This could flap around, itch, or catch on things that might loosen the stitches around your patch.Press the stitches down with an iron to help smooth out the stitches and your patching job is complete.

