 When you focus on something for too long, it can be hard to remember to blink. Blinking helps keep your eyes from getting dry and freshens them by spreading tear film evenly across the surface. This will help keep them from getting tired as quickly. Make sure you blink every time you think about it. If you find yourself forgetting to blink often, leave yourself a note somewhere that is always visible that reminds you to blink.


The normal blinking rate decreases by 66 % when focusing on a computer screen or monitor, so be extra careful if you work on a computer all day., Eye fatigue can be caused by you working your eyes too hard for too long a period. Any time your eyes feel tired, take a break for a few minutes and focus on something else. Avoid looking at anything in particular. Just look around the room or get up to go to the restroom or get a drink of water. This will help your eyes stop focusing on the same thing and give them a break., The strength of your lighting may be effective your eyes. If your lighting is too bring or dim, it can cause eye fatigue. Turn off any harsh lights, which can make it easier for your eyes to focus and make your eyes strain less to focus.


Also remove any fluorescent light bulbs and excessive light bulbs that cause unsuitable lighting.
Change your bulbs to the soft or warm varieties, try adding dimmer switches, and adjust the lighting to what is best for your eyes.
Even natural lighting can cause problems, since it causes a glare on a computer or on other objects. Plus it is hard to control and monitor. Try to reduce any glare or abundance of light with curtains or blinds., If you work on a computer all day or study on one often, your monitor may be causing eye fatigue. Make sure your monitor is the right distance from your face. Also adjust the brightness and contrast on your monitor so it isn’t too harsh. Keep adjusting the settings until you are comfortably viewing the screen in whatever environment you are in., Current medical research shows that the vitamins play a role in eye health. Excessive use of the eyes means you need more vitamins and minerals. If you have eye fatigue, try to balance your diet with more foods that will help your eyes. Eat more coarse grains, cereals, green vegetables, carrots, squash and other gourds, potatoes, beans, and fruit. These foods are high in vitamins, protein, and cellulose, which help strengthen the eyes. Eat more foods with vitamins A, B, C, and E, as well as zinc, lutein, zeaxanthin, and beta-carotene These include:


Foods high is vitamin C, such as broccoli, cantaloupe, cauliflower, guava, bell peppers, grapes, oranges, berries, lychees, and squash
Foods high is vitamin E, such as almonds, sunflower seeds, wheat germ, spinach, peanut butter, collard greens, avocados, mango, hazelnuts, and Swiss chard
More sources of vitamin B, such as wild salmon, skinless turkey, bananas, potatoes, lentils, halibut, tuna, cod, soy milk, and cheese
Foods high in lutein and zeaxanthin, such as leafy green vegetables., Keeping your body hydrated can help keep your eyes moisturized as well. Drink 10 to 15 cups of water every day, which can help relieve dry eyes by increasing blood circulation to them. It can also help eliminate toxins from the lymph fluid in the eyes.


Increasing fluid intake can also provide your body with the moisture it needs to increase tear production.