 There are two things that will help you get a good score, and the most important of these is keeping your cool. (The other is being prepared). Reading, understanding, and answering the questions is more difficult if you feel panic or anxiety. Keep a cool head. Slow down a bit. You will finish as long as you don't spend too much time on any particular question!;
, The SAT is a standardized test, meaning every test taker takes the same test under the same conditions allowing their scores to be compared fairly. If you can identify these types of questions you are one step closer to the score you want (or need).
 When you're dealing with the SAT, there's nothing like the real thing when it comes to practice test. The first time you take a SAT will be the hardest, as it is the only time you will not know what to expect. Try to take practice tests in an environment that closely resembles where you will take the real test (a library is a good bet) This will get you ready for the other side of the test—concentrating for 3+ hours in an uncomfortable setting while other people cough, sneeze and tap pencils around you.
 Spending about half an hour every other day over a 4-5 month period is reasonable. Organize your study time between maths, vocab, and grammar. Study for each section thoroughly using SAT testing aids. There are many different testing aids available; books and practice tests can be found at the SAT Preparation Center. There was also a New York Times article on a lesser known way to increase your SAT score using SAT calculator programs that can be used while you take the maths portion of the test, or serve as verbal flashcards on your calculator for handy review., The Economist magazine is an excellent source of articles that are just the right length. There are several online sources as well. Try to read a few every day.
 After taking a practice test, you should spend about the same amount of time you spent taking the test on going through your answers. Try to remember why you picked a certain answer. See if you notice a pattern. There almost always is one.
 The SAT is a multi-subject text, which means that excelling in certain areas but doing poorly in others can give you a mediocre overall score. Make the most of your study time by devoting as much time as you can to the things you're not good at, rather than the things you are good at. If you're not sure how to begin addressing your weak spots, try talking to your teachers in these subjects for advice.
 Do you have trouble with the difficult algebraic questions? Are you in the dark about some of the more obscure grammatical rules? Study more for these areas than you would others. It is recommended that you study at least twice as long in difficult areas as you would easier ones. Understand the concepts first, then practice those concepts with problems and questions. While memorizing can be helpful, particularly with vocabulary, it isn't the whole thing. Understanding goes a lot further than memorization.
 You can't afford to spend a few minutes getting to know the calculator on the day of your test.
 As important as it is to prepare mentally, learning the material from front to back, it's almost as important to ensure you're emotionally prepared. A positive, focused, high-energy attitude can make the difference between whether you do good or great on the SAT. For the best chance of excelling, do everything you can to keep your spirits high as you study and especially as you take the test itself.


Perhaps the single biggest thing you can do to guarantee you're in a good mood on test day is to make sure the rest of your life is in good order. If you're distracted, for instance, by an argument you had earlier in the week with your significant other, you won't be able to focus 100% on the questions in front of you.
 Don't sabotage yourself so you have an excuse when you do badly. You don't want to have regrets. If you set yourself up for success, it's much more likely you will.
 It may be difficult, but just think to yourself: "It's just a test, and I prepared all that I could. I will succeed." If you have confidence in yourself, quite simply, you will do better.
 Being hydrated can make the difference between failing and passing., Reading the question and then deciding what you think the answer should be BEFORE looking will almost always help you pick the right answer. Do not look at the answer choices until you have an idea of what the answer should be. Four of the answers are designed to lead you astray.
 In the verbal sections, you should be positively certain of the answer—don't try to read too far into how the answer might fit. If you have an idea of what you're looking for before you start looking, chances are you will find it. Only one answer will fit like a glove.
 If one of the answers glares out at you as "completely wrong", then cross it out. By ignoring the answer that you are certain to be wrong, you can increase your chances of selecting a correct answer. This is particularly useful if you intend to guess one question.
 If you are not a strong math student, concentrate on doing the first 15-20 questions well instead on wasting time on the really difficult ones, since you would be less likely to do well regardless.
 Many math questions try to trick you with word games. Make sure you understand exactly what the question is asking.

