 Locate Skype on your home screen or app drawer. It should be a blue icon with a white S in the middle of it. Tap to open.


If you don’t have Skype installed on your device yet, you can download the app from Google Play.
 Enter your Skype name and password into the fields provided, and tap “Sign in” to continue.
 If the person you want to video call is not yet listed in your contact lists, you can add him or her by searching through the Skype database or by adding his or her number. To start, tap the the lower right-hand corner and hit “Add people” or “Add number.”


Adding people will search through the Skype database for a name, email address, or phone number. If the person you are looking for is on Skype and they have their profile set to public, you should see them. Start typing in one of the above mentioned criteria and tap the profile name when you see it. Once this is open, tap “Add to contacts.” It should show you a basic message to send to the person you are trying to add. Tap the blue checkmark at the bottom of the screen to continue. Once they receive the message, they will be given the option to accept or deny the invitation to connect with you. Until they accept, you won’t be able to call them.
Adding a number will enable you to manually enter a phone number to call or message. This option does cost money, and you will be asked to buy Skype credits.
 From the main menu, select the People tab to access the contacts list. Once the person you are trying to contact has accepted your contact request, they should be added to your contact list page. Tap on the profile of the person you want to call. At the bottom of his or her profile page should be 3 icons: a video camera, a phone, and 3 dots.


Tap the phone icon to start a voice-only Skype call. Tap the video camera icon when the contact is online to start a video call. Once your friend answers, you will see him or her on the screen.
To end a call, tap the red phone icon at the bottom.
Using a Skype account to try to call landlines or cellphones will cost money. However, Skype-to-Skype calls are free.

