 Because strobing calls attention to your skin, it’s important to ensure that it’s properly hydrated so the makeup doesn’t look patchy or cakey. Before applying any makeup, use a moisturizer to ensure that your skin looks smooth and healthy.








If you have oily skin, choose an oil-free moisturizer to avoid clogging your pores.
Wait at least 5 minutes after moisturizing your skin before applying any other makeup to ensure that the moisturizer has been fully absorbed.;
, Your skin should be as even as possible when you apply strobing makeup, so use a foundation to even out your skin tone first. It’s best to use a matte formula because it allows the shimmer and glow of your strobing products to stand out against it.








If your skin is mostly clear, you can substitute a lightweight tinted moisturizer or BB cream for the foundation.
Use a sponge or brush to blend the foundation into your skin for the most flawless finish.
 Your foundation may not cover up all of the discoloration on your face, so follow up with concealer. Dab it on acne, scars, dark circles, and any other areas of hyperpigmentation, and blend in well.








You can use a sponge or brush to apply your concealer, but using your fingers usually provides a smoother application because the warmth of your skin helps the product blend in most effectively.
 For the most natural looking strobing effect, it’s best to use a cream highlighter. Be sure to choose one in a shade that compliments your skin tone, and apply a small amount to the highpoints of your face, including the tops of your cheekbones, temples, brow bones, the bridge of your nose, and just above the center of your top lip.








You can also apply the highlighter to the center of your forehead and your chin for extra glow.
If you have oily skin, you may want to skip the highlighter on your forehead, nose, and chin because those areas tend to get shiny on their own.
If you have fair skin, opt for a highlighter in a champagne shade.If you have light to medium skin, opt for a highlighter in a pink champagne shade.
If you have olive skin, opt for a highlighter in a golden shade.
If you have a dark skin, opt for a highlighter in a bronze or terracotta shade.
 Once you’ve dabbed the cream highlighter on the highpoints of your face, you need to blend it in so it looks natural. Use a damp sponge or a synthetic stippling brush to gently work the cream into your skin for a seamless look.
 After you’ve blended the cream highlighter fully in your skin, you can make the glow more intense by topping it with a powder highlighter. Use a powder in a matching shade, and lightly dust it over the cream with a small fluffy brush or a fan brush.








If you have dry skin, you may want to skip the powder highlighter because it may look patchy or cakey on dry areas.
 To make sure that your strobing makeup takes center stage, it’s best to use matte products on the rest of your face. For a healthy look, apply a matte blush in a shade that flatters your skin tone, starting at the apples of your cheeks and sweeping back toward your hairline beneath your highlighter.








An angled blush brush usually provides the most precise application.
For fair skin, choose a light rose or peach blush.For light to medium skin, choose a mauve or apricot blush.
For olive skin, choose a coral blush.
For dark skin, choose a deep orange or berry blush.
 When you’re strobing, you typically don’t use any type of contouring product. However, if you feel like your skin needs some warmth, you can lightly apply a small amount of bronzer. Brush it along your temples, under the cheekbones beneath your blush, and along your jawline.








Just as with your blush, use a matte bronzer. You don’t want any shimmer or sparkle competing with the highlighter.
 To cut down on shine, it helps to lock your makeup in place with a setting powder. However, you don’t want to apply the powder to the areas where you highlighted. Use a fluffy brush to lightly dust translucent powder over rest of your face.








If your face looks cakey after using the setting powder, mist your face with a setting spray. Not only will it help reduce the powdery look, it will help keep your makeup in place all day.

