 One good way to increase your chances of getting free dog food is to think about why you need the food. By identifying the reason for your need, you can include this reason in your request and this may help to sway people in your favor. Identify your reason so that you can work it into your requests. For example:


Are you fostering a dog who was abused or homeless?
Have you recently fallen on hard times financially?
Is your pet having medical issues that have increased his overall expenses?

, After you have identified the reason for your need, you will need to figure out the best way to work it into your request. You should not lie or exaggerate the truth. Just be honest about your reason for needing the food when you make your request.


If you are fostering a dog, then you might say something like, “I am currently caring for a dog that was neglected by his previous owners. I am happy to help him, but the cost of food is more than I expected and I am struggling a bit.”
If you are having personal finance problems, then you might say something like, “I recently lost my job and that has made it even harder to afford important necessities like food for myself and my dog.
If your pet is having medical issues, then you might say something like, “Rufus had to have surgery last month and the cost of that has put a strain on my finances. I would really appreciate any help that I can get right now.”

, Putting your request first and then offering some praise to the agency that you are requesting food from may improve your chances.For example, you might say something like:


“I am calling to request a dog food donation for myself and my dog. I am struggling to afford my dog’s food and I thought it would be a good idea to call your organization because of all of the wonderful things that you do for animals in our community.”

, There are many pet-based social media groups that may also be happy to help you with the cost of food for your pet. Try joining one of these groups and posting a request for help. Keep your request short, simple, and straightforward to increase your odds.Make sure that you include:


your dog’s name
a few details about your dog (breed, personality, etc.)
a picture of your dog
a direct request for dog food donations
a brief explanation of the reason for your need

