 A great way is to discover choral music and playing or analyzing the sheet music. Also, know the range of the voice parts you want to use. A guideline is;
,,,,, Know how to write for the accompaniment also.
 This step is critical because the voice setting determines how the chords are spaced and voiced, and because the voice setting sets the pitch range in which your melodies can exist. The most common arrangements are Soprano 1, Soprano 2, Alto (SSA) and Soprano, Alto, Tenor, Bass (SATB) but many other voice arrangements are used (TTBB, SSAATTBB etc.) or could be invented

, You could start any way you want. However, a base rule would be to get know your lyrics first. This way you can plan a pleasing structure and "paint" the words and sentences (e.g. tense chords on painful words, musical crescendos for emotional crescendos, or vice versa!). The following steps are merely exemplary:

,, Experiment, look at progressions in popular songs or classical pieces or use Roman numerals (most commonly used chords in the major key are I, IV, V. In the minor key i, iv, v, V.) like they use in music theory.
 Possibly using the Roman numeral chord symbols you placed earlier. Block chords are most commonly in this setting because of the sound character of the sung melodies.
, Combine and try whatever you think works. Take another look at successful pieces if your inspiration dries out. You could even use the Roman numeral chords symbols in the melody line to determine the chords that will be used in the accompaniment. Then write the piano accompaniment using moving chords and block chords freely to compliment the choir's melody.
 The lyrics can be prepared beforehand or be made to fit existing music. You could choose to put one syllable per note, one syllable for a lot of notes or even a lot of syllable on one note, letting the singers pronounce them freely, to create a mesmerizing whisper effect (take a look at music by Eric Whitacre for effective use of effects. Remember: less is more).
 You're done! Just add the dynamics you have to have in the back of your mind at all times while writing and you have a solid piece of music! Take it to your church choir, or sing it in the shower. It's all yours to use freely as you wish. Feedback can be very useful in learning to write more idiomatically and enhance your creative prowess.

