, If you have a walk-in closet, and you only want to change some of it, only do so to the desired area. But for a regular closet that is only (about) 8x1, take out everything. Make sure your room is clean while you do this step, or you will get all of your things from your closet mixed up with your garbage.
 If you have things that you want, but not in your closet, consider putting them in a box and making a place for them.As to the things you want to keep in your closet, put them in a pile.Once you have sorted your things, throw away the things you want to; put the things for charity in a plastic trash bag and write charity on it. Ask mom or dad to drive to Goodwill to get rid of it. Then put off the things you want to keep to the side. We don't want to get sidetracked organizing now, do we?

, First dust, vacuum, mop, sweep, and basically clean all of the dirt, dust, and dead bugs out. Make sure if there are any stains on the carpet ; those you clean out with Resolve or some other stain killer. If you have hardwood, put Orange Glo down to protect your wood.
 The more blankets you have, the softer it is. Put down pillows so it is comfortable for you to sit and relax in. Now, you can put the lighting in. If you have string lights, you can hangs those up and turn them on. Otherwise, just put a lamp in there. If you don't have a lamp, then just put a floodlight or flashlight in there, but be careful because of the heat they may produce, you don't want to start a fire.
 You might want to move your blankets and pillows around a bit so you have room for books and things . If you have shelves in your closet, that's great. Store stuff there. The bottom shelf is for things you might immediately want or need for easy accessibility. The second shelf is for books, and so on.
 You might want to hand a poster of your fave band, or put pictures of your friends and you, and other things. You can also put a small mirror in. If your "bed" at the top has a shelf over it, put a picture of your fave band so you'll wake up to them.
 Close your closet so you don't have the urge to put stuff in there.
 Personalize your closet however you want, it's your place and YOU earned it!

