 You have a few choices when it comes to kitchen window treatments.


Curtains. These are 2 gathered panels that hang from top to bottom, framing the window on both the left and right sides.
Valances. A valance is a panel that spans horizontally over the only the upper portion of the window, leaving the lower part of the window undressed.
Privacy tiers. Tiers are single-panel window treatments designed to block only the lower 1/2 or 2/3 of the window. They are often used in combination with a valance.;
, Record the measurements for your window's length and width. If you want to create a privacy tier, also measure the distance from the vertical center-point to the bottom of the window.
 This will determine how much fabric you need to purchase. Generally speaking, the fuller the curtain, the more opulent it feels. A fullness of 1 1/2 equates to a flat panel and a fullness of 3 is a luxuriously gathered panel.
 Follow these guidelines to calculate the yardage of fabric that you will need.


Multiply your fullness (1 1/2 to 3) by the width of your window. For example, if your window is 2 foot (0.6 m), then you will need a 4 foot (1.2 m) length of fabric for each full-sized panel you intend to create.
Remember that a valance and a privacy tier are each one full-sized panel.
If you are planning to sew curtains, your panel length will be 1/2 of the full-sized panel length and you will need 2 panels per window.
Add at least 2 inches (5 cm) to the width and 6 inches (15 cm) to the length of your valance, tier or curtain design to account for seams, rod pockets and hems. You may adjust that number, depending on your design and the size of your rod.
 When you make kitchen curtains, you must keep in mind the practicality factor. You should not use any fabric that will shrink or fade easily, or that cannot be washed. It is also a good idea to choose a flame-retardant fabric, just in case of cooking mishap.
,,,


Fold the lower edge of your panel up 0.5 inch (1.25 cm), wrong side in, and press.
Fold the clean edge up, facing the wrong side of the fabric, to the desired hem amount (keeping in mind the amount you allotted when you cut your panel) and press again.
Stitch the top folded edge of the hem to secure it in place.



Fold the vertical edges 0.5 inch (1.25 cm) on each side, wrong side in, and press.
Double the fold to conceal the rough edge and press again.
Sew along the edge of the fold to secure the hem.



Fold the upper edge of your panel in 0.5 inch (1.25 cm), wrong side in, and press.
Fold the clean edge under (wrong side in) again, allowing enough room to compensate for the width of the rod you will be using, and press again.
Stitch as near to the folded edge as possible to finish the rod pocket. Once you finish this step, your panel is complete.
