 Regret is a critical way of thinking or feeling in which you blame yourself for things that happened. Productive regret can help you learn to change your behavior for the future. Unproductive regret, where you completely blame yourself, can create chronic stress which leads to health problems.


Regret can be over things you have done or not done. For example, you could regret acting a certain way during an argument, or you may regret not taking a job offer.;
, These may be different from person to person, but feelings of regret include: sadness, loss, remorse, anger, shame, and anxiety.Identify these feelings related to regret. For example, you may have the thought of a past deed and then you think about this event for the majority of the day. This can leave you feeling defeated and hopeless. You may think about what you did or said, or you may think about what you wished you had done differently to change your current situation.


Constant rethinking and regretting can cause anxiety. This may lead to worrying about future decisions that you might regret later.
 Think about what's causing your regret. People can feel regretful for a number of reasons. Typical regretful experiences include:Lifestyle: Many people regret moving to a different country or may wish they hadn't turned off a house offer. For example, you moved from Canada to Australia because you wanted a warmer life. But just months later, you have found it impossible to find work, have experienced life on the streets and feel homesick every single day. You wish you hadn't made the move down under.
Work: People may regret not following a different career path and pursuing their dream jobs. Or they may regret turning down job offers or promotions. For example, you dread going into your office job everyday and frequently wish you had not turned down the opportunity to be a co-owner in your own business.
Family: People may regret not settling disputes with a family member or friend, especially if the other person passed. Or they may regret not spending more time with older family members. For example, you moved across the country for your spouse’s job. You never made enough effort to stay connected to your grandmother through calls or visits. Now that your grandmother has passed, you regret not putting more effort into staying connected.
Children: People may regret starting a family. For example, you started a family because you wanted to make your spouse's dream come true. 1 year later, you are getting no enjoyment from parenthood and your relationship with your partner has suffered for it, you wish daily you had become a dog foster like you wanted to. Keep in mind however that many Mom and Dads experience postpartum depression following the birth of a baby, get professional help if you think you might have this.
Marriage: People may regret the timing of their marriage or their choice of partner. Some may even regret getting married at all. For example, you married your husband/wife because your family liked and approved of them. After 5 years of marriage, you have found that you share no interests. You often think about what your life would have been like if you had married your long-time girl/boyfriend who your parents did not like.
 CBT exercises teach you to change your habits and patterns of thinking. You can soon start changing your feelings of regret, shame, and anger. Instead, you'll focus on emotionally healing any harmful, unproductive thoughts you have.


CBT works to reduce and replace your feelings of regret and anxiety, instead of simply telling yourself to stop thinking about the past., With regret, people often wonder “why” they acted or didn’t act, and this is often where people become stuck.List your regrets and any questions you keep asking yourself. For example, you might wonder why you acted the way you did.Go through your list and change the "why" questions into "what's next?" This will help you overcome the feeling of being stuck.


For example: You might ask yourself, "Why did I snap at my child so much last week?" For "What's next?" you could say that you know you have very little patience left after work. In the future you could take a 5 minute break before engaging the children.
 Regrets can be important learning tools for the future. Try to look for the lessons learned and recognize that life lessons make you wiser. For example, if you regret not treating your spouse with respect, you may have learned that disrespecting your spouse makes you feel terrible. Having this knowledge makes you a wiser spouse and person., What you regret may also be things you have learned about yourself and others. Having this knowledge decreases the chances of making a similar choice in the future. Make sure to apply the wisdom you've gained.


For example, if you've learned that disrespecting your spouse makes your spouse feel distrustful, don't do it again in the future.
 While you can not change what happened in the past, you can choose how your past affects your present and future.


For example, you can't change how much or how often you drank in college, but you can make the choice not to let the regret make you feel guilty now or let it affect your future choices.
 Beating yourself up over things beyond your control would be considered unproductive regret. But, productive regret can be positive if you are moved to improve yourself or act on opportunities. Once you're aware of a missed opportunity, be it educational, financial, or emotional, you're more likely to correct the mistake in the future.If you find yourself ambivalent about taking a new opportunity, ask yourself if you'd rather worry about a wasted opportunity or take a chance. By trying something new, you're minimizing future regrets.
 You're not the only one feeling regretful about something. Consider what others may be going through. Remember that empathy helps you to better understand the feelings of others. This may require you to challenge your own prejudices and truly listen to others.For example, if you regret heavy drinking during your years in college, you may have a deep understanding of how you son feels after a night he's not proud of.
 You may think about regret in terms of the following statements: "I should have...." "I could have...." "I can't believe I...." "Why didn't I....." Change these statements into statements of gratitude. You'll think about the past differently and start to lose the regret. When you catch yourself thinking a regretful statement, change it to a statement of gratitude. This can help you start thinking about the past in a positive light.


For example, change "I should have gone to college," to "I am grateful it's not too late to go to college." Or change "I could have tried harder to stop drinking," to "I am grateful that I can try to do better now."

, Regret can cause resentment towards yourself and others.Instead, learn to forgive yourself. Not only will this reduce your feelings of regret, but it can improve your self-esteem. Healthy self-esteem is critical to many areas of your life, including relationships.


Don't simply try to remove the regret. Instead, own up to your mistakes and feelings, but allow yourself to move on., The exercise of writing a letter will help you practice forgiving yourself.This emotional and cognitive tool will start to healing your feelings of regret. Write a letter addressed to your younger or past-self and in the letter talk to your younger-self like you might talk to your child or close friend. This will make sure that you are compassionate towards yourself.


Remind your younger-self that you deserve the best in life even if you made mistakes, because you are human and it is ok to make mistakes.
 An affirmation is a positive statement to encourage, uplift you, and make you more compassionate towards yourself.Having compassion for yourself makes it easier to empathize and forgive your past-self, which can reduce feelings of regret. Tell yourself, write, or think the affirmations. Some examples of affirmations include:


I am a good person and deserve the best despite my past.
I am human and make mistakes, and that is ok.
I have learned a lot from my past, and I am worthy of a bright future.

