 Here is a scenario: You woke up late, so the kids got off late to school. You call into work, talk to your boss, and let him know you are running behind, but will get there as quickly as you can. Today of all days, traffic is worse than usual, so you are a half hour late. As you walk to hang up your jacket, apologizing to your boss for your late arrival, he says "No problem, thanks for the heads up. Oh, by the way, I sent Jay over to head office for training and then Taylor called in sick, so we'll be pretty busy today." What? You have two people to handle a four people work day!?! How are you going to get your day back on track?

You could ask your boss if he is nuts, expecting you to pick up the slack for two absent employees (knowing full well that he typically sits in his office playing with numbers and budgets on his computer).
You could stay silent, your fury slowly building throughout the day, as customers complain about "what is taking so long?". You think you are covering it up well, plastering a smile on your face, but a miserable, self conscious, angry wreck on the inside. By the end of the day, you are mentally and physically exhausted, and leave work feeling absolutely miserable. Tears of anger stream down your face as you drive home, and all you want to do is go to bed.
You could decide that you are going to make the best of a bad situation. You know you are in for a long, hectic day. When a customer snarls "What is taking so long?" you calmly apologize. With an understanding smile on your face, let the line up at the counter know that you are sorry for the wait they are having, but you are unfortunately short staffed today because some of your team is sick. Let them know you will get to them as quickly as you can. Alas, when the day is done, you know you did the best you could, and yippee, you survived!;
, It is a fact that we spend a large portion of our adult lives at work. In a perfect world, our days would be filled with happy communication with our coworkers, and enthusiasm at the assignments our boss throws our way. Alas, we do not live in a perfect world. Tackle the feelings you have appropriately depending on which of the following emotions you're facing., When you find yourself angered by an event at work, step away from the situation. Go to the break room and get a glass of water, step outside and take a few deep breaths. Take a few minutes to gain your composure. It will give you a chance to cool down emotionally. Then, when you return to your work space, you can deal with the situation with more rationality., The feeling of envy towards a fellow coworker, because of an accomplishment or promotion, is a common feeling. Most often, if you take the time to consider the why they got chosen, you may find that there was a valid reason. Perhaps your coworker has education or experience valuable to the position they were promoted to. In that case, it is not fair to compare yourself to the promoted coworker. Be happy for them, and understanding why they got the recognition should help quell you feelings of envy.

Also remember that there will always be situations where the boss tends to favour one employee over another. In that situation, like it or not, you have to either accept it or look to change jobs.
 In the competitive world we are working in, job security can cause us feelings of unease and even fear. Be proactive. Keep your resume up to date, and keep an eye on the job market, so that you feel more prepared should the worst happen. Fear can also come in the form of workplace bullying or an unrelenting supervisor. You should speak to someone you trust; a human resources counselor where you work, or a member of the management team that is in a senior position to the employees involved., The feeling of guilt often arises when you think you are not getting your work completed or you feel that you have offended someone in the office. This form of negativity can ultimately be a positive for us in the long run. When it comes to your work, set reasonable expectations for yourself and make sure that you meet, or exceed, these goals. With your coworker, take them aside and tell them that you think you may have said something that came across incorrectly, and wanted to apologize. In both situations, the opportunity for these negative situations to turn around or resolve themselves is within your control., This is a form of negativity that should be taken quite seriously. It often is a sign of you feeling hopeless about where you are going in your career, or worse, it could be a sign of depression that should not be ignored. Seeking counselling, through a qualified therapist or psychiatrist, can assist you in gaining focus and help with your feelings of depression.