 These include television, computer games, movie previews, magazines, the Internet, email junk mail and billboards. Once you have a good understanding that advertising is almost everywhere, you can keep an eye out for harmful sources in your child's life.;
, For many families, this means no television during meals and refraining from watching a lot of television when the kids go to bed. They may see television as something they want more, if it's on, but they are not allowed to watch it.
 Since kids cannot recognize the goals of advertising, withholding a smart phone will make them less likely to look at advertising when they are away from home and spend their money.
 They suggest that parents limit television and Internet in the following ways, in order to limit contact with advertising:


Do not allow children under the age of 2 to watch any television. Studies have shown that infants and young toddlers cannot tell the difference between the actual show and the advertising.
Limit kids over the age of 2 to watch between 1 and 2 hours of television programming per day. You should choose the programming for its educational value, if possible. Kids between 3 and 6 do not understand that advertising is aiming to sell them something. Kids up to 12 years of age may view advertising as entertainment.
Do not keep television or Internet devices in children's or teenager's rooms. This outlet allows too much unstructured television time and not enough time for creative and outdoor activity. By the age of 12, most kids can understand the aim of an advertisement, but only after they are 14 do they understand the concept of a marketplace, cost and other values related to advertising.
Try to choose programs on public television stations because there is often less advertising.
 Tell them that they are not true stories about the product, so that they understand that they should be wary about things they hear on television or see on the Internet.


Ask your older children what is being advertised. Then, ask them what strategies are being used to advertise the product. Common strategies include bribes, claims, promises, games, a famous person or cartoon character, special effects, repetition, music, stories and jokes.
 Watch television with your children so that you can make sure you fast forward during the commercials.
 Restrict their access to the sites and channels that you have vetted and that appear educational. Block websites that focus on advertising, rather than on content, such as Facebook, until your child is over 14 and you've spoken with them about advertising on the Internet.
 DVDs usually contain little or no advertising. You may want to fast forward through previews, but you will not need to worry about commercial breaks.
 One way to limit exposure is to raise kids to understand that TV and the Internet are not the go-to source of entertainment. Make TV time one of the first things to take away, if a child acts up.

