 Pay attention to things like body language and how the person is behaving, especially whether they're interacting with the people around them. If they're alone, and looking around the room interestingly, then they might be looking for someone to talk to. However, they might also be looking for a person they're planning on meeting there. Try to notice whether they're just being observant or whether they seem to be searching for something in particular, for example, they might be craning their neck to get a good look at something that's difficult for them to see. If they're with a group of friends, and seem to be enjoying themselves already, they probably won't welcome an intrusion.;
, It’s generally better to avoid pick-up lines and not try to impress them with your ability to come up with a good one. While there are occasional situations in which these can be effective, it's generally a safer bet to try some of the ideas below to open the possibility of a kiss:


I couldn’t help but notice _________. Insert something you've noticed about them that's drawn your attention. Pick something that's a choice that they've made, not something they can't help like the shape of their eyes. For example, an item of clothing, a hairstyle, something you overheard them say (nothing personal!), or something they look interested in are all good options.
Is this seat taken?
Hi, How are you, my name is…
Are you waiting for someone?

, If you’re in a bar or restaurant that you often go to, ask whether he/she is a fan of some category of food or drink that they serve (for example red wine, a variety of beer, or any kind of food such as nachos, or fried meat). If the person says yes, then recommend something to them, making sure to point out what’s so great about it. If the person says they don't like it, you can either try to convince them that they should try it, or ask what they do like, and try to find some common ground, or a discussion point. Make sure to pay attention to what he/she is saying about what they do or don’t like and respond appropriately.


If you’re in a new place, ask if the person goes there a lot, and whether they have any recommendations. If they say they haven’t been there before, you can still ask their advice about what they think is likely to be good.
 You can go up to just about anyone and ask them if they want to play a game, and then suggest a game or bet with stakes that involves them kissing you if something specific happens. This is a great technique because it gives the other person the option to say that they aren’t interested without having to give a direct yes or no to a question as blunt as: "Can I kiss you?" It also preserves the feeling that perhaps they didn’t choose to kiss you, and only ended up doing it because they lost the game. Warning! Even if you win the game, if the other person declines to kiss you, you should not try to kiss them anyway - that would be harassment. A couple examples of some good games are:


Any sort of bet. Notice something going on around you, and say something like: "I'll bet you a kiss that ____________."
A card trick where you have to find the card that the person you want to kiss chose. Before you start, agree on the stakes: if you succeed, they have to kiss you (you can even set parameters about what kind of kiss it has to be). If you fail, then offer them something else in return. A drink, offering to take them out to a meal, or some amount of cash are all good options.
Something like spin the bottle. This is especially good if you really want the person you kiss to be a complete stranger - you can call in friends to put together the group, and then you will never have spoken to some of the people you might then kiss!
Truth or Dare. Even if the other person consistently picks truth, you can always tell them the truth that you want to kiss them and see how they react!

