 Especially when it comes to relationships, you are at the steering wheel of your own choices. It is important to use good judgment, think it through, and make thoughtful decisions when coping with relationship troubles.


While getting advice can be helpful, remember that you are the one who understands the situation best, because you're the one experiencing it. You know your relationship best, so at the end of the day, it's important to use your own judgment.
 Go to a quiet and empty room, and make yourself as comfortable as possible. When you are overwhelmed with millions of thoughts, you need space and time to think. Meditating helps at this point.


Light up some candles and close your eyes.
Relax and clear your mind. If clearing your mind is too difficult, focus on one thought or one word and keep repeating that thought (make sure it's a positive one).
After five minutes, you'll notice your breathing getting slower and slower, which is a good thing.
Meditate for five more minutes and then slowly, open your eyes. Feeling still? Feeling peaceful? You bet.
 When reflecting on your relationship, you want to be examining it from a distance, when your emotions are under control. This will help you make the best decisions.
 Once you're feeling peaceful, grab a notebook and write a list of the things that are troubling you in your relationship. On the next page, write the things that you love about your relationship. Let it all out on paper. Seeing and reading your feelings can help you understand them better.


Keep this notebook. You can use it to vent in writing instead of constantly running off to other people.
 Look at both of the pages and decide. Depending on the situation in your relationship, think. What is more important to you? How can your life be better? Is your relationship worth the work, or should you just end it? Make sure your decision is wise and final.


If the hate list is too big, it's okay to end things. Staying in a bad relationship won't help your happiness, and breaking up is rough, but you'll be happier in the end. Congratulate yourself for making a thoughtful choice.
If the love list wins, then this isn't an easy choice either. You'll go through hard times with your partner and life won't always be rainbows and butterflies. But in the end, you'll look at them, recognize how much you love each other, and know that it's worth it.

