 Many volunteer organizations, especially smaller ones, do not have the resources to run smoothly. You may arrive and get the directions, "Go teach that group of children math," but little else. You need to be ready to be your own boss to a certain extent. You are there to make a difference, but you'll need to be confident in yourself to do so.


Try and be results driven -- you are there to make a difference, so make a difference. Trust your gut and push forward, doing everything to make things better for these people, not for yourself.Feel free to ask questions if you are confused, but do your best to work on your own. Small, underfunded operations cannot waste time telling you what to do at all times -- they need to trust that you'll get things done., Things are not going to go well all the time. The best volunteers are flexible and can adapt to new situations in the blink of an eye. Remember that you are there to volunteer -- to help out other people. You are not there on vacation, and no one "owes you" anything. So be ready for changes of plans and potentially doing different work than you expected. It makes everyone's life, including your own, much easier., There are going to be times when the work is tough, grueling, and even heartbreaking. Volunteering is not easy, and that's okay. But you need to do your best to stay positive and optimistic. It not only helps you cope with struggle, it shows your co-workers and the people you are working with that things will get better. It lifts everyone's spirits and makes the work easier and more effective.


Remember that, while this may be hard for you, the people you help often go through these hardships every single day. They don't ask for pity, and neither should you., Do not go to a country and expect people to behave the way people behave in your home country. This may sound obvious, but some volunteers come with a close minded attitude. They might avoid local food, only going to western-style places and bars, and look down on or pity the people in the country. This hurts everyone because it puts up a barrier between you and the people you want to help.


Go for walks through town and introduce yourself to people you meet.
Ask host-families or support to teach you things you don't understand like recipes, music, or games.
Make learning a priority -- whether it is a routine, skill, or language, you should aim to become a sponge of local culture and knowledge.
Avoid hanging out with only people "like you." Make an effort to encounter all walks of life.
 If you remember that you are there to help others, not yourself, you will be a good volunteer. At the end of the day, volunteering is about making a sacrifice (of your time, money, skills, etc.) to help someone else in need. If you are trying your best to help someone out, putting their needs before yourself for a few days, weeks, or months, you will be a good volunteer., Don't feel like you need to work the entire time you're there. Instead, use your time to immerse yourself in the local culture, take pictures, meet friends, and let people back home know how you're doing. Make the most of the experience by making it yours. While you are not there to be a tourist, you are there to make a meaningful impact on the people you help and yourself. Some good ideas to help make the most of your trip include:


Make 1-2 local friends and exchange contact information. Be sure to stay in touch.
Start a blog or email correspondence to share stories and news with friends and family back home.
Write a journal or shoot a photo diary, documenting your stay so that you can look back and enjoy it later.
Find a project, person, or task that you are passionate about while you are there and make it the very best you possibly can.
Take some time to reflect on the experience afterward -- how have you changed? What did you learn?