 To keep all your child’s new toys organized, make a play zone or area in your home. This could be in your child’s room, in the living room, or in the den in your home. Use a carpet to note where the play zone ends and store your child’s toys in the play zone. Tell your child that they need to keep toys in the play zone so your house does not become cluttered with all their new toys.You can also use other physical markers like a couch or other furniture to note the play zone. Encourage your child to stay in the play zone with their toys during playtime. Instruct them that other activities like eating or sleeping are done outside the play zone.;
, Keep the new toys organized by using storage bins. Clear plastic storage bins that are deep and narrow are good for storing toys. The clear plastic can make it easy for your child to see the toys in the bin. Soft bins made of fabric or woven material are also good for smaller children, especially if they cannot lift heavy bins on their own.Label the bins so they are organized and it is clear what is inside them. For example, you may have a label that says “Trucks” for toy trucks or a label that says “Plush toys” for stuffed toys.
Keep smaller toys in small bins and larger toys in large bins. Do not fill the bins too high with toys so it is easy for your child to take toys in and out.
 Keep the bins in a spot in the play zone that is easy for your child to access, such as on the floor or on a low shelf. Leave the tops off the bins so your child can reach inside them easily. You may have separate bins in another room for toys that your child does not use or for old toys so their area is not cluttered with bins.You may also rotate out certain bins for certain toys in the play zone. Do this if you need to make space for new toys and do not want the area to become messy or cluttered.
 Get your child in the habit of participating in the clean up of the toys once playtime is over. Say to your child, “Time to clean up,” and encourage your child to pick up toys on the ground and put them in the correct bins. Pull out the bins so it is easy for your child to place toys in the bins and clean up their area.Doing this can also help your child learn the importance of cleaning up after themselves. They may come to appreciate having less toys in the future, especially if they have to clean them all up when they’re done.

