


The rate of sexual maturity or puberty is determinate of genes and breeding. The rate of maturity, being carcass maturity, is not directly related nor determinate of when a heifer is ready to breed. Carcass maturity is when bone and muscle growth plateau's off and fat begins to be laid down.;
, Even though the early maturing breeds do reach puberty by the time they are around 7 to 9 months of age, it is best to wait until they are around 13 to 15 months of age before you can breed them. This is because it allows them to grow more, increase their pelvic area and gain enough condition that can allow them to sustain themselves throughout gestation. Heifers that are bred too early tend to have too small a pelvic area to calve out, so some "whoopsie" heifers need to have a C-section done on them, or have the calf pulled. This can be quite costly, as the new calf will often have to be bottle-fed to get enough milk for him.


Occasionally, though, some heifers that are bred too early are able to pass and raise a calf without human interference, either at calving or during the period the calf is being raised.
 This is so that she is big enough to hold and grow a calf in her while she also continues to grow.



A heifer can only be successfully bred during her heat periods. It's critical in timing everything right to make AI successful for her. She must be AI'd 12 hours after you see her first signs of estrus. And remember that AI only has a 60% to 70% success rate.
With use of natural insemination, the bull will know when she will stand to breed and when she isn't receptive. It is best to leave the bull in with the heifers for 60 to 80 days to make sure he services all of them. Use a yearling bull (one that is around 12 months of age) on them to reduce injury. (Note, though, that using a yearling bull may or may not decrease the size of the calves born. Most, if not all veteran producers can tell if a young bull will sire small calves simply by looking at his conformation and his EPD numbers based off the genetics and EPDs of his sire and dam.)

