 If the photo has any wrinkles, try to smooth them out with a soft cloth or a cotton swab., It's either a white app with a blue open box (iPhone) or just a blue box (Android). Doing so will open the last tab to which you had Dropbox open.

If you don't yet have Dropbox, first download it on iPhone from https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/dropbox/id327630330?mt=8 or on Android from https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.dropbox.android&hl=en.
 This tab is either at the bottom of the screen (iPhone) or in the ☰ drop-down menu in the top-left corner of the screen (Android).

If Dropbox opens to an open file, first tap the "Back" button in the top-left corner of the screen.
 It's at the bottom of the screen. Doing so will invoke a pop-up menu., This should be the top option in the pop-up menu., To avoid distortion, you'll want to make sure that the photo isn't tilted toward or away from the phone's camera; this is easiest to facilitate if your photo is on a flat surface and you point the phone down toward it., As long as all of your photo is in focus and it is clearly separate from the background (e.g., a table), the blue outline should appear around your photo.

If the outline doesn't appear or looks crooked, readjust your phone's angle.
 It's either a white circle at the bottom of the screen (iPhone) or a camera icon at the bottom of the screen (Android)., This button is either a group of sliders at the bottom-center of the screen (iPhone) or the Adjust tab in the bottom-left corner of the screen (Android)., Doing so will change your scan settings for the photo from black-and-white to color., It's in the top-right corner of the screen., This option is in the top-right corner of the screen.

You can also tap the "Add" button, which has a + sign on it, to scan more photos.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing so will add your photo to your Dropbox's "Files" tab as a PDF (default). You can view your photo on a computer by opening the Dropbox folder on your computer, or by going to https://www.dropbox.com/ and signing in with your email address and password.

You can also change the photo's name here by tapping the "File name" box and typing in a new one, or you can change the file type by tapping PNG to the right of the "File type" heading.

