 Moisturizing lotion or cream can help to keep your skin hydrated and healthy. Choose a product intended for dry skin or "combination" skin, ideally one without fragrance or allergens. Apply it as needed, no more than twice a day.


For severely dry skin, use thicker creams or warm coconut oil.
Do not use body products on your face, which has more sensitive skin.
If your skin is already red and irritated, lotion can prevent your body from returning to a healthy level of oil production. Moisturize as necessary to avoid pain or cracking, but give your skin some time to heal on its on.;
, Hard scrubbing and harsh soaps strip away the oils that protect your skin. Avoid excessive washing, and stick to gentle soaps and light scrubbing. Hot water opens up the pores so more oil escapes, so go with warm or room temperature water if you can stand it.


Your face is especially sensitive to soaps and heat. A splash of cool water before bed should keep it clean without irritation.
 If your hands suffer from eczema or another form of irritated skin, take special care to protect them from soap and heat. Wear rubber gloves while doing the dishes. Wipe them with sweet almond oil or another soothing oil before showering.


If they get especially bad, wear 100% cotton gloves while sleeping. You can find gloves designed for this at pharmacies.
 Your lips are especially vulnerable to dry winter air. Apply a hydrating lip balm before going outside, or whenever your lips feel chapped. Switch to a product with different ingredients if your lips sting or feel sore after using the balm. Balms with beeswax or petroleum jelly (Vaseline) work well for most people, but some additions such as menthol or alcohol can be too harsh for some.


Make your own by melting beeswax and coconut oil together. Optionally, mix in a scented extract, essential oil and/or lipstick for smell and color. Freeze for fifteen minutes or until solid.
 Scratching your skin will strip down its layers. Every time the layers are removed or damaged, the skin gets itchy again, setting you up for a vicious cycle of it never quite curing and always feeling itchy. Do your best to control the itching and give your skin time to heal.
 This helps to keep your skin hydrated. Drink whenever you feel thirsty, and enough to make your urine pale or clear. (The popular "eight glasses a day" factoid isn't really a universal requirement.)

, Wear a scarf, coat, gloves and cap to prevent dry air from drying out your skin.
 Ultraviolet light is still around in winter, even on overcast days. Put on SPF 30 or higher sunscreen before you go out.
 Heaters dry out the air, which in turn dries your skin. A humidifier will restore moisture to your home environment.

