 Although this law is often flaunted, it is illegal for a private residence to be rented for less than 1 year. Most apartment rental companies have arranged commercial licenses to be able to rent their apartments.


Short-term apartment rentals are only illegal in Paris if you rent for less than a year from an owner who does not have the apartment classified as a commercial property. Ask the person you are arranging the rental with, if you have any concerns.





;
, The 20 main districts of Paris are called "arrondissements." Become familiar with a map that shows all the city's main attractions and its neighborhoods, because many Paris apartment listings will be featured by arrondissements.


Search the Internet term "Plan de Paris" to find an adequate map. The popular travel guide Frommers also offers a number of interactive maps of Paris on their website. You can get a map of specific arrondissements, or Paris as a whole.
 Just like any large city, Paris offers lower prices for bare bones accommodation and high prices for luxury apartments. A short-term apartment stay will not necessarily be inexpensive, but it should be less than staying in a hotel.


Keep in mind that the euro is valued above the dollar, but valued less than the pound. As you look through listings, use a site like XE.com to convert the euro currency into your own, until you become familiar with the currency.
 Higher budget sites include: VacationinParis, ParisStay and ParisianHome. Sites where you can find lower cost rentals include: VRBO (Vacation Rentals by Owner), Craigslist, Slowtrav and Flipkey.


There are hundreds of companies that provide this service. You can do a simple Internet search featuring the terms "Paris short-term apartment," to see the variety of choices. Enter the dates of your stay on the site to see available rentals. Make sure you look for furnished apartments.
 Paris is very walkable, but you will enjoy the scenery and the attractions much more if you are near the river that bisects Paris. A Metro stop is essential for getting around town.
 Staying on the top floor, without an elevator, makes it difficult to carry luggage and groceries to your room. The price that is listed will ultimately be more after taxes and fees are considered.
 This should include extra fees like water, gas, electricity, telephone, Internet, cleaning services and agency services. Request any extra information about the apartment at this time., You want to make sure that you feel completely confident that the rental is legitimate before giving any credit card details. Look for reviews on the Internet to confirm that the agency or owner is legitimate.,, Ask the person to leave detailed instructions about how everything works in your apartment.