 If your mom uses an argument that she or an older sister didn’t start shaving until a certain age, point out that girls start growing body hair at very different times, can have darker or thicker hair that shows up more, or just don’t have the same circumstances with friends at school or other pressure to shave. Just because things are happening to you at an early age doesn’t mean they’re less valid.


You can tell your parents that puberty, when body hair starts growing, is happening at a younger and younger age on average, which explains why your mom or older sister might not have had to deal with it until later than you.
Reference friends that started shaving at even younger ages than yours, pointing out that it just depends on each body and hair.
 Let your parents know if other girls are pressuring you to shave your legs or bullying you about the fact that you don’t. They may let you start for this reason, and they may also give you valuable advice about dealing with bullies or peer pressure.


Tell your parents exactly what other girls are saying or what they’re doing to make you feel bad about not shaving. Be honest because your parents can help.
 Tell your parents that your leg hair causes you discomfort, either because you’re embarrassed to show it or because it makes you feel itchy or hot.


Point out that you have to wear pants or tights even when it’s very hot out because of your embarrassment, and that this is very uncomfortable or even dangerous in high temperatures.
 Bring up the fact that you are about to go to summer camp, start lifeguard training, or participate in a sport for which you’ll be wearing shorts all the time. Let them know this is an ideal time to start shaving.


Point out that shaving your leg hair will help you to focus on and enjoy your activities more.
 Let your parents know that you want to do this for YOU and not anyone else. Assure them that you don’t want to shave to impress boys. Even if your motivation is just to fit in with other girls, explain that having self-confidence and being comfortable with your own body is really important for you and for all girls.You can say, “I just think having smooth, shaved legs will feel good and make me more comfortable with my body.”

