 If you have just spilled something on your cowhide rug, you should act quickly to clean it up. Leaving any liquid to soak into the rug will result in stains that are much more difficult to remove. Take these actions as soon as you notice a spill on your cowhide rug to help reduce the staining: Soak the spill up with a towel or sponge. Don t wipe the spill away, as this will only spread it.
Try to use only a dabbing motion while absorbing the spill.
 You may find that some areas of the spill have dried and left solid material behind. These can be scraped away with the blunt edge of a knife. Use the knife's blunt edge to gently break up and remove any areas of dried material until only the stain is left.Scrape with the direction of the hair.
Do not use the sharp edge of the knife.
You might also try using a hard bristled brush or spoon.
Don't scrape or press too hard. Apply only enough pressure to remove the dried material.
 If there is a small stain on your cowhide rug from a spill, you can try using shampoo and water to remove it. The water and mild soapy solution will help to break up the stain and restore your cowhide.Use a damp cloth or sponge to apply the soapy water to the cowhide rug.
You can scrub and rub in any direction.
Make sure the sponge or towel isn't soaking wet.
Don't use any alkaline soaps or shampoos., After you've scrubbed the rug, you will want to remove any soapy residue from it. Take a new cloth and dampen it with only water. Use this damp cloth to gently wipe away any soap or remaining stain. Allow your rug time to dry before placing it back in your room.If the stain is still there, you can try cleaning the rug again to remove what's left.
If you can't seem to remove the stain yourself, you may need to have it professionally cleaned.
 Although it may be tempting, using a washing machine or dry-cleaning chemicals will damage your cowhide rug. All stains and spills should be removed by gentle hand washing only. Never use washing machine or dry-cleaning kits on your cowhide rug to remove stains.