 Commit to a routine that incorporates both weight and aerobic training. Each day, focus on different part of your body, and take one day off per week for rest, grocery shopping, and meal prep. For example, a sample weekly workout could be:Mondays: shoulders and triceps
Tuesdays: legs
Wednesdays: cardio
Thursdays: biceps and chest
Fridays: back
Saturdays: cardio;
, Control your diet year-round and keep track of how many calories you consume daily. Your needs will depend on your age, sex, and fitness goals.For example, if you want to build muscle and burn fat for a competition, you’ll need to bulk up first by consuming more calories, then create an energy deficit by burning more calories than you consume. If you consume 2,500 daily calories, you’d aim to burn at least 3,000 in your workouts.
Avoid consuming less than 2,000 to 2,500 calories per day, or you might have trouble meeting your nutritional requirements., Don’t forget nutrients when you’re counting numbers like calories, protein, and carbs. Reducing calories gradually is necessary to sustain the fat burning that makes muscles visible, but don’t lose sight of your overall health. If you’re allowed a set amount of a type of food, meet that requirement with a rich source of nutrients.For example, if you’re allowed 200 grams of carbs per day, don’t squander them on sweets that contain no nutrients. Instead, go for nutritious carbs like potatoes or berries.
Don’t rely on multivitamins, and never skip a meal.
 There’s only so much you can accomplish without learning from an experienced trainer. When you’re just starting off, work out with a trainer at your gym. As you break into professional modeling, get a trainer who has experience with your area of focus.For example, competitions and print require different physiques. If you compete regularly, you’d want a trainer who can help you achieve and sustain a contest-ready shape.  
Even if you’ve achieved a good physique on your own, a trainer can help you set your goals even higher.  

