 If you haven't already started a Twitter account, get moving! It is recommended that you have an individual account as well as your business account because you'll find you interact with people quite differently depending on which account you're using. Different people will follow you as an individual and your business too.;
, The ones who are leaving updates that are perceptive, clued in and state of the art might be the sort of person you're looking for. Or perhaps it's someone who shows a very specific expertise and knowledge of a particular area. Seek to build a relationship with promising people with a future eye to approaching them about recruitment.
 Arrange a meeting in a cafe for a "casual chat". Don't make it obvious that you want to discuss work arrangements initially in case things don't work out but once you have a fair idea that this person is likely to fit in well as part of your business, then make an offer.
 This is a different and less informal "head-hunting" approach but it's still pretty informal by the usual job advertising standards. Simply tweet that your business is looking for an "XYZ" person who can do "XYZ" and provide a short URL to the job specs. Ask for it to be retweeted about to increase the interest.


Make the tweet interesting and leave all the details to the webpage the URL directs people too. Remember that Twitter is about short, sweet and catchy.
 This can tease people and make them think that they'd like to work for you when there are vacancies or to make the effort of sending in their interest even without an active call for applicants.


You might let your followers know how much enjoyment current employees are having at work doing something, to both boost morale of current employees and to build a desirable picture among potential future employees following you or your business. For example, you could tweet "Our games team are having a ball with the new island they've just invented", or "All staff are having a half day volunteering at the SF zoo to help out", or "New flexi hours voted best in town by our staff", and so forth!
Keep it light, fun and interesting. Don't bog down Twitter with the heavy, drab details!

