 The ingredients for this treat recipe can vary quite a bit. Basically, you need an egg and a combination of fruits, nuts, and vegetables that your hamster loves to eat. Combining several types of veggies will make the treat extra exciting for the hamster.


Fruits you could use include: apples, bananas, and cantaloupe.
Nuts you could use include: Chestnuts, cashews, pistachios, sunflower seeds, and walnuts.
Vegetables you could use include: broccoli, celery, corn, cucumber, and dandelion leaves.
 A well cooked treat will hold its shape and will not create a gloppy mess when the hamster tries to eat it.
 Choose 1 cup total of 2-3 veggies you have picked out for your hamster. Shred or grate them so that they become very small pieces. This will allow them to combine with the egg easily and will be easier for the hamster to eat.Use whatever type of grater you have. If you don't have a grater, take the time to chop the veggies until they are very, very small.
 You need to beat the egg until the yolk and the whites are thoroughly combined. This will give your hamster egg treat the right consistency.


You do not need to use an egg beater to beat the egg, although this does get the job done very quickly. Instead, just use a fork to whip the egg until it is combined.
 The baking cups that work the best are made for baking "mini cupcakes," because they only hold about two tablespoons per muffin cup.These baking cups will make your treats small enough to be "hamster sized."


It is best to use a non-stick baking tray, as it's not a good idea to give your hamster a lot of oil or butter, which would be used to grease a traditional pan.
 Cover the veggies completely with the egg. However, you should leave some room at the top of the cup, as the eggs will puff up when cooked.


Feel free to give each cup of veggies and eggs a little stir so that the eggs and the veggies are thoroughly combined.
 This may be hard to gauge but can done by sticking a toothpick or skewer into the center of one of the cups. If the skewer comes out clean, then the cups are cooked.


Let cool and serve, but remember to give your hamster a limited amount of treats every day.

