 One way to deal with the situation is just to broach the topic directly. Bring up that you'd appreciate it if they don't smoke around you. It's also helpful to back up what you're saying with reasons why you don't like having secondhand smoke around.You could say, "I know I'm a guest here, but I'd really appreciate it if you didn't smoke around me while I'm here. I feel secondhand smoke is dangerous, and the smell gives me headaches."
Of course, if you're a guest in their home, that makes things muddier. You should still address it, but remember, they have a right to do what they want in their own home.;
, One way to help encourage others not to smoke around you is to bring up any health problems you have that are made worse by smoking. For instance, if you're an asthmatic, smoking can make the condition worse. Most smokers will be understanding, especially if you have a health problem.You could say, "I respect that you want to smoke, but would you mind not doing it around me? I have asthma, and cigarette smoke makes my condition worse."

, If all else fails, take yourself away for a minute when someone lights up. That way, you're not telling them to move or not smoke, you're just moving yourself because you don't like being around cigarette smoke. Most people find this approach more palatable.For example, when someone lights up, you could say, "Enjoy your smoke! I'm going to go outside for a bit since I don't like being around cigarette smoke."

, Another last-ditch option is to take an allergy mask with you. Pick one that is made for helping to filter out smoke, such as one with charcoal. You might offend your friends, but if you explain why you want to use it, they should understand. You may even need to wear it in the house even if they're not smoking around you.For example, you could say, "I appreciate that you aren't smoking around me, but even the residual smoke will bother my allergies. I hope you don't mind me wearing this allergy mask while I'm here."
If you want, you could make it more general. You could say, "My allergies have really been flaring up lately, so I've been wearing this allergy mask pretty much all the time to help slow them down."
In addition, you could bring some eyedrops, water, allergy medication, and a couple of ibuprofen to combat the effects of the smoke. Smoke is an irritant, so it may cause allergy-like symptoms, such as itchy eyes, throat, and nose. Think about how you've reacted to the smoke in the past and bring supplies to treat those symptoms.
 Consider only visiting your friends' house when it is for an outdoor event, like a BBQ or pool party. If your friend invites you over to hang out, suggest sitting outside and grilling out — you can even offer to bring the burger patties. Being outside may help you avoid inhaling the smoke, and will help avoid third-hand smoke (carcinogens that build up on surfaces when people smoke indoors, such as on furniture, carpets, walls, etc.),but you might still want to excuse yourself when your friend lights up; second-hand smoke is still a concern, even when smoking outside.