 To start, find a container to fit your supplies. You can use something like a bag or backpack. You can also use a box, such as a pencil box or other storage container.Whichever container you choose, make sure it has many compartments. This way, you can separate items by type.
Your kit should be slightly smaller than a backpack or purse. This way, it can easily fit in your locker but will be large enough to contain all your supplies.
You can try bags such as tote bags or toiletry bags. You can also use plastic containers. A makeup container could be cleared out and used as a school survival kit.;
, An agenda or planner is a must have for a school survival kit. This will help you keep track of homework, tests, quizzes, and other deadlines. You can buy an agenda or planner at a local department store before school starts.Have some fun selecting your planner. Pick one that uses colors and designs you like.
 It's always a good idea to have extra pens and pencils on hand. Make sure to pack these items in your survival kit. In addition to pens and pencils, get sharpies, red pens, highlighters, and other utensils you write with during class.If you use mechanical pencils, make sure to pack extra lead.
You should also pack a small pencil sharpener.
You can pack some fun, decorative pens or pencils too for writing notes to your friends or doodling during lunch time. Add something like colorful gel pens, colored pencils, or markers.
 A calculator is a great tool to have for high school, especially if you're taking high level math classes. Make sure it's the type of calculator you need for your course. High level courses may require that you use graphing calculators.Refer to your syllabus if a specific type of calculator is required and make sure that's the one you have. Texas Instrument calculators, such as the TI-83 and TI-84, are frequently used for high school math courses. However, your school may require a different brand, like Hawlett-Packard (HP) calculators., You never know when you may need something like a stapler, ruler, sticky notes, sticky tabs, tabbed dividers or things like graphing paper for math or art courses. Have these kinds of basic office supplies on hand in your school survival kit.You should also bring things like USB drives or zip drives if you frequently need to print out homework supplies at school.
 It's important to have scrap paper and notebooks for your classes. Add these things to your school survival kit. Pack a few extra notebooks as well as a folder of scrap paper.