 Add 1 cup of white vinegar to a normal load and let soak for 30 minutes. Continue regular wash cycle adding a liquid, scented fabric softener during the rinse. Put a scented fabric softener sheet in the dryer as well. If needed, repeat this step.


The vinegar smell should dissipate after drying.
You may be using too much laundry detergent or fabric softener. This can cause soap to accumulate on clothing, making them less absorbent and causing musty odors.;
, Add 1 cup of baking soda to a normal load and let soak for 30 minutes. Complete normal wash cycle., Bleach can remove both stains and odors caused by mold. However, check any garment label to determine if item can be bleached, as bleach will discolor most items that are not white. Place clothing in the washing machine, making sure not to overload the machine. Add liquid detergent and set your washer for "warm" water. Once the machine has filled with water, add a cup of bleach (reduce this for smaller loads). Continue regular wash. Remove and rinse clothing if you notice colors beginning to fade.



Bleach will typically permanently discolor or damage clothing or fabrics. Natural fabrics such as silk, wool, or animal fibers are very likely to suffer bleaching effects. Check clothing tags for any "do not use chlorine bleach" warnings. While you may approach a pair of jeans as an opportunity to do a creative bleaching wash, you may not that for other garments.
Do not over wash clothes with chlorine bleach, as it can weaken fabrics such as linen, cotton, and rayon over time. The occasional bleaching will not do a lot of harm.
 Exposing your fabrics to light and fresh air can remove odors naturally.


Make sure fabrics are completely dry before bringing them inside and storing them. Trapped moisture is a major cause of mildew.Keep an eye on the weather and bring all fabrics inside if it gets damp or rainy. Do not leave out overnight if possible. Prolonged exposure outside in damp weather can cause mold and must in clothing.

