 This can be a pretty long list, as its just a starting point. It helps to know the sort of dog you are looking for before starting your search. Do a bit of research on each type of dog. What are its energy levels? What are its general personality characteristics? This information can help you narrow down what types of dogs might be right for you and your family. Ultimately, you also want the dog to be happy and fulfilled, which means providing it with the amount of exercise it needs, a good quality diet, and a social life.


Shelters are protective of their wards and will ask you to fill out a detailed questionnaire. This is not because they are nosy, but because they want to ensure a perfect match. Working on this list will help you narrow down your perfect match before you even go to the shelter.;
, This should narrow down your list of potential types of dogs. If your time is limited then don't choose a large dog or a breed that is renowned for needing a lot of exercise. Remember some small dogs, such as many of the terriers, originated as working dogs, which means they are able to run all day without tiring.


Bear in mind if you don't give the right amount of exercise the dog may become bored, which leads to destructive or antisocial behavior, or they may become overweight.
 This may seem obvious but if you live in a small apartment, be realistic about the size of the dog. Also, remember most dogs come with waggy tails, and in a small space the whip of a happy Labrador tail can do a lot of damage.
 There are a lot of expenses that come along with a dog. One expense that varies depending on the breed of dog you have is the cost of food. It is essential to buy a high quality food, and by default these are not the cheapest foods on the market. If you have a limited budget, don't adopt a large dog and economize by buying cheaper food. Instead, adopt a smaller dog and buy a good quality diet., Short-coated breeds require brushing at home, but long coated breeds need to be trimmed at a professional groomers regularly. Know how often your preferred breed of dog will need professional grooming and make sure this is realistic for your budget before taking the pet on.
 Preventative health care against fleas, worms, and heartworms is essential. Be aware most preventative treatments are bought by size, and the larger the dog the more expensive the medications. Be absolutely certain you can afford to regularly buy the right sized preventative for your proposed pet.
 Get a signed and dated letter from the landlord that they have agreed to you having a dog on the premises.Most reputable shelters will require you to have this if you don't own your home. This helps the shelter avoid getting returned or abandoned animals due to conflicts with landlords.


Investigate if you need separate insurance for any damage done to the property by the dog. Also investigate the cost of insurance policies should the dog hurt someone.
 What is your lifestyle? Do you have children? Some shelters will not home animals to those with kids under the age of five. Do you have other pets? This could influence the dogs you are allowed to choose from. Quite rightly many shelters won't home terrier breeds to a home with cats, as the terrier instinct is to chase cats.
 Those run by national organizations, such as the ASPCA or the Blue Cross, have excellent reputations. All the rescue pets are checked by a vet, and often neutered, vaccinated, dewormed, and microchipped prior to homing.Smaller shelters run by animal lovers may not have the resources to do this, and therefore the vet checks may not have been done before adoption.


If you run an internet search and find a smaller local shelter, then ask the shelter what checks are routinely done prior to homing. If a vet check has not taken place, ask what their policy is about accepting the dog back if you chose an animal, get it checked and discover there is a health issue.
Your vet may have a directory of breed-specific rescue shelters. If you have your heart set on a particular breed, contact your vet for details.You can also find many breed-specific shelters or rescue groups online. Look for groups in your area or in areas that you would be willing to travel to to find your perfect dog.
 You may want a small dog with curly hair and that loves kids. Or, you may want a young large breed puppy with a smooth coat. Whatever it is, there is a good chance they have it.
 Expect to fill out detailed registration documents before being allowed to see the dogs. This is to check you are a suitable owner, that you have adequate facilities to care for the dog, and that you meet the shelter's adoption criteria. For example, some require no young children, that you have access to a yard, or that you have no cats in the house.
 Unless you are an experienced dog owner and trainer who can work with behavior problems, look for a confident dog that doesn't growl or back away when you look into the kennel. Look for a dog that approaches you with curiosity, head up, ears pricked forward, standing tall, and tall wagging. These are all signs of a good natured dog who wants to say hello., If there are a few specific dogs you like, ask the workers at the shelter if you can take them one at a time into the playpen. This is your time to figure out whether one of the dogs is right for you.
 The best thing to do is ask the workers about any problems that you see. But, if you really, really like the dog, you may be able to have a vet exam it before adoption. A checklist for health includes:


Eyes: Should be bright, wide open, and free from sticky discharges.
Nose: No inflamed or flakey skin
Ears: Both ear canals look the same and there is no unpleasant smell, or discharge coming from the ears
Teeth: Should be clean, and there should be no angry red lines along the gum margin.
Coat: Glossy and tangle free. There should be no heavy flakes of dandruff, bald patches, scabs, or signs of the dog scratching heavily.
Legs: the dog should move freely without limping
Lungs: No coughing or sneezing, no difficulty breathing.
Demeanor: Is the dog lively and bright, or dull and depressed?
Ask the kennel staff is the dog has normal bowel movement or if he is prone to upset stomachs.
Inquire if the dog has a medical history, such as does he have a heart murmur, or he been on any treatment since arriving at the shelter.
 Make sure that the dog will suit your environment. Do you need a lively, active dog for fly ball and agility training? Do you need a sweet, mellow-natured dog that would be easy to train and likes frequent exercise? Or do you need a pup that a big fluffy coat because you live in a colder environment?

, Once you have found your ideal dog, be prepared to wait to take it home. Many shelters run 'home checks' to make sure the dog is indeed going into a suitable environment. If you pass this test, prepare for the dog.
 This includes a collar and leash, food and water bowls, food, a crate, a comfortable bed, and puppy pads if the dog is not house broken. You will also need to get grooming tools, vitamins, and toys as well.


Also read up on dog training methods using reward, since you want to start training your dog as soon as it gets home, by showing it where the toilet spot is and praising it for performing there., You will have to pay an adoption fee and sign paperwork before you take the dog home. This money goes to the shelter, so that they can feed and house more dogs in the future.


Let the dog sniff around the outside of your house or building before you bring it in. Try to get it to go to the bathroom outside right before you bring it in.
Slowly introduce your new dog to its new home. Once you bring it inside, let it explore a little but keep it supervised. Don't overwhelm it with attention if it is a shy dog. Instead give it time to adjust.

