 Cocker spaniels usually eat dog food, though it's best to pay attention to the ingredients list to get the right food for them., Manufacturers will often try to use other ingredients, such as wheat or grain, to make the dog food heavier. However, this will make it less nutritious for your cocker.
 These do not really mean anything as it applies to your dog food. Viewing the ingredients list is the best way to find high quality dog food.
 In particular, stay away from foods like chocolate, grapes, onions, and candy. Some of these food can cause serious damage to a dog’s organs or maybe even cause death.Cockers are especially drawn to eating rich, fatty foods. These foods can cause pancreas problems, so make sure to keep them out of reach of your dog.
 Puppies need to be fed differently than adult dogs. Puppy dog food is usually higher in vitamins, minerals, proteins, and fats than adult dog food., This will guarantee your puppy gets the necessary vitamins and nutrients to grow up as a healthy adult dog.


You can also get dog food that's for "all stages of life" that works for puppies as well. Verify to make sure the food is fortified with vitamins and minerals to guarantee the dog's health.
 You may also find dog food that meets the unique dietary needs of a cocker spaniel. For a smaller breed like a cocker, dog food may be smaller in size and focused on meeting your dog's high metabolism. Read the labels carefully when you purchase dog food to get the right brand for you.
 Give them puppy food four times a day for the first six months. After that, you should feed them only twice a day.


Avoid overfeeding your puppy. You should be able to see your puppy's waist, but not their ribs. #*Puppies will eat as much as you give them. Follow the directions on the puppy food and only feed them during schedule times.
 When they grow up, your cocker needs to have adult food. Consider feeding them different diets, including dry food, canned food, home cooked food, raw food, or vegetarian food. It's also important to maintain a consistent schedule when feeding your cocker.Adult cocker spaniels can eat dry food. It's the most convenient and easiest to feed them on a regular basis. Keep in mind that dry food does not manage a dog's teeth, so you'll need to clean them even if they are eating dry dog food.
Dogs love canned dog food, since it's much more flavorful. However, there is a lot of water in canned dog food, so it does become more expensive to feed your cocker on a regular basis.
When cooking home cooked meals, you always know what you are feeding your dog. Keeping the nutritional balance for your meal is difficult, so make sure to pay attention to your dog's nutritional needs.
Raw food is especially expensive. If you are making raw food yourself, it can also be time consuming. Some pet food companies are beginning to make raw food diets you can buy, but it is also very expensive.
Cockers can also eat vegetarian, though you have to make sure to give them plenty of protein in their food. You can also buy vegetarian meals in many pet stores so you don't have to make it all yourself.
 Cockers need consistency to maintain a healthy diet. If they don't eat all their food in twenty minutes, take it away so they will learn to eat at a specific time rather than grazing.

