 One way to strengthen your poetry is to focus on your use of language and make sure you are using literary devices like metaphor and simile to full effect. These two devices are commonly used in poetry and can help you present a theme or idea in a more nuanced way.A metaphor ascribes a meaning or identity to one subject by way of another. In a metaphor, an abstract characteristic is projected onto a subject as a way to describe the subject. For example: “My father is a snake.” This does not mean the speaker’s subject is an actual snake, but that he has the characteristics of a snake.
A simile places one object or subject as similar to another object using “like” or “as”. For example, “My father is as sneaky as a snake” or “He is sneaky, like a snake.”
Many poets prefer using metaphors over similes, as metaphors do not require the use of “like” or “as” in a line and often sound more natural when read out loud.
 This literary device refers to the repetition of sounds made by vowels in a line or phrase of your poetry. Assonance is a kind of alliteration but is often considered more sophisticated than alliteration. This device allows you to create a certain sound pattern without having to use rhyming.An example of assonance is “A bling ring” or “The gritty slit”.
You can use alliteration in your poetry, where words start with the same word in sequence, but try to use it sparingly, as it can start to sound amateur if it is used too often. An example of alliteration could be: “The big bad baby went boo hoo in her buggy” or “The wicked women wheeled past the winding hill.”, A key element of poetry is strong images. You can use imagery as a device in your writing, where you use words and phrases to create mental images for the reader. You can use other devices, like metaphor, simile, and description to form these images as well as sensory details. Strong imagery often plays off visual, tactile, auditory, and textural sensations.For example, rather than state, “The hills are green” you can imbue the line with strong imagery, “The hills are lush and thick with trees, bursting with deep green, peppered with bark and leaves.”

, Personification is a very common literary device where you attach human traits and characteristics to inanimate objects, phenomena and animals. This device can make your descriptions more creative and engaging for the reader.Examples of personification include: “the raging winds”, “the comforting fire”, “the stately alligator”, “the wise hippo”.
 Internal rhyme is done by creating a rhyme in one line of a verse. It usually occurs in the middle of the line, with the middle word rhyming with the end word to create a pleasing rhyming line. Internal rhyme can be a good device for adding rhythm and texture to your poetry without having to rhyme every line of the poem.For example, one of the more famous internal rhymes can be found in Coleridge’s “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner”, “We were the first that ever burst.” The middle word “first” rhymes with the last word “burst” to create an internal rhyme.
You can also use half rhyme or slant rhyme in your poetry. Slant rhyme is an imperfect rhyme, where the stressed syllables of the consonants at the end of a line match but the preceding vowel sounds do not match. For example, in the poem by George Wolff "To My Wife", slant rhyme is used: "If love is like a bridge/or maybe like a grudge,/and time is like a river/that kills us with a shiver...". "Bridge" and "grudge" almost rhyme but they are slightly imperfect and do not match, while "river" and "shiver" are perfect rhymes.Often, rhyme can be tricky to do effectively in patterns that do not usually contain rhyming, such as free verse. Rhyming can end up making a poem sound sing-song and trivial, which can detract from the impact of your poem. Try to do it sparingly and only if it is an essential element of your chosen form, such as sonnet or rhyming couplet form., Juxtaposition occurs when you place a person, concept, place, idea, or theme parallel to another. This device can be useful for highlighting the contrast between the two subjects or objects and compare them. You can use this device to deepen your exploration of a certain theme or idea.For example, if you are discussing how a subject is like the devil or possibly evil, you may contrast this by discussing a subject that is typically considered saintly or good. This could highlight the differences between the two subjects and deepen your descriptions of both subjects.

