 While this may not seem like an answer for a destructive dog, it is important to first address the basics and ensure your dog's needs for mental stimulation and physical activity are met. If you have slipped in maintaining a walking routine with your dog, reinstate it. If you haven't yet developed a routine, start now. And if you're not free to walk your dog regularly, find somebody who can. Go for regular walks and try to include a variety of exercise options during the walk.Some ideas include:



Buy a leash that is only a few feet long. The closer your dog is when he walks with you, the more he'll know that you’re the one who has the authority and is in control. Never let him walk behind you or ahead of you, but always right by your side. This lets him know you’re in authority and he must submit.Take your dog on a walk in an area that is challenging. Try anywhere that has hills or an incline. Allow him to take breaks once in awhile and bring along water for him to drink as needed. Your dog may get in the habit of using the same trail, so switch it up to challenge him and keep him from getting bored.
Visit a beach that allows dogs. The sand is excellent exercise for the dog's muscles, and the sea offers a fabulous opportunity for swimming and fetching all manner of items you can toss to your dog. If you don't want to take a ball, use the beach flotsam to play fetch with your pooch.Vary the parks you're visiting to walk your dog. Find out which parks allow dogs and vary your schedule each week to visit different ones. This will be stimulating for both of you, as you see new sights and explore new places.
 Besides walking, play is an important part of your dog's interaction with you.


Play catch in the backyard for 15 minutes a day. Try doing this in the morning when you're more alert and your dog is usually very hyper. You’ll notice that he'll have less energy throughout the day if you drain him of it earlier on.
Make a meet-up time for doggy friends. Find out which of your friends own dogs and plan meet-ups in central locations where your dogs can play together. Naturally, you'll also need to learn in advance if they get along with each other.
Buy a frisbee and help your dog become used to it. Once he is aware of what a Frisbee is for, let him join in the fun., If you can't beat it, join it but at least direct it to where your dog can dig without destroying your garden. Create the space, till it over, and bury some goodies in it that it’ll love finding.Burying items close to the surface at first. Then gradually bury them deeper. This can help retain her interest in the new digging spot. It also helps if you can temporarily block off her old digging space.


If your dog is digging because she is bored, increase the play and exercise activities. Don't leave her alone in the yard all day.
If your dog is digging because she appears to making herself a nice, cool, soft place to sleep on, create a shaded area for her, with something comfortable and cool to lie on.