 Little Shop of Horrors is set in the 1950s/1960s, where Motown and soul artists were popular. Look to Aretha Franklin, Etta James and the Supremes for inspiration, and wear suitable costumes to match this era and style. Try googling for images of these soul artists for inspiration.;
, Ronnette, Chiffon, and Crystal are first seen in street urchin clothing that presents them as quite poor. To get this look, wear denim waistcoats, dirty-ish cut-off jeans, striped shirts, sneakers, and a bandana around the neck.


If you're dressing up with a couple other people, make sure you each look similar but have a distinctive aspect. For instance, you could each wear a different color of bandana.
 So long as you don't go overboard, you can really go to town. However, bear in mind that, at this point in the 1960s, girls wouldn't have overly seductive, showy costumes, and remember that you aren't meant to be overly sexual. A good plan is to do a google image search for costumes to see what takes your fancy. Alternatively, a good costume guideline is a short sleeved or halter top dress with a relatively large, puffy knee length skirt (petticoats are a good plan here to create the cute 1960s puffy skirt look).
 If you're going to be onstage, wear a general base of stage make-up so that you don't look too pale in the spotlight. A little face powder, foundation, concealer, mascara and eyeliner should suffice, along with a little bit of red lipstick. If you're not going to be onstage, use only minimal amounts of makeup, if any. For more glamorous characters, add red lipstick and eyeshadow to match your costume.
 Pick one 1950s updo to wear with your costume. For instance, back-combing was very popular during the 1960s, so you can go for a nice beehive look or a back-combed french twist. However, this is a pain to do and takes ages, so an even easier idea is to tie the hair back in a huge, tight donut bun and add a nice colored bandana, tie it in a tight bow around the head, and allow bangs (side bangs are best, but if you have a fringe, that is fine too) to be let loose. If the bangs are a little bit tricky to manage, you can just pin them back a little and hairspray in place.

