 Homemade bath products can often feel more luxurious and more relaxing than store-bought ones. You can customize these to your liking. Best of all, they don't contain any harmful chemicals. This section will give you a few ideas for relaxing, homemade bath products. Make these ahead of time, so that you can use them in your shower.
 Combine 4 tablespoons of white, granulated sugar, 2 tablespoons of olive oil, and 1 drop of lavender essential oil.This is enough to last you one, relaxing shower experience.


You can find essential oils in health food stores and in some arts and crafts shops.
 Combine 6 ounces (170 grams) of baking soda, 4 ounces (115 grams) of citric acid, and 4 ounces (115 grams) of cornstarch. Mix in 15 to 20 drops of lavender essential oil. Spritz the mixture 10 to 20 times with water. Don't let it start to fizz. Pack mixture into a silicon ice cube mold. You can also pack it into a tablespoon, and tap it onto a tray. Let it dry overnight. To use: place it on shower floor and turn on the water. It will start to fizz, and release its wonderful aroma.If you can't find cornstarch, use cornflour instead.
 Combine 2 cups (360 grams) of baking soda with 1 tablespoon of ground, dried lavender flowers, and 2 tablespoons of ground, dried chamomile leaves (or tea). Add 10 to 20 of each of the essential oils listed below, and mix. Keep in an air-tight jar. When you take a shower, sprinkle 1 to 2 tablespoons of the mixture onto your shower floor.It will bubble and frizz, and release its wonderful aroma.


Bergamot
Cedar wood
Eucalyptus
Lavender
Lemon
Peppermint
Rosemary
If you can't find one of the essential oils, then double the amount of another one.
 In a double boiler, combine ½ cup (115 grams) of each of the following: shea butter, cocoa butter, coconut oil. Add ½ cup (120 milliliters) of a light oil, such as almond, jojoba, or olive. Stir until everything is melted, then remove from heat and add 10 to 30 drops of lavender essential oil. Leave it in the fridge for at least one hour, or until it hardens.Store the body butter in an air-tight container. If your room gets above 75°F (23.9°C), you may need to keep it in the fridge to prevent it from becoming too soft.
Consider substituting some vanilla essential oil for some of the lavender to create a lavender-vanilla scent.
To use the body butter: spread it all over your body after your shower, just like a lotion.
To make a whipped body butter: remove the mixture from the fridge while it is solid, but still soft. Beat it with a handheld mixer for 10 minutes, or until it becomes light and fluffy. Leave it in the fridge for another 10 to 15 minutes so that it can set.
 In a double boiler, combine 1 cup (225 grams) of coconut oil, 1 cup (225 grams) of shea butter or cocoa butter, and 1 cup (225 grams) of beeswax pellets. For a more nourishing lotion bar, add 1 teaspoon of Vitamin E oil. Stir until melted, then add 10 to 30 drops of lavender essential oil. Once everything is mixed together, pour the mixture into silicone ice cube molds. Wait until the lotion bars harden and cool down, then pop them out of the molds.To use the lotion bars: rub them all over your body. They can be great for massages too!

