 Will it just be family members or extended to friends? Decide what is manageable, then create the guest list.;
, Choose a Halloween theme for the best effect. Fill in the time, date, location and any relevant details. Send the invitations out ahead of time, to ensure that everyone can make the time.


You could have treasure maps for invites, a glittery scroll or one with red food coloring splattered on it for fake blood.
 How do you wan this kid's Halloween party to look? Do you want it themed, fancy or freaky?


For instance, you could have a Halloween party themed like a deserted island with pirate treasure and each guest receives a map. Or, a fancy dress mocktail party. Or a monster themed party. It's up to you.
It's a good idea to come up with the theme before sending out the invitations. That way, you can include specific instructions on costumes or anything else you'd like the guests to bring or do, related to the theme.
 While it's generally cheap to buy Halloween decorations, making your own is fun and the kids will love doing this. Make decorations based on easy shapes, such as pumpkins, skeletons, ghosts. You could also make cobwebs out of string or cardboard tombstones with made up names on them (make them funny!).


For a pirate theme, you could purchase a treasure chest, for fancy dress you could get a disco ball and for freaky you could get a huge plastic spider.
See wikiHow's Halloween decorations category for lots more ideas on things to make.
 How about buccaneer cupcakes, fancy mocktails or freaky green punch? wikiHow has some suggestions in the Halloween food category and you might also like to check out How to make creepy food.


Make fun snacks such as candied apples, popcorn balls, candy corn and black and orange cupcakes.
For freaky punch, you can use green cordial/squash.
For healthy snacks try savory toast, quiches or party pies.
 Take care not to scare very young children but older children might find it fun to be scared by a trick or two.
 For example, bags, costume pieces, tridents, Halloween trick and treat buckets, etc.
 Try spooky music from the internet or dollar store CDs.
, Send them home before the sugar high hits.
