 Even if you’re not going out, your partner will probably be excited to see you gussied up as if you are! Wear whatever makes you feel attractive and polished, and encourage your partner to do the same. It will make the evening more special.
 Taking care of one another is what a relationship is all about. If you feel confident making a great meal, then cook one of your specialties for your beau. If you’re not a master chef, lasagna feels special and is hard to mess up.Create a romantic ambiance with mood lighting, candles, special dishes, and pretty glasses.Draw your partner a bath to enjoy while you’re cooking., Cooking for your partner is a kind act of service. Cooking with your partner can be an excellent adventure! Split up the work evenly, from chopping to dishwashing, to ensure that this is a cooperative exercise (just like a relationship).Try a new recipe together--you might just discover a new favorite food.Alternately, since you’re not going out, you can try to replicate your favorite restaurant’s best recipes., If you’re not going out, bring the party inside. Dancing is great exercise, and it’s an excellent way to bond with one another. Don’t worry about looking goofy--that’s part of the fun. If you live in an apartment above others, try to keep the stomping and loud music to a minimum.



Slow dancing is easy and romantic.
Swing dancing can be tricky to get the hang of, but it’s really fun., Plan to sit down in front of a film you’ll both enjoy. Cuddle up together under a cozy blanket and make hot chocolate or tea if it's cold outside. If it's warm, make iced tea or a special cocktail. Burn some incense or scented candles to improve the atmosphere.Your local library may have a big stock of videos that you can borrow for a small fee, or even for free.
Some services like Amazon will rent you a movie for just a few dollars.
You may be able to find strange and wonderful DVDs at a thrift store, too!

, Engaging in a creative pursuit together is wonderful. Concentrating on a work of art actually facilitates conversation, and will help you learn more about one another. Plus, at the end, you’ll have a souvenir of your date.Pick household objects for each other to draw. When was the last time you really looked at your coffeepot?
Crafts are wonderful, too. You can buy mugs at the dollar store, decorate them for one another with Sharpies, and exchange them.Music is art, too. If you both play instruments, you can have a jam session. Or just look up your favorite songs’ karaoke versions on YouTube., A little playful competitiveness can make things more fun. Sit down on the floor with a stack of your favorite games, and keep score! You can even bet on the outcomes, e.g. the person who wins gets to pick the next movie you watch.


If you’re doing board games, focus on picking one that works for two players. Jenga, Battleships, and Monopoly are solid choices, while Clue and Pictionary wouldn’t work as well.Learn a new card game together, if you’re both card sharks. There are tons of resources on the Internet to find weird and wonderful games you’ve never heard of., Select a budget and a time limit. Then, each of you will do the research to plan the perfect dream vacation in an exciting locale, from India to Iceland. After the time limit is up, review each other’s choices. You just might learn something new about your partner!