 After one to two weeks of using argan oil, your skin may show some improvement. If not, then make an appointment with a dermatologist to get some help treating your acne and recommendations on the types of skin products you should use.


If your acne is moderate to severe, then check with a dermatologist before trying argan oil.
 Argan oil is a good source of vitamin E, which is essential for good skin health. You can take argan oil as an oral supplement, but be sure to check with your dermatologist first. High doses of vitamin E have been linked to serious health risks such as increased bleeding while also taking blood thinners., Water can help your body to flush out toxins and it also improves blood flow to your skin, which is why it may also help with acne.Make sure that you drink eight 8 oz (~236ml) glasses of water per day to stay well hydrated. You may even need to drink more if you have an active lifestyle.


Check with your doctor for a specific recommendation on how much water you should drink per day.
 High-glycemic index foods such as products with white flour, baked goods, candy, and other junk foods can increase the amount of insulin in your blood. This insulin spike may cause your pores to get clogged. High-glycemic index foods can also make your skin produce more oil. Low-glycemic index foods may help to reduce acne problems.Low GI foods include:oatmeal, bran cereals, and muesli
pumpernickel bread, whole wheat bread, and other whole grain breads
most non-starchy vegetables
nuts
most fruits except melons and pineapple
beans, peas, and lentils
whole grain pasta

, Make sure that you are getting plenty of skin healthy nutrients from food as well. Vitamins A and D are helpful for good skin health and getting enough omega-3 fatty acids may help with acne as well.


Try to incorporate some foods that are high in Vitamin A, such as sweet potatoes, spinach, carrots, broccoli, red peppers, cantaloupe, mangoes, apricots, and salmon.Choose some foods that are high in Vitamin D such as cod liver oil, tuna, milk, yogurt, and cheese.Select foods that are high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as flaxseeds, chia seeds, walnuts, sardines, mackerel, basil, oregano, and marjoram., Adequate rest is essential to reducing stress. Since some people experience more breakouts when they are stressed, getting enough rest is essential to keep acne under control.Try to get eight hours of sleep per night to stay well rested.

Keep in mind that some people may require more or less sleep per night. For example, some people function well on six hours of sleep per night, while others require nine hours to feel rested.
