 Giving a dog an enema is extremely messy, so choose a place that will be easy to clean and where it will not be a problem if the enema liquid splatters. It is also important to choose an area that is away from food and food preparation areas. Some good options include:


An outdoor yard or cement area that you can hose down afterwardsA garage with lots of newspaper laid out on the floor

, Consider purchasing a disposable plastic apron to protect your clothing from enema liquid splatters. Wear waterproof footwear that you can wash afterwards, such as Wellington boots. Disposable latex or rubber gloves are also essential to protect your hands.After giving an enema, dispose of all soiled protective clothing and wash your hands well.
 If your dog is mildly constipated, then a micro-enema is appropriate. Your dog may be only mildly constipated if he has just started straining and hasn't missed a bowel movement.


Micro-enemas are commercial enemas designed for human use. You can purchase these enemas from a pharmacy. A typical commercial enema is Micralax.Micro-enemas contain a small volume of lubricant which is delivered into the rectum to gently lubricate the feces. These enemas have a gentle (rather than explosive) effect and when used in the early stages of constipation, these types of enemas should help your pet to pass feces normally.
 For a full enema, a larger volume of liquid will need to be introduced. The liquid may be warm water or warm water with a small amount of liquid paraffin added.


Avoid using pure liquid paraffin because it can lead to electrolyte imbalances in the blood., The liquid can be introduced into the bowel via an enema pump (which veterinarians commonly use, or a syringe with rubber tubing attached (home enema). It is possible to purchase enema kits from a pharmacy or the internet. The general principle is the same regardless of the exact method of delivery, and this is a reservoir of liquid (bulb, syringe, or pump) that is passed into the rectum via a soft tube.



Choose equipment that is appropriate for the size of your dog. A large breed dog may require an enema bag (large capacity) while a toy dog will do just fine with a 2.5 milliliters (0.08  fl oz) syringe. If you are not sure, then ask your veterinarian for a recommendation.Determine how much fluid you should administer. When giving a full enema, the recommended guideline for how much fluid to pump into the rectum is 10-20 ml/kg. Therefore, for a 30 kg Labrador retriever  you would administer between 300–600 milliliters (10.1–20.3  fl oz) of fluid. However, it is difficult to instill too much liquid as it will just reflux back out of the rectum.Make sure that you have plenty of extra enema fluid on hand. If your dog fails to pass feces after an enema, then you would need to repeat the process in 1 - 2 hours.
 It is helpful to have an assistant who can hold your dog still and keep your dog’s tail out of the way.This will leave both of your hands free to administer the enema. Your assistant can also comfort the dog by petting him and talk to him. Although, enemas are not painful, having an enema is not comfortable and it may frighten your dog.

