 Children and adolescents are notorious for pushing buttons. Often, they do this to get a rise out of their parents. However, when you respond with anger, you teach inappropriate emotional regulation. Take a moment to collect yourself. Then, respond in a soft, empathetic way.For example, your son asks can he play the video game for the tenth time. Instead of exploding with “No, stop asking!” say “Tom, I know you like to play the video game, but the answer is still no. Your privileges were taken away for a reason.”

, Children and adolescents need some level of autonomy to learn new skills and increase self-efficacy. They can’t do that if you’re always doing everything for them. As a parent, it can be hard to give your child some space. But let them do the tasks they are capable of doing for themselves so that they can learn.Once you see that your toddler has tooth brushing down, let them do it for themselves. Resist the urge to take over when you’re feeling rushed.
 Reinforcement works for both negative and positive behaviors--whatever you give attention to increases. Instead of nagging your child about inappropriate behaviors, stop giving attention to them. On the other hand, when your child does something desirable, offer praise or encouragement.For instance, your child helps their younger sibling clear away their toys. You might say, “Wow, Henry! Thanks so much for being a good helper!”

, Bad-mouthing your spouse’s approach in front of the kids can give your kids an open door for playing you against one another. Respect your spouse or co-parent’s differences. Discuss disagreements away from little eyes and ears.Try to compromise based on who feels more strongly about what. If you are passionate about your children eating a plant-based diet, stick to your guns. However, if you don’t have a strong opinion about your children’s religion, then don’t fight your spouse about it, if they do.
If you both feel strongly about a subject, brainstorm ways you can meet in the middle.