 Fill a pot with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of water. Place a large glass measuring cup or jar in the center.
 This recipe is enough for 8 cubes.
 Keep stirring until the oil has melted. Make sure that you are using solid coconut oil and not liquid.
 Let the mixture cool down a little. Be careful when handling the cup; use an oven mitt or potholder to handle it.
 Once the mixture has cooled a little, start adding the essential oil. You don't want to add the oil too soon, or the heat will cause the fragrance to burn off. You can use a single scent, or a combination of two or more scents. Here are some suggestions to get you started:Basil and lemon
Cinnamon and clove
Lavender and lemon
Orange and vanilla
Vanilla and lavender

, Make sure that the mixture is cool before you add the sugar, or the sugar will melt. Keep stirring until everything is evenly combined. There should be no streaks, swirls, lumps, or clumps.
 You can also use a soap-making mold, if you'd like a larger bar.
 This will take 1 to 2 hours.Once it hardens, it will become opaque and solid, sort of like a sugar cube or textured soap bar. If you notice that the bar is still damp, wait until it dries completely before you use it.


If you are in a hurry, you can also stick the molds in the freezer. The scrub bar will set even faster there., During this time, you can start your usual bathing or showering routine. Soaking your legs first will help soften the skin and make the scrub more effective.
 Take care not to scrub too harshly, however, or you may irritate your skin. As you use the bar, it may crumble in your hands. Don't worry, this is normal. Simply keep massaging the scrub over your legs.


You can also dampen the scrub bar first, crumble it, and then use it as a normal sugar scrub., Because this scrub already contains soap, you likely won't have much or any residue left on your legs when you are done. If you do have an oily residue, you can simply wash it off using soap, or leave it on for extra moisture.


Consider shaving your legs when you are done. Many people find that exfoliating just before shaving leaves their skin extra smooth.
 The sugar scrub bar already contains some oil, so you may not need to apply moisturizer. If your skin still feels dry after using the scrub, however, you may apply some moisturizer.


Store the rest of the scrub bars in a sealed container. Don't let them get wet until you are ready to use them.

