 Wrapping all your presents the same way is a quick way to get your gifts under wraps, but a little dash of creativity will set your wrapped items apart from the rest. You may want to dress up especially important or expensive presents, or you may want to specially wrap presents for individuals who are dear to you, like your significant other, best friend, nephew/niece, and so on. For example, you might:Include dollar store toys that are a theme the recipient likes. For example, a young boy might enjoy an army theme, in which case you could attach little army men to the outside of the wrapping paper with glue.Substitute uncommon accents. Instead of using a traditional bow or ribbon, you could upcycle an old tie and use that to fasten your wrapped gift. After it’s wrapped around the present, tie a bow.
Paint a thin layer of clear glue on your presents and sprinkle a layer of glitter to give the impression of sparkly snow on wintertime presents., This is a great way to encourage your gift wrappers to step up their game and really have fun with the gift wrapping. At the end of the party, you could choose the best wrapped gift and award the prize yourself, or you could have all your guests vote to determine who gets the prize. Some prize ideas you may want to consider:


A gift certificate for two to the movies. This way the winner can bring a significant other, but if they’re not seeing anyone, they can bring a friend instead.
A major network endorsed gift card, like one from Visa, Mastercard, American Express, and so on. These are usable at most places, making it a versatile prize that anyone can enjoy.
A bottle of mid-range wine for adults. You may want to include a bottle of red and white, as some people may prefer one kind over the other., Spending all day wrapping presents, even with people that you enjoy spending time with, can sometimes get boring. Why not take a break and challenge your guests to a creative wrapping challenge? For example, you might use challenges like:Who can wrap a present the best without using any tape.
Who can wrap a present the fastest and nicest.
Who can wrap a present best blindfolded.
 Many people try to hide irregularly shaped gifts in boxes or gift bags. These work very well, but you can also disguise these objects with a little creativity. To ensure your gift remains a mystery, you might want to try such disguises like:


A potted plant for lone gold clubs. You can decorate the club head as the base of a pot, then dress up the club handle like a flower, or you could transform the club head into the center of a bloom, with the handle as a stem.
An ornament for a toy ball. Set the ball in a large piece of tissue paper, gather the paper around the top of the ball, and tie together the gathered paper with ribbon. Attach a piece of gold wire ribbon to make a “hanger.”
A piece of candy for a bottle of wine. Wrap a bottle of wine in bubble wrap so that the wrap extends to the mouth of the bottle. Make sure the opposite end tapers similarly to the neck. Once it’s wrapped, it’ll look like a wrapped piece of candy, which might throw off the recipient., This is especially important if your guests have come to help you wrap presents for a big event, like a wedding or a toy drive for the less fortunate. Your guests will surely appreciate even a verbal thank you, but you might also express your gratitude by:


Pre-writing thank you cards that you can hand out at the end of the party.
Making extra food, then sending guests home with leftovers.
Inviting your guests to visit next weekend for a thank you party.

