 As with any project, it’s important to have the right tools needed to complete the job. You will be sawing and cutting wood, as well as securing the air conditioning into place. So you will need quite a variety of tools for this job.For this project, you’ll need a saw, hammer, nails, and an old shed or other doghouse structure.
 It can be quite unsafe for your dog if you attempt to install an air conditioner in a small doghouse. So it is a better idea to air condition a more stable structure instead.Consider installing an air conditioning unit inside an existing shed in your yard. This will be a safer way to help keep your dog cool in the summer.
 For the doghouse project, a small window unit is probably your best option. Try to find a nice used one (on Craigslist or in the newspaper classifieds), or go to an appliance store to buy a new one.


You can usually find a nice, small air conditioning window unit for less than $200.If you don’t want to cut into the side of the doghouse, you could consider getting a portable air conditioning unit. However, you’d have to consider how to keep it from being overexposed to the elements by covering it.
 Keep the air conditioning unit (along with all related plugs, cords, and electrical outlets) out of your dog’s reach. You don’t want your dog to gnaw on the cords and get electrocuted, or for the air conditioner to short out because it got rained on.


You might also consider insulating the doghouse to add an extra measure of protection from the elements. This will help the doghouse maintain its cool interior during the summer months.
 Just as you would to make room for any window air conditioning unit, cut a hole in the side of the shed. Saw a square hole where the air conditioner will go on the back side of the shed.You may want to use a pencil to trace the outline of the air conditioner onto the wood so that you know exactly where to cut to make a hole that is the correct size.
 After you have sawed the square, take the air conditioner and put it in the square. Carefully slide the air conditioner into the open space, making sure to avoid scraping the edges. And you don’t want to push the air conditioner too far into the shed. Make sure the front of the unit is fully inserted and then stop.Use the accordion side panels on the window unit to adjust the unit more closely to the size of the hole. This will help it stay in place more securely.
Use the securing brackets that came with the air conditioning unit to firmly mount the unit in place. If the unit didn't come with mounting brackets, purchase or fashion a support system that will hold the air conditioner securely in place. You’ll need to use a screwdriver and/or hammer and nails to mount the safety brackets to the wall and to the unit.

