 It is normal to have some jealous feelings towards your partner’s ex. This is particularly true early on in a relationship. If you want your relationship to succeed, it is important that you trust yourself and your partner. When you notice any jealous feelings towards your partner’s ex, be sure to communicate them and let your partner know how you feel.You might say things like “It really bothers me when you talk to your ex” or “The fact that we always see your ex makes me feel insecure in this relationship.”

, If you are suspicious that your partner is still in love with their ex, the best that you can do is be up front and ask them about it. Let your partner know that you suspect that they still have feelings for their ex and that it upsets you. They only way that you will be able to move forward and have a trusting relationship with your partner is by having a frank conversation.You might say something like “I’m concerned that you are still in love with your ex” or “Do you still have feelings for your ex?”
For any new relationship to be successful there needs to be a strong foundation of trust. If you see signs that your partner is too focused on their ex, tell them how you feel. It is okay, and appropriate to ask your partner to step back from engaging in conversations with their ex, and to place more focus on you and your relationship. If your partner is trustworthy and there is no concern, then your partner should respond to this request willingly and without hesitation.
 Ultimately, you will need to listen to your instincts. If you feel that your partner is not in the relationship 100 percent, you should make a change. It is unfair to you to be in a relationship with someone who is still emotionally connected to someone else. Let them know that you need to some space to figure things out and that they should do the same.You might say something like “I think we need to take a break until you figure out your feelings for your ex” or “I can’t be with someone who is in love with someone else.”

