 He may be waiting for you to initiate physical contact. Sit beside him, touching your leg and shoulder to his, and see how he reacts. You can also try putting your arm across his shoulders or touch his arm.


If he shows no acknowledgment, it means he's comfortable with you and considers you a good friend.
If he leans into you or puts his arm around you, it could be a sign of romantic interest.
If he draws away, he doesn’t want to encourage any further physical contact. This can be a sign that he is uninterested.
 If you are hanging out—either alone or with a group—try to see how close he sits to you. If he keeps you closer than arm’s length, he enjoys proximity to you, and he may want more physical contact. Similarly, if he always sits next to you at a restaurant, bar, or movie, he is establishing your value to him above everyone else. On the other hand, if he doesn’t seem to care where you stand or sit, he most likely considers you a friend.
 If he leans towards you or sits with his body open (legs spread and shoulders rolled back), he could be indicating his attraction to you. Fiddling with objects, showing his hands and palms to you, and nodding at what you say may also indicate interest.

Alternatively, if his body is turned away from you or he is closed off (crossing his arms and legs), he might consider you a purely platonic friend., If he makes excessive eye contact with you, especially if you are in a group of people, it means that he is more interested in you than he is anyone else in the room. Watch to see if he makes eye contact, then shyly darts his gaze away. This is a common sign of attraction. , If he actively gestures when he’s speaking to you, it means that he is interested in what you are saying. If he nods along to what you are saying or gestures out towards you, he is trying to engage you in himself. If he rubs his hands, it might be a sign that he is nervous talking to you. Finally, if you notice his gestures are becoming similar to your own, his body is signaling that he is interested in you. 