 In Japanese culture and tradition, love is portrayed as a divine feeling bonded by god and torn only by death.In Western culture, the term "love" is used more freely and in ways unrelated to a relationships. People may say that they "love" ice cream, their smart phone or a favorite sports team. Before saying "I love you," reflect on your true feelings and be clear about what you want to express.;
, While there's been a push in recent years for Japanese men to express their love more openly, words of love are not uttered regularly among the Japanese. Instead, they express their feelings through emotion.


Speak with your eyes. In one study, it was observed that Japanese people focus more on a person's eyes than on his mouth to determine emotion. Research has shown that the expressive muscles around the eyes provide key clues about a person’s genuine emotions, so the Japanese are good at perceiving a person's true feelings. Use tone of voice. In one study it was noted that Japanese participants paid more attention to a person's voice than to his face making the Japanese adept at listening for emotional cues., If you have an opportunity to get to know and make yourself liked by family members and friends, it could go a long way to helping secure the success of a relationship. Young Japanese men and women often go on group dates and value being part of a set.


You cannot necessarily gauge a Japanese woman's interest in you by the way she acts around her friends. Japanese women are often conservative in social groups but may be more open and flirty in more intimate situations.
A look at Japanese "happy ending" novels show that unlike their Western counterparts, it's not burning passion that clears the way for a couple to be together but rather friends, family and suitable circumstances. , If your declaration of love is prelude to a journey that you hope will end with a Japanese woman as your wife, you may want to consider your finances. In Japan, marriage has traditionally been built, in part, around practical consideration--one of which is money. In a recent online survey of more than 500 Japanese women, 72% said they wouldn't want to marry without money. , Attitudes among Japanese men and women about sex are fairly open, so if you feel as though you must utter the words "I love you" in order to initiate a physical relationship, that's not necessarily the case. Sex and sexuality is less frowned upon in Japan than it is in Western countries. Many Japanese consider physical interest as part of the attraction in a dating relationship.
 On Valentine’s Day in Japan, women give gifts, especially chocolate, to men they love. Men return the favor on White Day, which takes place one month after Valentine's Day on March 14. Men give women gifts of various kinds, most commonly chocolate. 