 Furthermore, people will spend about 15% less when using cash instead of credit.Remember to take cash directly out of your checking account—don’t get a cash advance using a credit card, since you will be charged a high interest rate.


Of course, you shouldn’t carry large amounts of cash on you, because you will become a target for thieves. Nevertheless, you can carry as much cash as you would normally spend on any given day.;
, With a debit card, you can only spend the amount of money that is in your bank account. Once you go over the limit, your card is declined.Contact your bank for a debit card.


Debit cards have some advantages over cash. For example, if someone steals the card (or if you lose it), you can report the card as missing and the account will be frozen.
 If you can’t get a debit card linked to your bank account, you can purchase a prepaid debit card. You will manually load cash onto the card, either at a cash register (such as at Wal-Mart) or using an ATM machine. Two of the most popular are Visa’s AccountNow Gold Prepaid Debit Card and American Express’ Bluebird. PayPal also has a prepaid debit card.


You will be charged fees to use a prepaid debit card: transaction fees, maintenance fees, ATM fees, and live customer service fees.Carefully review the debit card’s terms and conditions, just as you did for your credit cards.
 A “secured” credit card is like a debit card. You deposit money into your account, and you are given a line of credit equal to your deposit.Look online for a secured credit card.


Many secured credit cards charge monthly maintenance fees and an annual fee. You’ll also be charged interest on any charges you don’t pay off before the grace period ends.
 You might use credit cards to pay your bills, which is convenient. However, you can also get a checking account at a bank and use personal checks. Contact a bank or credit union to set up a checking account.


Some prepaid debit cards also give you access to paper checks. For example, the AccountNow Gold Visa Prepaid Card and American Express’ Bluebird provide checks.
 If you are shopping online, you can sometimes pay using an electronic funds transfer. This takes money directly out of your checking or savings account. It’s a good option if you are trying to limit your spending.


You might feel a little uneasy giving a business your bank account numbers. Generally, only use an EFT if the person over the phone explains the process and asks for your permission.
Don’t provide your banking information if you’ve never used the vendor before or if they initiated contact with you., Identify what you buy the most. Take out your credit card statements and review what your spending. Do you spend the most on necessities such as food, utilities, and gas? Or are you spending money on movies, books, and meals at restaurants? Now find cheaper options.Instead of buying books, get them from the library.
Instead of eating meals at a restaurant, get a new cookbook and cook meals at home. Use generic brand items to save extra money.
Instead of joining friends at the bar, schedule a get-together at your house. You can play cards and drink healthy, non-alcoholic beverages.
Instead of buying new clothes or furniture, shop at thrift stores, which will save you a lot of money.
 You can find coupons as inserts in your local newspaper. Cut them out and present them to the cashier at your grocery or drug store. You can also find coupons online, which you may have to print out.


Some stores double coupons. They may do so periodically throughout the year, or they may double coupons every day of the year.Search online.
 Credit cards make it easy to give in to every desire immediately. Practice delaying your gratification. For example, you can wait 30 days before purchasing something.If you see a new handbag or set of golf clubs that you want, then write down the date and wait a month. Chances are your desire will pass.
 Many people spend money to relieve stress. They go immediately from the workplace to their favorite store and pull out their credit cards. Find healthier, cheaper ways to unwind from a stressful day.


Go for a run around the block. Strenuous exercise will give you a psychological boost and keep your mind off work.
Practice mediation by closing the door and lowering the shades. Focus on your inner harmony.
Read or watch movies.These are good ways of expanding your knowledge and relaxing at the same time.
 Many online retailers will store your credit card information in your profile. This makes buying something easy whenever you visit the website—too easy, in fact. Go into your profile and delete all the credit card information. This will slow you down the next time you go online to buy something., One idea: freeze them in a bowl of water. Though you can thaw them, it will take quite a while, and your impulse to buy will probably pass by then.


You can also “freeze” your credit cards by calling the card issuer and asking them to freeze the account. However, it’s easy to call back up and un-freeze the account, so using a bowl of water might be the best method.
 On average, Americans own four credit cards.The more cards you have, the more tempted you will be to run up charges on all of them. Accordingly, you can close some unused credit cards.


Realize that closing a credit card will hurt your credit score. Ideally, you should only close a card if you have no balances on any of them. By closing a card, your “utilization” rate will increase, which is the amount of available credit you are using. When you close a card, your available credit shrinks, so your utilization will increase if you are carrying any balances.
Close a card if you have more than 10 or if your spending is completely out of control. Though your credit score will suffer, you probably are already suffering financially from all of your credit card debt.
 Debt consolidation saves you money by paying off high-interest debts with a loan that has a lower interest rate. For example, you might owe $5,000 on a credit card with an APR of 24.99%. You’ll save money if you can get a loan for that amount but with a lower interest rate.


Shop for a personal loan at a bank or credit union. Credit unions tend to be more lenient if your credit is less than stellar.
You can also shop for a balance transfer credit card.Generally, these come with a 0% APR for 6-24 months. You can then transfer your high-interest credit card debt to your new card and quickly pay down the balance., To pay off debts, you’re going to need to shrink your expenses so that they are smaller than your income. Account for all monthly spending by creating a budget.


Now is also a good time to dump bad habits. Your smoking or drinking habit is costing you a lot of money.Lay off the cigarettes and alcohol. Your bank balance, and your health, will improve.
 If you can’t cut any more expenses from your budget, you need to increase the money coming in. Get a part-time job or work freelance on the side. Pursue a passion, such as writing or photography, so that it is fun.


You can also increase the money coming in by selling your valuables. Hold a garage sale or sell on Craigslist or eBay., Your credit card statement should tell you the minimum you will be charged and how much time it will take you to pay off the balance if you only pay the minimum. Try to double up payments and pay that amount each month.


If you have debts on multiple cards, then pay down the card with the highest interest rate first. Pay at least the minimum on all cards and then apply extra money to the card with the highest interest rate. Once you’ve paid off that card, apply your payments to the card with the next-highest interest rate., If your spending is out of control, you might benefit from meeting with a credit counselor. They can review your debts and come up with a plan of action. Find reputable credit counselors through nearby credit unions, universities, and housing authorities.You can also sign up for a debt management plan with a credit counselor. They will negotiate with your credit card companies to reduce your interest rate and waive fees or penalties. You will then make one payment to the credit counselor, who distributes payments to your creditors.Debt management plans aren’t for everybody. For example, you can’t use your credit cards or take out any new loans for the time you are on the plan.
Check the credit counselor’s fee and make sure it is reasonable. Realize that you can also negotiate with your credit card companies on your own. Call them up and ask if they can waive penalties and late fees.

