 When people are told they can’t have something, they only want it more. Such is the case with alcohol. Always forbidding your children to drink alcohol may make it more appealing. Instead, some experts suggest allowing older adolescents to have a few sips here and there.


For example, you may want to allow your teenager to have some of your adult beverage so they can see that it’s not such a big deal. Giving them access to a little bit here and there may stop them from going overboard when they are old enough to legally drink it.However, keep in mind that there are mixed views on this subject. Some experts argue that introducing alcohol early can lead to binge drinking later on, while others believe that it can help the child to develop a responsible relationship with alcohol., Your children and teenagers are always watching what you are doing, whether you realize it or not. As such, you should set a good example for them by only drinking in moderation. When they see that you have alcohol occasionally – and not in excess – they will be more likely to drink in moderation as well.


If you do drink too much, try not to make it seem like you are having an amazing time. Glorifying being intoxicated will only encourage them to want to do it themselves. Instead, talk to them about the dangers that people can get into when they’ve had too much to drink, such as getting arrested and putting themselves in unsafe situations., Let your children see how horrible alcohol can make you feel the next day. Talk to them about the headache and nausea you have. Being honest about this may teach them the negative effects of too much alcohol.


If you don’t want your children to see you in this condition, make sure you at least talk to them about how you felt when you are better. Tell them exactly what happened to you and why it did. Let them know if they drink too much alcohol, they will likely experience the same symptoms., Drinking alcohol in excess has lots of dangerous consequences. Explaining them to your children may help them realize how not drinking in moderation can ruin their lives.


For instance, explain how alcohol can become addictive. You can discuss how the constant need can ruin their lives and use up all their money. Be sure to also talk about the health effects of drinking too much, such as liver damage. Being completely open about the potential consequences may stop them from drinking in excess.