 Gar or garfish are a family of freshwater fish that live in North America, distinguished by their long, cylindrical bodies, short snouts, and rounded tail fin. They are also good sport fish. If you are thinking about trying gar, you should know that they come in several varieties, however. Take some time to learn about the different types, their habitat, and characteristics.


Alligator gar are probably the most striking. They are huge, growing up to 8 feet long and up to 300 pounds. Gator gar are brown or olive above and lighter underneath, with light spots, broad snout, and two rows of very sharp teeth.Longnose gar are very slender fish. They are smaller than alligator gar, maxing out at about 6 feet 8 inches and 35 pounds, but with a similar coloration, and most known for their elongated snouts, which are about twice as long as their heads.Shortnose gar lack spots. They also have much shorter snouts than longnose gar, as their name implies. The typical adult is about 2 feet long. Spotted gar usually grows to a length of about 2 feet, as well. Their bodies are brownish-olive, even on the belly, and are covered with dark spots.Florida gar have a ranged centered on the states of Florida and Georgia. They are olive-brown in color with spots, and mainly distinguished from spotted gars by their shorter snout. They grow to about 2 feet.;
, Although gar are generally good gamefish, each variety will give you a slightly different experience and require slightly different preparation. For example, Florida gar are usually found in streams or lakes with abundant vegetation, unlike their cousin the longnose gar, which prefers open water.Alligator gar will pose the biggest physical demands, certainly, because of their great size. They are also increasingly rare.Longnose are pound for pound the most challenging of the gar family. They are built like torpedoes and their slender snout is very difficult to hook.Shortnose, spotted, and Florida gars are fairly easy to fish, with broad snouts that take a hook quite easily. They still put up a fight, though!, Once you’ve decided which variety to fish, you’ll need to start planning your trip. You may need to do some traveling. Most gars across the Midwest or Eastern United States, but a few varieties have a much more limited range.


Longnose, shortnose, and spotted gar can be found throughout Eastern North America. The longnose inhabits streams, rivers, and lakes in the Midwest, while the shortnose ranges mainly in the Mississippi watershed. The spotted gar also lives in the Mississippi watershed, with a northern range near lakes Erie and Michigan.Shortnose gars like big rivers and lakes and don’t mind murky water as much as other varieties, while spotted gar prefer shallow open water or stagnant backwater.The Alligator gar was once found in the lower reaches of the Mississippi river watershed. Nowadays, it is mostly restricted to the states of Texas and Louisiana. Gator gars like slow-moving water, either fresh or brackish, and can be found in lakes and bayous.To get a Florida gar, you’ll have to go either to Georgia or Florida. Their range is limited to the swamps, streams, and canals, with a preference for slow water and vegetation.