 Believe it or not, you can convert between grams and kilograms without doing any math. This works because the metric system is a base 10 system of measurements. In other words, metric units are always a multiple of 10 apart from each other — there are 10 millimeters in a centimeter, 100 centimeters in a meter, 1,000 meters in a kilometer, and so on.


In this section, let's convert 37 grams to kilograms. We would begin the same way as in the section above, writing "37 grams" on our paper.
 Now, find the decimal point in your number of grams. If you're converting a whole number, this won't usually be written, but you can assume it its to the right of the ones place. Move the decimal point three spaces to the left. Each time you move past a number counts as one space. If you run out of numbers to move past, keep moving it, leaving blank spaces.


In our example, the decimal point in 37 grams is to the right of the 7 (i.e., 37 grams is the same as 37.0 grams). If we go one space at a time, moving the decimal point three spaces to the left looks like this:
37.

3.7

.37

._37 — note that we leave an empty space when we run out of numbers.
 You can't leave empty spaces in your answer, so fill in each one with a zero. You can also put a zero to the left of the decimal place if there aren't any numbers there, but this is optional — it just depends how you like to write your answers.


In our example, we have one empty space between the decimal point and the 3, so we'll fill it in with a zero like this:



.037




Adding the proper label (plus an extra zero to the left of the decimal point for presentation purposes), we get our final answer:
0.037 kilograms

, When you have kilograms, shifting the decimal place three spaces to the right will give you grams again. Fill in any empty spaces with zeroes as normal.


In our example, we can shift the decimal place three spaces to the right like this:



0.037
00.37
003.7
0037. — the zeroes on the left don't matter any more, so we can rewrite this as simply 37 grams.





