 Online printing companies are popular these days because they offer lower rates with the same high quality that you find from local print shops. If you don’t mind not seeing the customer service person (or you don’t mind not dealing with a customer service rep at all) then online ordering is for you. If you need specific advice on paper, colors and the best printing method for you, go to a local printer to help you out.;
, This article will assume you’re using an online printing company, just for simplicity’s sake. Brick-and-mortar print shops need the same basic information; you’ll just be filling it out on a paper form instead of an online form.
 If you want to use recycled paper stock, make sure the printer has it. This may not be evident in the drop-down menu of paper choices. Most choices say something like “14 pt Cover, Gloss” or 14 pt Cover, Uncoated.” This is what PrintPlace.com’s order form says, but PrintPlace.com has a Web page that explains that all of their paper is FSC- or SFI-certified. Other sites, like GreenPrinter, have the recycled content (100% recycled, 50% recycled) in the drop-down menu., The front of your business card should be 4-color at the minimum. The back can be in black and white if you want to save money.
 This has to be a number that the printer has chosen, usually multiples of 250, 500, 1,000 and so on in 500 increments. You can’t order 289 business cards. Choose the amount closest to what you think you’ll need. Don’t order 2,000 if you think you need 500. That’s a waste of paper and a waste of money if you don’t actually use them.
 The more time you give the printer, the cheaper your order will be. Many online printers offer same day service (meaning your order will be printed and shipped that day to receive the next). Most printers’ cheapest and longest turnaround time is 7 business days.
 Business cards are usually coated with a gloss, UV coating or aqueous coating so that the ink doesn’t rub off on your fingers. The gloss will also make your business card look shiny, like a brochure. The UV coating protects the colors of your business card. Aqueous coating is the best for the environment because it uses water. Choose whichever type of coating you prefer. It basically comes down to shiny or matte?

, This will be the file you’ve saved your business card in while designing it in Photoshop or InDesign or some other program. Check with the printer to see what their file requirements are. Some only take Photoshop art; others can accommodate other software programs. There are also some factors to consider when preparing your files, like the resolution, the color mode, etc. Printers have specific required settings for your design to come out the way you've prepared it on file., If all looks well, you send it back with your approval (usually by “signing” (typing) your initials. You may also call to approve, depending on the printer’s policy. Usually 3.5 × 2.0 inches (5.1 cm) would be the default business card size. Some printers may allow you to change this size, others won't.
 You’ll input your credit card info like you would any other online transaction. Some printers require you to pay before you get your proof. Check with your chosen printer to see when to pay. When you get to the end of the order form, you’ll probably be prompted to pay so you’ll know right away.

