 A lot of players are: 1) young and young people tend to play loose. 2) many players, of any age group, play too loose. Regardless if a tighter style is better, a conclusion that a loose style is superior can determined just on tournament results. The results of a tournament will tend to favor the dominant make up of players. But these are tournament results and not individual results, so a statement that most tournaments are won by loose players thus a loose playing style is advocated does not hold water.;
, When the blinds are low, play more hands without high cards that can develop into flushes and straights. A hand's qualities are based on high card strength, suitedness and connectedness.. Play speculative hands when the blinds are bigger with position, when you have a big stack and passive table conditions.
 Do not play these hands if the table conditions are temporarily aggressive or if the player(s) after you are loose and aggressive.
 These players will want to see the flop cheaply and will want to see many flops. They will fold on the flop if they did not connect with the flop. If they connect with the flop, even with a long shot draw such as a gut shot, they might continue despite having inadequate implied odds.
 Even if you or your opponent did not connect with the flop, bet, you will tend to be favored because of your higher standards. Beware to traps set my loose players and bluffs. Think about the bet size, pot size, betting patterns. Categorize your opponents and factor in the tilt factor.
 Loose players want to see the flop cheaply and raising prevents them from doing so. The standard raise is 3x of the big blind and this amount should be adjusted to the blind size, the present table conditions and for the players on the table. When the blind are smaller, raise more than 3x and when the blinds are bigger raise less than 3x. Raise more than 3x if that is what is necessary to knock out a player.
 By thwarting the style of loose players, they may retaliate by throwing in a big raise or go all-in. Preflop, you must usually fold

, A pair is the lowest of all made hands and the average winning hand is two pair. When making a decision, factor in all possibilities, for example when you have a top pair with A-J and a flop of A-T-3, your opponent could also have top pair, a middle or low pair, two pair, a set, a straight draw or nothing. Check the pot size, your opponent's stack size, how this player has played this hand and previous hands and what this player's motivation could be.
, The four categories of players would be: loose aggressive, loose passive, tight aggressive, and tight passive. Additionally, notice how players play preflop and postflop.

