 Part of seeking help for anger includes recognizing what sets off your anger. Once you find triggers for your anger, you can begin to work to respond to these situations differently or avoid them.Some examples include going to family functions, talking about finances, or frustration with a child or partner.


Recognize what situations trigger anger and find nonaggressive ways to respond. Especially if you can anticipate potential anger, think about ways to avoid the anger beforehand.
Talk about your triggers in your anger management group or with your counselor.
 Treatment will help you build your awareness around your physical signs of anger. Anger often expresses within the physical body, so if you tune into your physical sensations, you can begin to recognize the triggers of your anger. You may notice that you tighten your muscles, clench your fists, clench your jaw, or experience sweating. You may notice headaches, stomach aches, increased heart rate, feeling hot, or shaking.When you recognize these symptoms, you can say to yourself, “I am feeling angry right now because I can feel my hands clench and notice my increased heart rate. This is one way I know that I am angry.”

, In anger management, you will learn that you may be aggressively and actively angry (by yelling, screaming, or hitting) or passively angry. Passive anger can include sarcasm, disengagement, apathy, or passive-aggressiveness. If you are passively angry, you may not recognize your anger. However, active and passive anger each have emotional signs.


Anger management will teach you how to tell if you feel emotionally engaged or disengaged. You will also learn how to recognize other emotional symptoms including constant irritability, rage, and anxiety.You may also learn to identify emotional signs such as having the feeling that you want to yell at someone or feeling like you’re not saying everything you want to say., Anger management can teach you how to raise your awareness of your thoughts.You will learn to ask yourself, “Am I thinking clearly? Am I approaching this situation rationally? Do I have all of the information? Is my thinking and response logical?” If you find yourself in negative thought patterns leading to anger, stop and ask yourself these questions.


You may learn to take a “time out” from a situation if you notice your anger is rising. For example, you could go for a walk around the block and ask yourself if there’s a way to change your thinking. Say, “This situation is making me start to feel angry. I need a quick break to clear my head, and I’ll be back in 15 minutes.”

