 Go ahead and grab the ingredients for both sauces, but keep the red sauce ingredients separated from the white. The overall prep time for the entire meal is approximately 30-40 minutes. Serves 2.


1 chopped red pepper;
1/8 of a sliced red onion;
1 small chopped tomato;
Clove of garlic;
Italian spices of your choice (recommended are basil, rosemary, and oregano);
Pinch of salt & pepper;

,


1 tablespoon butter;
1 tablespoon flour;
1 ½ cups of milk or heavy cream;
1/2 cup of parmesan;
1 ½ cups of pasta of your choice (recommended are rotini, fusilli or a stuffed pasta.
 Cook the pasta according to the directions on the package (different brands vary). Carefully drain the pasta noodles and set them aside. While the noodles are boiling, begin working on the red sauce.
 Sauté the chopped red pepper, sliced red onion, chopped tomato and minced garlic in the skillet over medium heat. As you sauté, add the Italian spices you like best (recommended are basil, rosemary, and oregano), along with a pinch of both salt and pepper.Sauté for approximately 1 minute or so.
 Transfer the vegetables from the skillet into a blender. Put the top on tightly and puree until the sauce is smooth. If the consistency of the sauce is thicker than you’d like, add a little olive oil while you’re blending. Once pureed, set it aside.
 Add 1 tablespoon of butter to the saucepan and melt it over low-medium heat. Once it’s melted, add 1 tablespoon of flour and use a whisk to mix the two together. When the mixture begins to bubble, begin slowly adding the cream to the saucepan.Add a little cream, stir, allow it to start bubbling again and then add a little more cream.
Stir and repeat this process until all of the cream has been added to the saucepan.
 Stir frequently.Continue slowly stirring the sauce in the pan until the consistency thickens a little. At that point, add ½ cup of parmesan cheese to the skillet. Mix well and continue stirring until the parmesan has melted completely.


Continue to cook and stir the white sauce until it is smooth and creamy.
It shouldn’t take longer than 10 minutes.
 Add a heaping scoop of white sauce to the bowl. Make sure to cover all of the pasta. Spoon a large scoop of red sauce over the pasta. Then alternate drizzling the red and white sauces over the top of the pasta until there is none remaining.


Mix well and serve immediately.
Chop up a little fresh basil and sprinkle it on the top before serving (optional).
