 You will have to pay either a monthly or annual fee for the monitoring service. Also check exactly what you are paying for. Sometimes you can eliminate certain services that you will not use in exchange for a lower rate., Most credit monitoring services claim to give you reports from all 3 reporting agencies: Experian, Equifax and TransUnion. However, only a few actually do. Make sure that the company you choose will give you access to the reports from all 3 bureaus since your credit report can differ a little between each agency.A reputable company will say clearly which of the three bureaus they get their data from, or if they get data from all three.You can use free credit monitoring through Credit Karma and Credit Sesame, but these reports might be limited to information from less than the Big 3.
 The company that you choose should update your information at least once a month. Updating once a month is sufficient enough to track changes in your credit report and score. Anything less than that and you may miss a big change or not get alerted right away., Look for a credit monitoring company that will monitor your reports and will alert you right away if they suspect identity theft or any other suspicious activity. You may want a service that will also alert you to any changes in your report or score, good or bad. They should also alert you if any new accounts are opened in your name., You will want to choose a company that offers complete customer service. Since something can happen to your credit at any hour of the day, it is best to have a company that has 24-hour customer service support. Look for a company that offers 24-hour phone service and real time email response., Most services will let you sign up for a free trial period. This period can vary anywhere from 7 days to a month. Trial periods are a good way to test drive a credit monitoring service to determine if they have the features you are looking for. You will most likely have to enter your credit card information when you sign up for the free trial, so make sure you keep track of when your trial period is over.You may want to do a web search on the company first to see if other users had any trouble unsubscribing if they were unhappy with the trial.
Subscriptions automatically roll over after trail period unless stopped and may be billed for a longer period than a month. In these cases, getting your money back can be a hassle.
To avoid this, you'll need to call and cancel your subscription before the free trial period ends.

