 What can this do? Many, many, many wonders. Whatever you ask in Jesus' name that he will do. If you have faith and just believe, God can turn the impossible to possibility.;
, There are many different ways of fasting. Some people may not eat until a certain time. (For example 6am-6pm). Some may drink water but not eat. But you just pray the whole day and have full concentration and conversation. Just you and the Lord.
 The bible has many stories, tests, and tribulations that might be similar to what you are going through. No matter what you read, it's all there to encourage you and keep you strong in the Lord.
 This music does not glorify God. It only talks about sexing somebody or something of that nature. It doesn't one time mention God's name. It's all about Jesus, the creator.
 You must believe. If you don't believe, what can God do for you? You must believe and trust in God.
 You can't hate people. God showed humanity and compassion to everyone he came in contact with, whether they were good or bad. Even that person you dislike you still have to love. Who knows, seeing the difference in you could turn their life around and bring them to Christ.
 It is important to get the word of God in your heart. If you don't know Jesus' way, whose way are you following? You may think it's yours, but it's really the devil's way. The reason God kicked Lucifer out of Heaven was because he wanted to do things his own way rather than God's way.
 Whatever sins you have committed, always confess so God can forgive you. God knows we will mess up from time to time. When you fall get back up each time and look to God for forgiveness.
 He gave His life for the whole world. We need to give Him all of our undivided attention daily. You could do this by witnessing to others about Jesus, reading the Bible, praying, and fasting. All these things that can help you keep a true heart.
 You must forgive others. If you don't your Father in Heaven will not forgive you for your sins you have committed. So, don't hold grudges.

