 Make an appointment with your primary care physician or OBGYN. Come prepared with a list of topics that you’d like to discuss. Be prepared to talk about how you’ve experienced pain during sex. Ask them about possible treatments. Depending on the potential diagnosis, your doctor may also order tests or bloodwork.For example, endometriosis is a painful medical condition that can effect women and must be diagnosed by a physician. If left untreated, it can cause a woman a great deal of pain during intercourse., If you are suffering from a lack (or excess) of testosterone, estrogen, or another hormone, this could impact your level of pleasure or pain during sex. Talk with your doctor about possible treatment options to correct any hormonal problems. They may suggest a cream, a medicated ring, oral medications, or a treatment patch.Some of these treatments can be highly successful with up to 75 percent of patients stating that their sexual pain lessened., If you have any type of sexual transmitted disease (STD), make sure to talk with your doctor before engaging in sexual intercourse. Also, seek out treatment if you are suffering from any type of genital infection as it could likely cause dryness and pain during sex.For example, men and women can both suffer from cystitis, which is a bladder infection that can cause pain during intercourse. It is also called a urinary tract infection or UTI. There are various over-the-counter treatments available, however, a more serious infection requires a doctor’s care.
 If you have a prior injury, then working with a physical therapist could help to increase your movement and flexibility. These changes may also lessen your pain during sex. Older persons may find physical therapy helpful as well, especially if they suffer from nerve conditions., You can find a therapist in your area by going to the American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists (AASECT) website. A sex therapist will talk with you alone, or with you and your partner, about any concerns regarding your sex life. They might be able to offer exercises or communication tactics to lessen pain during intercourse.If you’ve been sexually assaulted in the past, it is probably a good idea to talk with a counselor. This will help you to find pleasure, instead of pain, from sex.