 In order for you to become a Taker, your Raven must have a base level of 15; otherwise, the quest for the Taker path won't appear in your Quest Log.


If you have already done the Taker quest, proceed to part 2.
The Quest Log can be opened using the shortcut key, Q.
You can also open the Quest Log by clicking the exclamation point (!) at the lower-right side of the screen. A window will appear with a list of on-going and available quests.
When you open your Quest Log, make sure you're in a city or town to avoid being attacked by monsters.;
, Just head to Elder Village and enter the Suburbs of Wally's castle under any difficulty.


There is no time limit. The quest can also be done with or without a party.
If you're unable to kill 9 Jangos in one dungeon run, you can enter the dungeon again to kill the rest.
To get in a dungeon, simply press the Dungeon tab found on your screen. This will open a window, showing you the available dungeons for your level. Click on the dungeon you want to enter and then press Start Dungeon, or hit F8 on your keyboard. This will automatically assign you to a party, but if you're already in a party, choose “Start with current members” instead.
To change the dungeon’s difficulty, after choosing the dungeon you want to enter, look at the menu to your right where you can see the description of the dungeon and the dungeon difficulty. You get to choose from Normal, Hard, and Very Hard. Keep in mind that the higher the difficulty you choose, the more stamina is consumed per run, and this also requires a full party to clear the dungeon, depending on the dungeon level.
 Go back to Elder Village and meet Echo the Alchemist. Echo is the white-haired girl found at the upper-right part of the map, standing a little to the left of the Blacksmith.


Echo will explain your next set of quests. Accept the quest and then head out.
 Under Very Hard mode, clear the Suburb of Wally's Castle to obtain a Secret Letter from the boss. You must also kill at least 18 Bomber Mongs.


There might be a chance that you won't complete the quest in one dungeon run, so keep on entering the same dungeon under the same difficulty.
Completing this task with a party is far more easier than doing it solo.
 Right after you have obtained the Secret Letter and killed 18 Bomber Mongs, return to Elder Village and report to Echo. She will reward you and change Raven's class to Taker.
 Now that your Raven is a Taker, you can choose for your class advancement. Like other characters in the game, Raven gets 3 class advancement. Choose Over Taker from the three.


The quest will appear in your Quest Log.
 Get inside Wally's Castle and defeat Wally's Guardian under any difficulty.


It is recommended to choose Very Hard mode, as this will give more experience and better drops.
 Return to Elder Village and talk to Lenphad. You can find him at the upper-right part of the village. He will give you your next quest.
 At the last floor, kill the final boss, Wally No. 8, for the Control Chip (quest item).


Keep in mind that quest item may or may not drop during your first run, so you might have to do a few dungeon reruns to complete the quest.
It is recommended to do this quest with a full party or with higher-level players.
 Return to Elder Village and give the Control Chip to Echo. You can find Echo next to Lenphad.


Echo will then turn your class to Over Taker.
 Over Takers are very effective in PvPs because of their devastating physical damage. One of the most used combo in the game is the Nasod Spikes, where the character summons sharp spikes from the ground in front of them, sending their opponent into the air, making the enemy vulnerable for upcoming combos.


To execute this, simply press X twice while facing your enemy, then Down arrow key, followed by X, to summon the spikes (X, X, Down, X).
 Attack your opponent by pressing the arrow key toward the enemy twice, then jump by hitting the up arrow once before Z, and X twice to dive down and slam the opponent. This will cause the enemy to cancel their skills and even immobilize them, making them vulnerable to another set of combos (Right, Right or Left, Left, Up, Z, X, X).
 This combo inflicts more damage compared to the other two. By pressing X twice, your character will start punching its opponent, pushing them back with each hit. Follow this attack by an arrow key toward your enemy and X three times. The third punch will inflict a complete knock-back (X, X, Left arrow or Right arrow, X, X, X).


This skill will not stun your opponent for more combos, but it still renders huge damage.

