 The Roku Stick can only be inserted into HDMI ports. Make sure to insert it straight so that you don't bend the connector. Make note of the input label for the HDMI port on the TV.
 The USB cable will provide power to your Roku. Plug the small end of the cable into the port at the end of the Roku Stick. You can plug the other end into the wall adapter, or you can plug it into a USB port on your TV. Note that not all TVs will provide enough power through the USB port, so when in doubt, use the wall adapter.
 If you bought the Roku Stick new, you should have two AA batteries. Remove the back of the remote and insert the batteries. Leave the back off the remote for now.
 Use the INPUT button on your remote to select the HDMI input that you plugged the Roku Stick into. You should see the Roku logo on the screen.


If you don't see the logo, your Roku Stick may not be getting enough power. Use the wall adapter instead of plugging it into your TV's USB port.
 After the Roku is finished booting up, you'll be prompted to pair your remote so that you can use it with the Roku Stick:


Remove the battery cover if it isn't off already.
Press and hold the Pairing button at the bottom for 3 seconds.
Wait for the remote to pair with your Roku.
 After pairing your remote, you can use it to select the language you want your Roku menus displayed in. You can change this setting later if you'd like.
 You'll be guided through connecting your Roku to the internet and registering your Roku account.
 The Roku Stick can only connect wirelessly to your network, so you'll need to have a wireless router or access point in order to use it. The Roku Stick will scan for any available wireless networks and prompt you to choose the one you want to connect to.


After selecting a wireless network, enter the password if required. Your Roku Stick will then attempt to connect and obtain an IP address.
If you don't see your network listed, make sure that your Roku Stick and TV are within range of the wireless router.
 After connecting to your wireless network, your Roku Stick will look for any available updates. If an update is available, you will be prompted to download it before proceeding. Updates can improve th stability of the device, and it is always recommended to update whenever one is available.


Your Roku Stick will reboot once the update installation is complete.
 When the Roku is finished updating, you'll see the "Activate your Roku" screen. Visit roku.com/link on any computer, phone, or tablet. Enter the code displayed on your TV screen into the field on the website. Log in with your Roku account, or create a free one if you haven't yet.
 You'll be prompted to enter this PIN whenever making purchases on the Roku. This is great for families with small children.
 Once your Roku is linked to your account, you can start using it for streaming. You can add streaming channels by selecting the "Streaming Channels" section of the Roku menu. Select the channel that you want to add and click "Add Channel." The streaming channel will be added to your Home list.
 Select a channel to load it. If this is your first time using a channel, you'll be prompted to log in with your channel account. Most channels require separate accounts and subscriptions. For example, to use the Hulu channel, you'll need a Hulu account and active subscription to Hulu+.