 Whether you're thanking a friend, colleague, or a near-stranger over the phone, it can be a bit trickier to thank someone over the phone because it's harder to communicate your true feelings without face-to-face contact. But thanking someone over the phone is easy if you pay attention to a few key points:


Speak clearly. Communicating over the phone can be tricky, so make sure you enunciate your words, speak slowly enough for the person to hear you, and that you aren't calling from a place that is loud or has bad reception.
Give the person your undivided attention. Though it's tempting to multitask when you're on the phone, don't call the person while you're driving home, cleaning your apartment, or watering your plants. Tell yourself that the phone call should only take a few minutes and that if you're really grateful, then that person deserves your undivided attention.
Call at a good time. Make sure you're making a call at a time when the recipient isn't likely to be busy and that you're not calling too early in the morning or too late in the evening. If you're calling a person who lives far away, make sure to account for the time difference.
Have the right body language. Though it may sound silly to use body language over the phone, maintaining an open posture or gesturing with your hands can help you emphasize your true feelings. If you're calling when you're laying down or using your hands to make a sandwich, you won't be able to show the person how grateful you really are.
Know your audience. If you're talking to a family member or a close friend, you can be open, honest, laugh, and be more free about how grateful you are. If you're calling to thank a potential employer for interviewing you, you should still give them your attention, speak clearly, and use proper body language, but you should also keep things short and sweet. Just because you're on the phone doesn't mean you are free to ramble and be chatty; if you're thanking someone for professional reasons, then keep things professional.
 Sometimes, saying thank you in a text message can be more effective than saying thank you in a phone call. If you just saw the person and wanted to thank him or her for a great time, or if you just wanted to send someone a quick thank you without making a big deal about it or taking up the person's time, then a text message may work best.


Maintain your sincerity through texting. You can just say something like, "Hey! Thank you so much for helping me clean up after my party. You're a great friend and saved me a lot of time."
Use the person's name. Even if you're texting, saying, "Thanks, Amy!" makes your message sound more personal.
Don't sound overly enthusiastic. There's no need for a million exclamation marks to show the person how grateful you are. That will just make it look like you're trying too hard and don't really mean it.
Pay attention to your words. Though texting is more casual, aiming for correct grammar and punctuation will show that you took time to craft the message.

