 When you begin your day, you need confidence and power to get things rolling. Scientists have found that listening to music with heavy bass (such as rock or hip hop) can increase feelings of power and confidence, and even improve your ability to think complex thoughts. Try listening to powerful music like this when you first wake up.Check out rock artists like Led Zeppelin, Nirvana, or Credence Clearwater Revival.
Check out hip hop artists like Atmosphere, Aesop Rock, or A Tribe Called Quest.
 Although familiar music can give you happy feelings, it can simultaneously decrease your ability to focus. If your mood needs an attention boost at work, try listening to something out of the ordinary for you. This can stimulate your brain and help increase your productivity.Try an artist you're not familiar with.
Check out Bjork, Beck, or Belle and Sebastian.
 Listening to music while you work out can help curb fatigue and keep you going. Pop music is great for working out because it gives you an upbeat, steady rhythm to follow along with. Try jamming some pop in your headphones at the gym.Some great workout songs include:


"Toxic" by Britney Spears.
"Get Lucky" by Daft Punk.
"S&M" by Rihanna.
 Although it may seem backwards, listening to sad music can help boost your mood. If you are truly down in the dumps, listening to sad music can help you to process your emotions, and lead to an emotional upswing as a result.Check out Radiohead, especially their albums "In Rainbows" and "OK Computer."
Listen to anything by Adele when you're feeling blue.
 Studies have shown that playing some calming music is a great way to reduce insomnia, extend your REM sleep cycle, and help you rest.Classical music is best suited for this task. Try listening to some classical music as you get ready for bed, or perhaps even allow it to play as you sleep. Some excellent classical compositions include:


Frédéric Chopin's "Nocturne No. 2."
Samuel Barber's "Adagio for Strings."
Gustav Holst's "The Planets."

