 To avoid feeling rushed, start the shopping process as early as possible. Most experts recommend starting about eight months before the wedding day. Dresses usually take three to six months to arrive after they're ordered. You will then need additional time to have the dress fitted and adjusted.;
, The cost of wedding dresses can vary immensely. Get an idea of your budget and set two price levels: one for your desired price and one for your absolute maximum. This gives you a goal to shoot for, while providing some leeway if you fall in love with a more expensive dress.Keep the cost of alterations in mind. The assistants in the bridal boutique can usually help you estimate how much your desired adjustments will cost.
Accessories and shoes should also be factored into your budget. You can often borrow jewelry and hair accessories, but it’s a good idea to cushion your budget just in case you need to buy these items yourself.
 Use this knowledge to narrow your search for the perfect dress. The best style wedding dress will often be the type of dress you know flatters your figure., There are thousands of wedding dress styles, so try to narrow your search before you head out to the store. Buy some bridal magazines, explore Pinterest and wedding blogs, try searching for images you like online. Consider making a scrapbook or Pinterest board of everything that appeals to you.
 Find out where all your local dress shops are, and research their styles, price range and quality. Read reviews and compare them, taking in what others say about their dresses and service.


Bridal salons are usually the most expensive option, but they provide personal bridal consultants who can help you find the right dress. In addition, you can try on dresses to see how they look on you, not just in a picture. Salons usually have seamstresses on site to do any alterations you need.
 There are several good wedding dress outlets online, such as Best Bridal Prices, PreOwned Wedding Dresses and Once Wed, as well as resale options, such as eBay and Craigslist. These sources allow you to purchase a new or almost-new dress at a steep discount to a full-service local shop.Make sure you have accurate measurements. Because wedding gown sizing can vary significantly, you'll want to compare your actual measurements to those listed for the dress.
It can take just as long to receive a dress from an online site as it does from a brick-and-mortar boutique, so don't wait for the last minute.
Check return policies before purchasing. All sales are final at many online wedding outlets, but some might allow you to return unworn and unaltered dresses within a certain number of days. Those being sold on eBay or Craigslist are rarely returnable.Use secure payment options. Unfortunately, the internet is full of scam sites. You need to be careful.
 A good compromise between a full-service shop and an online outlet is a local consignment shop. Inventory changes often, so ask the shop owner to let you know when new dresses come in.
 A wedding dress doesn’t need to come from a wedding shop, and it doesn’t need to look like a traditional wedding dress. Many vintage shops, boutiques and even department stores carry dresses that can easily be used for a wedding, yet are as unique as you are and don’t carry a wedding shop price tag., The price of a custom-made dress can be surprisingly reasonable. Check online to find seamstresses who specialize in wedding dresses, then check out their reviews. They will have patterns you can choose from, or you can bring a picture of a dress for them to replicate.Be sure to get a firm price quote. You don’t want to be surprised by the cost when it comes time to pay the bill. You can often keep the cost down by supplying your own material from a fabric outlet store.
 Rental wedding apparel isn’t just for the groom any more. You can find several rental options online. Rent the Runway and Borrowing Magnolia are two of the more popular sites. These services don’t allow alterations, so this option works best if off-the-rack dresses usually fit you well.Some traditional wedding dress shops are beginning to take advantage of the rental trend. Ask around at your local stores to see if any are offering this service.
 Do you have a friend who got married in a dress you love? Ask if you can borrow it. You’d be surprised how often friends are happy to loan their dress and see it get some additional wear.


If you and your best friend are the same size and have the same taste, consider sharing the costs of the perfect wedding dress. You can both end up wearing a better dress than you could afford on your own.
 Be sure to make an appointment. Arrive on time and respect the appointment time., Ask the bridal salon if there is a limit to how many helpers you can bring. At a minimum, brides usually bring their mom or their maid of honor.


Choose who you take with you wisely. You want to make sure you value their opinion and know they are looking out for you. Try not to bring too many friends. You don’t want so many opinions that it is impossible to make a decision., Shopping online doesn’t mean you have to give up the traditional “dress shopping party.” Have your bridesmaids come over for the afternoon to look at the choices you’ve bookmarked online. Provide champagne and snacks.


If you are ordering from an online outlet that allows returns, you can order several dresses and have your mom and bridesmaids help you choose which one to keep.
Take your friends to custom dress fittings. If you have decided to have your dress custom made, you can include your friends by bringing them to the fittings.
Don’t get hung up on sizes. Wedding dresses often run differently than your everyday dress. Buy a dress that fits you now, even if you think you will lose weight. You can always alter a dress to fit if you go down a size or two by your wedding day., Talk to store assistants about what you want in the dress and your budget, and let them make suggestions. You might end up pleasantly surprised by what they bring out!


Don't commit too early; shop around. A lot of stores offer a discount if you buy that day. Unless you really love the dress and do not want to look at anything else, don't fall for the pressure.
 There is a lot of room to play with designs once you've ordered your dress. Most seamstresses are able to make adjustments, such as adding straps, removing straps, shortening the dress and making other alterations to make the dress perfect.


As you try on each dress, ask the assistant's input on what can and can't be done with the dress design. Many of them have the experience to tell you what can be adjusted and what can't.
If the sample dress — the dress you try on when looking for “the one” — fits you well, ask if you can buy that specific dress at a discount. Bridal salons will sell their sample dresses at significant discounts at the end of each season, but are often willing to sell one on the spot if you ask. Be sure to check for wear and tear, such as loose buttons or frayed hems.