


Identify things that you are passionate about or that make you unique.
Write in a diary or journal to express yourself, and make observations of trends found in what you write about it.
Express yourself creatively. Write stories, poems, or songs, create paintings or drawings, take photographs, or play musical instruments.
 Although shyness is a personality trait, there is something that triggers it. Take time to identify what it is that causes you to feel shy.Is it a fear of rejection?
Are you afraid to offend someone?
Is it scary to ask for something that is for your benefit, like a raise?
Is it a fear of humiliation?
Are you afraid of being criticized?
Is it a particular person who causes you to feel shy? Why?

, In any social situation that you envision that causes you anxiety, think about what the worst-case scenario will be.


What will you do if that worst-case scenario happens?
How will you overcome that fear?
How can you avoid the worst-case scenario?
Who is really at fault in the worst-case scenario?

, It is not uncommon for people to practice what they will say or how they will behave in a social setting. This helps to build confidence.


Ask a family member or close friend to practice with you.
Practice by yourself in the mirror, so that you can see your facial expressions.
Write out what you want to say, like a script, and rehearse it.
Watch movies or read books to study how characters overcome similar social anxiety.
 Prepare yourself to handle anxiety or shyness by practicing a breathing exercise. It will help to calm you and re-focus you on the task at hand, which is expressing your true feelings.


Calming Technique: Inhale for a count of four through your nose. Next, hold the breath for two. Lastly, exhale the breath for a count of six through your mouth.Equal Breathing: Inhale for a count of four, and then exhale for a count of four. Both your inhalation and exhalation should be through the nose. Repeat as necessary to calm down.Simply focus on making your exhales longer than your inhales. This is a simple trick to help you relax without any specific counting patterns while breathing., If it is hard for you to express yourself socially, becoming involved in group interactions will be helpful.


There are more people involved to carry on conversation if you freeze up.
You have the opportunity to talk to several different people and practice expressing your feelings to them.
Find ways to express yourself that feel comfortable. If talking about yourself is uncomfortable, then talk about something in which you have an interest, like music. You are still letting your conversation partner(s) get to know you without directly talking about yourself.
 As you practice and become more comfortable, get into the habit of saying what you truly feel. This will help you to build your confidence and gain respect, and it will become a learned behavior for you, helping you to overcome your shyness.If a friend or acquaintance says something that offends you, let them know in a respectful way. Your former shy self might not want to do that, but he needs to know if a line was crossed. Focus on using “I” statements so that he understands your feelings: “I felt hurt when you said that people from that town aren't very smart because I grew up near there.”Set goals for speaking up in particular situations. If you always find yourself remaining quiet and shy in the same types of situations, like when roles are decided for a group project, set a goal to speak up for yourself next time.You could say, “I'm really good at drawing. I'd like to take on the illustrations,” for example. Then, continue to practice those goals.
Simply continue to practice speaking your mind. Start with small things, like giving an opinion on where to hang out or what movie to see. Over time, as you become more comfortable sharing your thoughts, take on more challenging obstacles, like letting a friend know when she has hurt your feelings. The most important thing is to practice doing this over and over.