 Avoid working on your computer or watching television for a little while. Instead of watching T.V., try reading a book instead. Force your eyes to focus on something that's not a screen. If you must work with computers for your work, be sure to take plenty of breaks throughout the day.Try the 20-20-20 rule. Every 20 minutes, take your eyes off the computer screen and look at something that is 20 feet (6.1 m) away for twenty seconds. If you're working, do other work during this time, such as making a phone call or filing something.
If you can, try to get up and move around for a bit. Lean back and close your eyes for a few minutes.
 Blinking produces tears that refresh and rehydrate your eyes. Most people do not blink frequently enough when working at a computer, which can cause dry eyes. Because many people blink less than normal when working at a computer, dry eyes can result from prolonged computer use.Try to make a concerted effort to be more aware of how much you blink and to do it more often.
 Lower the brightness on your screen. The default setting for many computers is much higher than it needs to be and can cause unnecessary strain. Use a low setting in dark rooms and a higher setting in bright rooms. This way, the intensity of light entering your eye will be consistent. Check the glare on your computer screen as well. Too much glare can cause eye strain because it causes your eyes to have to work harder to see things on the computer. To check this, turn the screen off. This will help you see the reflected light and notice the extent of the glare.When watching TV, keep the room softly lit by using one or two lamps is better for your eyes than having a big contrast between a bright TV screen and darker surrounding environment.
Do not look at your phone or work on your computer before bed. The bright screens in contrast with the dark room will cause a large amount of strain on your eyes. This will dry them out further as well as make it hard for you to fall asleep.
 Change the font size setting or zoom in to read documents on the computer. Reading words which are too small will force you to strain your eyes to focus. Find a font size that doesn't force you to move your eyes closer to the screen.Notice as well the contrast setting on your documents and make needed adjustments. Black print on a white background is the most comforting contrast to read documents in. If you spend much of your day reading documents with unusual color contrasts, try to change to black and white.
 Be sure to sit far enough away from the screen. Position your computer 20 to 24 inches (50.8 to 61.0 cm) away with the center of the screen 10 to 15 degrees below your eyes. Sit up straight and try to keep this posture through the day.If you wear bifocals, you may have a tendency to tilt your head backwards so you can see through the lower part of your glasses. To adjust for this, you could buy new glasses just for computer work or try lowering your monitor so you don't have to tilt your head back.
 Artificial tears, which are available over-the-counter at any drugstore or pharmacy, can help relieve the dry eyes that result from too much screen time. Try to find a lubricating drop that has no preservatives; you can use this as often as you like. If you use a drop with preservative, use to a maximum of four times each day. If you're unsure of which artificial tear drops are best for you and your eyes, consult your doctor., There are many eyewear products products which can help those who must look at screens all day avoid eye strain. Many of these change the color of the screen to be more comforting on your eyes. Most lenses in glasses and contacts are designed for reading print and not for screens, so getting something suited for computer work may be a good option for you.This step, however, should be a last resort. The best way to avoid eyestrain is of course to avoid screens. If you absolutely must consistently work with screens, consider purchasing eyewear designed specifically for computer work.
Be sure that your contact or eyeglass prescriptions are correct and up to date. Incorrect prescriptions can lead to more work by your eyes, increasing the incidence of eyestrain. Speak with your eye care professional if you are having difficulty with your vision.