 The most dangerous aspect of salmonella poisoning is its ability to dehydrate your body. Dehydration can cause a number of medical issues, exacerbate your fever, and hinder your body’s ability to combat the illness and get better. In order to avoid further complications related to salmonella, it’s important that you stay hydrated.Drinking plenty of water and other fluids such as Gatorade, fruit punch and flat soda can help you recover from salmonella poisoning faster.
If you are unable to keep fluids down, you may need to be hospitalized to receive IV fluids.
 Your doctor may prescribe you anti-diarrhea medication like loperamide to ease issues with diarrhea and abdominal cramping. This may help you retain hydration levels, as your body will void much of its fluids through diarrhea otherwise.However, keep in mind that taking these medications can sometimes make your diarrhea last longer.For many people, salmonella passes within a few days without the need to be prescribed any anti-diarrhea medication.
 Like anti-diahrreals, medications designed to prevent you from vomiting can help curb the worst symptoms of salmonella poisoning and help you to stay hydrated until your body can recover.Vomiting may be in your best interest in the first day of salmonella poisoning as it allows your body to get rid of any contaminated foods still in your stomach.
These medications will not speed up your recovery, but instead make your condition more manageable while you recover.
 Most people can recover from salmonella without any assistance from a doctor, but those who are very young or very old should seek medical attention early because their immune systems may not be strong enough to fend off the illness alone. Healthy adults may want to see a doctor if they exhibit any of the following symptoms:Your symptoms persist for longer than a few days, you may need antibiotics to combat the bacteria.
You begin to experience eye irritation, painful urination or joint pain.
Your fever reaches 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius).
 In most cases of salmonella poisoning, the patient can recover on their own in a few days, but for patients with severely compromised immune systems, antibiotics may be the only way to fight off the illness. In some patients, antibiotics can actually prolong one’s salmonella poisoning, as well as the time frame in which they can infect others.If the salmonella poisoning enters the bloodstream of an otherwise healthy patient, a doctor may prescribe antibiotics to assist in combating the illness as well.
Studies have demonstrated that because of an increasing resistance to the traditional antibiotics used to treat salmonella, the bacteria are sometimes found in greater numbers in the stool of those prescribed them for longer than those who are not., Like most other illnesses, rest is an important part of recovering from salmonella poisoning. Giving your body plenty of rest will help give your immune system the chance it needs to speed you along to recovery.Get plenty of sleep, and try to relax while awake during your recovery from salmonella poisoning.
Sleep deficiency has been proven to limit a body’s ability to defend against bacterial or viral infections.

