 An online writing group for cancer patients helps people with cancer connect and share their stories. Often, these groups include prompts and the opportunity to share your writing with others. You can also read what others write and connect to each other’s experiences.Keep in mind that this is not helpful for everyone. It may make you feel better, but if it makes you feel sad then it might not be a good option for you.

Joining a writing group can help you connect with others and relate through sharing your journal entries.
 Having a blog is a great way to connect with others about your experience. If you’re hoping to help others relate to the experience of having cancer, a blog or public forum can unite people from around the globe. Maybe you want to help people see what it’s like to have cancer or go through treatments. Perhaps you want to shed light on the day-to-day experience of living with cancer. Whatever your goals, having your writing public allows others to interact and engage with your thoughts. Engaging with others can help you cope with your own experiences.


Start a blog, post in forums, or write in your social media profiles. However, keep in mind that people will respond and it may not be always be helpful. Think about how much you want to engage with people before posting. You can always delete people’s comments if you choose.
 Keeping a journal can be helpful in reflecting on your life during different stages. Use your older journal entries to help inform your current decisions.Especially if you’re working through difficult emotions or making tough decisions, writing about your experience then reflecting on it later can be helpful in informing what happens next.


You may wish to look through your journal of treatment once you’ve completed treatment. On the other hand, you may wish to burn your journal or toss it in the trash to symbolize that part of your life as over.
 If you’re at the end of life, you may wish to use a journal as a way to pass along your own life experiences and advice to family and friends. Reflecting on your life can be cathartic for you and helpful to others. Think about your experiences, what they’ve taught you, and how they’ve shaped you. Leave these notes as your legacy to others.


Write about defining moments in your life and difficult choices you’ve made. For example, talk about how your travels to South America helped you see people from different cultures as more like yourself than you had originally thought.

