 You can pursue romance if you suffer from an eating disorder if you make sure you don’t try to change yourself for romance. Don’t use romance as a reason to continue your eating disorder. Instead, trust that you are fine just the way you are.


Remind yourself that you have a lot of great qualities and you don’t have to be a certain size or look a certain way to have romance.
For instance, you might say to yourself, “I can have romance without changing myself. I don’t have to lose weight to find love.”
Tell yourself that you want someone to love you for all of your great qualities. Try saying, “I want a romance where all of me matters – not just my weight or size.”

, Research indicates that people with eating disorders may have had difficulty with other people overstepping their boundaries.This lack of boundaries in your relationships may leave you feeling like you don’t have control over your life. Establishing boundaries upfront will eliminate your romantic interest from overstepping them.


Tell your romantic interest what boundaries you have in intimacy. Remember that just because you are pursuing romance, doesn’t mean you have to be sexual.
For example, if you’re on a date and the conversation turns sexual, establish your limits upfront. You might say, “I’m okay with hugging and cuddling, but that’s it.”
Set boundaries in terms of conversation topics and other things as well.
You could say, “I like when you make suggestions, but not when you demand that I do something.”

, While you want to be honest with any romantic interest you may have, you also have the right to choose when you tell them about your eating disorder.You can also decide how much you tell your romantic interest. Be honest and don’t put off telling them if things are getting serious, but you don’t have to tell your crush your life story on the first date.


After you two have hung out a couple of times, you could say, “I want to let you know I have an eating disorder.”
Be prepared to answer questions and explain as much as you can about your disorder and your recovery.
For instance, your romantic partner may want to know how long you’ve had the disorder. Answer honestly, but remember it’s okay not to answer as well.
You might say, “That’s a little too personal. How about we talk about a more neutral topic for a little while?”

