 Don't take a bunch of AP classes in subjects you really hate, or ones you really struggle in. You can pick one that really challenges you, but make sure then that the other classes (including electives and non-AP's) are manageable. If you're good at math and science, but not foreign language or English, take a math and/or science, and just one in a subject that's harder for you.;
, Most AP classes have summer homework because there's so much more content to cover in a year than other high school classes.


Summer homework is also great to brush up on content that you might have learned in an early prerequisite class. For example, most people take Chemistry I before AP Chemistry, so it's good to have a solid foundation on what you've already learned before diving into harder stuff.
Don't be overwhelmed by the summer homework! It might look like a lot, but if you have a good AP teacher than the homework is very helpful and necessary.
 You may also have some summer reading and a bit of other work to do, as well as having fun (it's summer of course!), but you don't want to be cramming everything a week before the school year starts.


Review what work you have to do before the school year ends and plan out when you will do it and how long you think it will take. Once you break it down, it will probably look less intimidating.
Mix up work and play. If you're going to lunch and then the beach one day, commit to reading one chapter in the morning before you leave. Spreading work out like this will make your summer actually feel like summer, not homeschool.
 While it does not replace your textbook, they are helpful for last minute reviewing, practicing multiple choice questions, and getting an idea on how the course is organized.


Barron's, Kaplan, and Princeton Review are a few of the most popular prep books, but some books are better for some subjects than others. Ask around to see which ones may be the best for you and the subjects you're taking.
 Get all the supplies, including flashcards, lots of loose-leaf paper, and post-it notes. Go shopping for new clothes and try to get excited for a new challenge! Remember that it's only high school, that you can drop a class if you find it to be too much, and to not stress out too much about being a straight-A student. If this is your first time taking APs, or taking multiple, realize there will be an adjustment period, but be ready to adjust quickly!


Don't forget to enjoy your summer! Don't just work, work, work all summer or else you'll get burned out.

