 Preteens with good personalities often attract friends. Try your best to be considerate and respectful of other. Develop good traits, so people will enjoy being around you.;
, You may be a great friend, but nobody will know if you are to shy to talk to people. Be more outgoing rather than shy, for it is an important step to being popular. Be friendly.
 While others should not judge you based on what you look like, they tend to do so. This is why you should always look your best. Brush your hair, put on some clean clothes, and smile. It is also a good idea to smell good, wearing deodorant isn't a bad idea.
 Now that you are prepared, it's time to make some friends. You could be friends with your neighbors, the people you hang out with at school, or other people you know. Be sure to choose friends that influence you in a positive way. Once you know who you want to be friends with, become their friend. You can do this by


Talking with them more and getting to know them.
Inviting them over to your house, or inviting them to see a movie with you.
Getting their phone number, so you can talk.
 Manage your time so you can spend time with each one of your friends at least once a week. When you do this, you keep your friends and develop strong relationships with them.
 If someone was mean to you, accept their apology. This makes you a better friend, and more popular friend. Understand that forgiving and forgetting is only used when your friend apologizes to you.
 Despite what you see in movies, being mean does not make you popular. Don't pick on another preteen simply because they aren't your friend. Don't tease someone because they are different. If someone is doing that, set a good example and stand up for victim.
 This is one of the worst mistakes you can do. Never do something that makes you feel uncomfortable, even if it means disappointing some people. Chances are, those people aren't going to be good friends.
 Throwing a party boost your popularity. It's recommended you throw a party on your birthday. Don't be afraid to invite friends that don't know other people your inviting. Maybe your friends can get to know your other friends.

