 Boost your breakfast's protein content by incorporating some canned tuna with some scrambled eggs to fuel you throughout the day. Mix together a few tablespoons of canned tuna with a couple of eggs and cook in a sauce pan over medium heat. Add a sprinkle of your favorite cheese and some diced tomatoes. Mix the ingredients together, and serve immediately for a savory, high-protein breakfast., A tuna steak is a simple, delicious way to enjoy the flavors of this fish and to consume omega-3 fatty acids, which can help reduce inflammation and lower risk of heart disease, cancer, and arthritis.Season a 1-inch thick tuna steak with olive oil and salt and pepper on both sides. Place the steak on a charcoal grill or a stovetop griddle, and grill each side for 2 to 2 ½ minutes so that the center is raw. Allow the steak to rest for 5 to 10 minutes before serving., Tuna salad is a flavorful, protein-packed filling that can be served on a whole wheat sandwich or on top of crackers as an appetizer. Canned tuna is affordable and has a long shelf life, which makes it a great staple for your kitchen pantry.


To make a yummy tuna salad, drain two cans of tuna and mix with 1/3 cup (80 mL) mayonnaise, a tablespoon (15 mL) whole grain or Dijon mustard, 2 tbsp (30 mL) chopped onion, 2 tbsp (30 mL) chopped celery, and 1 tbsp (15 mL) sweet peppers. Bring out the flavors by adding a squeeze of lemon juice, salt, and pepper to the mixture.
For an additional flavor kick, chop a few slice of pickles and add it to your tuna salad mix.
To make a healthier tuna salad, skip the mayo and mix your tuna with ½ of a freshly chopped avocado.
 Add some protein and omega-3s to a nutrient-dense salad by mixing in some of your already-prepared tuna with your favorite vegetables. After grilling a tuna steak or mixing up your favorite tuna salad recipe, try topping some greens with one of these flavorful proteins.


Toss some fresh mixed greens with some lemon juice and a scoop of tuna salad. The tuna salad will coat the greens, so there is no need for an added dressing. Add some chopped raw broccoli for an added crunch.
Dice up a tuna steak and add it to a bed of spinach and mix with a sweet and spicy ginger dressing, diced tomatoes, and a handful of scallions for a filling, flavorful Asian-inspired salad.
 Next time you are craving a burger, swap the ground beef for a homemade tuna patty. Top a tuna patty with a slice of tomato, onion, cheese, or your favorite hamburger toppings to enjoy a flavorful burger that is red-meat free.


Beat two eggs with a dash of lemon juice, salt, pepper, Parmesan cheese, and Italian bread crumbs. Mix in two cans of drained tuna, and fold in some chopped onions. When the ingredients are thoroughly combined, form into patties and cook in vegetable oil over medium-high heat for 5 minutes on each side.For a healthier alternative, bake the patties in the oven at 400 degrees Fahrenheit for about 10 minutes., Mixing in a can of tuna can bring a new, tasty element to your favorite pasta dish. Plus, it can and enhance the protein, omega-3, and antioxidant content of your dinner.


On a stovetop, cook 4 garlic cloves in olive oil until soft. Add a dash of red pepper flakes and oregano before mixing in a can of tuna, drained canned navy beans, and a jar of your favorite go-to tomato sauce. After simmering for 10 minutes, toss with cooked penne or spaghetti. Add some arugula to brighten up this dish., Skipjack is a small species of tuna and is relatively abundant in the wild. It accounts for about 70% of all canned tuna on the American market.Because this fish has a shorter lifespan than the larger species of tuna, it contains less mercury than other types of tuna. You will often see this type of tuna marketed as “light chunk” in a can at your local grocery store. At a sushi restaurant, it may be referred to as “bonito” or “katsuo.”

, Albacore tuna is one of the most popular and common types of tuna. It has a light taste and has a firm texture.This type of tuna can be found across the world’s largest bodies of water, including the Atlantic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean, the Indian Ocean, and the Mediterranean Sea. This tuna accounts for about 30% of all canned tuna, and is often referred to as “white meat” tuna.Albacore contains almost three times the mercury of skipjack.Young children, pregnant women, and nursing mothers should not eat more than one serving of albacore a week.
 Bigeye tuna are sometimes sold or listed under their Hawaiian name “ahi” on a restaurant menu. These fish can grow 8 feet in length and are often used in sushi and sashimi.Bigeye can contain even more mercury than albacore, especially in the Atlantic Ocean. Pregnant women and other at-risk groups should avoid it as a regular part of their diet. Everyone else may want to limit bigeye intake to one serving a week., Yellowfin tuna has a medium to mild flavor and a very firm texture. It is an excellent tuna for grilling and searing. Like bigeye tuna, yellowfin tuna is often referred  to as “ahi” on restaurant menus. These tuna can weigh up to 300 lbs in the wild, but commercial yellowfin typically weigh between 8 and 20 lbs.Mercury levels in yellowfin vary but are rising sharply in some areas. At-risk groups should treat this as a high-mercury fish., Bluefin tuna is considered a delicacy across the world and catching one can earn a fisherman or a distributor tens of thousands of dollars. A single fish once sold for 1.75 million dollars. Because this tuna is highly prized and sought-after, the population in the wild has dwindled greatly. Bluefin tuna are unable to reproduce quickly enough to meet the demand, and it is considered an endangered species.Although it is unlikely that you will come across Bluefin tuna in your local supermarket, you may come across it on a restaurant menu. If sustainability is important to you, avoid consuming Bluefin tuna.

