 Setup for this detox is somewhat costly, but is a fraction of what you would pay for a commercial detox kit. This total setup will cost you anywhere between $100 and $200 in most cases. It might seem expensive, but compare it to detox kits that take up to three times as long and cost over $500 (refer to the list below).;
, This detox is an intensive three to five day cleanse. Most people will only need 3 days (i.e. the “3-day hump”) to be ready to take on a low-carb diet. Depending on your weight, your usual carb intake, and your activity level, the detox will take up to 5 days.


It is recommended to start this detox over the weekend, and take off from work on Monday. Starting with Saturday, you should be okay by Monday night. If you can’t afford to miss a lot of work, or your school schedule gets in the way, you could be a warrior and tough it out (not recommended, but do as you wish), or wait until you have a three-day block of time.
 It is an abominable process. It’s three straight days of raw vegetables, green tea, and going to the bathroom. It’s not going to be fun, which is why it is advisable not to go to school or work while it is happening, due to its side effects.


Don’t be scared by the side effects! That’s just your body adjusting to the changes. You’ll be fine!
The side effects you are likely (but not guaranteed) to experience include, nausea, some vomiting (not much), diarrhea, drowsiness, dizziness, and fatigue. Sounds pretty gruesome, right? Everything has side effects, and detoxes are no exception, but the health benefits of this one are worth the three days of being sick.
 It’s important to know how to take your detox and vitamin supplements. The detox is to help speed up the process of going to the bathroom, and the vitamin is to make sure your body’s vitamin levels don’t drop too significantly, due to the lack of certain foods. Make sure you take your detox as instructed, to assure its effectiveness.
 You’re going to want to go a little crazy on carbs two or three days before you start the detox regimen. Don’t go too crazy, but keep the simple sugars high. Eat a chocolate bar, or a few cookies, or something similar. Your detox will be very difficult if you’ve gone a week without simple sugars, and this detox doesn’t need to be any harder than it already is.
 If you are using a protein supplement, drink only one serving in the morning, mixed with water.
 Drink one cup of your green tea with your first meal, one with lunch, and one in the evening, at least three or four hours before bed.
, The point is to get off of carbs. While healthy, fruits contain lots of natural sugars, and those are bad for a detox. To put it simply, if it’s not green, don’t eat it. Eat about four or five times a day, and eat enough to be full sufficiently.
 Drinking too much water will lead to too much urination, which will lead to excessive vitamin expulsion. Don’t drink copious amounts of water, though.
 Get a solid seven to eight hour sleep per night of the detox, as well as the night before you start the detox. Granted, you should be getting eight hours anyway, but doing this will greatly dampen the severity of the side effects.
 Some people experience every side effects; some experience none – it’s based on you and your body. Here are a few tips to make it a little easier on you:


Turn down the brightness on your computer/phone/TV, as not to make your headaches worse. The withdrawal headaches are migraine-like, so you’ll probably be sensitive to bright lights and loud noises.
Stay away from painkillers. While using painkillers might help a bit, they only treat pain; they’re not withdrawal medications. They probably won’t help you too much, so there’s no point in wasting them. If the pain is extremely severe, then you can try them to see if it works.
Don’t exercise. This detox is nauseating and dizzying, and the last thing you need is to pass out or vomit in the gym. It can wait until the detox is over.
Sleep a lot. If the pain gets too unbearable, or you’re too dizzy or drowsy to do anything, just sleep it off for an hour or two. Just be sure to be up in time for your next meal.
 Congratulations, you did it! Now, continue with your detox pills’ instructed usage. They’re usually for anywhere between a week and two weeks in total. It is advisable to stick to the shorter option, but that’s completely up to you. It’s also beneficial to continue your multivitamin because hey, it’s good for you.
 The only carbs you should be eating for the next month or two should come from a serving or two of fruit/berries during the day. Your diet should consist of mostly lean meats and fish, and green vegetables.


A small serving red meat is okay, but stick to your white meats and fish. Red meat isn't significantly unhealthy contrary to popular belief, but it isn’t easy to pass when going to the bathroom, which is something you’re going to be doing a lot of for the next bit of time. Make sure to eat four or five times a day, as well.
Your protein intake needs to be very high, because your body will be using that and healthy fats for energy. Carb-free protein powders are ideal for this (assuming they’re mixed in water), as well egg whites, and a serving of almonds everyday will help give you the fats you need.
As far as preparing your food goes, stay away from frying anything in oils, stay away from butter, and stay away from egg yolks. Cholesterol levels are sensitive during low-carb diets, so getting too much of them isn't good.
 A common question is about cheating on this diet. How often can you cheat? In the beginning, the answer is never. For at least one solid month, you cannot cheat at all.


After losing some weight via diet and exercise, cheating once every week or two is alright, but only then. You will also need to come to grits with the fact that, from now on, you may not be able to exceed 100 carbohydrates a day, complex or otherwise.
Understand that carb addiction is scarily similar to opiate addiction, and going overboard could quite actually lead to a relapse.
Once you’ve lost a significant amount of weight, and you’re ready to put on muscle, or start a more balanced diet, you can allow yourself 100 to 150 complex carbs a day, and see how it goes. If you notice yourself getting more and more carb-craving, slow it back down.
Despite these new challenges, you are now a healthier (and most likely lighter) person than you have ever been! Good for you!

