 Prepare a large rimmed baking sheet by lining it with aluminum foil.


The oven rack should also be switched to the lower-middle position so that the octopus has plenty of space inside the oven.
The majority of the actual cooking process will be done in the oven. Grilling is a great way to add extra flavor to the octopus, but the cooking method is too fast and will not create a tender enough octopus when used alone.
 Sprinkle it with salt and cover it with foil.


Create a loose seal by gently crimping the edge of the top sheet of foil to the rim of the baking sheet.
 This could take up to 2 hours. Let cool when done.


The meat should feel very tender when pierced with a small paring knife or fork.
As the octopus cools, remove the foil cover so that it cools faster.
At this point, you can also cover and refrigerate the octopus for two days or so. Discard any liquid that seeped out as the octopus cooked, however.
 Brush the grill rack lightly with 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of olive oil and preheat the grill for about 10 minutes to a high temperature.


For a gas grill, turn all the burners onto high and let preheat fully for 10 minutes.
For a charcoal grill, spread out a thick layer of charcoal on the bottom of the grill and let them burn down until white ash forms along the surface of the briquettes.
 After coating the pieces with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, to taste.


The oil will give the exterior a better glow and a better crunch. It also helps the salt and pepper cling to the meat.
 Place the octopus pieces on the grill and cook for roughly 4 to 5 minutes, or until spotted with brown.After placing the pieces on your grill rack, close the grill and cook the pieces covered. You should only turn the pieces once, and do so during the middle of the cooking process.
 When grilled, octopus can be enjoyed on its own or sliced and added to other dishes. If you plan to serve it as is, though, the extra oil, fresh lemon juice, and parsley can make it an even more flavorful dish.

