 Bringing up a mutual friend in your conversation will help you to draw a personal connection to the boy, even if you don't know him well. He will feel more at ease, as you will no longer seem like a complete stranger! Having a common friend also gives you something (or someone) to talk about.


Try saying something like "I think you know my friend Allison. Where did you two meet?"






Or "Oh so you know Sam? We used to go to school together! He's hilarious, isn't he?"

, Referencing pop culture is a clever, non-personal way to bring up personal interests. By finding out what kind of movies or music a guy likes, you can gain an insight into the type of person he is and what his interests are.


For televisions shows, ask him something like "Do you watch Game of Thrones? Who is your favorite character?"






For music, ask him "Have you heard Daft Punk's new album? What did you think?"
For movies, "Have you seen the latest "Fast and Furious" film? I heard it's actually pretty good!"

, Mentioning an upcoming event, such as a school concert or exam, can give you something to get excited or nervous about with the boy. This creates a rapport between the two of you and allows the guy to see how much you have in common!


If you're both taking the same exam, you could say something like "I'm dreading the math final next week. I suck at algebra! How are you feeling about it?"






If there's a school concert coming up, you could ask him if he's planning on going to see it, and if he knows anybody involved.
If it's coming up to a holiday, you could say something like "I can't wait for Halloween next week. My friend is having a house party and I've got a great vampire costume planned. Are you doing anything fun?"

, Discovering that you have a shared interest is conversational gold and will really help you to start establishing a bond with the guy. It doesn't matter what the interest is - be it reading, running, racing cars or rocking out - what matters is that it's something you share.


If you discover that you both like running you could ask him what his favorite local routes are, or if he's ever considered doing track.






If you both like reading, you could ask him who his favorite author is or what he thought of a recent film adaption of a well-known novel.
You're interests don't have to be exactly the same, they just need to be complimentary. Maybe he plays football and you're on the cheerleading squad, or he plays an instrument and you love listening to music.
 Asking an unusual or thought-provoking question will break the ice and allow the guy to speak his mind. It will give him a chance to express himself while you make a good impression for asking such an interesting question in the first place. Win-win!


Try something like "If you could choose any actor to play you in a movie, who would it be?"






Or maybe "Would you rather be eaten by a shark or get bitten by a poisonous snake?"
Or something more sentimental like "What's your best memory?"

, Bringing up a shared experience helps to create a personal connection between the two of you and establishes the beginning of a bond. Whether you shared a 2nd grade teacher or both had your tonsils out as a kid, find something that the two of you can reminisce and laugh about.


If you shared a teacher, you can say something like "Oh Ms. Smith, remember her? I'll never forget the time her chair broke when she sat on it. The whole class was in stitches!"






If you both had your tonsils removed, you could say something like "For days afterwards, all I could eat was ice cream. I thought it was the best thing ever! Did the nurses smuggle you an extra bowl too?"

, Memorizing a great joke, whether it's a funny story or a snappy one-liner, is a great way to keep the conversation interesting. If you can make your guy laugh, then you're definitely doing something right.


Don't worry too much if you mess up the punchline, he might even find it cute and endearing!
Just make sure the joke isn't offensive or about something obscure. If the joke falls flat, you'll feel very awkward indeed.
 If things are going well and the two of you seem to be hitting it off, it might be time to get a little more personal. Remember that the aim is to show that you're interested in him and want to get to know him better, not to make him feel awkward or uncomfortable. Don't ask him anything that you wouldn't feel comfortable answering yourself.


Keep it positive! Don't ask him what his greatest fear or biggest secret is, ask him about his plans for the summer or where he hopes to go to college.
Try asking him about his family, start with something simple and non-invasive like "Do you have any brothers or sisters?"

