 Getting a diagnosis is the first step in treating any condition. There are no tests to confirm whether or not you have piriformis syndrome, so your doctor will perform a physical exam and ask you to explain all of your symptoms. Your doctor may also want you to have an MRI to rule out any other possible causes of your symptoms., A physical therapist can design a program developed to meet your specific needs and guide you through exercises that will efficiently stretch your muscles and relieve pain.Get started early with physical therapy to get the greatest benefit.
 Massage and trigger point therapy may offer relief for piriformis symptoms. In some cases, piriformis symptoms might actually be caused by trigger points, or muscle knots. These knots may be found in the piriformis or gluteal muscles, and the pressure they cause can lead to pain at the site of the knot or even elsewhere on the body. Locate a health professional who is trained in trigger point therapy (a doctor, massage therapist, physical therapist) and see if this is the source of your pain., Your doctor may recommend certain over-the-counter and prescription medications to help you deal with pain. For example, some doctors may prescribe a muscle relaxant to help ease the discomfort of your piriformis syndrome.Ask your doctor about taking ibuprofen or naproxen for occasional piriformis pain as well.
 Some injection treatments have been found to be helpful in cases of piriformis syndrome. Ask your doctor if an injection treatment might be useful in your situation. The two main injection treatments for piriformis syndrome include anesthetic injection and Botox injection.


Anesthetic injection. A pain relieving substance such as lidocaine or bupivacaine may be injected into the piriformis to help relieve pain.Botox injection. Botox injections have also been found to be effective in reducing pain and discomfort from piriformis syndrome., Electrotherapy has been found to be effective in some cases of piriformis syndrome. Ask your doctor or physical therapist about the possibility of using Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) or Interferential Current Stimulator (IFC) to help treat your piriformis syndrome., Surgery has provided long-term pain relief for some sufferers of piriformis syndrome, but as with any surgery, there are some serious potential side effects to this treatment. It is best to exhaust all of your other treatment options before looking into surgery for piriformis syndrome.