 Do you excel at problem solving and reasoning? Are you better at sticking with the facts and prefer straightforward questions? The SAT is requires more critical thinking and reasoning. The ACT is more knowledge based and straightforward.For example, the English section of the SAT focuses more on reading comprehension and vocabulary. The English section of the ACT focuses more on grammar and syntax.
In the math section of the SAT, you may have to apply the rules of geometry in a word problem. However, the math section of the ACT would focus on the basic concepts of geometry instead of using the concepts to problem solve.;
, The ACT has a science section, but the SAT does not. If you have a strong foundation in biology, earth science, and physics, the ACT may be a better choice for you. If you take the ACT, you will have to interpret charts, graphs, and understand scientific hypotheses.If you struggle in science or are not confident about your abilities, the SAT is probably a better choice for you.
 Both of the tests cover basic math, algebra, and geometry. However, the ACT also includes trigonometry.The SAT also gives you the formulas, but you will have to memorize them and know when to apply them if you take the ACT.If you have strong math skills, go with the ACT.
If math is not one of your better subjects, the SAT is a better choice.
You can use a calculator on all of the ACT math questions, but you can only use your calculator on one math section of the SAT., All of the reading passages of the ACT are written at a 9th grade level, but the passages on the SAT can range from 9th grade level to early college level. The SAT also includes graphs and tables in the reading section.If you are a fast reader and pay attention to detail, the ACT may be best. You get 50 seconds per question on the ACT.
If you are a slower reader and are good at comprehending historical documents, the SAT is best. You get 1 minute and 10 seconds per question on the SAT.
 It can be difficult to evaluate your own abilities and which test is best for you. Speak with a parent, teacher, or guidance counselor to help you. They can look at your academic history and previous test scores. They also may see things about your personality and test taking habits that you are not aware of.


Be open minded about the feedback that you get regarding your abilities.

