 You can train your horse to put his head down by using the power of touch on his head. Some riders prefer to use touch only so they do not have to rely on props or assistants like the reins, the halter or the wand. Using touch will also help to strengthen your communication skills with your horse.To use this method, you will need to first locate your horse’s poll bone. This is a bone that is located on the top of his head, between his ears.;
, Use two fingers to lightly stroke his poll bone, applying a little pressure. Some horses respond easily to a lighter touch and some horses respond better to more pressure on their heads. Gauge your horse’s reaction and adjust the pressure on his poll bone as needed.Your horse should lower his head slightly. As soon as he does this, remove your hand and stroke his neck and withers. You can also give him a small treat or a verbal “Good job”. This will indicate to him that he has done something right and is getting a reward for his efforts.
Get in the habit of rubbing his poll head and then rewarding him with strokes once he lowers his head. Over time, he will understand that rubbing his poll head means “put head down”.
 If your horse does not respond to pressure on his poll bone or if he seems to dislike touch on his poll bone, you can try stroking his neck and face with your hands instead.


Start by using both hands to stroke your horse’s neck from his withers forward toward his ears. Stroke in a rhythmic motion, moving back and forth with both hands.
Keep stroking his neck with one hand and gradually move the other hand toward his face. Stroke his face with one hand and gradually move the other hand so it strokes his face forward from his ears to his nose. Eventually, your horse should relax and lower his head.
Reward him with words of praise, a treat, or a gentle stroke of his withers when he lowers his head so he knows he has done something right. Continue to use this method until he understands this stroking motion on his neck and face means “put your head down”.
 Some horses are uncomfortable with their rider touching their face or neck, especially if they are shy or fearful. Most horses are protective of their heads so this method may not be ideal if your horse is not bonded with you or generally shy.


You may need to work on establishing a trusting bond first with your horse before you attempt to use touch to get him to put his head down.

