 By going to Evite, Ping, Paperless Post or Punchbowl, you can find themed invitations for free or for less. After choosing your template, you can insert your information and save money on cards, envelopes and postage.;
, On most of these templates, you can write the title of your event, so you can personalize most choices.
 It is a good idea to choose 1 image, such as a bottle, vine, wine barrel or wine label to decrease the cost and complexity of your invitation. You can look at clip art online to find examples of good images.
 Using ink or paint to decorate your invitations will afford you customization. Buy ink or acrylic paint in your wedding colors.
 If you are customizing with stamps or stencils, then you can find a template or make your own using a word processing program or another computer program. The following are some good places to look for wedding invitation templates:


Sellers, such as "I Do" it Yourself, on the Etsy marketplace provide electronic templates of wedding invitations. You send them the necessary information and they create a graphic design that looks like their samples online. "I Do" it Yourself even carries a template featuring a vine for $30. Once you receive the image in pdf or jpg format, you can print it out on your own printer.
Buy a wedding invite kit. These kits include paper, envelopes, embellishments and smaller cards. Most kits allow you to do the printing at home. If you choose a simple kit, then you can embellish with stencils and stamps while getting your paper in a convenient package.
Visit a local paper or stationary shop to inquire about discounts for local paper and wedding invitations. Many of these shops print them for you, which will be at an additional cost, but you may find a good deal on pre-printed, themed wedding invitations.
Gather clip art online and make your own wedding invitation in a word processing program. This option may be the least expensive and the least elaborate.
Ask a graphic designer to make a wine label with your wedding details on it. If this graphic designer can create a jpg image in small and large sizes, you can place it onto your wedding invitations in a software program and then print them. You can also use it for wine bottles at the wedding and on other accents.
 Do not forget to include a smaller RSVP invite and envelope. Choose your paper according to envelope size, because unusual sizes will cost you more in postage.
 You can decide whether you want to layer light images, and print on top of a stamped image, or whether you want to stamp them after printing.
 Practice your placement on scrap paper 10 to 50 times to ensure you will be able to affix the same image on each invitation. Do an entire practice invitation, and try several versions, before starting to stamp or stencil.
 Sit down and stamp or stencil all of the paper at once. Allow it to dry on large tables or pieces of cardboard before continuing.
 You will want to print them before customizing if the process of adding ink or paint makes them hard to bend and move through the printer. Allow the ink to dry well before stuffing them into envelopes.
 Use a smaller wine-themed image for these cards.
 Placing a small bunch of grapes, wine bottle or vine at an edge of the envelope will add extra flair to your invites. Avoid the postage and address areas.
 Try to avoid gluing extra paper on top of the invitation, because it may increase the cost of the entire envelope. Buy postage once you have made your themed invites and you are confident of the cost.

