 These are lifting straps that connect to your shoulders and help take the weight off your back. They help you utilize your stronger muscle groups while also giving you added leverage. You can buy a shoulder dolly online.


Shoulder dolly’s are not recommended for moving furniture up or down stairs – the weight will shift almost completely to the person on the bottom., Instead of sliders you can also use the moving blankets that are generally used to keep furniture safe during a move.Moving blankets work in a similar way to sliders, although you will put the entire blanket under the piece of furniture. Once the entire blanket is under the furniture you can start pulling the blanket in the direction you want to move. The furniture should slide along with it. This is much easier than trying to lift the whole thing.If you need to move heavy furniture up stairs you can fold up a bunch of moving blankets and place them on each step to turn your stairs into a makeshift ramp. Once you’ve done that you can place another blanket under the piece of furniture and pull the edge to move the furniture up the steps. If your steps are particularly steep it would be a good idea to have a friend steady the back of the furniture., A hand truck or a square moving dolly could be good options depending on the type of furniture you’re moving. A hand truck is a piece of metal moving equipment that stands upright with wheels on the bottom. The handle is at the top and a platform to hold the furniture is at the bottom by the wheels. Moving dollys are small square platforms with four wheels. You can find moving dolly’s of all different sizes.


Use a hand truck to move furniture by wheeling the platform under the piece of furniture you’re trying to move. A hand truck will work well for smaller bookcases, tables, and dressers. Lean the furniture against the hand truck and tilt the handle toward you. The furniture will lean with the hand truck and you’ll be able to wheel it around. This is much easier than pushing it.
Be very careful with hand trucks. If you try to move a piece of furniture that is too large it could fall and crush you. Your strength will be keeping the furniture upright.
Moving dollys are very easy to use. All you need to do is place the furniture on top of them and then you’ll be able to use the dolly's wheels to push it around. Make sure you find a dolly that is large enough for the piece of furniture you plan to move.
Having a friend to help you pick up the furniture would make the process of getting it on the dolly easier.
 You won’t damage the floor and you won’t feel the weight of the furniture nearly as much. However, you will probably destroy the magazine.


Having someone to help you lift up each corner of the furniture while you place the magazines would make the process much easier. You can also try placing the magazines on the floor, lifting the corners by yourself, and then pushing the magazine under the corner using your foot.

