 Make sure the toddler keeps the motion fully out of site, as even a little motion can cause motion sickness. This can also be accomplished with motion sickness eyewear, which blocks motion flashing by outside the car from the field of vision.;
, Your toddler can experience motion sickness when they watch nearby objects and landscapes speeding past the window of a train or car.


Point out a mountain, cloud, or building in the far distance that your toddler can watch as your transportation is moving.
 Depending on where your toddler sits in a moving vehicle or other mode of transportation, they can experience motion sickness as a result of excessive or rough movement.


Place your child in the middle-rear seat of a car or in a front to middle row of a bus instead of in the far rear, where their ride may be bumpier.
Keep your child on the upper-deck of a boat as much as possible, since below-deck locations can trigger motion sickness.
Book airplane seats for your toddler that are located in the middle of the plane and in front of the wings. This location will cause your toddler to experience the least amount of movement, even during turbulence.
 If your toddler is jumping, walking, or running down the aisles of a train, airplane, or boat, their chances of experiencing motion sickness may increase.


Instruct your toddler to sit still in their seat and face forward, with their head resting on a head rest, if possible.
 Exposing your toddler to fresh air can help reduce feelings of nausea, eliminate cold sweats, and help relieve other symptoms of motion sickness in your toddler.


Open the windows in your car, or take your toddler to the top deck of a boat to breathe and experience fresh air.
Allow cool air from air vents to blow gently on your toddler's face if direct exposure to fresh air is not possible. You should also use air vents if the outdoor temperature is too hot to roll down windows, or if you are on a train or airplane.
 Sometimes, your toddler can redirect their focus from feeling sick, to engaging in a fun, stimulating activity instead.


Perform activities that do not require your toddler to focus on objects inside the car or vehicle; such as singing songs, listening to music, and playing road trip games.
 An empty stomach, or a stomach full of greasy food that is also low in nutrition can often induce motion sickness.


Give your child crackers, fresh fruit, and other healthy snacks that do not contain high levels of sodium or dairy ingredients.

