 Turn on the amp with nothing connected to it. Slowly turn up the volume and see if you hear that buzzing noise. If you do, there may be a loose or frayed wire inside the amp. If there is no buzzing noise, you can rule out the amp as the source of the problem.


Always unplug the amp before inspecting the internal wiring. You may be able to solder a loose wire yourself if you can identify the problem.
If you think the buzzing could be feedback, move farther away from the amp when you play.
Failing capacitors may cause a distinctive 60 cycle ground hum, especially in tube amps.
 If you haven't already, try plugging in your guitar using a different cable. An old or worn cable is a common cause of noise, although this is usually a 60 cycle ground hum rather than a buzz.
 If this screw feels loose, tightening it can sometimes solve the buzzing issue. If this doesn't work, turn the guitar upside down, carefully unscrew the nut, and catch the connector. Check the connector's connections and re-solder them if necessary.


Volume controls, treble and bass controls, and any other knob can be another source of loose wiring. Remove the knobs one at a time, remove the nut holding the potentiometer in place, and inspect the wiring.
Never access these areas while the guitar is face up, or the connector could drop into the body of the guitar.
 Plug the cable into your guitar and wriggle it. If you feel something loose inside the instrument, there is probably a loose wire causing an electrical short. This could be at the pickups, the pots (potentiometers), or input jack. If you are up to the task, you may remove the back plate and solder the loose wire back into place. However, the soldering iron can easily damage the guitar's finish and other wiring. If you are not experienced at soldering or cannot adequately protect the surrounding area, take the guitar to a professional luthier for repair.
 Depending on your model, you may need to remove the strings in order to unscrew the pickups. Once you have removed them from the guitar, check for loose connections and frayed wires. Make sure the connections are not touching any other metal objects.

