 Are you working to live or living to work? What is it that is keeping you at this job? Do you love the work? Or does the paycheck support the family and lifestyle you love? You need to remember why your work is important, especially when it gets boring or difficult. If you can think of no reason why you should be working at this job, perhaps the only way to stay positive at work is to find new work.


Having a plan of action with your life, and knowing where you are going, is often the best place to start feeling positive.;
, Everyone gets started at a different place and heads on their own journey. You have no idea where others' journeys can get them to. Blindly making a comparison leads to wasting time and feeling negative. You can only control your own thoughts and destiny, so work on that.
 The point is getting to know and focusing on something important to you, such as the economy, your market, actions that others may take. That's to say: your inner ideas and your actions.
 More than making yourself a happier person, self-mocking can also make you powerful, influential, and attractive. Having a sense of humor helps put setbacks in perspective and reminds you that you have a life outside of your job.
 This feeling is a parasite that can nibble up your energy and well-being. You can take actions to make a change when you are not satisfied with this world. But sitting and complain accomplishes little other than getting a complaint off your chest. This can actually be a helpful way to put problems in perspective, but only if you don't overdo it. Save the sobs stories, say what is on your mind, and move on to more productive thoughts.
 Smiling is proven to release chemicals in your brain that make you happy, even if the smile is forced. That said, you should take the time to enjoy as much of your work as possible. Give yourself time to talk to coworkers you like, watch a few funny videos during lunch, and listen to music that makes you happy. Thinking positive leads to positive thinking, not the other way around.
 Being kind to a coworker ensures that you will get kindness back. There may be days when people are stressed, including you, but knowing that you have the support and friendship of those around you is a great way to let off some steam and feel more positive. Humans are social animals, so don't neglect to build relationships with your coworkers.
 Focus on the "can do" rather than "cannot" of situations. A great way to start is by looking at problems as opportunities rather than failures. Change begins with vision, and vision only begins to become a reality when it is said out loud. You need to discuss problems and failures with an eye towards self-improvement, not chiding yourself for past mistakes. Bad times happen at every office, and staying positive is not about avoiding problems, but growing from them.

