 Start with the New Testament, the book of John.

Also study the Old Testament. These are records of God's dealings with the men and women on earth and the prophecies he sent through prophets.



 

;
, Look also for evidence that God is; creator, righteous, holy, loving, good, and not capable of any evil.

Look for writings that show God's love for his children, a love that mirrors and transcends the love a parent has for a child. This will provide you with the theoretical knowledge to support your self-esteem. Knowing that your true self is connected to the fact that God created you and loves you even though you are a sinner, provides true confidence. You can know that you are truly loved unconditionally, which is a good way to gain esteem and confidence.
 These are the things that God has asked his children to do in order to serve him. God also knows that when one lives life the way He's prescribed for us, by obeying his commands, that person will be living life in the most abundant way possible. In his love, he has given you guidance to achieve this.
 You can even use those words: "...in the name of Jesus Christ". As you seek to follow Christ, he will change you. If you turn away from sin and accept that Christ died on the cross and rose again to save you from eternal separation from God, then the Holy Spirit will regenerate you and make you into a new person. Both prayer and the Holy Spirit encouraged life-changes will give you the knowledge to increase your self-esteem.
, You will feel good about yourself because you will know how much Jesus Christ loves you. It is a feeling you won't get anywhere else.


The rules of world's peoples, their esteem, their clothing, everything of theirs is just that, theirs; not given over to God's will. You are God's loved child, and as his child, you must rely fully on him for everything, including self-esteem.






Worldly self-esteem is highly overrated. If you need more self-esteem, you need more of God. It is not our self-esteem that matters, but our GOD-esteem. Remember this throughout the day. In the end, it's not your social standing that matters, its your faith.

