 Ordinary ministers are pastors, preachers, bishops, priests, and sometimes deacons who are vested with the authority to perform the sacrament. Priests have the power to perform baptisms without consulting with a bishop, and they may delegate the job to a deacon.Technically, anyone can perform a Catholic baptism. However, this is usually only done in extreme cases – i.e. when someone is lying on his or her deathbed, and fervently wishes to become baptized and to receive salvation., Pick two people that you think would make great godparents. If you are a child or a teenager, then you may really want to consider designating godparents. If you are an adult, then this step is optional. Ask family members or close friends – people that you trust., Set a date. Invite friends and family. Decide whether you want a big, fancy event, or an intimate affair. Most people hold their baptism ceremony at their local church.Consider supplying food to create a reception-like time of fellowship. Hire a catering company and budget how much you will spend on food. Alternately, ask a friend or family member to help with the refreshments.
 Set the date and plan everything out. When the special day comes, take the child to church. The priest, minister, or deacon will administer the ceremony., When people are baptized as babies, they often have holy water sprinkled over them. As a child, teenager, or adult, you will kneel, sit, or lie in holy water. Specific rites may vary depending on which Church is baptizing you.


Some churches will sprinkle the child with holy water and say that this is enough. Other churches insist that you must be fully immersed in order to be truly baptized. Consult with your priest or minister., The administrator of the ceremony (the priest or minister) will bless you "in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." He or she will dunk the child into the water, then pull him/her out again. Once the child has been blessed and immersed, the baptism is complete.