 Go for jeans or pants in a straight cut for universally flattering length, whether you opt for a sexy form-fitting skinny style or a bootcut that floats straight away from the legs to the floor.


Choose a dark wash on jeans when you want to slim any area of your legs or hips. Alternatively, you may want to add lighter wash or bright color to accentuate the legs and lend balance to a larger torso.
Avoid fading and whiskering on denim, or too many embellishments on pockets and seams, in areas you do not want to widen., Find skirts and dresses that fall just above the knee for the most universally flattering look for the legs.Also try out a high-low hemline, which is shorter in the front and longer in the back, to get some more coverage while still showing off your legs for an alluring look.
Look out for skirts and dresses that feature pleating or lines that fall vertically from the waist to make the lower body look longer.
 Try tights as a way to show off your legs while not actually showing bare skin if it makes you uncomfortable to do so, as well as provide sexy length to the leg.


Choose tights in a similar hue as your skirt, dress, or shoes to help create the illusion of extra length in the legs.
Try out tights with classic sex appeal like fishnets, lace, or thigh-highs.
Choose control-top hosiery for additional support for your midsection if you wish.
 Go for a slit detail up one side or leg of a long skirt or dress, which helps elongate the leg while providing a sultry detail to an otherwise more covered look.


If you’re not ready to bare skin with a slit, try looking for vertical seams on the front of pants or skirts, which has a similar flattering effect.Wear heels to further lengthen the leg you show off with a slit.
 Accentuate the length and beautiful muscles of your legs by choosing a sexy heel that matches your outfit or accessories.


Opt for a pump with a pointed toe for an elongating shape; even a flat with this toe will achieve this effect.
Nude color (approximately matching your skin tone) on heels will visually create even more leg length when worn with bare legs or nude hosiery.