 Dealing with your dad's girlfriend can feel confusing and even awkward. It's important to understand that feeling a wide range of emotions is completely normal. Spend some time thinking about how you are feeling and how it is affecting your life. This will help you figure out how to communicate your feelings.Examining your feelings can help you figure out what you need. For example, are you feeling jealous? Maybe spending more time with your dad would help.
Perhaps you are feeling confused. Sometimes you might actually enjoy being around your dad's girlfriend, but that makes you feel like you are betraying your mom.
Try keeping a journal. Each day, write down the events of the day and how they made you feel.
Take some time each week to flip through your journal and review your thoughts. This can help you figure out what your major concerns are.
 Your feelings about dealing with your dad's girlfriend are very important. Your emotions are valid, whatever they are. But remember that the other people involved have feelings, too.When you are figuring out how to handle this situation, it's a good idea to consider other viewpoints. For example, how does your dad feel?
Maybe your dad has explained to you that is girlfriend is an important part of his life. If that's the case, you might want to spend some time thinking about how he feels.
Your dad probably has some good reasons for liking this woman. Try to look at her from a new point of view.
You could also take the girlfriend's feelings into account. It's possible that she is nervous around you.
Try to imagine how she feels. It could be difficult for her to try to fit in with you and your dad.
 One of the keys to dealing with this complex situation is to have an open line of communication. It's important to let your dad know how you are feeling about his girlfriend. Take some time to talk to him about your emotions.Make your feelings clear. Use statements such as, "Dad, it makes me feel left out when you spend so much time with Tracy."
Try writing down what you want to say ahead of time. It can be difficult to have an open conversation. It can relieve your stress if you plan ahead.
Remember that your emotions are valid. Just try to explain them in a constructive way.
Instead of saying, "I hate her!", be more specific. Say, "It makes me sad when she ignores me or talks down to me.
 Give your dad a chance to respond. Chances are, this is a difficult situation for him, too. Let him know that you respect his feelings.If you don't understand his point of view, ask questions. You have a right to understand the situation.
For example, try saying, "Dad, I don't understand why you go on vacations with just your girlfriend. Would it be possible to include me and my sister some time?"
Demonstrate that you are listening by using positive body language. Nod your head and maintain eye contact.
 Remember that having a relationship with your father is a priority. If it wasn't, it wouldn't matter that he has a girlfriend. Make a point to keep your bond strong.Schedule time to hang out with just your dad. Ask him if the two of you can go on a hike or go to a ball game together.
If you don't get to see your dad very often, find other ways to communicate. Keep in touch via text, e-mail, or video chat.

