 Hypothyroidism has a wide range of symptoms from weight gain to dry skin. These can appear suddenly, or, like weight gain, get worse gradually.

The symptoms of hypothyroidism include: unexpected weight gain, fatigue, increased sensitivity to cold, constipation, dry skin, puffy face, muscle pain, joint swelling, thinning hair, slowed heart rate, depression, heavy or irregular menstrual periods.Symptoms vary by person and can effect everyone from infants to children and adults.Hypothyroidism is more common in women and individuals over the age of 50.;
, The only way to confirm that you have hypothyroidism, and that it may have caused you to gain weight, is by seeing a doctor. Your physician will confirm the diagnosis and develop a treatment plan for you.


If you do not see a doctor and ignore hypothyroidism symptoms, they will become more severe over time.Your doctor should measure a hormone called Thyroid Stimulating Hormone to determine if you have thyroid disease., The cause of weight gain is complex and not necessarily because of hypothyroidism.Knowing some basic facts about the disease and weight gain will help you most successfully implement a diet and exercise plan, and possibly with medication for the condition.


Most weight gain related to hypothyroidism is caused by excess salt and water in your body. Your eating and fitness habits, however, may also contribute to weight gain.You can eliminate these excess elements and extra weight by watching your diet and exercise.
Hypothyroidism rarely causes significant weight gain. Only about 5-10 pounds (2.2-4.8kilos) are usually attributable to the disease. If you have gained more, the cause is likely how you eat and whether you work out.If weight gain is your only symptom of hypothyroidism, then it’s less likely that your extra pounds are due to the disease.Some doctors believe that insulin resistance, or where your cells are not as responsive to insulin, is to blame for the weight gain, and it contributes to the problem of not being able to lose weight with thyroid disease., Depending on your diagnosis, you may not need medication for hypothyroidism. If this is the case, talk to your doctor about the best way to lose weight before you start on a diet and exercise program.


While diet and exercise are generally important to overall health, it’s important to ask your doctor what he thinks are the best ways for you to lose your extra weight.
You can also journal and keep a record of your weight loss. This can help you become more aware of what you're eating and how it affects you.
 Once you’ve talked about treatment for hypothyroidism with your doctor, put your weight plan into action diet and exercise. It’s important not to expect too much weight loss too soon.


Don’t expect the weight to fall off. Most people have to work very hard to lose extra weight, even after diagnosis.Losing weight gradually is the best way to keep it off long term.
Some people may not lose weight at all.If you notice that you’re not losing weight, try adjusting your diet and begin an exercise regimen, which will help you take off the pounds.
Ingest 1800-2000 calories every day. Do not go below 1200 calories a day. Eating 3500 fewer calories per week is equal to one pound of weight loss; therefore, losing 500 calories a day is the recommendation., Eating healthy, balanced, and regular meals will not only help you lose any weight that you put on because of thyroid disease, but also that may be from poor diet and lack of exercise.Foods that have moderate fat, complex carbohydrates, and low sodium, for example, are best for the disease and your general health.


Stick to a diet of about 1,200 nutrient-rich calories a day, which will also offset any non-thyroid related weight you gained.Eat lean proteins such as chicken, ground sirloin, or edamame with most meals, which will give your metabolism a slight boost and help you burn more calories.This will also help you burn any fat that may be contributing to excess weight.
Eat whole grains such as whole wheat, oatmeal, and quinoa instead of starchy counterparts like bread.Avoid simple sugars. They are not good for your insulin levels.
 If you’re trying to lose weight, it’s a good idea to avoid unhealthy or junk foods, many of which are loaded with sodium.Potato chips, nachos, pizza, burgers, cake, and ice cream will not help you lose weight, or excess water and sodium.


Stay away from starchy, refined carbs such as bread, crackers, pasta, rice, cereal, and baked goods. Eliminating these foods can also help you lose weight., Since most weight gain from hypothyroidism is caused by excess salt and water, cut as much sodium from your diet as you can. Excess sodium causes a person to retain water, which makes him heavier.Don’t consume more than 500mg of sodium per day.Avoid sodium rich-foods.Processed and prepared foods, for example, contain high amounts of sodium.Another way to get rid of excess sodium in your body is eating potassium-rich foods such as bananas, apricots, oranges, sweet potatoes, and beets., The best way to lose excess weight from water is by staying hydrated. Drinking plenty of water throughout the day will help you stay hydrated and keep you from retaining water and water weight.


Avoid sugary drinks, especially soda and processed fruit juices.Drink 8 eight ounces of water eight times a day (64 ounces total) every day. However, the Institute of Medicine has higher daily recommendations, which are 125 ounces for men and 91 ounces for women., Some people who test within “normal” ranges for thyroid productivity do not need medication for hypothyroidism even though they have the symptoms of the disease. In these cases, taking a supplemental nutrient such as selenium, combined with a healthy diet and exercise, can help someone lose weight., Having regular bowel movements will also help flush excess sodium and water from your system. Removing these elements and other waste will contribute to weight loss and maintaining your overall health.


You need fiber to stay regular to help flush out salt and water. Aim for 35-40mg of fiber a day from soluble and insoluble sources.Soluble fiber is in food such as oats, legumes, apples, pears, and flax. You can get insoluble fiber from foods like whole wheat and brown rice. Vegetables such as broccoli, zucchini, carrots, and kale also have insoluble fiber.Regular exercise will also help keep you regular because it puts force on your intestines to move., Doing cardiovascular exercise will help you lose weight and maintain overall health. Discuss your plan to do cardio training with your doctor before you start.


Aim to walk 10,000 steps a day, which translates to walking about 5 miles (or 8km) per day.Wearing a pedometer can help you make sure you’re taking enough steps per day.
You can do any type of cardio training to lose weight and improve your health. Beyond walking, consider running, swimming, rowing, or biking.
Get 2.5 hours of moderate physical exercise in every week. This type of exercise, like biking slowly or canoeing, requires only moderate physical exertion (rather than running or swimming, which requires more)., In addition to cardiovascular exercise, strength training can help you lose weight. It builds calorie-burning muscle while promoting your overall health.Before you begin any strength training program, consult with your doctor and maybe even with a certified trainer, who will create the best plan for your abilities and needs.
 A doctor is the only person who can diagnose a thyroid condition. Talk to him about any concerns with thyroid disease and he will likely test you. If needed, your doctor will prescribe the lowest dose of medication to treat your hypothyroidism.Depending on your diagnosis you may not need medication for hypothyroidism., Your doctor will prescribe you medication, often Levothyroxine, to help control your medication.Take the prescription to a local pharmacy so that you can begin your treatment.


Ask your doctor or pharmacist any questions you have about the medication or your treatment.
 Take your medication at the same time every day so that you don’t forget it. If you’re taking other supplements or medications, take your thyroid medication first to avoid any drug interactions.


It’s best to take thyroid medications on an empty stomach and one hour before other medications.Wait four hours after you take your thyroid medication to take other pills such as multivitamins, fiber supplements, or antacids., Even if you feel better, take your medications regularly until you talk to your doctor. Most people with hypothyroidism will need to be on medication for the rest of their lives., When taking medication for hypothyroidism, such as Levothyroxine, expect a small amount of weight loss.This weight loss is usually from excess salt and water.Don’t expect the weight to fall off. Most people still have to work very hard to lose extra weight even after a hypothyroidism diagnosis.In some cases, you may have extra pounds in addition to thyroid-related weight. Following the same diet and exercise program as above will also help you shed this weight.
 If you’re on medication, the most effective way to lose weight from thyroid disease if you’re on medication is to combine it with a diet and exercise plan. Discuss this approach with your doctor before you start.


Follow the same rules for diet and exercise to lose weight that you would if you weren’t taking medication for hypothyroidism.

