 In the early stages of an infection the swelling may not be obvious because it comes after the redness develops. One way to check for swelling is to compare the size of the entrance to the ear canal on both sides. The ear canal is the dark hole, down which you put ear drops. They should be of an identical size on both sides.If one ear canal is smaller than the other, the commonest reason is that the skin is swollen and taking up space, which narrows the canal.;
, Ear infections generate heat and inflammation. Lift the ear flap and examine the skin around the ear canal. Place your fingertips as close to the ear canal as possible, and then compare the sensations you feel with the other ear.


If the skin around the ear feels hotter, this can be a sign of inflammation and infection. Inflammation is often accompanied by skin changes such as swelling or reddening.
 The skin's response to infection is to become inflamed. The signs of inflammation are redness and swelling. The skin around the ear canal should look identical on both ears.


If one ear is redder than the other then be suspicious of inflammation and infection.
 Dog ears produce wax, just as our own ears do. This normal waxy discharge is usually scant, and of a translucent, greasy nature, rather than thick yellow-orange wax like in humans.


If there is a yellow-green purulent discharge from the ear, or thick browny-black wax, you should bring your dog to the vet. Both of these discharges are abnormal and indicative of infection. In particular, if pus is present, it is usually accompanied by an unpleasant smell.
 Use your nose to sniff around and figure out where the smell is coming from. In particular, lift your dog’s ear flap and see if the smell gets worse.


If you lift the ear and the smell gets worse, compare the smelly ear to the other one. If both ears smell the same (whether this be good or bad), your dog might not have an ear infection. If, however, one ear smells far worse than the other ear, there is a good chance that the smelly ear is infected.

