 This is optional, but it is very helpful to have a picture as a guide when drawing.;
, Get to know how the head, body, mane, tail, etc. of a horse look. Also learn about where the legs of a horse are positioned when they are moving. This will help to create a realistic horse, and is also helpful when you don't have a picture for a reference.
 Start with a few ovals and circles for the body. Make the head by drawing a large oval or circle, then a small circle near it for the muzzle. Connect them with two lines to make a head shape. Then use two lines to connect the head and body. This will create the neck. For the legs, draw straight lines, with circles for the joints. Add a curved line for the tailbone. Note: If you need to, you can trace the basic outline from the picture instead. Later you can practice drawing the basic outline yourself.
 Darken the curves of the body and head. 'Flesh' out the legs. This is also a good time to sketch in shapes for the mane and tail. make sure you don't darken the lines too much. If you do, it will be hard to fix if you make a mistake, and it will take out that 'realistic' look. Animals are soft, fleshy creatures, and don't have hard, stone carved lines.
 Lightly color in the horse. Don't worry about shadows, or markings. Smudging the shading helps to give the horse a soft, 'live' look. Make sure to erase the circles.
 It's important to remember where your 'source of light' is coming from. make sure you don't darken the 'highlights' of the horse. Also, the darkness of your shading depends on what color your horse is. If you are drawing a light colored horse, use less shading on the overall horse. If you're drawing a dark colored horse, use more. Again, smudging helps to make it more realistic. Also, be sure to use the picture as a reference! This will really help with your shading!

, If they are white, you may not need to shade at all. Just add soft lines to show texture. If they are very dark (Such as black) Shade it to a very dark gray. Then add black lines to show texture.
 If something doesn't look right, fix it! That's what erasers are for. Also, it's a good idea to add your own personal touches here and there. You don't have to copy the picture exactly.
 Erase any shading that got where it isn't supposed to be. Fix minor things. Add final touches to the shading.
 You don't have to add background if you are happy with your picture. If you are inexperienced with drawing, this may be challenging; but if you want to try, go for it!

, Add your signature to your drawing.
 If you want, you can still do a bit of 'touching up'. Drawings never really have to be 'finished' if you want to continue adding on to it.

