 Is it because you want to scare people, want to fit in or want to stand out? If it is, then stop right there. If it's because you love the Gothic subculture then feel free to continue. Remember, don't force yourself to become something you're not. You don't "become" Goth, you just are so there must have been something inside of you that feels you are part of the subculture to have looked up the article in the first place.;
, Research the Gothic subculture and learn as much as possible before proceeding. Do not skip this step because you will look like a poseur if you do. Real Goths get very confused if you've been calling yourself Goth for a long time and still don't know anything about it, this usually means you're a poseur and it's not really you. It also might mean that you're doing it for a different reason like attention-seeking/trying to stand out, because your friends are, any other reason other than because it's you.
 Goth bands come in many styles and it would take a long time to list them. To start listening you might want to start with classics like Bauhaus, Siouxsie and the Banshees, The Sisters of Mercy, Love and Rockets, The Mission UK, Fields of the Nephilim, The March Violets and The Cure (select albums). Then branch out to other others. If you want a more dance then try bands like V N V Nation, Suicide Commando or God Module (these bands are dark electro / EBM and is most commonly associated with Cyber Goths). If you want something lighter, try a band like Strawberry Switchblade, but bear in mind, these bands aren't Goth. Only Gothic rock/deathrock is actually Goth and CyberGoth and Victorian Goth are separate subcultures. Just because they use Goth in their name, doesn't actually make them Goth.
 You will most likely star off wearing simple black clothing, but at the style progresses you end up developing your style and looking less like a costume. Remember that Goth is a style, it is not a colour. You could dress all in white and still be considered Goth, like some European Goths.
 It's not needed but it is a big part of being goth. Some Goths don't wear make-up so if you don't feel comfortable wearing it, you don't need to. Nobody is making you. You can find YouTube tutorials on how to blend, draw your eyeliner on, how to apply lipstick and what foundation is right for you.
 The overall Gothic mindset and aesthetic is seeing beauty, embracing and accepting darkness. You might be interested in anything morbid and disturbing especially abandoned buildings, graveyards, serial killers, mass graves, murders, Creepy Pasta stories, Gothic architecture. Generally anything creepy, spooky and weird.
 You will get a few comments, stares and laughs. You just have to learn to put up with it. If you're really going to be yourself, there will be a lot of people who think you're doing it for attention or for another reason. It's best to just leave them to their ignorance because their opinion means little and should not effect you.
 This is essential for Victorian Goths if you have decided that is who you are. The Gothic subculture grew out of horror movies and Gothic literature so make sure to pick up a book by Edgar Allan Poe, Anne Rice, Bram Stoker or Mary Shelley and give it a try. Remember you can read any genre of books you want, you aren't just limited to reading Gothic or horror stories.
 You aren't just limited to watching Gothic movies because if you're watching The Crow one minute and the Princess Diaries the next, great. Some other movies Goths are particular interested in is anything by Tim Burton. Tim Burton seems to capture the mood quite well and it's shown through his movies. There is nothing wrong with watching the films of the books you're reading either such as Frankenstein or Dracula.
