 When you go to the doctor for a checkup, they can examine you and see how you are developing. The doctor may be able to predict around when your period may start. This can help you be more prepared. You should also take this time to ask your doctor any questions you have about starting your period.Do not feel embarrassed by any questions you may have. Your doctor is used to questions and is there to help you.
 Before your period starts, you may experience breast tenderness, cramping, stomach bloating, and acne. You may not experience any symptoms the first time you have your period though.Ask your parent about a heating pad or taking pain medicine to help with your symptoms.
The older you get, it will be easier to tell when your period is coming.
 Your period will usually begin between the ages of 12 and 14.Menstrual blood will begin to come out of your vagina. This blood can be different shades of red and brown and may include clots. If you have not gotten your period by the time you are 15, you need to talk to your parents and your doctor.If you feel any wetness, go to the bathroom to see if your period has started.
Your first period may only last for a few days and be very light. You may only see some reddish and/or brown spots. It should last from two to seven days.You can wear panty liners if you suspect that your period may be starting soon. This will protect your clothes until you can use a pad or tampon.
 Your menstrual cycle begins the first day that you bleed. A cycle usually lasts between 21 and 45 days. The average cycle is 28 days. It is helpful to mark on a calendar or use a phone app to keep track of your period. You will begin to recognize a pattern and know when your cycle will start.Mark the first day your period starts, and then count the days until you bleed again. This will help you figure out the length of your cycle.
Your periods may not come every month when you first start your period. It may take up to six years before you have a regular cycle.The average length of menstrual cycle during the first year is about 32 days.See your doctor if your period comes more often than every 21 days or less often than every 45 days. Also see your doctor if your period was once regular, but you begin to have irregular periods.