 Oftentimes, people who judge others have strict standards for their own conduct. If you judge someone harshly in a situation, you may have judged yourself just as harshly in the same scenario. Instead of leaping to judgement, take this as an opportunity to reflect on yourself.For example, if you have ever been critical of your weight, then you might be able to empathize with someone who seems to be struggling with his or her weight because you have experienced the same thing.
This can also combat prejudiced thoughts, as it's a reminder we are all quite similar. If you have lingering prejudice, you may judge a certain group of people more harshly for mistakes. Remind yourself that you, and people just like you, often make the same errors.
 Everyone around you has a unique history and personality that affects their behavior. Before leaping to judgment over a person's missteps, consider that history.For example, say you see a homeless person on the train. You may find yourself engaging in prejudiced thoughts about the homeless or those living in poverty. You may think, "How irresponsible. I would never let that become my life."
Stop and try to put yourself in this person's shoes. Many homeless people are mentally ill, and come from underprivileged backgrounds where their mental illness was never adequately treated. Is this person's current situation really his choice? He may have ended up here due to circumstances beyond his control.
 Cynicism can breed judgmental tendencies. If you tend to believe the worst in everyone, you're more likely to judge someone's behavior. Try adopting a more hopeful outlook. It takes practice, but try to look for the good in people before looking for the bad.Pay attention to the small, kind things people do. Someone could, for example, compliment your shirt while you're at the office.
Look for kindness everywhere. People watch during your day-to-day life. Maybe the cashier at the grocery store gave someone a discount when their card was rejected. Maybe a young woman's bus card was empty, and a fellow passenger paid for her fare.
 Again, keep the reasons for prejudice on your mind at all times. An active awareness of the roots of prejudice is necessary when interacting with others.We categorize people as part of "in-group" and "out-group" sets. Your in group is comprised of people like you. This is where you feel you belong, and you see people inside your group as all unique. Conversely, "outgroups" comprise any group different than you. People tend to lump those in "outgroups" into the same basic categories.
You do this all the time, without realizing it. As you go through your daily interactions, be aware of your thoughts when you encounter someone from an "outgroup." If you find yourself making assumptions, remember this is a cognitive tendency that is part of ensuring our physical safety, but this knee-jerk reaction may not reflect reality.
 It's very common for people to judge a whole group of people by the actions of one individual. Every group of people has good people and bad people. Try to judge everyone you meet as an individual, and do not make assumptions about their behavior based on a single person's actions.These judgements can come from personal experience. For example, every woman you've ever dated has been manipulative. You go on a date with someone, and you find yourself thinking, "I bet she's going to manipulate me." This is not the case. You cannot judge all women based on the actions of a few women you've dated.
Keep in mind that we tend to judge people based on our childhood interactions with our parents, and you may even seek out people who are like your parents in some way. To overcome this tendency, try making a list of the ideal qualities you are looking for in a mate. Then, use the list to help you find someone who has some or all of those qualities.
These kinds prejudicial thoughts can also be influenced by current events. For example, you see a Middle Eastern person on your plane and feel nervous. You think, "I hope he's not planning anything." Not all Middle Eastern people are associated with terrorist groups. Seeing a lot on the news about terrorism in the Middle East does not give you the right to judge all Middle Eastern people.

