 One of the most important foundational things you can teach your autistic adult child is social skills. You can help them with this by letting them meet other autistic adults (find a local group of parents who also have autistic children).


You can also help your son or daughter meet others like them online. This will help them hone their ability to make friends and get into the rhythm of building relationships.
This will make workplace interactions easier for them as they move out of the home environment to their new place of work. Social skills are very important and must be mastered as much as possible.;
, Improve his social communication skills using:


Picture exchange communication system; this consists of a set of cards with different symbols about various objects. The person uses these cards to tell others about his preferences or needs.
Social stories; these are descriptions about social situations that help people with learning difficulties to understand the appropriate behavior in a particular situation.
Comic strip conversations; this includes drawings, speech bubbles and thought bubbles to help children understand the underlying meaning and demands of a situation.
Scripts; this combines social stories and comic script conversation. It enables them to understand emotions and social context.
 For choosing the right job, one-on-one assessment of abilities and interests should be done to accurately evaluate which skills your child is good at and which factors he needs to improve on.


If he shows interest in organizing and lining up things, book keeping would be a good job for him. If your child is good at visual thinking he should get a job like drafting, photography, art work. If his math is good, he can be an accountant or bank teller.
Before choosing a job you should ask your child and yourself if that job is practically possible or not. To do this, you have to match his potential with the job requirements, while also considering his limitations.
 Many autistic children and adults focus on details and parts. They think in concrete terms. They possess hyper focus. This makes computer jobs, tech jobs, hyper-focus jobs a good fit for them.


They tend to prefer jobs which demand high focus on details and leave little room for error. As a result, many autistics are known to be apt software engineers.
They have problems in communicating socially but they can communicate logically about different designs and logics. Give your child a computer and give him the opportunity to develop his skills in web design, software programming and other specializations. He might be a genius in this field.
 Some schools offer high school transition programs. This is because many autistic children find it difficult to move from school to college. They might have to face bullying and mocking by others at college, or get confused by the larger, unfamiliar campus.


Some autistic people even spend 5 to 6 years at home after graduating from high school, because they or their parents feel that they are not ready for college. However, no time should be wasted like this.
Parents should decide in advance about what to do when their child graduates high school. One year high school transition programs could be quite helpful in solving this problem.
 In order to sustain a job it is necessary for the autistic person to undergo intensive vocational training. Some companies themselves provide this training.


This training involves essential curriculum, such as providing staff support in collaboration with community based employers. It is focuses on maximizing employment potential.
The autistic adult should be informed thoroughly about the job requirements, routines, rules and regulations. Some schools provide this kind of training to children, preparing them for having jobs.
 After high school, social networks are often lost or becomes limited. Social meetings at school provide great opportunities to learn and develop social relationships. After high school this opportunity often disappears, but this should not be the case.


Your child should meet different people on a regular basis in some club or gatherings at home. Take him to social places in order to learn more and more social skills. You may also join a gym with your autistic child. It will make both of you physically fit and socially active. Allow him to join clubs with his class fellows.
Take him to parks and other social events like wedding ceremonies, birthday parties, social clubs etc. don’t force him to stay at home just so he feels secure and avoids bullying. He has to face the world. But don’t leave him alone in new places.
 Your child needs to feel motivated about getting a job. Motivation is especially relevant to today’s society. `A status seeking individual tends to be more ambitious and hard working. Motivate them to earn their own money and gain some independence in life.
 Find a job that suits the unique attributes of people with ASD – the good thing about being different (in the context of having ASD) is that people with this condition have specific strengths that can give them an edge in some jobs. If you have an autistic son or daughter who is keen on the idea of working, these are some tips you might want to note in helping him land the best job for him or her.


The job must have a defined endpoint.
The job should involve a set routines. People with ASD do well with routines.
Autistic adults are often good at music or art and have a knack for details. The best way to highlight this strength is to make a portfolio of your autistic child’s work. This stresses their well developed abilities, not necessarily on his or her personality.
Make sure that the company you are seriously considering for your child’s employment is inclined to accept people with ASD with your child’s direct superior having enough experience and knowledge on the social limitations of your autistic child.
 You should talk to your adult child about getting employment. Ask him what he wants to do. Discuss his fears and concerns. Invite him to share his feelings about his life and getting a job.


Every new change could create lot of distress and tension for an autistic adult. Try to make him feel relaxed and optimistic. Autistic people vary tremendously in their symptoms and behavior.
Try to find out if your child prefers to work alone, with one or two persons or with a group. Choose a job for him accordingly.
 If your child does not possess good language skills and is not able to communicate verbally, he could have any one of the following jobs;


Plant care like gardening, warehouse worker, library assistant, restocking shelves, data entry, janitor jobs, fast food attendant, photocopy shop, factory assembling job etc.
If your adult child possesses good visual thinking abilities he could have many jobs like web designer, video game designer, laboratory technician, computer animation, factory maintenance, computer trouble shooter, automobile mechanic, journalist, carpenter or welder, commercial art, etc.
If he is an expert in mathematics he could be an accountant as mentioned above, engineer, inventory controller, bank teller, statistician, mathematician, telemarketing etc.
 While making any decision for your adult child, your focus should be his strengths and skills.


Don’t pay attention only to his disabilities and dysfunctions. He will overcome his limitations and disabilities with the passage of time. Give him opportunity to show his talents, don’t make him feel incompetent or disabled.
It is now believed that autistic people need opportunity more than therapy or treatment. They have their specific talents that need to be recognized and appreciated.
 Encourage your autistic son or daughter towards employment – your autistic son or daughter must have a healthy attitude towards employment. The last thing you want to do is force them into it. This will just make them more resistant to the idea and will certainly defeat your long term purpose for the move.


Why do they need to get a job in the first place? Employment can provide an immense boost of self confidence to your autistic child and can be very beneficial for his or her social and personal life. It will also allow him or her to grow out of his or her shell and face the world with courage and confidence instead of cowering in his or her room.
Employment also allows you to prepare them for the future. You cannot always be there for them. Setting them up for life can give you peace of mind. It is a win-win plan for you and your child.
 Arrange for your autistic child’s to have their own place – a big part of your autistic child’s inclination to have his or her own job is having his or her own place to live – away from you and other people who have been part of his support system in the past.


This will provide your autistic child with some space to adjust to his new way of life, far and independent from his or her parents and siblings. Ideally this new place must be near the workplace.
Commuting to and from work can be stressful to a person with ASD so addressing this concern by renting a place near his or her workplace can help a lot in settling a major source of anxiety and discomfort of your autistic adult child.
 You should make a portfolio of your child's work. Mention their past experiences, previous jobs and required certificates. Tell the person or the interviewer about their talents and potentials.


Also mention any social limitations or other difficulties. The employer should know about any potential issues or if they will need to make any special allowances in any aspect of job.
 Many companies now offer jobs to autistic adults, especially to the gifted ones with better intellectual abilities and higher achievements.


Two such examples are The Home Depot and CVS Caremark pharmacies. Now employers have started thinking about autism as an asset and not a disability. They prefer hiring autistic adults to do work with higher accuracy and reliability.
 Do some preparation for the interview. This might involve the use of cards or icons, or simply going over basic interview questions several times over.


He should be able to answer simple questions either verbally or through pictures or sign language. This will help him to feel confident while actually having the interview.
You should also be prepared for the interview. The employer might ask you about the strengths and limitations of your son, the education interventions used in school, what makes him upset, what behavior therapies work best for him etc. You should be able to answer any question about your child. They might ask you about his general problems and the possible solutions used.
They will also ask him about his education, favorite subjects, previous experience, expected salary, any extra allowances he needs, etc.

