 Many pre-mixed curries or packaged curry dishes will contain turmeric, though the quantity of turmeric is often quite small. Simply add more turmeric yourself! While the flavor of turmeric is distinct, it isn’t too strong — and it blends perfectly with curry. Add turmeric to taste, but know that a 1/8 teaspoon per serving is a good amount to add to any dish, and will likely not affect the flavor of anything savory.


Do not expose turmeric to prolonged heat, as curcumin can be rendered inaccessible by excessive cooking. To prevent this, add turmeric later in the cooking process.;
, Fried or scrambled eggs are an ideal dish to eat with turmeric. Use coconut oil to cook your eggs in, as the fat will increase turmeric’s bioavailability since it's fat-soluble, and the coconut flavor pairs well with that of turmeric. Don’t forget to include black pepper, and a bit of salt may help rounding the seasonings out.


A great accompaniment to eggs is sautéed kale, which can be prepared in the same pan, in the same way, even scrambled together!
Add turmeric to the eggs or kale late in the cooking process, or simply dust the meal once you have it plated.
 Mix green or brown lentils with vegetable stock or water and cook in saucepan at medium heat for around 30 minutes. Use 1 cup of whichever liquid you are using for every 2 cups of lentils. Near the end of the 30 minutes, heat a bit of coconut oil in a separate pan for a minute and stir in 1 teaspoon for each cup of lentils you’re cooking. When the lentils are done — per your preference on softness — add the turmeric and oil mixture, as well as some black pepper.


Curry powder and canned tomatoes can also be added to the lentils while they are cooking.
Similarly, you can also add cinnamon and cardamom to the oil and turmeric mixture.
Create a similar dish with chickpeas or garbanzo beans instead of lentils.
 Whether cooked in the oven or in a pan, sprinkle turmeric on cooked veggies, along with salt and pepper. Cauliflower, potatoes, and sweet potatoes are especially well-complimented by the flavor offered by turmeric. You can even toss any of these veggies in oil — preferably coconut — before pan frying or roasting in the over. Lemon zest and cilantro will even further enhance such a dish., If you already have a go-to soup recipe, consider adding a bit of turmeric near the end of the cook. If you’re on the hunt for a new soup, try making spiced carrot and tahini soup.Fry carrots, onion, and garlic in a pan with a bit of oil until softened.
Place the veggies in a pot and add as much vegetable broth as you want, based on preference.
Add ground coriander, cumin, turmeric, and salt to the mixture and cook for a few minutes on medium heat.
Add tahini and lemon juice at the end of the cook, and garnish each serving with a turmeric dusting and a sprig of cilantro.

