 You won’t be able to spot bad spending habits if you don’t look at what you’re spending money on. Get in the habit of checking your account summaries online as often as possible and reading the description of each purchase.If you have a debit card that is associated with an online bank account, consider using it for every purchase you make. This way, the online account will automatically keep a record of every purchase you make.
Look for recurring purchases you might be able to eliminate, like fast food purchases on your way home from work.
Checking weekly is usually ideal, as purchases will still be fresh in your mind.
 Start keeping track of how much you spend on different categories of items. For instance, every time you check your bank accounts or credit statements, add different types of purchases together. This will help you identify types of spending you may be doing too much.For instance, open up a spreadsheet and list all of your food purchases in one column, clothing purchases in another, and any other category that makes sense.
Manually keeping track will make you more aware of how often you make certain types of purchases and motivate you to address the habit.
 As you review your expenses, make a point of assessing each item you purchased. This may be especially effective after grouping purchases together. For instance, ask yourself things like, “Can I afford to spend $40 a week on pizza considering my income?”

Reflecting in this way can help identify specific unhealthy spending habits.
After a while, try to get in the habit of asking yourself, “Do I actually need this?” before every purchase you make.
 Many people pay monthly subscriptions for services they don’t use enough to justify paying for. If you're doing so, this is a sign you have an unhealthy relationship with spending.When you are reviewing your financial accounts and come across subscription fees, reevaluate whether you’re actually getting your money’s worth and cancel any subscriptions you don’t need or can’t afford.

