 No matter what the major change is (illness, death of a family member, leaving a job or a marriage) you won't be able to deal with it if you try to take on too much. The more you're looking ahead the less you're focusing on the here and now and the more it is going to hurt.For example: if you've lost your job, or left it, avoid trying to deal with the big picture all at once. You'll end up overwhelmed and at sea. Instead take each moment as it comes. Use one moment to update your resume, use the next moment to look on the internet or in the classifieds or talk to people about getting a new job.
Living in your nostalgia for the past or your anxiety for the future is one of the signs of depression or anxiety disorders. You will want to make sure that if you're unable to stay in the present because of overwhelming anxiety or depression that you seek help. People who have had an intense life change, or already have one of these issues, can find themselves getting depressed or anxious, or having those issues get worse.
 One thing that a lot of people tend to forget is to take care of themselves and make themselves feel safe. This needs to be a deeply intimate sort of caring that really allows you to relax and to just be wrapped in care, like being wrapped in a big, warm blanket.You'll know what works best for you, but some suggestions are making yourself a cup of tea and focusing on drinking it (breathe in the steam, feel the warmth slide down your throat and pool in your belly), wrap yourself in a warm blankets or use a heating pad, do some yoga and focus only on your breathing and the movement of your body.
If you find negative or upsetting thoughts intruding on your moment, acknowledge them and let them go. Tell yourself that you'll deal with those thoughts later, but right now what you need to focus on is finding comfort for yourself.
 No matter what kind of change it is, it is going to be fraught with emotions. If you ignore these emotions and try to avoid them, they'll only return stronger and more painful later one. This doesn't mean you need to wallow in grief and anger, but it does mean that you need to allow yourself to be angry, to grieve.You'll tend to cycle through emotions like denial, anger, sadness, and acceptance. Each time you deal with them will make them pass more quickly the next time
Don't turn to "painkillers": this can mean something like drugs or alcohol, but it can also mean watching t.v. excessively, over-eating not to enjoy food but because it helps numb some part of you, or even diving into a romantic relationship. These "painkillers" help you to numb out instead of dealing with your feelings.
 Changes means different things to different people, even to the same person at different times in their life. Reflecting on your feelings, reflecting on what has changed and why can give you a handle on processing the emotional turbulence that comes with change.


Journaling is another great way to reflect on the change. Not only does it help you to get your feelings out, it also chronicles your journey through the change. When another change comes you can look back on how you handled the previous one and what you felt and how you sorted through things.
 Talking things out with someone can not only be greatly comforting but it can also lead you to insights about the change and yourself that you might not otherwise have had.


Try to find someone who has already been through what you're going through. This person will be a sort of mentor to you, someone who can help you see that the way you're handling the change is normal, that your feelings are legitimate. They can also offer insight and help keep you on track for healing.
Support groups and religious organizations are great, especially for people dealing with illnesses, with the death of a loved one, and that sort of life change. This is a good place to find someone who has already undergone what you're going through and who can help guide you.
 Although you don't want to obsess about the future or spend too much time worrying about it, you do want things to look forward to. This means deciding what you want your future to look like and working to create it.


Daydreams are a great tool to try out imaginary scenarios to see what it is you want to do. Let your mind roam free to see how you want to make the most of this major life change.
Collect ideas you like from the internet, or in magazines. You can look at potential housing ideas, job ideas and plan how you might incorporate these into your own life.
 It's easiest to work in small steps. Taking on too much at once can completely overwhelm you. What you want to do as you're working to adjust is to make your life just a little better, just a little easier.


Small adjustments can be things like: eating better (especially if you're dealing with an illness), exercising to help raise the happy-making chemicals and to get you healthier, making better use of your time (making plans and following through with them; making sure you get more out of a day).
 Relaxation techniques like yoga, meditation, even taking long walks, can help to reduce your stress and help you adjust more easily to the changes you'll deal with in life.Meditation is a good relaxation technique to choose because it helps to calm your mind, lower your stress, and it can be done basically anywhere. If you're just starting out it's a good idea to pick a quiet spot, set a timer for 15 minutes (or you can count breaths if you don't want to deal with the clock), and sit comfortably. Breathe deeply. Focus on your breath, in and out. If you find that you're being distracted by your thoughts, acknowledge them, and return your focus to your breathing.
Yoga is another great relaxation technique. Not only does it incorporate meditation into its form (the focus on breathing), but it's a great way to get exercise, to move your body, and work out any kinks in your muscles or back.
 Life is really about changes. It doesn't matter how prepared you are there will always be changes that take you by surprise. If you Try to rigidly hang out to your current life and way of doing things you will find it harder to adjust to change in the long run.


Again, this doesn't mean denying your feelings about changes, because change can be scary and overwhelming, but it does mean that you accept these feelings as part of the change.

