 The average person urinates about six to seven times in a 24-hour period. It is still normal to urinate eight times during the day and once during the night. Urinating more than twice during the night is not normal, however.The average person does not urinate more than two cups every two hours, or more than 10 times after drinking two liters., As you get older, the tissues in your bladder become tough, and as a result, are less flexible. Additionally, you bladder muscles get weaker as you age. Combined, these factors can cause older individuals, i.e., 55 years and older, to urinate more frequently.Contact a doctor if you urinate more than twice during the night.
 If you are taking medications, consider the effects these medications can have on your urination frequency. Double-check the side effects with your doctor. Additionally, diuretics like caffeine can irritate your bladder causing you to urinate frequently.By reducing your caffeine intake, you can reduce your urination frequency.
Alcohol is also a bladder irritant that can cause you to urinate frequently., While you are tracking the frequency of your trips to the bathroom, you should also be tracking the volume of urine you produce. If you are urinating more than 2.5 liters (2,500 cc or ml) per day, then you may have an excessive amount of urine, known as polyuria. This should be addressed by your doctor, as the underlying cause could be serious (such as diabetes or kidney problems)., Drinking too much water, juice, and other liquids relative to your size may also cause you to urinate frequently. The amount of liquids you should drink per day depends on your weight. Calculate your appropriate fluid intake by multiplying your weight by 0.5. The number you arrive it is how many ounces you should be drinking per day.For example, if you weigh 120 pounds, then multiply 120 by 0.5. This equals 60. Therefore, you should be drinking 60 ounces of liquids per day.
If you work out, add 12 ounces of liquids for every 30 minutes you exercise. So if the person in the above example exercises for 30 minutes, they should be drinking 72 oz total (60 + 12 = 72).

