 Heavy consumption of alcohol is another leading contributor to gastritis, and smoking cigarettes is another confirmed cause. Lowering your consumption of alcohol can help you to ease the irritation of your stomach, relieving the symptoms of gastritis, and helping limit their recurrence., If you sometimes experience stomach pain and relatively mild gastritis symptoms, you can ease your digestion by eating several small meals instead of three large ones. Try eating every two to three hours throughout the day., As well as knowing what foods to avoid, it's important to learn what foods can be beneficial. The more fresh fruits and vegetables you can eat, the better. In particular, eat foods high in flavonoids, antioxidants, vitamin B, or calcium, such as:Antioxidant-rich foods: Blueberries, cherries, tomatoes, squash, bell peppers
Foods rich in Vitamin B and calcium: Almonds, beans, whole grains, spinach, kale
Foods with flavonoids that inhibit H. pylori: Apples, celery, cranberries

, Lean meats, fish, and tofu are good sources of protein that will help you to maintain digestive health.The leanest cuts of meat typically contain "round" or "loin" in their name. Lean meats include:

Poultry (white meat without skin)
Beef — Flank steak, sirloin tip, eye of round, top round, tenderloin, top loin, rump roast, and extra lean ground beef
Pork — Center loin, tenderloin, Canadian bacon
Lamb — Chops, leg roast, tenderloin shank
Wild game — Venison, bison, elk, squab, wild duck (without skin), pheasant, rabbit

, Stress has been shown to result in higher levels of inflammation and stomach acid, both of which will worsen the symptoms of gastritis.Whether your gastritis is caused by stress or only aggravated by it, learning to manage and reduce stress is an important step in reducing stomach pain.Do something you enjoy. If your gastritis is acting up, try calming down with an enjoyable activity like reading a book, listening to music, practicing a hobby, or having dinner with a friend. Lowering stress may reduce symptoms.Positive social interactions — particularly those involving physical contact such as a hug — produce oxytocin which helps to reduce stress levels.Try to manage stressful situations. If you hate the traffic during your commute, leave earlier to avoid it, or listen to a book on tape to distract yourself. If your family squabbles during the holiday, take a break to go for a walk and relax.
 Lack of sleep has a host of negative health effects, from weakening the immune system to increasing the risk of obesity. Getting enough sleep will both reduce stress levels and help you deal with any stressful incidents that do crop up. Adults should aim for nine to seven hours a night, teens for nine to 10 hours, and younger children for at least 10 hours.To help you get enough sleep:Try to go to bed and wake up at the same time each night.
Limit the use of computers and smartphones near bedtime, as they can interfere with sleep.
Do not eat within an hour of bedtime.
 Aerobic exercise, in particular, has been clinically proven to reduce levels of anxiety and depression.Just remember to start slow and not overdo it at first. Some particularly good exercises to help you relax and get those endorphins pumping include:Walking or jogging for at least 10 minutes
Yoga
Tai Chi or Qi Gong (meditative martial arts developed in China)
Dance
Biking

, Meditation has been shown to improve health and reduce stress.There are many types of meditative techniques, but most are founded on four basics: a quiet location with few distractions; a comfortable posture; a focus of attention (on an object, set of words, or the sensation of breathing); and an open mind (letting thoughts come and go without judging them.Some specific techniques that might prove useful include:



Mindful meditation — Sit in a comfortable, quiet place, with your hands on your thighs. Let your gaze settle where it will. Concentrate on your breathing, not trying to control it but simply feeling it. When thoughts occur, gently return your focus to your breathing. Start with 10 minutes and build up.Yoga

Tai Chi or Qigong — Chinese martial arts combining movement, breathing, and relaxation.

Mantra meditation — Sit in a comfortable posture in a quiet place. Silently repeat a word or phrase that you choose in order to prevent distracting thoughts. When thoughts do intrude, gently return your attention to your word or phrase., Talking with a professional counselor is a proven way to work through your problems and relieve stress. He can give you tips to help you manage stress in your daily life. If you feel like you cannot cope with life, have suicidal thoughts, or are using drugs or alcohol to cope, then you should seek a mental health professional immediately.