 One way to save some money in college is to avoid living alone. Depending on where you live, a roommate can save you hundreds, if not thousands, of dollars in rent. If you are looking at culinary schools, this is particularly important because most institutes do not have student housing. Put up an add on Craigslist or in your local newspaper looking for a roommate, or use those services to find someone interested in a roommate.If you are in the same city as your parents, you might consider living with them.
Be wary of Craigslist postings and never go look at a place by yourself.
 Books and school supplies can be very expensive and cost a few thousand dollars a year. As a culinary student, you will want to look into buying used uniforms and equipment, which will be a large part of your student expenses. Also, in order to save some money, buy used books from your university bookstore or get them online.Check Craigslist for people looking to sell their used gear.
You could also contact students from the previous year and see if any of them are selling their stuff.
 Many businesses offer student discounts for their goods or services. These deals often include marked down prices simply by showing your student ID. Take advantage of these offers when you have the chance. You can often find these discounts at the beginning of the school year for various supplies and sometimes your books.There are often student discounts for more frivolous things like movies, concert tickets, and food.
 If you live in an area that has public transportation, take advantage of this service to get to school. This will save you money on gas and servicing your car. Some schools include free public transit passes with enrollment. If you own a bike, you might also consider biking to school. This is a cheap and healthy means of transport.If your city does not have good bike trails, be careful when cycling in traffic.
 The best way to make school more affordable is to budget wisely. If you create a budget and stick to it, you will be able to avoid having to use things like your credit card, which can quickly leave you in debt. When you start culinary school, write out all of your expenses and your income. Make a plan and stick to it.Be sure to pay your bills on time to avoid late fees and interest charges.

