 Depending upon where you live, and whether you have a computer, for some this part will be easier than for others. Do you want a leather jacket, or a jean jacket, which can be made into a jean vest? Do you want your jacket to be vintage, new, long, or short? Well whatever the case you should be able to find it for $20 to $50. There are numerous places to find a quality, yet inexpensive jacket for much less than $150 to $300.



Online Web Sites: This is, by far, the easiest and second cheapest place to find the jacket of your dreams. There are several online thrift stores and second hand shops, auction style web sites, and stores having clearance sales. You can always check out my online thrift shop: Retro Kitten Apparel, a Retro, Rockabilly, Vintage, Pin-up and Punk Second Hand Clothing Store. With online shopping, of course, you will have to pay for shipping for the jacket, but think of all the options you’ll have online, and the time and gas you’ll save!

Use keywords such as “Used Leather (or Jean) Jacket Size Large” and other variations. Remember: The more specific the search the more likely you’ll get what you want faster. Then let the search engines do the footwork.
Be careful for viruses. There are verified sites with various logos or green check marks, and even warnings telling you whether the site is safe, and be sure to have your anti-virus software up to date.



Thrift Shops, Yard Sales, and Swap Meets: These are some of the cheapest places to find your “new” jacket, which, of course, will probably be used. However, this can become costly with the high price of gas, especially for non-freeway miles, and you might end up driving all over the city and never finding the right jacket.

Check the newspaper, Craigslist, or ZZStar for yard sales, Flea Marts, Swap Meets, Church Sales, Estate Sales, etc. Contact the people who list phone numbers or email addresses, or inquire when you arrive at a sale as to whether they have a leather or jean jacket, even if they’ve listed the items that will be for sale, or you don’t see one, because maybe they forgot to list everything, or forgot they even had an old leather or jean jacket in the rafters. Maybe someone else will overhear you and speak up. This will save you time and money.



Army Surplus Store: This is the last place I would recommend, but you can find leather, jean, army, and flight jackets here. You will just need to be prepared to pay a hefty price for it. So now you have the leather or jean jacket you’ve always wanted, and, hopefully, you didn’t pay more than $50 for it! Let’s make it into your very own Punk Rock staple!;
