 To ensure that the oven is hot enough when you’re ready to bake the cookies, it’s important to preheat it. Set the oven to 375 degrees (190 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s fully preheated. Most ovens will usually beep or flash a light to alert you.;
, For the cookies, you’ll need 1 to 2 large cookie sheets. Line the sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats to prevent the cookies from sticking during baking. Set them aside until you’re ready to bake the cookies.You can get away with using only one cookie sheet, but you will likely need to bake multiple batches of cookies.
If you don’t have parchment paper or silicone baking mats, you can grease your cookie sheets with nonstick cooking spray or butter.
 Use a handheld or stand mixer to combine 1 ¼ cups (284 g) of softened, unsalted butter, 1 cup (200 g) of packed dark brown sugar, and 1 cup (200 g) of granulated sugar in a large bowl. Blend the ingredients on medium speed until the mixture is light and fluffy.If you don’t have a handheld or stand mixer, you can mix the butter and sugars together by hand. It will take a little more time and effort, though, so you may want to allow the butter to soften longer to make the process easier.
 When the butter and sugars are creamed together, add 1 large egg, 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of pure vanilla extract, and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of dark molasses to the bowl. Continue mixing the ingredients on medium until they’re fully combined, and then set the mixture aside for a moment.As you add the egg, vanilla, and molasses, scrape down the sides of the bowl if necessary to ensure that the ingredients are all well mixed.
 In a medium bowl, mix 1 ½ cups (180 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (5 g) of baking soda, ½ teaspoon (3 g ) of salt, and ¾ teaspoon (2 g) of ground cinnamon together with a wooden spoon. When the ingredients are fully blended, add 3 cups (249 g) of uncooked, quick-cooking oats and stir until they’re fully incorporated.You can also mix in ¼ teaspoon (.5 g) of ground cloves with the cinnamon if you want to add some extra spice to the cookies.
Make sure that you use quick-cooking oats for the cookies, not whole-rolled oats.
 When you’ve completely mixed the dry ingredients, begin to add them little by little to the wet ingredients on a low speed. The cookie batter will be extremely thick, so you will probably need to mix it by hand several times after using the electric mixer to ensure that the ingredients are fully combined., When the cookie batter is completely mixed, use a large cookie scoop to drop the dough onto the prepared baking sheets. Each ball of dough should measure approximately 2 tablespoons (30 g).The cookies spread while baking, so make sure to place them at least 2-inches (5-cm) apart on the cookie sheet.
 Place the cookie sheet(s) in the preheated oven, and allow the cookies to bake until the edges become lightly golden. In most cases, that will take approximately 10 minutes., Once the cookies have golden brown edges, remove them from the oven. Let them cool on the baking sheets for 3 to 4 minutes before transferring them to a wire cooling rack. Allow them to cool completely, which should take approximately 15 minutes.It’s important to ensure that the cookies are completely cool before you begin assembling the oatmeal cream pies. If they are still warm, the cream filling may melt.
 Add ¾ cup (170 g) softened unsalted butter to a large bowl, and use a handheld or stand mixer to beat the butter on medium-high for approximately 5 minutes. You want the butter to lighten in color and become fluffy so the cream will be light and smooth., Once the butter is light and fluffy, turn your mixer speed to low and gradually add 2 ½ cups (313 g) of confectioners’ sugar. Mix the ingredients until the sugar is fully incorporated.Confectioners’ sugar is also known as powdered sugar or icing sugar.
 When the confectioners’ sugar is completely blended with the butter, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of pure vanilla extract and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of heavy cream with the mixer still set at a low speed. Blend the mixture until all of the ingredients are fully incorporated.You can substitute half-and-half or whole milk for the heavy cream, but the cream filling will probably not be as creamy.
 When the ingredients are all fully incorporated, turn the mixer’s speed back up to medium-high. Beat the cream filling for 3 to 5 more minutes, or until it has a light, fluffy consistency.If the cream filling is too stiff or thick, you can add in more heavy cream. Mix it in 1 teaspoon (5 ml) at a time until you reach the proper consistency.
 When the filling is ready, arrange half of the cookies so they’re upside down. Use a knife or spoon to spread 1 to 1 ½ tablespoons of the cream filling across the cookies.The amount of filling that you should add depends on the size of the cookie. You want to spread the filling nearly all the way to the edges, so a larger cookie requires more cream.
 After you’ve spread the cream filling over the cookies, use the other half of the cookies to create the pies. Press them down over the filling rightside up to create sandwiches.It’s okay if some of the filling is squeezed out the edges when you press the cookies together.
 If you’re not eating the oatmeal cream pies right away, place them in an airtight container. You can leave them out at room temperature for up to two days, or place them in refrigerator for up to 5 days.If you’re storing the cream pies in the refrigerator, be sure to leave them out at room temperature for an hour or so before eating.

