 Get the free bronze arrows and the shortbow.
, (Switch from regular Short Bow to Oak Short Bow at level 10 ranged). You can also train on goblins until you reach level 25.
 About 500 to 1,000 iron or bronze arrows is enough.

Please note that if you have the financial means, you may now purchase a Willow Composite Bow, however, the slight increase in ranged attack does not sufficiently offset the noticeable decrease in ranged speed.
test







, Take full advantage of the tables in each location to hide behind while ranging. Range until level 40.
 Minotaurs are levels 12&27 and they drop iron arrows and minotaurs drop bronze full helms also which you can sell to Peksa the barbarian helmet salesman), Maple Short Bow, and Green Dragonhide Armour (D’hide Chaps, D’hide Vambraces, Coif and D’hide Body if you have completed Dragon Slayer Quest). Then fight White Knights in Falador until range level 60.
 Taking advantage of the rocks, hide and range Lesser Demons or go to the third story of the wizards tower and range the lesser demons. Range until reaching level 99. See the Tips below for what arrows to use at these high levels.
 An alternative switch is chickens,which are one of the best to level 15, but you would probably get bored after level 15. The cowhides sell for over 100gp each, and the bones provide fairly good prayer experience for your current level. Just bank at Beefy bill's every time you get a full inventory of cowhides. Another alternative to the cowhides are bringing them to Al Kharid's tanner and making hard leather. This is a longer more boring process, but very profitable and easy to obtain.;
, They drop a wide variety of very good herbs, up to torstol, which sells around 10-20k each. You won't be damaged too much if you aren't too low of a level, but if you are low-leveled, bring some food. Tuna is a good and cheap delicacy to bring. Dwarves are also an option, but only work well until level 30. And they do not drop as much of profitable items as Chaos Druids do.
 You need a brass key, which is very easy to obtain. Just ask someone to get one for you in the dungeon if you do not own one. Hill giants drop limpwurt roots very often, sell for 1k gp a piece, and their big bones give good prayer exp. Or if you are not into leveling your prayer you can sell the bones for good gold. You can make a lot of money per trip. Another option is training on white knights until level 50,though they can work until 60, it is not recommended to train on them till level 60, because they do get boring and do not drop good items.
 They drop big bones every time and also drop good seeds occasionally. They are also a reliable charm dropper. As long as you avoid melee distance, you won't take too much damage. Though they don't hit that high, only around 6 or 7 damage.
 These are very good moneymakers, but you will need a rune c'bow + anti-dragon shield equipped plus quite some food and mithril bolts at the very least. Once you are at 65+, train on blue dragons as well so you don't get bored. Plus, they have rare drops more frequently than green dragons, and their hides are worth more. But watch out, though there are safe spots, you still have to run out and grab your loot so be careful, because they are over level 100. Also, you might also want to interfere range with your slayer tasks now. Another option is werewolves, which are good with iron knives or steel darts, and the wolf bones, which are dropped 100% of the time, can be alched or sold in the Grand Exchange for a good profit, or they can be used in summoning.
 You can spend some fun time and kill metal dragons in hope for a visage, but this is not very good exp. Aviansies are a good strategy. They're VERY profitable dropping adamant bars much of the time and are simple to kill with your current range level. Since the Aviansies are in the God Wars dungeon, you might want to bring a piece of Armadyl equipment in order to avoid other monsters from attacking you. The cheapest item to bring is an Armadyl Pendant acquired after the Temple of Ikov quest. Depending on your defense, decide on whether or not you need prayer potions (especially if you are pure range). Fire giants also work pretty well. They have decent drops and can't hit too high if you are good enough to avoid damage if you have low defence. The hill giants in Taverley Dungeon are great exp, too, and can be excellent experience until the mid-90s, since nearly nobody trains there. They have decent hitpoints, low defence, don't hit commonly, and if you use knives/magic shortbow with Ava's attractor, and a full dragonhide set with maybe Ranger boots and a Robin Hood Hat, you can achieve excellent experience in what is basically no time at all. The Tzhaar are also a very profitable enemy to train on since they drop Obsidian Charms and Obsidian weapons, cape, shield, etc. There are a few safe spots in the caves, too, so you don't have to worry about damage.
 You can range almost anything perfectly. You can continue with Aviansies, which will give you a ton of money. Or, you could battle with the other monsters stated earlier in the article. During this stage, you will make a TON of profit if you choose the correct methods. Red chinchompas are likely the best experience, which equal to around 300k exp per hour, but cost amazingly high, too.

