 It might be that you are simply not flexible or strong enough for your posture (if you choose sitting for example). Look into doing muscle stretches, or gentle exercises such as pilates, tai chi or yoga. If you make these exercises a meditation or concentration exercise at the same time, you win two ways. Look to see if you are holding onto something or deliberately tensing part of the body. That's also attachment at play because it's mentally driven.


Generally, it's best to know how long you sit and how often. If you can only sit 10 minutes anyway and practice maybe once a week, then you are very likely to get problems beyond that time because the body hasn't had much practice for longer sitting.
If the shoulders are painful, that is usually where the tension is, so it's best to either focus on stretching and relaxing, as well as dropping the shoulders and upper spine to straighten the neck and relax the upper torso.
If the legs are painful, then consider your seating posture. People with nerve or knee damage will simply have pain and very little will help it so "lion" or "sleeping" postures, standing, walking or sitting in a chair will be a better posture.
If the lower spine is painful, then like the shoulders this is where tension is often stored. Squats are a good type of exercise should the body relax and drop gently into the squat (without loading the knees, much like you would slowly drop into a chair), with the arms softly held out in front to balance. The aerobic style where the legs do all the work is good for the legs, but isn't helping where it's needed. This loosens and strengthen the lower spine and by using mindfulness or focus exercises, you can (with much practice) locate the tension and relax or stretch the spine while in meditation.
If the chest or breathing is painful, this is more often associated to the spine alignment and muscle strength. By relaxing the upper shoulders it can open the chest which can take pressure off the lungs and the diaphragm.
For numbness and tingling, this is often a circulation problem, more likely to plague older and less fit people, or anyone who sits in a posture where the flesh can be pressed or cramped. Exercise can fix some problems, but for most it is a sign to change the posture, change the pillow or mat you are using or change the clothing.
 If it is painful, beyond what you can bear to look at, stop the practice and go and walk or relax. If it's an ache, bear with it until you can be more patient with it and understand what's causing it, as well as build up tolerance.


You are going to get aches, itches, numbness and other distractions when you start out. This is largely because you don't normally spend much time examining them. Just like when you sit at a desk, your attention is completely elsewhere (such as reading, thinking or typing), but you still shuffle about without noticing it when you have an ache or feel uncomfortable. This is the perfect opportunity to look at the relationship you have with your body as well as your bodies natural needs, as for most people their awareness is limited.
 It might be easier to sit in a chair, or you might find walking a better method.


Take your time. Remember that blaming yourself or wanting things to be perfect is the wanting or craving that causes stress. You are what you are, trying to change what you cannot change is ultimately pointless. Be kind to yourself for that reason.

