 If your friend is being dramatic, and you don't like it, just pretend you don't notice. When the drama queen becomes dramatic, just walk away and start a conversation with someone else. When a drama queen finds that no one is paying attention to them, they stop. However, if the drama is directed towards you, you can't walk away from your friend, or it would seem rude. Answer the outburst with "mmm-hmm", or say "Sorry, but I can't talk right now," and find an excuse to break away from the conversation. Some excuses would be talking to a teacher, finishing homework, going to another class, or being called by another friend.;
, Do not get frustrated by the drama queen, that won't help you. Instead, carry out your tasks like you always do. Perhaps get up to sharpen a pencil while they are talking. If they tag along, just keep going. If you end up yelling at them, you could scare them off for good, leaving you feeling guilty.
 Sometimes, a drama queen acts dramatic because they're trying to get across a message. It could be about the way people treat them, or their home life, or their grades. The friend may whine about things like school being hard, which may mean they are stressed out and possibly need support.


If the friend dramatizes about certain people, groups, or even mention something like "People never liiiike me!!!", it could mean people are treating them badly. Try to find out who is doing that to them, and if the bullying stops, the dramatizing may stop.
If the friend dramatizes about how they hate their moms addiction to cigarettes, or their dads alcohol issues, they may not have a supportive home life. Try to act as a support in place of their parents for them. If you notice that the parents are a real and serious problem, a trusted adult may have to interfere. Physical and emotional abuse can cause children to have later traumatizing memories.
If the friend dramatizes about how hard school is, or how good at school you are, they may be struggling. If they are struggling, they will feel that everyone is better than them and that no one will help. They may want you to know about the problems, but are not able to downright tell you. So they may try to give to clues by voicing their opinions on school. For instance: "Science is sooo confusing. I never know what to do. You're soooo good at science, I wish you could help me." If they ever hint that they could use your help, it is very embarrassing, so you may feel the need to keep quiet or change the subject. You could comfort them by saying, "everyone has trouble with something, you'll fix it." Just remember, its possible your friend may have an actual learning disability, for example, dyslexia.
If the friend dramatizes about you, they are jealous. If they say how pretty you are, except for one little thing, or that they would never date your boyfriend, they are most definitely jealous. To deal with jealous friends isn't that easy, but there are some tips for it in the tip section.
 During the stage where most kids would be dramatic, it's usually when they are feeling unimportant and insecure. It may be a change of schools or a divorce. It may even be the pressure of friends and classmates. When kids feel pressured by new experiences, they tend to want help but not to talk about it. Your friend may be feeling out of place, and if they are, cut them some slack. Perhaps you could randomly bring up a topic of insecurity and give some cleverly disguised words of advise.
 Some kids are naturally attention seeking or dramatic. It is your choice whether to put up with it or not.

