 Cozying up in front of the TV is one of the preferred ways to pass the time when you are sick. This is a good opportunity to catch up on the shows that you are normally too busy to watch. Allow yourself to indulge in some TV until you feel better.


Try finding one of your favorite shows to watch. Indulge in a marathon of this TV series or get involved watching a new TV program.
Watch old time movie classics. This is a good way to pass the time with some classics that everyone enjoys.
Watch a comedy. The laugh will do you good and help you forget that you are stuck at home sick.;
, Use the internet to your advantage. There are a million things you can search and spend time reading. Look up blogs, videos or articles on topics that interest you. , Hearing some of your favorite songs can help improve your mood and actually work to make you feel better. Music has been proven to reduce pain and improve the immune system.It can also reduce anxiety and stress.


Try listen to a genre of music you have never heard before. This will allow you to occupy your time with something new.
Make a playlist that includes some of your favorite tunes. You will able to listen to this song list after you are feeling better as well.
Play uplifting music that helps improve your mood. This will help distract you and allow you to become immersed in the music.
 This will allow your mind to focus on something other than how you are feeling. There are also health benefits to playing video games such as pain and stress relief.Some popular video games to try are:You may have a collection of video games you haven’t played in a while or you can find a variety of games to play online.
 Being sick is a good time to catch up on your social media. Your account may need to be cleaned up, or you may want to engage with some friends.
 Try streaming some of your favorite movies. This will help elevate your mood and make the time fly by. Look for movies you haven’t seen in a while or ones that you have been meaning to watch for some time. Use services such as:You can stream movies online or head to your library for a vast variety of titles.
Pick movies that you love watching or that you haven’t seen before.
Movies that are part of a series will help occupy your time as you look forward to the next movie in the lineup.

