 You said something unnecessary, disrespectful, and potentially hurtful, and you know you shouldn’t have. Whether it was accidental or intentional, there’s a reason you feel guilty. To help identify why you said something negative – and to prepare to give an honest apology – think about how you feel about the person you spoke poorly about.


Was there a specific thing that the person you gossiped about did recently that you didn’t like? Are you angry or annoyed with them for any reason?
Is this the first time you’ve spoken about them negatively, or has this happened before?
If you’ve spoken poorly of this person before, recognize that your behavior may indicate negative feelings towards them that you should address.
 While the gossiping you took part in may “mostly” have been an accident, feelings of guilt may indicate that there may be more to the story. Of course, maybe you simply spoke without thinking, or something “just slipped out.” Determine whether or not you were intentionally attacking someone, or just failed to think before you spoke to determine how to go about overcoming your guilt.Be honest with yourself. You likely already know whether you were intentionally trying to disparage someone’s image. If this is the case, you need to address either your own feelings about this person or the relationship you have with them.
If you truly do not harbor animosity towards the person you gossiped about, you may have simply been trying to “fit in.” Another source of gossip is the temptation to share information that will get you attention. If this may be why you’re saying negative things about other people, the issues you need to address are more personal.
 To overcome your guilt and prevent yourself from potentially gossiping again, you need to deal with why you gossiped and do something about it. If it may have stemmed from how you feel about the person you spoke poorly about, you’ll need to work to improve your relationship with them.Feeling resentment towards the person not only increases the chance that you might engage in further gossip, it can also cause you frustration until you resolve these feelings. Try to identify the reason why you said what you did. For example, do you really dislike the person? If so, why? Were you feeling jealous? Do you disagree with the person on certain things?
To overcome negative feelings about what happened, try talking to the person about why you said what you did. For example, you might say something like, “I think I said that about you because I was feeling jealous of your recent promotion.”

, Everyone wants to seem interesting and intriguing to those they interact with, especially those they want to impress. These desires strongly affect how we act around other people. However, if you wind up regretting things – such as gossiping – you’ve done to get attention, insecurity may be negatively affecting your behavior.In other words, you may be gossiping for the sake of impressing or amusing others – potentially without even realizing it.
Lots of people struggle to develop and maintain self-confidence, and almost everyone falters from time to time. However, don’t let insecurities continue to affect your behavior. Set up a time to meet with a therapist soon.
 If you still feel guilty, you should see a mental health professional to address any residual negative feelings. In particular, you may need to talk about how you can forgive yourself. In some cases, consulting with a professional may be necessary in order to identify the root cause of your feelings, as well as the potential steps to regain a positive sense of yourself and your place in the world.