 Cut it in half, then into quarters. Use the slices from approximately one quarter of the lime in the drink – 3 to 4 slices.Brazilian recipes typically call for more lime: ½ to even a whole small lime.Adjust the amount to your taste.;
, It is preferable to use a rocks glass (aka a lowball glass). Use 2 teaspoons of sugar for a sweeter drink, one for a drink with more of the cachaça flavor.


American bartenders prefer raw sugar,.
Refined white sugar is usually used in Brazil.You can substitute 1 or 2 oz. of simple syrup (50/50 sugar and water by volume) for the sugar.
 Muddle them by pressing down and twisting repeatedly with a muddler – a long pestle shaped like a miniature baseball bat.Crush the limes just enough to release their juice. If you mash them too much, your drink will be bitter.If you don’t have a muddler, just use the back of a spoon.
 Crushed ice is best, though cubed will work fine.
 Recommendations from American bartenders range from 2 oz. (a little over a shot) for a sweeter, tarter drink,to 2.5 oz. (about two shots) for a stronger drink.Brazilian recipes, which are typically heavier on lime and lower on alcohol, usually call for 1.7oz (50ml)., Enjoy!

, A true caipirinha is always made with cachaça, but in Brazil, you’ll find a variety of other takes on the national drink employing different alcohols. If you don’t have any cachaça on hand, try one of these:


Substitute vodka to make a caipiroska.Caipiroskas mix very well with different fruit pulps.
Substitute white rum for a caipirissima.Rum is a sugar based alcohol like cachaça (from molasses, rather than sugarcane juice) and produces a similar, though less earthy flavor.Because of its simpler flavor profile, rum mixes slightly better with fruit than cachaça.
Substitute sake for a caipisake.These are best made following the traditional recipe, as sake loses its particular flavors and aromas when mixed with fruit.
 Pretty much any fruit will work in a caipirinha.Pick ones that you like or that are in season. Here are some popular fruits, with tips on how to add them:


Tangerine – Substitute ½ a tangerine for the lime to make a caipirinha de tangerina.Strawberry – Substitute 4-5 quartered strawberries for the lime.Passion fruit – Substitute for lime. Take 1 small passion fruit or ½ a large one, cut it in half crosswise and scrape the pulp in a glass.Pomegranate – Add 4 teaspoons of pomegranate seeds to a caipirinha made with 2 slices of lime. Muddle the seeds with the lime and sugar.Watermelon – Puree a cup of watermelon (seeds removed) in a food processor, and add it to a traditional caipirinha along with the cachaça.Grapes – Muddle 7 seedless grapes along with 2 lime slices and the sugar.Kiwi – Add one peeled and chopped kiwi to a caipirinha made with ½ a lime. Muddle the kiwi with the lime and sugar.Pineapple – Add 2 tablespoons of crushed pineapple along with the cachaça in a traditional caipirinha.Raspberries – Muddle 6 raspberries along with the lime and sugar.Kumquats – Muddle 5 kumquats along with the lime and sugar.Guava – To make the popular caipirinha de goiaba, mix 100ml of guava juice and 2 teaspoons of condensed milk, then add the cachaça and ice. No extra sugar; the condensed milk and guava provide the sweetness., In the US raw sugar is standard, while Brazilians prefer refined sugar. But there are a number of other sweeteners that can subtly change the flavor of a caipirinha.


Honey – Substitute 1oz. of honey for the sugar.Maple syrup – Substitute 1.5 teaspoons of maple syrup for the sugar.Agave – Substitute 1 teaspoon of agave syrup for the sugar.
 Especially when trying a fruity caipirinha, you can really bring out the flavor of the fruit with a fruit-infused cachaça. To infuse cachaça, dump the fruit and a bottle of cachaça into a glass container (not the original bottle). Seal and let sit in a dark place for 24-72 hours, then strain and return to the original bottle.Here are few ideas to get you started:


Pineapple infused cachaça – Peel and slice a whole pineapple and cover with a bottle of cachaça.Raspberry infused cachaça – Add 3.5 cups of raspberries per bottle of cachaça.Strawberry infused cachaça – Add 3 cups of strawberries per bottle of cachaça.Chili infused cachaça – Add 1 large Anaheim chili and 3 serrano chilis per liter of cachaça. This infusion works well with a caipirinha made with cucumber slices muddled along with the sugar and lime.