 Being a felon may not restrict you from federal financial aid, but there are other steps you need to take to make sure you can receive money. You must have a valid Social Security Number, comply with Selective Service registration if required, have a high school diploma, GED certificate, or have passed an ATB test, and be enrolled at a school that accepts federal aid.Other requirements include that you must not owe a refund on a federal grant, or be in default on a federal student loan. You must also have a financial need, but you prove that by filling out the FAFSA.;
, The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is the main form you fill out to determine your eligibility for financial aid programs. You can fill out and submit the application through the Department of Education’s website.


The FAFSA determines eligibility for federal programs, but is also used for state-level programs. Even if you don’t qualify for federal programs, filling out the FAFSA may open up other opportunities for you.Be honest about your conviction. Throughout the entire process, you will be asked a variety of questions about your conviction. Lying on a financial aid form is considered fraud, which is a federal offense. If convicted, you may need to pay a fine, serve time in prison or both.You do not need to report a conviction that has been erased from your record., When you are filling out the application, make sure you use the proper address on the form. Your address is that of your current correctional or juvenile facility location.Once you are released, you need to change your current address. You can do that online at the FAFSA website or by calling the office at 1-800-4-FED-AID (1-800-433-3243).
 Applying for financial aid can be a complicated process. Don’t let yourself get stuck or make a mistake. If you have questions, or trouble while filling out the application, talk to the education coordinator at your correctional or juvenile facility. You can also contact the financial aid office at the school you plan to attend, or the Federal Student Aid Information Center by phone (toll free: 1-800-4-FED-AID; toll: 319-337-5665) or email (studentaid@ed.gov).
 Once you finish your degree, you will need to start paying back your loans. When you sign up for classes, be sure to consider your future employment, and your ability to pay back your student loans. Remember that, as a felon, many of your postgraduate employment options will be limited. As soon as you graduate, you will need to contact the Department of Education to set up your payment plan.