 The ‘leave it’ command teaches your dog to walk away from the garbage can. With the treat in your closed fist, your dog will probably sniff and paw at your hand, and might even bark or whine to get the treat. When he has lost interest in getting the treat—probably after a minute or two— open your fist, immediately say ‘yes,’ and give him the treat.Every three to four times that you practice this, hold your fist open, say ‘yes,’ and give him the treat. You want to teach him that he needs to walk away only when you say ‘leave it.’Keep practicing this until your dog knows to leave the treat alone when you say ‘leave it.’, Hold a treat in your closed fist and say ‘leave it.’ Rather than paw at your hand, your dog will likely look up to you expectantly to wait for you to say ‘yes.’ As soon as he looks up at you, open your fist, immediately say ‘yes,’ and give him the treat. You may need to practice this many times before your dog learns that direct eye contact with you is necessary to earn his treat when you say ‘leave it.’Looking at you also redirects his attention from whatever he may have been tempted to eat.
 Choose a different type of treat to place on the floor—it should be one that he likes, but not as much as his favorite treat. The treat on the floor will be the ‘bait.’ When you place the bait on the floor, say ‘leave it’ and closely cover the bait with your hand. Hold his favorite treat in your other hand. When your dog eventually loses interest in getting the bait under your hand, pick the bait up off the floor, immediately say ‘yes,’ and give him his favorite treat.Make sure that he does not eat the bait. If he manages to get to the bait, show him the tastier treat that he could have gotten if he hadn’t eaten the bait.Challenge him by holding your hand up to six inches above the bait.This will test his ability to leave the bait on the floor even when it is in clear sight and easily attainable.
Repeat this until he resists the temptation to eat the bait, and instead chooses to look up at you and wait for you to say ‘yes.’, When your dog walks near the garbage can, say ‘leave it.’ By this point in his training, your dog should know to look at you for a reward rather than reach for something that he is not supposed to (in this case, whatever is in the garbage can). Reward him with a treat each time that he turns away from the garbage can and looks at you.