 Chemical reactions that reach a state of thermodynamic equilibrium are typical of uncatalyzed reactions in which their energy profile shows net enthalpy change of the reaction that is close to zero. This means that the reaction neither releases heat nor absorbs heat. This type of reaction is not driven by thermodynamic force so that it reaches a state of equilibrium. Normally other thermodynamic functions are affected by this state of equilibrium.


For example, chemical reactions that reach states of equilibrium usually have zero value of the free energy of Gibbs for the whole reaction. Usually chemical reactions that are in a state of thermodynamic equilibrium have net zero change in the free energy of Gibbs for the whole reaction. Also chemical reactions that are in a state of thermodynamic equilibrium can have net zero change in the total entropy of the reaction.;
, Chemical reactions that are in a state of thermodynamic equilibrium are usually characterized by equilibrium constants that its value measures the extent of reaction development in the flask. High value of the equilibrium constant usually means more formation of the products of the reaction. While low value of this equilibrium constant usually means low progress of the chemical reaction in the forward direction. Other than these thermodynamic functions which have direct effect on the progress of a given reaction to a state of thermodynamic equilibrium include the solvent effect.
 The solvent in which the reaction takes place is very important for deciding whether the reaction will reach a state of equilibrium or not. This is best exemplified by the effect of solvents on the extent of dissociation of Bronsted acids and Bronsted bases.


An example is the dissociation of carboxylic acid. In this case, two ions are generated from one neutral molecule. The salvation effect of the solvent is crucial here for the reaction to reach a state of thermodynamic equilibrium or not. The more solvated the ions of the reaction products are the less likely is that the reaction reaches a state of equilibrium. Better salvation of ions by the solvent means less energy content of that ion and the more it is stable energetically. This is usually manifested as downhill energy profile for this type of reactions. If the energy profile shows no net stabilization upon solvation of the ions this means that the salvation process is not efficiently done or it is not accompanied by release of heat.
Solvation effect of solvents is one important factor in deciding whether the reaction will reach a state of thermodynamic equilibrium or not. This effect of salvation is essentially equivalent to energy balance between reactants and products of the reaction.
 Chemical reactions that reach a state of thermodynamic equilibrium can have one transition state without the development of reactive intermediates such as occurs with simple acids dissociation or it can have more complicated energy profile that can involve several reactive intermediates in the reaction. This occurs for example in the dissociation process of phosphoric acid. In this case, the reaction proceeds in several steps that are characterized by complicated energy profile.


These contain two or three reactive intermediates in the reaction. The so-called strong acids such as hydrochloric acid are so called due to the complete dissociation of the neutral acid into its ions. This process of complete dissociation of the acid is largely mediated by the solvation effect that water exerts on the ions of the acid. The salvation effect in this case is so efficient that heat is released as a result of the acid dissociation.
 Weak acids are called so due to the incomplete dissociation of the acid into its ions. This is again largely dependent on the extent of salvation that the ions have by the solvent. Reaching a state of thermodynamic equilibrium means that the energy content of the formed ions is not lower than the neutral acid.
 Catalyzed chemical reactions usually proceed to completion without the development of equilibrium state. This is best exemplified by the metabolic reactions that occur inside the body. Usually this type of reactions goes only in one direction and the energy profile for such reactions is downhill. Also, catalysts that are used in the chemical laboratories to perform reactions between chemicals usually contribute to the completion of the reactions without the development of equilibrium states.


Reactions which occur in living systems are characterized by their one way progress toward formation of reaction products without the development of equilibrium state. This phenomenon is not observed in the usual practice of chemical reactions in the chemical laboratory. The progress of chemical reactions only in one direction is a favorable and wanted process in all chemical reactions that are performed in the chemical laboratory. However, the thermodynamics of these reactions does not always allow for this process to occur.

