 Becoming a VIP will increase the amount of Fame and Fame-related activities you can access, meaning you will level up quicker than a non-paying account.


Please note that VIP membership costs money.
 This will open the VIP menu, from which you can choose your VIP package.


If you have a MSP code or gift card you'd like to use for VIP payment, click the gear icon in the upper right-hand corner of your screen to open the Settings menu, then click "Redeem Code" or "Redeem Gift Certificate". You can enter the code from there.
 Paying for a VIP membership gives you increased Fame, which will help you level up quicker than on a standard account.You have three VIP tiers, each with one-week, one-month, three-month, and one-year duration options. As a general rule, the one-year option is most likely more than you'll need to reach the maximum level. Your VIP options are as follows: VIP, which is the standard VIP membership. One week costs $4, a month costs $10, three months costs $25, and a year is $55. You'll have a larger amount of options and interactions than a standard account, but the StarCoin and Diamond rewards aren't very high. With this option, you'll be able to add up to four friends, spin the reward wheel twice a day, and give out four autographs per hour.
ELITE VIP, which is the next tier up. ELITE costs $5 for a week, $11.99 for a month, $29 for three months, and $65 for a year. ELITE allows you to add up to seven friends, spin the reward wheel three times per day, and give out 15 autographs per hour.
STAR VIP, which is the final tier. A week costs $6, a month costs $12.99, three months is $32, and a year is $70. For your money, the STAR tier is the best option, since you receive exponentially more rewards upon purchasing the membership. STAR allows you to add up to nine friends, spin the reward wheel four times per day, and give out 30 autographs per hour.
If you avoid the year membership and stick with the three-month duration, the STAR is only $7 more than the regular VIP. This makes it the best balance of cost-effective and reward-heavy, since you'll receive a huge amount of diamonds and StarCoins in addition to the increased chance to earn Fame.
 This will take you to the payment selection screen.
 MSP supports credit and debit cards from Visa, American Express, Master Card, Visa Electron, and JCB, as well as PayPal and pre-paid gift cards.


If you're under 18 years old, make sure you have a parent's permission before purchasing anything online.
 This will allow you to confirm your purchase. Make sure you read the fine print above the box before continuing.
 This will redirect you to a payment page where you can enter your payment information.
 If you are under the age of 18, you will need to ask a parent to do this step for you.
 This will finalize your payment. You have successfully become a MSP VIP!

