 The best type of shirt to use for this would be a plain, solid-colored shirt. Anything with patterns or designs may clash with the rhinestones you will be using. The style of the shirt you get will depend on where you will be placing the rhinestones. In the end, however, the color and style is completely up to you. For example:


If you plan on adding rhinestones to the shoulder area, a fitted t-shirt would work best.
If you plan on adding large, chunky rhinestones to the collar area, any style of t-shirt would work, especially one with a large/scooped collar.;
, This is especially important if the shirt is brand new, as it will remove any starches and shrinking. Most t-shirts do not need to be ironed, but if your t-shirt has a lot of wrinkles in it, it would be a good idea to iron it.
 You can use tiny rhinestones for a more delicate look, or chunky rhinestones to make a statement. White, silver, or black rhinestones will give you a classy look, while colored ones will give you a more cheerful look.


The rhinestones don't all have to be the same. Place around with different shapes and sizes.
For a longer-lasting design, get rhinestones with holes in them so that you can sew them on instead.
 One of the most popular places to put rhinestones (especially chunky ones) is along the collar and/or shoulders, but you can put the rhinestones anywhere you want. A great idea for tiny rhinestones is to make a heart or crown shape with them.


If you are sewing the rhinestones on, it might be better to sketch the design out first using tailor's chalk. This way, you won't have to worry about accidentally knocking them aside.
 The best type of glue to use for this project would be industrial-strength glue, but a high-quality fabric glue (not "liquid stitch") may also work.If you are sewing the rhinestones on, cut a 12-inch (30.48-centimeter) long piece of thread, and thread a sewing needle. Make sure that the thread color matches the shirt., If you are working with a tiny rhinestone, you can use a toothpick or skewer instead. You can also use a pair of tweezers to dip the rhinestone into the glue. In either case, avoid using too much glue, or you will risk it bleeding through the fabric.


If you are sewing the rhinestones on, tie the end of the thread into a large knot, then poke it through the fabric, starting from the inside of the shirt.
 Try to get the rhinestone in the correct position. If you nudge it around too much, the glue will smear and create "stains" on the fabric.


If you are sewing the rhinestone on, simply run the thread and needle through one of the holes and back through the fabric. You'll want to do this 2 to 3 times per hole., How long the glue takes to dry depends on what you are using. Read the label on the bottle for specific drying times. It is typically a few hours.
 When it gets dirty, it would be best to hand wash your shirt. If you must use a washing machine, be sure to turn the shirt inside out and to use a gentle cycle. Hang the shirt up to dry; do not use a dryer.

