 Using the vacuum, suction all of the urine from the carpet or flooring. Doing this will help to prevent the urine from getting absorbed into the carpet or flooring’s deeper layers. Urine that has been absorbed into the deeper layer will create an odor that will be very hard to get rid of.If you do not have a vacuum cleaner, lay several sheets of newspaper or paper towels down on the spot. This is best to do right after the dog has urinated. Remove the soaked paper and replace with new sheets until it seems like the paper is not soaking up anymore urine. This will help to keep the urine from sinking deep down into the carpet.;
, If you were unable to soak up the urine right when it happened, and you’re not sure where the smell is coming from, you can use a cheap UV blacklight to find the spots where your dog has urinated. Once you’ve found the spots, mark them by placing an object next to them so you don’t lose them again.


Cheap UV lights can generally be bought at your local home goods or hardware store.
 The solution should be 50% vinegar and 50% water. For instance, if you use two cups of water, you should mix it with two cups of vinegar. The amount of liquid you use will depend on how large the spot where your dog urinated is., You will want to use a generous amount to make sure that the solution absorbs into the deeper layers of the carpet, eradicating the urine odor along the way. The solution will help to soften and neutralize the hardened, deeper layers of the urine spot.
 Use a new sponge or washcloth to scrub in the vinegar mixture. Doing this will help to remove the hardened layers of urine in both the superficial fibers of the carpet (the surface of the carpet), as well as the deeper layers of the carpet or flooring.
 Once you have scrubbed in the vinegar, run your vacuum over the spot again to pull up the vinegar mixture and the urine that is has broken up and neutralized.


Again, if you don’t have a vacuum, use paper towels or newspaper to soak up the vinegar and broken up urine.
 Once you have dried the area, pour baking soda over the entire affected area. Make sure that the baking soda covers all of the affected carpet or flooring. The baking soda will help to ensure that the urine gets neutralized.
 Mix 250 ml of 3% hydrogen peroxide with 5 ml of plain dishwashing liquid in a spray bottle. Make sure that the hydrogen peroxide you use is 3%. Anything higher may damage your carpet or flooring. You should also make sure that the dishwashing liquid you use does not contain any bleach, as this may also stain your carpet., Lightly spritz the area covered in baking soda. Once you have sprayed the mixture on to the spot, put cleaning gloves on and give the spot a good scrub with a new sponge or a brush that you don’t plan on using again (unless it is for this same activity).
 This may take several hours. Once the spot it no longer damp to the touch, run your vacuum over it again to pick up any excess baking soda that may not have gotten mixed in with the hydrogen peroxide mixture.


Be aware that old urine spots most likely discolored your carpet.

