 Apple cider vinegar is an excellent remedy for reducing blood sugar in the body. All you have to do is mix it with one glass of water (preferably lukewarm) the first thing in the morning everyday. It also soothes upset stomach.


Your body produces insulin to manage the level of sugar in your blood. The antiglycemic effects of apple cider vinegar helps to improve the insulin sensitivity. So people who have insulin resistance can have a dose of apple cider vinegar with each meal.;
, Add two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar to a glass of water and drink it three times a day. You can add apple or grape juice to the mix to make it more palatable.Drink it with water to help you stay regulated. Apple cider vinegar contains pectin, a water-soluble fiber that promotes bowel movements. This makes it a great natural treatment for constipation.
 Regular consumption of apple cider vinegar can also promote weight loss. It's a good source of acetic acid which helps prevent buildup of body fat and certain liver fats.
 It can also be used to treat the person suffering from bleeding nose. Soak a cotton ball in pure apple cider vinegar, have the person lay his head back and then place it in the bleeding nostril. This home remedy will help stop the bleeding quicker.
 Athlete's foot is a fungal infection which is quite difficult to get rid of. Soak your feet in it. Soaking your feet in this mixture with water will reduce athlete's foot, you can also apply it to the affected areas several times a day and before bedtime.
 Take one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar and one tablespoon of honey in a glass of water twice a day to help lower blood pressure. The high potassium content will balance the sodium content in the body, thus reducing blood pressure (BP).
 Regular vinegar intake of three teaspoons (15 ml) or more per day can significantly lower the level of cholesterol in a person's blood.
 Against he itching and dryness of eczema, apply a 50/50 mixture of apple cider vinegar and water to the affected areas.
 Instead of avoiding to eat certain foods such as beans due to the gas they produce in the body, you may choose to soak the beans in apple cider vinegar prior to cooking them to minimize gas. Gas is a result of incomplete digestion.
 Apply for the natural healing abilities of pure apple cider vinegar directly to hemorrhoids to help reduce stinging and promote shrinking. Use a cotton ball to apply the vinegar every few hours until symptoms are relieved.
 A glass of apple cider tonic (2 or 3 teaspoons to 8 ounces of water) in the morning has been reported to help reduce the flow of a heavy period.
 Apply a cloth dampened with apple cider vinegar and a dash of cayenne pepper directly to the sore muscle for five minutes and reapply as needed.


For sore muscles all-over, try soaking in a warm water bath into which you have added two to three cups of apple cider vinegar.
Spray a solution of equal parts of apple cider vinegar and distilled water on the affected areas to help to stop the pain, itching and ease swelling. Cooling the spray in the refrigerator will provide even more relief.
 Gargle with a mixture of one teaspoon of apple cider vinegar to half a cup of water, using three mouthfuls of mixture each hour. This is one of the many natural healing home remedies for a sore throat.
 Soak a cotton pad in diluted apple cider vinegar and dab it on your blemishes to dry them out and help them heal. Apple cider vinegar can help treat blemishes, reduce wrinkles and tone your skin. For blemishes, apple cider vinegar is a good astringent.
 Mix half a cup of apple cider vinegar with a cup of water and apply it all over your face. Regular use of this solution will help maintain the pH balance in your skin and prevent various types of skin infections.
 Apple cider vinegar can also be used as a last rinse after shampooing your hair to make it more moisturized. It can also be used as a conditioner, and if desired you can mix it with water.


Mix one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar in one cup of honey and take two teaspoons of this mixture just before going to bed. Repeat after an hour if required. (You can sleep on that one!)

, It helps to sustain bone mass and fight against osteoporosis. The other benefits of Apply Cider Vinegar are:

, Take the general apple cider vinegar tonic (2 or 3 teaspoons to 8 ounces of water) to boost the body's supply of these minerals - manganese, magnesium, phosphorus, calcium, and silicon.
 Dissolve 1 teaspoon of salt in ½ cup (125 ml) of warm apple cider vinegar and apply it to the bruise as a compress.
 Prevent the recurrence of cramps. Regularly take the tonic of apple cider vinegar (2 or 3 teaspoons to 8 ounces of water) along with one teaspoon of honey.
 Along with the apple cider vinegar tonic (2 or 3 teaspoons to 8 ounces of water) before meals, take six ounces of organic, unfiltered apple juice for one week to help purge small gallstones.

