 There's nothing worse than getting to the bus with your suitcase packed and finding out you can't go!;
, Know where you're going, how you're getting there, what you're doing there, where you're staying, how long you're staying there, and if there is any dress code. All of this is vital to packing. For example, you need to know if you're riding the bus or taking a plane (planes have strict rules about what you can bring). You need to know what the weather is like where you're going so you can pack the right clothes. These are just a few examples.
 Check what the weather is going to be like. Pack accordingly. If the weather calls for rain, bring a waterproof jacket or a poncho. Cold? Pack gloves, scarves, hats, and a warm winter jacket. Bring one extra outfit than needed. For example, if your trip lasts 3 days, pack 4 outfits. Fuzzy gloves

, Pack your toothbrush, toothpaste, deodorant, shampoo, conditioner- anything you need to stay clean and fresh. No one wants to share a room with someone who smells like they haven't showered in a week!

, A picture is worth a thousand words, right? Pictures can show where you went, what you saw and experienced, and later on you can look back and remember all the good times you had! But don't bring a really nice professional camera. You might lose it or it could get stolen, just like any other camera, but if you have a really expensive camera, you're out of a lot of money.
 You'll need a phone in case of emergency. You could get lost, especially if you're somewhere that you've never been before. Also, consider bringing an extra battery. You might get some free time during your trip, whip out your phone, and start playing Angry Birds. Then poof- no more battery life. What good is it now? If you have an extra battery, you can just swap the dead battery for the fully charged battery. If you don't have your own personal phone, ask your parents, another family member, or even a friend if they have an extra phone that they can lend you for a few days.
 This can be used for souvenirs, meals, or snacks. Not everything is covered in the original cost, so it's good to have some back-up money.
 This way you're not up at 2 A.M., the morning of the trip, trying to cram a bunch of clothes in your bag.

