 Your website should be easy to navigate and have information about your company and its products or services. Capture customer information through a form that asks them questions about their needs. A price quote form is a good way to do this. You'll receive an email with the potential customer's contact information.


Make sure your website is listed with major search engines, such as Google, Yahoo, and Bing. This is the bare minimum for being noticed online. Practice searching for your site on each popular engine as well to see what comes up.;
, To sign up for an auto-responder, potential customers simply enter their email address. There are various types of auto-responder services that vary in complexity, and some are geared specifically toward generating leads. Types include welcome emails, responses based on specific online activities, and product recommendations., These sites are where millions of people are already gathering to connect with each other. So, establishing a meaningful presence there is a good idea. You can create a page on these sites to promote your business. When a customer "friends" you or "becomes a fan," the people in her network can learn about your company as well.


Use different modes of social media. You might start with a general site like Facebook, a business networking site such as LinkedIn, or a microblogging and all-purpose site like Twitter. However, consider expanding to picture-based sites like Pinterest or Instagram. Also look for any types of social networking platforms specific to your industry, like Glozal for real estate, Lawyrs for law, or Architizer for architects and designers.Don’t forget about your social media. Many companies put up a social media page and then neglect to update it. Once you have a page, schedule regular weekly or daily updates. And don’t just try to amass followers; try to engage them. Use giveaways and promotions. Respond to their comments, and address any concerns in a timely manner.
 SEM involves using paid ad words to drive clicks and increase traffic to your company’s website or its online promotional landing pages. SEO is a type of SEM in which you produce content that helps move your site “organically” to the top of searches for companies like yours.


Give potential web leads something to do. When someone does arrive at your page via your SEM efforts, they should have some clear options of what to do. Make it easy for them to leave their contact information or purchase your product or service through ecommerce. Your web content management system might already have an ecommerce plugin or application, such as WordPress’ MarketPress, or you can add ecommerce capabilities through a third-party provider, such as PayPal.
 Social media sites usually have their own tracking mechanisms, or third-party apps can track your traffic for you. Pay special attention to which ad words are working for you and which aren’t, especially since you pay for those.


Look for trends and patterns. Are there particular times of the day, week, or month that you experience more or less travel? What about the geographic regions your visitors come from? Try to figure out why. Determine which ad words give you the best bang for your buck. Also identify weaknesses. Maybe you don’t have that many followers on social media, or maybe your online sales are sluggish. This is all information you can use.
Isolate potential leads. Notice who comments on your social media posts. Look for people who have used your coupons, taken action on your website, or replied to your newsletters. These are all people that are leads.

