 You can get help from inanimate objects—–they never speak! For instance, there are hidden cameras available in shapes unimaginable! They are so discreet that even you will not be able to make out that a state-of-the-art camera lies within. Hidden spy cameras range from wall clocks to houseplants to table lamps.
 Track where your wayward wife has been lately by using a GPS device. It will show you where she's taken the car, and for how long she stays. Next time she says "I'm working late, honey," you can say "Wow, Motel 9 must love you!"

, A cheap (free) alternative to GPS tracking is to simply record mileage before and after work. Does this square with the distance your spouse is traveling between work and home? Differences on the odometer can lead to targeted questions which can help you find out what is or is not happening.
 Who is being seen the most? Who is contacted the most? Are they your friends as well? When you meet them, keep a real alert on for bad feelings when talking to them. Don't ask direct questions of them. You don't want to ask them to choose who to support. What people don't say is at least as useful as what people do say.
 If the call history is blocked, then access the details online via telephone accounts. You will need to use a password to access this. However the chances are the password being used was set up long before the affair started so you probably know it or can second guess it. Look for frequency of use and call time. Are both of these factors increasing, steady or increasing? Knowing this will give you insight on how things are progressing.
 Changes in interests in clothes, appearance, weight loss or gain, coldness, distancing, hostility; refusal to talk about future projects, disengagement from you, disinterest in sex and more noticeably simply everyday affections. Monitor those changes are they increasing or decreasing? It's the changes that give away clues.
 Keep an eye out for a hidden phone your spouse may use to avoid detection. Also, check the trash on his or her computer—–often people throw things in the trash, and then don't empty it.

