 One of the greatest benefits of unit planning is the latitude it offers for developing interdisciplinary strategies to meet student needs. By planning ahead, you'll set a structure in place that gives students the opportunity to view broad concepts from many different angles.


A history teacher undertaking a unit on the Great Depression, for example, may opt to combine forces with an instructor in a related field such as economics or political science. He or she could also travel further afield and coordinate lessons with a science instructor. The history of the Dust Bowl will gain new life from the scientific insight a biology or earth sciences instructor brings, while the science teacher's students will better understand soil science, erosion, and air currents due to the context provided by their study of Dust Bowl history.
 A good interdisciplinary relationship will involve two or more instructors eager to work together to meet student needs. Ensure your colleague(s) will contribute similarly to the overall unit planning workload.
 Scientific research, for example, includes research, reading, and writing -- all hallmarks of English and language arts instruction. If you are a language arts teacher, consider coordinating with your school's biology teacher to coordinate lessons on research and analytical writing with a unit that will require students to write a research report on invertebrates. History or social studies teachers may coordinate with language arts instructors so students are studying the history of the Civil War at the same time they read The Red Badge of Courage.


Following our Dust Bowl example, a science instructor's lesson on meteorology and air currents could lead to a predictive study of where students expect dust might have blown during the 1930s. The students might then share this information with their history teacher and determine the accuracy of their predictions.
When embarking upon an interdisciplinary unit, ensure you coordinate assessment tools as well as lesson plans. Our imaginary science teacher and history instructor would need to be in communication with each other to determine how well their instruction was translating into important learning outcomes.
 Interdisciplinary coordination can provide your students with longer spans of class time for study and practice. Working together may allow you to spend multiple periods one day focused upon a larger-scale science project, while another day you'll use extra time on a language arts component of the interdisciplinary plan.


Approaching the same subject from different angles helps students view concepts in a broader context. Instead of seeing that invertebrate report in isolation, they will understand it as a way to put broader research and writing skills into practice.
Students who feel more confident in one subject than another gain the advantage of recognizing the links between their area of confidence and the skills they've previously found challenging.