 There are different types of therapists, each of whom offers different skills or specialties. These include counseling psychologists, clinical psychologists and psychiatrists. You can see one or a combination of different ones.



Counseling psychologists: Counseling psychology is a field of therapy that focuses on helping skills and helping people overcome difficult times in their lives. This type of therapy can be short or long-term and is often problem-specific and goal-directed.Counselors will generally prompt you to speak with careful questions, and then listen to what you have to say. The counselor will be an objective observer helping you to identify significant ideas and phrases. They will discuss these ideas in greater detail with you to help you work out emotional and environmental issues that may be contributing to your depression.

Clinical psychologists: These are trained to administer tests to confirm a diagnosis and therefore, they tend to focus more on psychopathology, or the study of behavioral or mental disorders.Psychiatrists: These may use psychotherapy and scales or tests in their practice, but are typically consulted when medication is an option the patient wants to explore. In most states, only psychiatrists can prescribe medication, although some states now allow psychologists to prescribe medication., For help finding a counselor, consider recommendations from friends or family, leaders in your religious community, community mental health center, your Employee Assistance Program (if your employer offers one), or your doctor.Other professional associations like the American Psychological Association may provide search functions for locating their members in your area., Find someone who makes you feel welcome and at ease. A bad counseling experience can put you off the whole idea for years, which could deprive you of valuable therapy. Remember that not all mental health professionals are alike; find one you like and stick with them.


Therapists will generally prompt you to speak with careful questions, and then listen to what you have to say. It can be nerve-wracking at first to open up to your counselor, but most people find it hard to stop talking after a few minutes have passed.
 Mental health professionals must be licensed to practice in your state. The website of the Association of State and Provincial Psychology Boardsprovides some basic information about how to choose a therapist, what the licensing requirements are in your state, and how to check whether someone is licensed.
 Although mental illnesses are legally required to be covered to the same extent as a so-called physical illness, the type of insurance you have can still affect the kind and amount of therapy you receive. Be sure to check with your insurance company so that you get any referrals needed before starting treatment. This will also ensure that you are seeing someone who will be covered by your insurance., Three main therapies have most consistently shown benefit to patients. These are cognitive behavioral therapy, interpersonal therapy and behavioral psychotherapy.There are numerous other approaches as well. Your therapist will be able to determine the best course of action for you.



Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): The goal of CBT is to challenge and change beliefs, attitudes, and preconceptions that are thought to underlie depressive symptoms and to effect change to maladaptive behaviors.

Interpersonal therapy (IPT): IPT focuses on life changes, social isolation, deficits in social skills, and other interpersonal issues that may contribute to depressive symptoms. IPT may be particularly effective if a specific event (such as a death) has triggered a recent depressive episode.

Behavioral psychotherapy: Behavioral therapies aim to schedule enjoyable activities while minimizing unpleasant experiences through techniques such as activity scheduling, self-control therapy, social skills training, and problem solving.
 The effects of counseling are gradual. Expect to attend regular sessions for at least a few months before noticing any permanent effect. Don't give up hope before you've given it time to work.

