


Consider having your party a few weeks after graduation, as many people choose to take trips or go on vacation directly after graduation day.
Have your party during June or July, as many of your friends will start to leave in August and move into college campuses.
Plan to have your party on a weekend day between 12p.m. and 6p.m., as this is when most of your guests will be able to come.
When picking the date for your party, don’t forget to take into account large events of other family members you plan to invite. For example, if someone you know has a wedding in the summer, be sure to schedule your party during a different weekend.;
, This can be a great way to save money and create a fun, lively atmosphere. Ask a few of your good friends if they’d like to combine their graduation party with yours.


Combined parties work well for high school graduations, as all graduates have achieved the same goal and have graduated at the same time.
Keep in mind, however, that you may not be able to invite as many extended family members to a combined graduation party.
 You want to make sure that you have enough space to host all of your guests.


Many people choose to host graduation parties at their homes. You can have an indoor party or set up tables and chairs outside for a festive summer bash. This is the least expensive option, so take into account how much money you’re willing to spend on a party.
If you don’t want to have your party at someone’s house, consider public party venues like restaurants, hotels, country clubs, beaches, pools, campgrounds, or parks., You want to invite your friends, some of your extended family, and teachers or coaches who you really appreciate.


Decide whether you want to send out paper invitations or invitations through email or Facebook.
You can also send some paper invitations to family, and use a Facebook event to invite your friends to your party. You can find many printable invitations online.
With a paper invitation, you can add a copy of your senior picture as a keepsake for family members.
If you do use a Facebook event, make sure that you set it to private so you don’t unintentionally invite too many people.
Include all the basic information for your party: when, where, and how to RSVP.
Make it clear in your invitation whether or not it’s okay for your guests to bring other people with them, as well.
 Though it’s traditional for graduation parties, don’t feel obligated to use your high school colors as the central theme. A few possible themes include:


“Tropical Hawaiian”: This is great for an outdoor party. You can light tiki torches, serve fruit punch, put grass skirts around tables, and play beach music.
“Last Chance to Be a Kid”: This is a great way to let loose, and let everyone have a bit of kid fun. Invite your guests to bring water guns, fill up water balloons, and have an outdoor water fight, followed by a barbeque.
 In addition to a main meal, serve a variety of finger foods and snacks throughout the party.


You can have the party catered, make your own food, or have a mix of homemade and catered foods.
Think of dishes you can make ahead of time like casseroles and cold salads.
Allow guests to assemble their foods. Choose dishes like tacos, spaghetti, chili, burgers and hotdogs, salads, or sandwiches that guests can make how they like them. Just have a table set up buffet-style.
Consider making or buying a cake that says congrats for the graduate. In addition to cake, you might want other desserts like an ice cream sundae bar, cookies, or bowls of candy.
To take the pressure off of cooking, think about making your graduation party a potluck party. Ask each guest to bring one dish with them. This can be fun, and it helps make the party less expensive for you.
 Start with a banner that says “Congrats Grads!”


Add balloons and streamers in your high school colors or in a color that matches the theme of your party.
Consider make a memory jar, and placing pencils and slips of paper beside it. Ask each of your guests to write down one memory they have with you from high school.
Add a bit of nostalgia. A high school graduation party is an ideal place to reminisce about past life events. Display pictures from throughout the years.
If you’re throwing a graduation party for multiple graduates, it can be fun to have a baby photo guessing game. Tack up photos of each graduate as a small child and have each guest try to decide who is who.

