 This is the most important thing when it comes to buying clothes. What shape are you?;
, Your breasts are smaller than your hips, and you have a waist.


Wear fitted blouses with patterns/pockets, etc. over your breasts, wide necklines, any jeans and trousers, cropped jackets and cardigans and A-line skirts.
 Your breasts are bigger than your hips, and you don't have much of waist.


Wear any trousers or jeans except skinny jeans, full and flaring skirts, baby-doll tops, belted coats, bright eye-catching shoes, low V-necks and dresses that cinch in at the waist and flare out at the hips . Avoid strappy tops and dresses.
 Your breasts are the same size as your hips, and you don't have much of waist.


Wear low v-necks, any trousers and jeans but especially flares, pieces that cinch in below the bust or around the waist, full skirts, shoulder pads, shirts and tops with detail around the bust, and coats that flare out at from the waist.
 Your breasts are the same size as your hips, and you have a waist.


Wear anything with belted waist, wrap tops and dresses, almost any skirt or pair of trousers.
 Your breasts are bigger than your hips, and you have no waist.


Wear fitted tops and dresses, solid dark colours, low v-necks, empire cut tops, straight, wide and flare leg trousers and jeans, single breasted coats and jackets, and full skirts.
 This depends upon the colour of your skin, hair and eyes.


Fair skin and fair hair. Pale skin ~ blue, green or hazel eyes ~ blonde, ginger or light brown hair.






Fair skin and fair hair- Wear blues, deep reds and greys.






Fair skin and fair hair- Don't wear yellows, oranges or off-whites.







Fair skin and dark hair. Pale skin ~ dark brown or black eyes ~ dark brown or black hair.






Fair skin and dark hair-Wear intense blues, bright reds/pinks and blacks.






Fair skin and dark hair-Don't wear pastels, browns/beige and white.







Dark skin and light hair. Dark skin ~ light blue or light green eyes ~ blonde or light brown hair.






Dark skin and light hair- Wear beige/brown, greens and oranges.






Dark skin and light hair- Don't wear maroons, navy blues or whites.







Dark skin and dark hair. Dark skin ~ dark brown or black eyes ~ dark brown or black hair.






Dark skin and dark hair- Wear blues, bottle greens and oranges.






Dark skin and dark hair- Don't wear beige or yellows.
 Just because something flatters your figure and suits you doesn't mean you have to buy it. Make sure that you also like it, and like what it says about you. Are you sophisticated, chic, girly, fun, playful, sensual, seductive, bohemian, smart...? The list goes on. Let your clothes tell others a little bit about yourself.
