 This includes iCloud, the iTunes store, the App Store, FaceTime, Find My Friends, Find My iPhone, and iMessage.Do this for all devices you own that use the ID.
 Visit appleid.apple.com and click Manage your Apple ID. Enter your ID and password. Note that the ID is the same as the email address you used to create the account.


If you've forgotten either of these, click on "Forgot your Apple ID?" or "Forgot your password?" or refer to the other sections for more information.
If a notice says your ID has been disabled, most likely you or someone else has entered the wrong password too many times. Follow the instructions in the password reset section below., Once you're logged in, look for the section titled "Apple ID and Primary Email Address." Click the Edit link to the right of your Apple ID email address. Type your current email address into the box once it appears, and click Save.
 In a new tab or window, log into the email account you just entered as your new Apple ID. You should receive an email from Apple. If a Verify Now link is listed, click it to complete the change. If the email is just a summary of your changes, with no verify link, then the change should already be complete.


The verification email should arrive within a few minutes. If it does not, return to the Apple ID management screen and click Resend. If you still can't find it, check your spam folder, as well as the email addresses listed under "alternate email addresses" on the Apple ID management screen. Also log in to the "Password and Security" section to find your "Rescue Email Address," and check that as well.
 If you're already signed in to an iOS device or an Apple service, sign out again and sign in with your new ID so your information is stored, or use the Settings menu to change your ID. A few services will update automatically, but may take up to 24 hours to do so. If you encounter any issues, see this Apple support page for more specific information on each service and application, or these instructions for iOS devices.

