 Go shopping at Icing , Body Shop, and Rave. If you have money go to places like Abercrombie and Fitch, Aeropostale, and Charlotte Russe. If you are girly, go to stores like Forever 21 and Claire's. If you are preppy, go to places like USPA, Gap, Abercrombie & Fitch, Ralph Lauren, Lacoste, or Lily Pulitzer. If you are sporty, go to Sports Authority, Aeropostale, or Under Armour. If you are beachy, go to Hollister, Abercrombie, or Tilly's. If you have a favorite store that isn't one of the above, you can go there too. If you're a girly-girl, get at least three pairs of jeans, 2 pairs of shorts, various colored tank tops/ camisoles, at least two regular T-shirts, and two shirts that you really like. Also get a couple of skirts in different colors and styles. If you are a tomboy get a about 5 pairs of cargo (Black) pants, 3 dark or black skinny jeans and lots and lots of colorful animation shirts. If you are preppy buy 2 pairs of shorts, 2 pairs of skinny jeans, 3 lacy camisoles, 2 plain and simple t shirts, 1 dress, and tons of polos in any bright color. If you are sporty, buy 2 sports bras, 2 pastel sports tops, 2 pairs of Soffe shorts, 1 tennis dress, 1 sweat suit, denim shorts, and plenty of tight fitting tops. If you are beachy, buy 3 cover ups, 2 bikinis, anything made of tweed, twill, or other loose fitting, flowy, boho fabric.;
, Join cheerleading. It's fun and slimming. You can also do volleyball, track, or what ever you enjoy doing. You could also do things like walking, jogging, and work your way up to running. Swimming is also very good. It builds your arm muscles and keeps you fit when you're not playing other sports. Don't join sports that have a stronger guy following like football, basketball, soccer, baseball/softball, etc. Track is half and half, as is swimming.
 Clinique and Mac are good sources of make-up. Only wear a little bit of blush, concealer, lip-gloss, bronzer, eyeshadow, and mascara if you like. Make everything look very natural and keep your face and lips moisturized. First, apply a concealer under your eyes and on blemishes. Then, apply a blush on the apples of your cheeks and a bronzer in your hollows. Put on gold eyeshadow, black mascara, and lip gloss. This is a quick, simple, and easy look for all styles.
 For girls Find something comfortable and fitting. Flats, flip-flops, canvas shoes, and simple tennis shoes look awesome with almost everything! Try to get one pair of each. Get canvas shoes, ballet flats, and topsiders if you are preppy, sneakers if you are a tomboy, flip flops and flats if you are girly, tennis shoes and sneakers if you are sporty, flip flops and canvas shoes if you are girly, and if you don't belong to any style, just wear a combination of them all.
 You can do you hair however you like. Pulling it back into a ponytail says that you aren't a hair freak, while still allowing you to look pretty, and sporty. Putting it in a braid, ponytail, pigtails, half-ups, or braiding hair near your face shows that you are preppy and clean cut, as long as your layers don't stick out. Hair when it is down is the best for a beachy look. For a girly look, leave it straight, curly on the bottom, natural, or in pigtails. Get a cut with long layers and/or side bangs/short layers near your face. Use a great smelling shampoo every 3 days followed by a matching conditioner daily.
 You should wash your face twice a day with a cleanser followed by a gentle exfoliation, eye serum/cream for anti-aging, a cold wash, and a moisturizer. Do this twice a day. At night apply zit cream to your zits. Your skin doesn't have to be flawlessly smooth and perfect, but you should take care of it nonetheless.
 Other than exercising, you should also have great hygiene by washing your body everyday, applying deodorant and sweet smelling lotion, brushing and flossing your teeth, and eating healthy. Your diet should consist of fruits, veggies, whole grains, lean meats, and other healthy foods. Get a tan and be in wonderful shape. You don't have to be skinny to be in wonderful shape.
 It isn't all about the looks. If you look like the sweetest, cutest kid in the world and then turn into a total snob every time someone talks to you, no one is going to think you're cute at all. Be sweet and innocent, but also have a relatable, spicy side that is compatible with everyone. Above all, be nice.
 Try a new perfume, as it can really make people notice you more than normal. For girly girls, use a cute and sweet floral scent. For preppy girls, use a scent like citrus or vanilla. For sporty girls, just use your deodorant. For beachy girls, use salt scented or ocean scented. For tomboy's don't use any, just deodorant. Have your deodorant and lotion match the scent of your perfume by adding a few drops to your lotion and deodorant.

