 Most liquid and cream foundations are water-based, which means that they’re a prime breeding ground for bacteria. Concealers have similar formulas, so they can turn just as quickly. Using old, contaminated foundation and concealer can lead to breakouts, as well as more serious skin irritations.Old foundation and concealer usually don’t perform as well either. You can wind up a streaky finish and poor coverage if your products are too old.;
, Powder products tend to have a longer shelf life than liquids and creams because they don’t provide a moist environment for bacteria and germs to grow. However, over time the small amount of water that’s in powder products evaporates, leaving them crumbly and difficult to use.If you powder products are old, you may notice that they’ve become more firmly packed in their pans, so it’s harder to pick up any color when you dip your brush into them.
Because they contain water, cream eye shadows and blushes should be tossed after 6 months to a year.
 They’re usually oil-based, which means that they also provide a good environment for bacteria to grow. Add in the fact that you’re constantly applying them to your mouth, and you definitely don’t want to hang onto your favorite lip products too long.When you use a lipstick that’s past its prime, you may notice that it doesn’t glide on as easily as it used to. That’s because it has a tendency to dry out over time.
When it comes to lip liners, you usually have up to two years before you have to throw them away. They typically have drier formulas than lipstick or glosses, so they aren’t as likely to breed bacteria.
 These products usually feature a large amount of waxes, which aren't as conducive to growing bacteria as other ingredients. However, because both are used around the eyes, you should be careful and get rid of them after 12 months to prevent irritation.If your pencils are the type that you sharpen, you can hang onto them for up to two years. That’s because every time you sharpen them, you get rid of the top layer of the pencil where bacteria is most likely to present. Just make sure to sharpen before each use, and clean your sharpener with alcohol regularly.
 Of all the makeup products that you own, mascara and liquid liner are probably the most likely to grow bacteria. That’s because the inside of their tubes provide a dark, wet environment that’s perfect for bacteria. Cream liners are always a problem because they usually come in jars that you have to dip your brush into, so they’re easy to contaminate.Mascara, liquid liners, and cream liners become noticeably dry when they’re more than a few months old.
Using old mascara, liquid liner, or cream liner can lead to a variety of eye irritations, such as redness and itchiness. In more serious cases, it may cause styes and even conjunctivitis, more commonly known as pink eye.

