 Your primary care doctor will likely known a reputable dermatologist he can refer you to. Be specific about whether you are looking for a general dermatologist or a cosmetic dermatologist.A general dermatologist treats rashes, acne, and skin conditions like rosacea or moles. They also offer anti-aging prescriptions for wrinkles and brown spots.A cosmetic dermatologist treats deeply etched wrinkles, scars, or persistent skin discoloration. They also offer peels, injections, and laser treatments.;
, Believe it or not, there is no law that prevents doctors from practicing in medical fields they may not specialize in or be trained in. All the dermatologists listed on the American Academy of Dermatology websiteare Board-certified, which means they have completed medical school, a 3 year residency in dermatology and passed a rigorous exam administered by the American Board of Dermatology. They are also retested every year by the Board.There is a doctor locator option on the American Academy of Dermatology website so you can easily find a Board-certified dermatologist in your area.
 Ask your friend specifically what she liked about the dermatologist, and other questions such as:Was the doctor’s staff helpful and friendly? Did the doctor offer several options for her problem during her consultation? Was the doctor supportive and open during and after the procedure?
You should also confirm how long your friend has been going to their dermatologist. If she has been seeing the same doctor for several years and over many visits, you should weigh her recommendation more than someone who has only been to the office one or two times.
Look at your friend’s skin. One of the best recommendations for a dermatologist is how their patients look. Is your friend’s skin improving? Does it have a healthy glow? If she has had Botox, does it look natural and light or frozen and fake?

, Dermatologists who retain their patients and do consistent, good work don’t usually need to advertise. The only reasons a doctor would advertise is if she does not have enough patients and are not receiving referrals from her current patients or other doctors. So if you see a lot of advertising around a certain dermatologist, be cautious before scheduling a consultation with her., If the dermatologist you are considering has a website, check for the American Academy of Dermatology board certification. Also note if the doctor’s focus is on general or cosmetic dermatology. Usually a good dermatologist will specialize in one or the other, not both types.A dermatologist who names laser treatments or Botox and fillers as specific services she offers will likely be more experienced than a doctor who claims she does all types of skin procedures.
 These are usually the busiest days for a doctor’s office. This will allow you to take advantage of a full waiting room and ask the other patients about their experiences with the dermatologist.If you have to wait several weeks for a consultation, don’t get frustrated. In fact, this is a good sign, as this shows the doctor is in demand.
Keep in mind most doctors charge for a consultation, but that fee is usually put toward the cost of a procedure if you decide to go with the dermatologist.
 Though you might assume the doctor will be present for your consultation, not all states require the Medical Director (or doctor) of a cosmetic dermatology center to be on the premises more than an hour or two a month. So there could be little to no training, supervision, or quality control for the technicians performing the treatments, or even a doctor present during these treatments.Always confirm the doctor will be present for your consultation and your first treatment.
 When you meet the dermatologist for the first time, provide a rough sense of what you’re looking for. Specify if you are looking for general skin treatment or cosmetic skin treatment and what areas of your body you are looking to treat. Then, let the doctor talk. Listen to how she addresses your concerns and the possible treatments she offers.The doctor’s approach to your needs will give you a sense of how aggressive she is as a dermatologist. If she recommends drastic treatments like a chemical peel or an injection for a simple issue like a mole or discoloration on your skin, she should explain the rationale behind her recommendation.
The dermatologist’s answers to your problem and your questions will also give you a sense of how well she listens to your needs as a patient. After all, you are entrusting her with your skin. So you want to be sure you can have good communication with her.
 If she treats at least three to five cases a day similar to yours, this is a good sign. The more familiar the doctor is with your condition, the more likely she can effectively treat it.If you are looking at laser treatment, ask the doctor if she owns or rents the devices. If she rents the devices, she likely isn’t performing many laser treatments a day. This may be a sign of lack of experience with laser treatment, so she may not be the dermatologist for you.
 If the doctor’s practice has been in business for more than 5 years, this indicates she is keeping her patients happy and running a high quality practice., Talk to the doctor about who would be involved in a certain procedure, such as laser treatment or Botox.Many Board-certified dermatologists will delegate lasers or injections to registered medical professionals, who are trained and supervised by that doctor. But they should be up front about the qualifications of their staff, and the level of supervision or hands on treatment they will provide for a certain procedure.
Many of these medical professionals have the training, experience, and judgement to operate the equipment and complete treatments successfully. But its important to confirm the clinic is not just employing “techs” who have no medical training or supervision. So ask about the certification of the staff at the practice and confirm the staff at the clinic have the necessary credentials.
 Though it may be tempting to get sucked into stunning after photographs of perfect skin supplied by the dermatologist, try to be suspicious of this tactic. Doctors will always put their best before and after photos on their website or up in their office. But when you look at the photo, you can’t be sure whether 1 out of 100 people got that result or whether 90 out of 100 got that result. These photos may not provide an accurate assessment of the doctor’s skills.In the current digital age, it is also very easy to digitally alter images. So you can’t be sure if the photographs are real or have been altered.
If the dermatologist shows you before and after photographs, ask her if you will see the same results on your skin as in the photograph. If she answers honestly by explaining the differences between your skin and the skin of the person in the photograph, this shows she is willing to be ethical and up front about your specific condition.
 Thank the dermatologist for her time. Accept any supplementary material she gives you. Then, go home and think over your initial experience with the doctor.If the doctor is reputable, she should not pressure you to commit to a procedure or product during the consultation. In fact, she should welcome your desire to take a few days to think about how you felt during the consultation.
A reputable dermatologist will encourage you to think over the pros and cons of a procedure and to take time to decide if you are comfortable with becoming her patient.

