 If an item gives you a "Buy it Now" option, you will be able to bypass the auction process and purchase the item immediately. The price of "Buy it Now" items an vary quite a lot - depending on the seller's strategy:


Sometimes the "Buy it Now" price will be very low -- this is when the seller is trying to get rid of the item in a hurry, so they sell it at a lower than average price. You can get some great deals using the "Buy it Now" option, but these items get snapped up quickly, so you will have to act fast to avail of them. A good way to deal with this is to set up email notifications, where eBay will notify you when a particular item becomes available for immediate purchase.On the other hand, the "Buy it Now" price can often be higher than the average bidding price. This is because sellers are counting on buyers who need particular items in a hurry and are not willing to wait the several days it takes to bid in an auction. So unless you are in a hurry, it's important that you do your research to find out the average selling price for a particular item, before buying it using "Buy it Now".
 If the "Buy it Now" option is unavailable, or you're hoping to get a better deal on an item, you can use eBay's innovative online bidding system. The bidding system is very simple, all you need to do enter the maximum amount that you would be willing to pay for an item. eBay will then compare this amount to the bids of other potential buyers and will increase your bid incrementally each time you are outbid. They will continually raise your bid until they reach your maximum amount.eBay will only raise the price of your bid high enough to outbid other potential buyers. Once they reach your maximum amount, and the auction is still running, you will either need to accept defeat or raise your maximum bid.
Once you have placed a bid, there is no way to retract it. If you win the auction, you will be obligated to buy the item. If you refuse, you will face penalties from eBay and may even have your account suspended.
 Make a note of how much longer the auction will be running for and check back periodically to see how your bid is doing. Once the auction ends, you will receive an email notification from eBay informing you whether you won the item or not. If you did, the email will also provide instructions on what to do next.
 The next step is to complete your payment for the item. You can reach the payment page by clicking on the "Pay Now" link, which can be found on the "Review Order" page, on the confirmation email, on the listing page and on the "Purchase History" page on My eBay. The viable payment options are decided by the seller, and while most will accept payment by credit card or through Pay Pal, some sellers will request payment by check, money order or bank wire transfer.Never send cash to a seller in the mail. It could potentially get lost or stolen, or the seller might keep it and refuse to ship you your item.
You should make your payment as promptly as possible after winning the auction, a seller is entitled to open an unpaid item case if you fail to pay for the item after as little as two days.
When entering your shipment information, double check it to make sure all of the details are correct. If the information is incorrect and the item is shipped to the wrong address, you are the one at fault.
 Once you have you have received your item, you can can rate the seller based on whether you had a positive or negative experience. eBay encourages you to leave feedback as it creates trust between buyers and sellers and improves the overall customer experience. You can leave feedback by going to the "Feedback Forum" on the eBay site and clicking on the "Leave Feedback" link on the right hand side of the page.While feedback is encouraged, it is advisable to contact a seller directly about any negative experiences before you give them a poor rating. Most sellers will do their best to reach a solution which is agreeable to both of you - whether that's providing a refund, or some other form of compensation. Your bad experience may have been due to unforeseen circumstances or simple human error, so it is best to give sellers the benefit of the doubt before slating them on the forums.
When giving feedback, you can rate your experience as positive, neutral or negative, as well as provide a more detailed seller review. Try to be as factual and informative as possible and avoid making any offensive or personal comments, as this may discourage other people from selling to you.

