 A sampling of such brands might include Polo, Ralph Lauren, Brooks Brothers, Lacoste, J. Crew, Hickey Freeman, Paul & Shark, Peter Millar, J. Press, Southern Tide, and Vineyard Vines. Hollister, Abercrombie, Aeropostale, and A.E are not the conventional preppy but some of their designs are classic.;
,, Looking at some clothing from the brands above will probably give you a good idea. Buy clothes that have colors that match well and look good on you. For example, a redhead will look better with green than pink or lavender unless he has blue eyes.
 Find classic looking belts, preferably tan/light brown. Make sure the belt is leather if it is a dress belt, and canvas with leather tips if it is for casual occasions. Make sure it is not covered in little tacky bits or studs etc.
 Wearing a pair of top-siders without socks is classic preppy.
 Don't use different scents of shampoo, conditioner, body wash, aftershave, deodorant and cologne. Buy a matching set. Don't put too much on.
 Dark rimmed glasses are geeky or scene/emo/punk, etc. Try getting rim-less glasses and clean them everyday to look sophisticated. Lately though, Buddy Holly styled glasses have been making a comeback on the runway. If you wear nothing but preppy clothes, then this would completely work well with a nice cardigan or sweater. Also, many preppies in history (such as Barry Goldwater) have worn nerdy glasses, & the subculture often overlaps with preppies, so any glasses could work.
 A common preppy hairstyle is the shaggy look or the fluffy look, or hair just parted on the side and short. Lately, many preppy guys are going away from the long hair styles and back to traditional shorter hairstyles. Think the 1940s and 1950s crop top and crew cut. No unnatural hair colors or shaved hair. If it is shaved, have it shaved modestly. Keep your hair looking natural! Hair gel is all right if it is done modestly, but don't overdo it.
 Have clean, trimmed fingernails. File and buff your nails to make them healthy - don't bite them. Keep your lips moisturized. Chapped, cracked lips are unsightly. Shave and comb your hair as often as you need to. Don't wear wrinkled or stained clothes. Stay away from ripped jeans; this is for wannabe preppy and ripped jeans are 1990s and 2000s fashions. Brush twice or thrice and floss your teeth once or twice a day. Whiten your teeth if necessary. Be well groomed. Avoid tattoos and getting pierced.
 Get toned and take in some sun color, just don't overdo it. Don't burn your skin, use sunscreen. Don't use tanning beds either. Drink lots of water, take vitamins and eat lean protein. Take excellent care of your skin (use lotion), teeth, hair and nails.
 Crew, Cross Country, horseback riding, lacrosse, track, polo, rugby, football, golf, sailing, skiing, squash and tennis are classic examples of preppy sports. If it is in the Olympics, it is preppy. Even if you don't do a sport, you should stay fit as possible. For high school sports, try sports such as tennis, Cross Country, golf, swimming, soccer, track etc. Lift weights for toning and staying lean but don't develop huge bodybuilder muscles.
 Don't start your own band. If you do play a band instrument, make sure you are in symphonic band, jazz band, or solo and ensemble contests. Don't obsess on marching or pep band. A community band is better than high school band.
 Smile. Stand up straight. Avoid getting people angry. Forget talking about money - it can put people off.
 They get into good preppy colleges because they try to work hard. Use good grammar. Many preps end up getting into Ivy League or Private Universities because of their grades, sports and high SAT scores. Keep up with what is going on in the world and financial markets. If you don't understand investing money basics - read books and learn.
 Don't laugh! Good manners is not just for girls or older men. It shows people you have had a good upbringing. Use basic politeness such as please, thank you and excuse me. Be considerate and hold doors for people. Don't wear a hat indoors. Keep your cell phone in check and put it on vibrate when you go to a public place. Never use slang or talk back or roll your eyes.

