 While everyone appreciates a creative or unique gift, it’s often easiest and best to go with the tried-and-true. Little kids have loved red wagons, wooden blocks, stuffed animals, dolls, rattles, and drums for generations, and they still do. One year olds don’t recognize fads; they want things they can push, pull, pile up, knock down, shake, and cuddle.Classics like building blocks, nesting toys, and shape sorters (think “the square peg doesn’t fit in the round hole”) are great options because they’re fun and educational. They also stimulate creativity, coordination, and problem solving.;
, By the time they’re one year old, kids try to mimic practically everything they observe other people doing. If they see you fixing the sink, they want their own tool set; if they see a mother holding an infant, they want their own baby (doll) to cuddle; if they see you chatting on the phone, they want something to babble into.Simple, age-appropriate costumes like firefighter hats, royal crowns, or superhero capes also help stimulate kids’ desires to play and pretend.
 With messy one year olds, feeding time and bath time often happen one right after the other. In both cases, fun implements and toys can make getting messy and cleaning up afterward more enjoyable.Ergonomic, high quality utensils, bowls, and spill-resistant cups with favorite characters on them are always welcome additions to mealtime. Likewise, even the humble rubber duckie can bring a bit more joy to bath time.
 It's never too early to start building up a personal library for a child, but make sure you pick books that can stand up to lots of use and probably some abuse. Little kids love books they can hold, flip through, twist, toss, and chew on.Either board books (with rigid, tear-resistant pages) or soft books (which can be twisted and wrenched without ripping apart) with few words and colorful pictures are fine choices for a kid celebrating a first birthday.
 You may reflexively assume that all kids turn up their noses at getting clothes for gifts. Remember, though, that a one year old will probably be more intrigued by the bow or wrapping paper than the actual gift regardless. A whimsical onesie or playful pajamas can make a fun but practical gift.When in doubt, buy the bigger size. Kids this age grow amazingly quickly.
Also, while it’s tempting to buy a fancy, frilly dress or tiny suit and tie, opt for comfortable, practical clothes in most cases. The kid and the parents will get much more use out of such clothing.
 Toys made with cheap plastic, mystery materials, or shoddy construction may save you some money, but they aren’t likely to last long in the hands of a toddler. Even worse, they may present a health or safety hazard. Opt for sturdy toys made of solid wood, durable plastics, or strong fabrics with secure seams. Check safety recall notices and toy evaluations online to further ease your mind.


You can also “age-up” a bit so the toy remains interesting to the child longer. In the U.S., a toy that may present a choking hazard must be listed as “ages 3 and up,” so you can safely buy a slightly more complex toy aimed toward two-year-olds. A younger kid will still find a way to play with it, even if not precisely in the intended fashion.