 Staphylococci, more commonly referred to as “staph,” are gram-positive cocci in clusters. The “gram” in gram-positive refers to the gram stain pattern of the bacteria when viewed under the microscope. The “cocci” indicates the shape when viewed under a microscope. This types of bacteria usually invades the body through a cut or wound.Staph aureus is the most common type of staph infection. Staph aureus may cause pneumonia, food poisoning, skin infections, blood poisoning, or toxic shock syndrome.
MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) is a staph infection that is hard to treat. MRSA does not respond to some antibiotics and it is thought that the strain developed in response to antibiotics. Therefore, many doctors will not prescribe antibiotics unless it is absolutely necessary., Streptococci, more commonly referred to as "strep," are gram-positive cocci in chains and a common type of bacteria. Streptococci cause strep throat, pneumonia, cellulitis, impetigo, scarlet fever, rheumatic fever, acute glomerulonephritis, meningitis, otitis media, sinusitis, and many more infections., Escherichia coli, or E. coli, is a gram-negative rod, that is found in the waste material of animals and humans. There is a large, diverse group of E.Coli bacteria. Some strains are harmful, but most strains are not. E.Coli can cause diarrhea, gastrointestinal infections, urinary tract infections, respiratory infections, and other infections., Salmonella is a gram-negative rod that can disrupt the digestive tract. Salmonella can cause severe illness and it usually requires a lengthy antibiotic treatment. Raw or undercooked poultry, meat and eggs can contain salmonella., Haemophilus influenzae are gram-negative rods. Haemophilus influenzae is transmitted by air so it is highly contagious. It can cause epiglottis, meningitis, otitis media, and pneumonia. This bacteria can cause a severe infection that may lead to a lifelong disability. It can even be fatal.Haemophilus influenzae is not covered by the common “flu shot,” which targets viral influenza, but most children are vaccinated against Haemophilus influenzae early in childhood (it is called the “Hib” vaccine).

