 Take the current year, for example, 2016, and multiple it by two. For 2016, the doubled number would come out to be 4032. This is the ‘’magic’’ number that you will get your audience members to come up with. Write the ‘’magic’’ number on a sheet of paper and seal it in an envelope.


Seal the envelope using its sealant or with tape for a more dramatic effect., Try practicing this trick on somebody in your home, like a parent, before taking it out to the classroom or work. Ask the participant if they’re willing to answer a series of question and do a little math.


You should also have a pen and paper with you when you talk to the participant.
 Eventually the participant will write down four numbers that adds up to the number you sealed in the envelope. First, ask them to write down what year they were born. Then ask them to write down what age they will be turning or turned this current year.


For the year, they should write something like 1995. The age they’ll be turning, for 2016, is 21. In this example they should have “1995 + 21” written down on a piece of paper.
 The next two questions are a bit trickier, but with enough practice you can make them sound natural. Ask them if they have an anniversary coming up this year. This can be their 10th year since graduating, 1st year with a significant other, or their grandparents 55th wedding anniversary. Take down the numbers as followed:


First, ask them to write down the year that the anniversary first took place, like 1961.
Then ask them to jot down how many years they’ll be celebrating since that date. For this example above it’d be 55., Once you’ve gotten your participant to answer the questions you’ve asked, tell them to total up all the numbers. If you follow the example above for the year, 2016, the numbers would look like: 1995 + 21 + 1961 + 55.


Once you see their totaled numbers, make sure that this number matches the one you wrote down in the envelope.
You should use a calculator if you aren't confident in your math skills.
 Once they’ve added up the numbers from the series of questions, you’re ready to open the envelope. You can say a magic word or phrase at this point to create the magical environment. Open the envelope and show the results to your participant.


It creates an even better effect if you have the participant open the envelope and read the number first.

