 If put in the kiln, this will probably make it explode. As outlined in the Wheel Throwing section, slam your clay on plaster (absorbs wetness) and knead it like bread.


If you'd like to check the insides to be sure, take a wire and cut it in half. If bubbles are still present, persist.
 When you're hand building, there are generally three methods you can employ. Each creates a very different look. Slab works best for large pieces.










Pinch pots: Begin a pinch pot by forming a lump of clay into a smooth sphere that fits the size of the hand. This method is similar to the way the Native Americans shaped clay into useful pots. While holding the sphere of clay, press the thumb into the center of the ball, half-way to the bottom. While revolving the ball in one hand, press the walls out evenly with the thumb into the inside and the fingers on the outside. Smooth the surface with a damp sponge.

Coil Method: Coils of clay can be used to build bowls, vases and other forms in various shapes and sizes. Keeping the fingers flat, form the clay into sausage shapes, then roll into ropes 1⁄4 to 1⁄2 inch (0.6 to 1.3 cm) thick. Make a shallow dish with the pinch pot method and turn up-side down to serve as a foot of base. Place a coil along the edge of the foot. Dampen the fingers and join the next coil to it, with a little pressure. Keep adding coils. Coils may be pressed with the fingers or a tool on both the inside and outside to create interesting texture.

Slab Method: Place two strips of wood on canvas a little further apart than the width of the finished slabs. Working on a textured fabric will leave imprints on the clay slab. Place clay on the cloth between the strips of wood and roll out. Use a pointed tool to trim the slab of clay to desired size. You may make paper patterns to follow if a form that has a number of sides is desired. Rub a wet finger over the edges to be joined and score with a tool. Roll out a thin coil of sticky clay and place it along one edge. Press the two edges together. Slabs of clay may be placed over rocks, bowls, plastic forms etc. to create interesting shapes. As the clay dries, it shrinks away from the form but retains the shape of the form.If it is a medium or larger piece, make it hollow. Solid clay takes an eternity to dry and will explode in a firing most of the time.



