 If your hair is on the dry side, it may look a little dull after it dries. Using a good leave-in conditioner can keep it from getting dried out and dull. While your hair is still wet, apply a dime or quarter-sized amount of deep conditioner to your hair. Use a comb to comb it down to your tips.
 Sure, a Brazilian blowout will leave your hair looking shiny and sleek, at first. After awhile, blowing out and straightening your hair will damage it and leave it looking dull and rough. When you allow your hair to air dry, you don't risk causing damage. After a few weeks or months, you should start to see a noticeable difference in the texture of your hair: it will be softer with more shine.


Avoid using heat styling tools as much as possible. Straightening irons, curling irons, and so on provide temporarily pretty results, but in the long run they'll leave you with dull hair.
For the best result, twist your hair into a loose bun or braids to keep it from frizzing as it dries. If you have curly hair, gently squeeze and sculpt your hair into the desired shape before drying.
 Once your hair has air-dried, smooth finishing oil through your locks. A good finishing oil will add instant shine and protect your hair from damage. Wait until your hair is fully dry for best results. A little goes a long way, so use no more than a dime-sized amount or so, depending on the length of your hair. You can buy a special hair oil, or use one of these oils as a finishing oil:Olive oil
Argan oil
Almond oil
Jojoba oil
Caster oil
Coconut oil

, This is a product that has been formulated specifically to add shine to your hair. Shine serums contain silicones and other ingredients that cause your hair to look instantly shiny. Most shine serums can be used on either wet or dry hair.


Using a shine serum every day could end up having the opposite effect of what you're going for. The silicones that make your hair shiny build up in your hair over time, causing it to look dull. You might want to save serum for special occasions only.
Look for a serum that's alcohol-free. Alcohol can cause hair to dry out.
 Frizz is the enemy of shiny hair. A halo of frizz makes hair look dull and rough instead of shiny. Whether your hair is straight or curly, you can tame your frizz in the following ways:


Wash your hair with cool water. The cool temperature helps your hair shaft lie flat, rather than standing up. You'll be amazed at what a difference this easy step makes.
Don't towel dry your hair roughly. Pat it dry gently, then let it finish air drying. Towel drying roughly puffs up your hair and makes it frizzy.
Switch from a brush to a wide-tooth comb. Brushes tend to break hair, especially when it's curly or wavy. Broken hair strands will stand up and turn into frizz. Use a wide-tooth comb. Detangle when your hair is wet, starting at the tips and working up to the roots.
Sleep on a silk or satin pillowcase. Curly heads know that this trick does wonders for frizzy hair. Cotton fabric absorbs moisture, leaving your hair dry and frizzy. Satin or silk will preserve your hair in its natural, non-frizzy state., Removing frayed split ends goes a long way toward making your hair look shinier. Ask your stylist not to use chemicals and heat styling tools on your hair.
 Many people think that foregoing heat means not styling the hair altogether, but air-drying requires a bit of effort to come out well. Apply a light hold product and use your fingers to part your hair as desired. Then, comb it into your desired shape. As it dries, secure sections by twisting them, clipping them, or tousling to your satisfaction. When the moisture has evaporated, refine the shape with your fingertips and a dab of hair oil.