 Making wedding cakes requires different tools and processes than making a traditional cake. You can also check these books out at the library.
 Most of these recipes will work on a larger scale. Chocolate cakes that have no flour can work very well for wedding cakes.

You may want to choose a recipe that avoids nuts or large amounts of dairy if the wedding party has other food allergies.
 You will be able to see whether the cake is prone to being uneven, dropping in the center or any other problems. Choose another recipe until you find one that performs well on a large scale., Tiered round or square cakes are very common at weddings. If this is the case, you may need to order a set of round cake pans.

The number of guests you have at your wedding will determine the size of your cake pans; however, you may be able to find wedding cake pan sets in many shapes on websites like Amazon, eBay and Wilton.com.
 Find the number of servings your original recipe said it made. Adjust according to whether you believe this number was accurate when you made your test cake., Look inside your cake decorating book and see how many servings of cake each size of cake pan will produce. For example, look for a 6-inch, 10-inch and 12-inch round pan.

Do not count the top tier in your serving calculations for guests. This is traditionally stored in a freezer for the bride and groom until their first anniversary. Aim to go higher or add a larger bottom pan in order to account for this tier. However, you must include the top tier in your calculation for how many times you will need to multiply the recipe.
 The result is the number of times you need to multiply your ingredients in order to achieve the right amount of batter., You can buy this online or in natural food stores. You can also make your own flour; however, it is not advisable to experiment with flour mixtures just before you make the wedding cake., You will probably need to bake them in more than 1 batch because of the different sizes., Line the sides of your cake pans with greased parchment paper so that they can be removed easily, and then pour the batter into the cake pans. Follow the chart in your cake decorating book or that came with your cake pans to figure out how to adjust your baking time according to the size of the pan., Allow them to cook on a wire rack before removing them from the pan. The parchment paper will allow you to remove the cake from the pan without any crumbling., Place the bottom layer on a display platform, which can be easily moved once the cake is decorated. Frost each layer before placing them atop the other layers., A cake decorating book will prove helpful in the positioning of the dowels according to the shape of your cake. Smooth out any blemishes with the remaining icing., You can use colored icing, flowers and figurines to complete your cake.