 Attach the yarn to your hook with a slipknot, then work a series of chain stitches to form a foundation for the cuff of the mitten.You'll need 15 chains for a child size mitten, 21 chains for an adult woman, and 24 chains for an adult man.
If you need help making slip knots or chain stitches, check the "Tips" section of this article.;
, Single crochet once into the second chain from the hook, then single crochet once into each stitch of your foundation chain after that.


Work in the back loops only.
Once you reach the end of the row, chain one, then turn the work over to its other side.
Check the "Tips" section if you need instructions on the single crochet stitch.
 Repeat the process you used for the first row, as described in the previous step, until you have enough rows to form your cuff.


For a child size mitten, you need 18 row. For an adult woman, make 22 rows. For an adult man, make 24 rows.
 Fold the cuff in half. Slip stitch once into each set of stitches along the edges opposite the fold to join those two edges together.


Consult the "Tips" section of this article if you need help making a slip stitch.
Do not fasten off the yarn. You will continue on with the hand of the mitten directly from the cuff instead of making two separate pieces.
 Slip stitch once into each stitch around the end of each cuff row. Join this first round with a final slip stitch.


The number of slip stitches you make should equal the number of rows you have in your cuff. For a child size mitten, this will be 18 stitches. There will be 22 for an adult woman and 24 for an adult man.
 Chain one. Single crochet once in each of the next eight stitches, then single crochet twice in the next stitch. Repeat this pattern a second time time, then join the round with a slip stitch.


Note that the set of eight stitches only applies to child size mittens. For adult women, use a set of 10. For adult men, use a set of 12 stitches.
 Single crochet once in each stitch of the previous round.


Do not chain one at the beginning of this round and do not join this round with a slip stitch at the end.
 Make enough rounds to reach the thumb level of mitten. For each round, repeat the same process used in the previous step: single crochet once into each stitch of the previous round.


As before, do not chain at the beginning of a round or join the ends with a slip stitch. You should work up the side of the mitten in a spiral.
You should, however, slip stitch the end of the final round to the start of that same round before moving onto the thumb hole.
Make four more rounds for a child size mitten, six more for a woman size, and seven more for a man size.
 Work a chain of stitches large enough to wrap around half the intended wearer's thumb, then connect this chain to the previous round by single crocheting once into the appropriate stitch.


The chain should be six stitches long for a child, seven for an adult woman, and eight for an adult man.Skip over the same number of stitches in your previous round as the number of stitches in your chain, minus one. In other words, you will join the chain by single crocheting once into the sixth stitch for a child, the seventh for a woman, and the eighth for a man.
Continue single stitching once into each stitch of the previous round until you reach the end of the row.
 Work another round by single crocheting once into each stitch from the previous round.


For the thumb hole chain, make sure that you single crochet into the stitches of the chain and not over the chain or into the thumb hole itself.
 Continue working rounds until the height of the mitten reaches around the bottom knuckle area of the intended wearer's hand. For each round, simply single crochet once in each stitch of the previous round.


Work in a continuous spiral. Do not chain stitch at the beginning of a round or slip stitch at the end.
For a child's mitten, make four more rounds. Make seven more rounds for a woman's mitten and nine more for a man's mitten.
 Single crochet around the row, making three single crochet decreases at even intervals.


For a child's mitten, single crochet once in each of the next five stitches, then once into the next two stitches. Repeat this twice more, then finish by single crocheting once into the remaining stitch.
For a woman's mitten, single crochet once in each of the next six stitches, then once into the next two stitches. Repeat this twice more, then finish by single crocheting once into each of the remaining two stitches.
For a man's mitten, single crochet once in each of the next seven stitches, then once into the next two stitches. Repeat this twice more, then finish by single crocheting once into the remaining stitch.
 For the next round, simply single crochet once into each stitch of the previous round.
 For the remainder of the mitten, alternate back and forth between decreasing rows and rows in continuous single crochet, essentially repeating the previous two steps. Continue until there are no more stitches left.


For each decrease row, decrease the the stitch count by three, spacing apart your single crochet decreases in even intervals around the perimeter of the mitten.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail roughly 4 inches (10 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the yarn.


Weave the excess tail into the mitten to hide it from sight and further secure the stitching.
This completes the body of one mitten. The thumb is created separately from a new strand of yarn.
 Attach yarn from the skein to your crochet hook using a slipknot. Insert your hook into any stitch along the thumb hole and slip stitch the yarn on your skein to this stitch.
 Make one single crochet in each of the stitches around the perimeter of the thumb hole. This completes one round of the thumb.


Do not chain stitch to advance to the next round. You will work in a "continuous" round. In other words, for each round you make, the last stitch of the round will connect directly to the first stitch of the following round.
 For each round, single crochet once into each stitch of the previous round. Continue until the thumb portion is about as tall as the intended wearer's thumb.


For a child size, the thumb should measure 1.5 inches (3.8 cm). An adult woman size will measure 2 inches (5 cm), and an adult man size will measure 2.5 inches (6.4 cm).Take this measurement from the portion of the thumb lying between the thumb and the index finger.
Usually, there will be five more rows for a child size, seven more for an adult woman, and nine more for an adult man.
 Once the thumb is long enough, round off the top by making one single crochet in every set of two stitches along the previous round.


When done, you should have half the number of stitches as you had in your previous row.
The single crochet is worked the same in this step as it would usually be worked. The only difference is that you are making the single crochet into two stitches instead of the usual one stitch.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail roughly 10 inches (25.4 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the yarn.


Do not trim the tail or weave it into your stitches yet.
 Loosely thread a yarn needle with the excess tail hanging from the thumb. Use this needle to weave the yarn through the front loops of each stitch in your final round.


Once you have gathered all of the final stitches on the tail, give the tail a tight tug, drawing the opening closed. The top of the thumb must be snug and completely closed.
 Use your yarn needle to weave the remaining tail into the stitches along the thumb. Doing so will hide the tail from sight while also securing the seal at the top of the thumb.


Weave in the starting tail at the base of your thumb, as well.
After completing this step, you should have one complete mitten.
 Working through the previous steps will create one mitten. Work through the exact same steps a second time to complete a second mitten.


Note that these mittens are the same from front to back. As such, there is no specific “left” or “right” mitten. The two are identical and can be worn on either hand.
 This step completes the project.

