 Make sure you have permission from your legal guardian first, and then pick the date and time. No use having it at the end of summer when it's time for school! And no use in the middle as many of your friends may be away on holiday. Instead, have your party the day after you break up for summer, or on the very same day! Hey, you can even invite your friends round after school and have them sleep over!;
, Who are you going to invite? Is it going to be a mixed party? Or a girls only bash? Boys only? You decide! Make sure you have plenty of friends to enjoy the day away with!

, It's great to have lots of other activities too! Especially if you have a smaller circular pool, not everyone will fit at the same time-depending on how many people you invite! So I always like to have a table-tennis/ping-pong net game, basketball and volleyball all set up! Put out some other plastic toys such as bowling or sand pits! It may seem childish, but it's a lot of fun!

, It's finally summer! Boiling hot days and cool summer nights! Get those sprinklers on, so even when your chilling in the shade - you still get that occasional spritz of mist!

, In fact - go to a store and just buy loads of food in bulk, that way it'll keep your pals going throughout the day (and night if you're having a sleepover) and will probably last you the whole week too! Remember to get drinks as well, the sun can dehydrate you quickly!

, Grab some 99 cent balloons from you local party shop or store in different bright summery colors! Banners, confetti, it all starts here!

, Don't worry too much about everything being perfect because that will make it seem too organized, it's so chill!

, Make sure you also get around and play other games and talk to different people! Hey, you could even make some new friends!

, you don't have school the next day! School's out! When it gets really dark get some lights: Christmas lights or tea lights, candles, whatever! Put them everywhere! Even put some in the pool! (provided no one is swimming). If you can, try to get a hold of some sky lanterns and light them up with your friends. Although, these can be expensive, so you can just set fire to paper instead and watch it float!

, If you have a portable large screen projector, put it outside and watch a chick flick with your gals (or a uni-sex film when you're with the guys!) and watch a film in the garden! With all the lights down and some candlelight, it's a beautiful scene!

, However, make sure some more patio lights and pool lights are on! You don't want someone to ruin your awesome start to summer by banging their head on the ground!

, if you want you could set up a tent with your pals and sleep outside! Or if it's a little chilly, head inside for some wicked midnight fun!

, Make some pancakes with smoothies or milkshakes with different sauces and toppings! Then you could go for a morning dip in the pool! Or you could play the other games set out the day before!

, Go out at around noon (provided you're up by then!) and spend the day in your local city or park. For you Londoners, Hyde Park or Oxford Street is the place to hit! Stay out all evening and catch a film or a movie, or hey, why not both?

, No one's usually around during late night shopping, so it will be almost like having the entire mall or shopping center to yourselves!

, Call your friends parents(or let them call - it would be weird if you called!) and let them know that your friends are on their way home or are ready to be picked up.
 Great thing is, you may be sad your buddy's leaving, but you've got the whole summer! You could have a party like this every week!

