 It is strongly recommended that you use "hardware cloth", the same wire used in rabbit cages.;
, A small pen, maybe 10' by 10' square, and about 6-8' high is true heaven.
 You might even use 4x4's for the corners, and 4'square or larger pieces of plywood, preferably covered in a good weather-resistant cloth. You will want to provide a "path" for your pet(s) to various areas of the pen. Trust me, they'll use them, and your pleasure in watching them will be greatly magnified. This can be done with wooden ramps, pieces of corrugated "drainage pipe", the black kind used to move water by drainage and available at any builder's supply, PVC pipe, or heavy rope, VERY heavy rope, such as the kind used on boats, for tie-up. There are other materials out there, as varied as your imagination is active.
 Attach the hardware cloth with staples, good, sturdy ones, and don't skimp on the number of staples. There should be no gaps or "escape routes". Make sure the door fits closely. An in-stock, screen door works admirably, but put a lock on it. Don't forget, ferrets are climbers, so, yes, there must be a roof. You can either use wire, for the "natural" effect, or any of the clear or tinted plastic roofing sections. Again, simply be absolutely sure that it is secure. Also, you'll have to put in a "floor"; this can be hardware cloth, or chicken pen wire. This will prevent digging out (or in; don't forget about outside predators, including the family dog. You want your ferret colony to be safe.
, These can be placed on the various platforms, rather than on the ground. You can house several ferrets in this area, each with their own sleeping box, if they prefer (they may pile in for a 'sleep-over', you never know), and you have room to play with them, comfortably.
 Either way will work.
 They will have to be cleaned, but not nearly as often.
 If the entire pen is open to the sky (with wire), then the food should be in something that is covered. A tiny "pavilion", four posts and a cover, would be plenty. The water can be in pans, or drinking bottles, or both. It would also be nice to have a small "pond" for them, during the summer. Not just any kind of pre-fab pool, but something much smaller, to accommodate their size. and shallow, to prevent any kind of terrible surprise when you go out to play with them.
 The sleeping box and the sunny perches will provide warmth during this time. As the summer comes on, the fur will become thinner. As fall approaches, the fur will naturally thicken. By the time winter arrives, you will be amazed at the beauty of your pet.

