 Although being left out hurts, it might help you to consider what might be going on with the people who leave you out. Chances are that their decision to leave you out is more about them and their insecurities than it is about you.


People who exclude others on purpose probably have some insecurities and biases that are skewing their ability to interact with certain people in a kind way.People who exclude others also want to be in control and they may be leaving you out because they see you as a threat to their control., Negative thinking is common when something bad happens, such as being left out. However, you can challenge and reframe your negative thoughts to improve the way that you feel.For example, after being left out, you might find that you think to yourself, “Nobody likes me!” Of course, this thought is not true or realistic. It is an overreaction. To reframe this thought, you might change it to something like, “I am a good person and a good friend. The people who really matter in my life enjoy spending time with me.”

, If the exclusion was intentional, then it is best to avoid showing your emotions to those who excluded you. Bullies often use exclusion to get a rise out of people, so even if you are upset about being excluded, try not to show it. You may be giving a bully what he wants by showing that you are upset about being excluded.

Instead, try to act like you are not bothered by it.

For example, if you were not invited to a party or some other social event over the weekend, try telling someone about something fun that you did with your family. If someone mentions the party, then try saying something like, “It sounds like you had fun. That’s awesome! I didn’t know about it, but I was too busy anyways. What else did you do this weekend?”

, If you think that you were left out by accident or if you are confused about why you were left out, then you might consider talking to the person(s) who left you out.You might find out that it was an honest mistake, or you might have an opportunity to point out to the person that his or her actions were not appropriate.


If you think it was a mistake, then try saying something like, “I think there must have been a mistake with your birthday invitations. I did not receive an invite to your birthday party.”
If you think that you were left out on purpose, then try saying, “I noticed that I was not invited to your party. It is your party, so you have the right to invite who you want, but I am just curious about why I was not invited.”

