 Dry air from the heating system in your home can dehydrate your skin. To combat the dryness, particularly in the winter, it’s a good idea to use a humidifier, which adds moisture to the air. You can plug it in your bedroom and leave it on when you’re sleeping at night, or run it in any room where you spend a lot of time.Set your humidifier to approximately 60%. That is usually enough to replenish the moisture in the top layer of your skin., The clothes that you wear can actually irritate your skin and keep it dehydrated. Instead of scratchy fabrics such as wool and polyester, opt for smooth, natural materials such as cotton or linen.If you plan to wear wool or other potentially irritating fabrics, layer cotton or silk under them to keep your skin protected.
Be sure to use laundry detergent that’s labeled hypoallergenic and fragrance-free.
 If you're going to be outdoors in cold weather or working with harsh chemicals, cover any skin that will be exposed. Cold, dry air and caustic cleaners and other chemicals can irritate and dry out the skin. Cover your hands with gloves, and wear a long sleeve shirt and pants to minimize your exposure.Protect the skin on your neck and throat by covering up with a scarf in the winter too.
Be sure to wear rubber gloves when you're washing dishes. The detergent can dry out your hands.
 The foods and nutrients that we take into our body can affect our skin. Fish oil and flaxseed are particularly effective in keeping the skin hydrated, because they contain essential fatty acids that protect the skin from environmental factors.Talk to your doctor about whether fish oil and flaxseed supplements would be a good addition to your healthcare routine.If you prefer, you can incorporate more fish and flaxseed to your diet directly. Flaxseed should be ground if you wish to receive the full benefits, though.
While drinking plenty of water is good for overall health, it doesn't do much to moisturize the skin specifically. That's because it is filtered through the body, absorbed by the bloodstream, and doesn't ever directly reach the skin cells. 