


You meet a wonderful man that falls for you very quickly.






He showers you with love and effort early on.






Before you realize it, you have fallen for him as well.






Now you get to know him.





;
, Don't let yourself be a victim.


He begin to show his insecurities and controlling nature. It usually starts with an insecurity about someone or something in your life. He will usually act as if this person or thing doesn't bother him, but his actions will show you different. He will become abusive or berating of this person or thing, but still treat you very well. In fact he will show you even more affection and kindness to cover up his real agenda. Getting this person or thing out of your life. He will try to convince you that it is getting in the way of your relationship, and try to get you to distance yourself.
 He will go out of his way to charm your friends and family so that they think he is the perfect match for you. Typically this works and most likely your friends and family will love him.
 He will want to be around you all the time. This will be played up as wanting to spend time with you or showing his love for you, when in reality he wants to keep an eye on what you are doing.
 He will always tell you he wants the best for you and he may show you this by calling you pet names and making you feel special. If the red flags are there, listen to them despite his efforts to conceal his true objective. Controlling you is his first objective.


At first you may enjoy this because it will seem like he is taking control of the relationship. Being a man. But real men don't act like this.






Once he has you under his control (you should have already left him before this happens), you may still feel like a blissful couple.






He will definitely feel more secure. This is when you have been conquered and he will be looking for excitement on the side.
 He will make sure to keep you in control. If he feels like he is losing control, he may become verbally or physically abusive. As an abuse counselor I have found that most men who are controlling and insecure, do become abusive.
 It will be the best decision you have ever made even if you don't understand it yet.

