 Consider why you want your dog to have a private space as well as where you have room to create an area just for your dog. Pick a space that can be permanently or semi-permanently set up for your dog.Choose a space that your dog will be able to consistently access.
If you want to create a private space for your dog because they get nervous when you have company over, consider placing the space somewhere more secluded such as a bedroom.
If you are trying to create a space where your dog can rest, keep it away from areas where there is a lot of noise and activity like the living room or kitchen.;
, Decide on what you will use to mark the space for your dog. This may be as simple as a bed, or it may be a full crate. Other options include a dog house, a pet tent, or a playpen.Whatever you choose, make sure it is something you are comfortable consistently having in the same space. Moving the space around or collapsing it too frequently make cause unease with your dog and make it difficult for them to get comfortable there.
If you get a crate, house, playpen, or tent make sure it is large enough for your dog to stand in and turn around completely with no extra effort.
 It is important to ensure that your pet will be safe in their private space. This means removing any hazards in the area, such as cables that your dog may chew or getting safety locks for nearby cabinets so that your dog cannot get into them.If you have a small dog, ensure that other people know where the space is and what the space is for. This will help people know to not step in the space and reduce your dog’s chance of accidental injury.
If the space is under an area such as a desk or counter, make sure that the dog has enough clearance to be able to get in and out of the space without hitting themselves on what is above them or knocking anything over.
 Whether the space is for your dog to rest or just for them to have a comfortable place, a bed will help designate it as theirs. Get a comfortable dog bed that is big enough to fit your dog.Consider your dog’s specific needs when picking out a dog bed. If your dog has arthritis problems, for example, consider getting a soft bed with low edges so that they can get in and out easily.
If you live in a cold climate or want your dog to have extra comfort, consider adding a blanket to the bed. This can provide your dog with extra warmth, or simply give them extra cushioning to sleep on.
 Make sure that your dog always has easy to clean, fresh water. Keep a bowl of water in or near your dog’s space, or make sure they have easy, unobstructed access to where you regularly store their normal food and water.Change the dog’s water daily to keep it fresh and help keep your dog happy and healthy.
 Toys help offer your dog stimulation as well as emotional comfort. Provide your dog with a few plushie-type toys for their private space, as well as other treats they may enjoy such as rawhides or chew stick.If you intend for the private space to be where your dog sleeps, avoid toys that squeak or produce other loud noises, as this may be distracting to your dog.
 If you get a crate or small playpen for your dog, you may consider setting up a cover to drape over the top and back of the space. This isn’t necessary for all dogs, but for dogs that are easily distracted or dogs that are prone to nervous or shy behavior, the added privacy may be helpful.Make sure to keep the cover lifted enough for your dog to be able to easily get in and out of the space.
 If your dog is going to spend extended time in the space when you are not home, prepare for potential bathroom accidents. This is especially likely at the beginning of the crate training process. If you get a crate, find one with a removable plastic floor pan that you can easily clean.Consider setting up a puppy training pad in your dog’s space to help limit the amount of damage done and make clean-up easier.
 The first step in getting your dog to use their new space is to show it to them. Place your dog directly in the crate or on the bed so that they know it is acceptable for them to be in that space.If your dog leaves the space immediately after being introduced, try to gently guide them back to the space. Avoid getting angry or using substantial force, though. This could discourage your dog from wanting to return to the space.
 When it comes time for your dog to use the space, such as when you go to work or at bedtime, gently guide your dog to the space by calling them over to it or walking them over there. This will help them build a routine and start to think of the space as their space.If your dog is particularly reluctant to use their new private space in the beginning, it is acceptable to gently pick them up and place them there. Try to encourage them going of their own accord as much as possible, though.
 Help your dog get familiar with the space early on by calling them to come get a treat from you when you are in the space. Offer up your dog's favorite treat as a reward for coming into their new space.


Once your dog is in the space, reward them not only with the treat, but with praise and physical attention.
 If you have a crate or playpen, make sure the dog is easily able to get out and get to you. You may choose to keep the crate locked at certain points such as at bedtime or when you are away from home, but make sure your dog can come and go freely at other times.If you are using an outdoor dog house, make sure your dog has access back into the home at any point through a doggy door, and never let your dog sleep outside at night. This is dangerous for your pet and may lead to attack, injury, or death.
 If you have other dogs that you don’t want using the space, discourage them by gently leading them away. If space is designated for one dog, try to ensure that they are the only one using it.


If you have multiple dogs, try to set up a private space for all of them. This will discourage them from invading one another’s private spaces.

