 If you seek to be devoted to the ones you love, begin by asking yourself what exactly “devotion” means to you., You can begin your journey towards devotion by starting a “devotion journal.” This is a place for you to begin to understand what devotion means for you and how you can put your devotion into practice.Commit to spending 15 minutes each morning writing in your devotion journal.
Each day, list five reasons you are grateful for the ones you love.
Each day, list three ways you can communicate that gratitude.
Each day, finish this sentence, “To me, devotion means _________.”

, Enthusiasm is the fuel that motivates devotion. In order to cultivate enthusiasm, you must dedicate yourself to something, a "cause," that moves beyond your self-interest, and that you feel strongly about. Perhaps your “cause” is as simple as making your loved one happy, or helping his or her day to run more smoothly. Allow your commitment to this “cause” to create enthusiasm, and enhance your devotion.First, work to identify your "cause." Do you feel passionate about making your loved one feel safe? Do you feel strongly about bringing laughter into your home?
Next, do something each day that works toward your cause. Maybe a text message from you every day at lunch time would help your loved one to feel safe and secure. Perhaps playing some innocent practical jokes could bring some joy and laughter into your home.
 A major component of devotion is acceptance. This means embracing your loved ones where they are at today, and not expecting them to be anything different. Don’t imagine them as some “better” version of themselves; see them for who they are and love them.Work to phase out the word "should" (and the attitude behind it). Anytime you find yourself beginning a sentence with the phrase “you should,” stop and ask yourself if it is important for you to tell your loved one what they “should” be doing.
Check your tendency to project. Whenever something about a loved one is bothering you (a bad habit, an annoying tendency), stop and take a look in the mirror. Could it be that this behavior gets under your skin because it is something you also do? Identifying this can diffuse the annoyance, and put it aside.
See the beauty in your loved ones today. Stop and appreciate something special about them that delights you.
 A pillar of devotion is the ability to put the needs of others before your own. This act is simple, but it is one that requires practice. The first step is to listen to your loved ones. Chances are, they are constantly communicating their needs; all you need to is pay close attention. Then, consider how you can meet their needs, even when (or especially when) this means that your own needs must wait.For example, this can be something as small as allowing them to watch the television program they want to (even when something you want to see is on), or going to a restaurant you don't like (but they do).
Alternatively, this could be something big, like allowing their elderly parent to move in with you. Although this may make your life difficult, it will make the life of your loved one a little better.
Make sure that you balance the needs of your loved ones with your own needs or you may start to become resentful. For example, if you let a loved on watch a television program even though there is something that you want to watch on at the same time, then make sure that you get to watch your program the next time you watch TV together.

