 Quickly eating your food can cause you to swallow air. This may be the cause of your bloating. Carefully chew your food for a few seconds before swallowing to prevent extra air from going into your stomach., The most common allergens that cause bloating are gluten and lactose.Gluten is found in wheat products while lactose is in dairy products. For a week, try avoiding all wheat products. If that stops the bloating, you may have a gluten intolerance. If you still have bloating, try avoiding all dairy the next week instead.


Gluten products include bread, pasta, cake, cookies, and anything that contains flour. Some soups and sauces also use gluten as thickeners. If you think you have a gluten intolerance, get a test for Celiac Disease from your doctor. Celiac disease is an inability to digest gluten, causing stomach pains and bloating.
Lactose is found in milk, ice cream, yogurt, and cream. If you think you have a lactose allergy, get an allergy test from your doctor.
 Bloating can be caused by having too little fiber in your diet, but if you start eating a high fiber diet immediately, you can cause more problems. Wait until the bloating has passed before you try increasing your fiber intake. Slowly add whole grains, raw vegetables, nuts, and fruits to your diet over the span of a few weeks. If this causes more bloating, cut back for a few days before trying again.Adult women and men should consume between 25 – 38 grams of fiber a day. Fiber can be found in grains such as oats, wheat, and unmilled rice.
 While your bloating is an issue, you should not eat certain foods, as these may worsen the issue. These foods, which are rich in short-chain carbohydrates called FODMAPs, may not be properly digested if you have other digestive or gastrointestinal problems. FODMAPs include carbohydrates such as fructose (sugar from fruit), lactose (sugar from dairy), and artificial sweeteners such as sorbitol and mannitol. While do you do not need to cut out these entirely, you should reduce your intake until your bloating is gone. These foods include:Apples
Pears
Dairy products
Asparagus
Brussel sprouts
Garlic
Legumes like lentils, beans, and chickpeas

, Fizzy drinks like soda and beer can release carbon dioxide gas in your belly, causing it to bloat. Save these drinks for special occasions to prevent problems., Chewing and sucking these can make you to swallow extra air, which can cause bloating. Furthermore, they may contain artificial sweeteners that can also give you bloating.