 Elder physical abuse is when physical force or violence is inflicted on elders that results in pain, bodily injury, or physical impairment. A sub division of physical abuse is domestic abuse, which is when a spouse is responsible for physical abuse. Signs of physical abuse include:


Bruises and injuries
Broken bones
Dislocations, sprains, or fractures
Scrapes on any part of the body
Burns from cigarettes, hot water, or appliances
Unexplained or suspicious injuries
A change in behavior towards others
Differing explanations of how injuries occured, Since elders can be weaker than others, they may be the target of sexual abuse. Sexual abuse is when any elderly person is subjected to unwanted sexual contact of any kind, from groping to intercourse, especially when he or she does not have the mental capacity to consent. Although the majority of sexually abused elders are women, it can happen to men as well.


Signs include physical pain, tenderness, or bleeding from the genital or anal region, bruises on the inner thighs or genitalia, clothing that is torn, bloody, or stained, and difficulty walking or sitting when there was no previous issue., The elderly may be subjected to psychological abuse. This type of abuse is the intentional and willful infliction of mental or emotional duress or anguish through humiliation, threats, or other verbal means. Common indicators of psychological abuse include:


Depression
Uncharacteristic confusion
Problems sleeping
Being emotionally withdrawn, upset, irritable, or non responsive
Signs that can be attributed to dementia, such as rocking or biting
Unexplained weight loss or weight gain
Unexplained stress symptoms, such as high blood pressure, Financial elder abuse covers any activity that takes the money or resources from an elder under questionable circumstances. This includes taking money or property, forging a signature to gain resources, using property or possessions without permission, taking money for services not given, and scams or cons of any nature. Signs include:


Unpaid bills
Withdrawals from accounts that can't be explained, which may be frequent
New legal documents
Missing property
Suspicious signatures on legal or bank documents
Implausible explanations of elderly finances by the caregiver or family, Neglect is when caregivers neglect to fulfill their responsibilities to provide adequate care. This can be active neglect, which is when they purposefully withhold care from the elderly person and may be motivated by financial gain or personal conflicts. It can also be passive neglect, which is when the caregiver does not have adequate knowledge, resources, ability, health, or maturity to be the proper caregiver anymore. Signs of this include:


Lack of necessities such as food, water, and heat
Inadequate living arrangements, such as poor ventilation, lack of utilities, unsafe wiring, and improper ventilation
Infestations of animals or insects
Medical mismanagement, including out of date, empty, or unmarked prescriptions
Presence of bedsores, skin rashes, or other preventable skin ailments
Improper hygiene
Dehydration
Absence of necessary aids, such as glasses, walkers, dentures, hearing aids, or braces
Untreated medical conditions, such as infections, soiled bandages, and unattended sprains or fractures