 Regardless of your fear, you should always ensure the safety of yourself and those around you. There are things you can do to help control the safety of your surroundings.


Lock exterior doors and windows.
Leave lights on at night, or use night lights.
Keep a cell phone with you.
Install an alarm system in your home.;
, It is a reality that some areas are prone to violence. You must be diligent about creating a sense of safety for yourself. In addition to the items listed above there are things you can do to guard against violence:


Always walk with another person. Never walk alone.
Avoid walking near dark areas, alleys and bushes. If you need to walk in the street be mindful of cars passing by as they may not see you.
Wear reflective clothing if you are walking at night so you will be seen.
Join neighborhood watch groups that focus on keeping your streets safe. You might make some friends and enjoy the experience of fighting crime.
If you are approaching your car stick the individual keys on your keyring between your fingers, like a cat's claws. Position each facing out so you could use it as a weapon to defend yourself.
Carry a loud alarm that you can set off in case someone approaches you against your will.
 Feeling physically vulnerable and defenseless can cause anxiety. Learning self-defense techniques may help you feel stronger and better able to protect yourself from possible dangers.


Consider taking martial arts or kickboxing classes. Physical activity will help manage stress and build confidence., When you find yourself thinking about these fears, look for ways to think about something else. Obsessive thoughts only get worse if you let them. Distracting your own thoughts can help stop the cycle of anxiety that comes with overthinking your fears.


Go for a walk or have a conversation with a friend to help refocus on something more pleasant.
 Read statistics about actual incidents of crime in your residential area. You will see that there are very few murders in your area when considering the size of the population. The goal is to give yourself a dose of reality so you can build healthier thoughts.


Research indicates the factors that contribute to a fear of crime are: gender, age, race, lack of neighborhood cohesion, lack of confidence in the police, levels of crime, experience of victimization, perception of risk and assessment of offense seriousness., Determine what you are afraid of and challenge it.Identifying specific fears will help you focus on finding a solution. Sit down and make a list of the things that lead you to be afraid of being murdered. For example, did you witness someone being assaulted or murdered when you were young? If so, you may have formed a fear that you will be murdered too.


Challenge your fears by listing possible solutions. For example, if you are afraid to take a shower because you think you will be attacked, you could lock the bathroom door and have a friend stand on the other side to warn you if something were to occur. This is a small step and not a long-term solution, but it is a good starting point.
 Most fears are managed by devising a plan of action. Overcoming a fear of being murdered is no exception. Identify what your main objectives are, set up the steps you will take and follow your plan.


Make a list of the things that you believe would contribute to you being murdered. Is your fear related to the neighbors that live down the street who you have never met?
Approach your dilemma one step at a time. Perhaps you could ask a neighbor who you trust to tell you what he knows about the neighbor. For example, you could ask, “What are your thoughts about the neighbor down the street? Do you think they are good people?”
Working toward a solution will help lessen your fear. Creating a plan of action helps you feel like you can do something to improve your situation. You can work toward a goal of visiting the neighbor to introduce yourself.
 To overcome a fear of being murdered you need to gradually work your way through the process. Research indicates that overcoming a fear is aided when a person faces the fear in an imagined situation or a live experience. Developing a positive habit is the desired goal.If you are afraid to go into your garage at night then build your courage by first opening the door and standing there for one minute. The next day place one foot inside the door and stand there for one minute. Slowly work your way up to standing in the garage for a few minutes.
Body language and specifically body posture can help you feel strong and courageous. Stand in the garage in an authoritative “power pose” stance. For example, place your hands on your hips like a superhero. Stand there a few minutes until the surge of adrenaline makes you feel powerful., It is important to allow yourself to be vulnerable when you are trying to create change. You are facing some hard truths that might make you feel uncomfortable. Be willing to feel, talk and take action rather than resist.


Being open with your emotions entails talking about what it feels like when you are in various situations. Do you get a lump in your throat? Do you feel uneasy and frightened like you on on the verge of panic? Do you have the urge to run away from situations and do you feel so unsafe that you cannot get into your car at night? Holding back your emotions and pretending you don't have reactions is the opposite of what you want to do.
Keep in mind that lightening the mood will allow you to feel free. For example, be playful and silly and laugh at yourself.It will set you at ease.
 Fear and phobias are not the same thing. When fear escalates to an extreme and irrational level, like if you stop leaving your home because you are afraid you might be murdered, it may be considered a phobia. Once you become educated, you will feel in command of yourself and your fears, which sets you on a path of healing.


The physical symptoms of a phobia include: sweating, shaking, feeling lightheaded, having difficulty breathing, panic attacks, crying, shaking, weeping, trembling, being constantly vigilant and never relaxing, avoidance and protective behaviors such as refusing to go out at night, obtain protective measures like watch dogs, electric fences, security systems with alarms.Emotional signs of phobia include: overwhelming anxiety or panic, fear of losing control or going crazy, or knowing you are overreacting but feeling helpless to stop.If you have been victimized in the past, then it is reasonable to expect that you would be fearful. It is when your thoughts, feelings and actions escalate to the levels noted above, you may in fact be experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder. Contact a mental health professional to receive an accurate diagnosis.

