 Starting from your main desktop screen there are two ways to find the System Preferences where the mouse and touchpad settings will be located:;
, The icon looks like a box with three gears inside it. Open that to find all your system preferences.


Alternatively, you can use the Spotlight feature. Just click on the magnifying glass icon in the top-right corner of your screen, right next to the clock, or use the hotkey function: the command button and the space bar.
 Click on the name to bring up the system preferences folder.


System Preferences is organized into parts and have helpful icons to help you find what you are searching for: Personal, Hardware, Internet & Wireless, System, and Other.
 The settings we need are located under the Hardware area; six icons to the right will be the trackpad settings. The icon is a gray box meant to resemble the trackpad.


If you want to bypass the System Preferences search, you can Spotlight for “Trackpad.” It will show up in the System Preferences highlight.
The most useful thing for these settings is that each bit that you can toggle or untoggle comes with a little video to the right of the option, showing you physically how to use this setting on your computer. If you are unsure if you want to use an option, hold your mouse over it and watch the little instructional video that will autoplay and replay.
 In the System Preferences window, the mouse settings are fifth to the right in the Hardware area, right before trackpad. Its icon is a little computer mouse.


If you want to bypass the System Preferences search, you can Spotlight for “Mouse.” It will show up in the System Preferences highlight.
 Under the Trackpad settings, make sure you are in the Point & Click tab. There are four options and a track speed slider included here.


The Macbook Pro’s trackpad has two clicking options. Pressing down works like a button; your trackpad will click and feel as if you pressed a button. This is how you can click, but there is an option to simply tap lightly on the trackpad instead. If you want this option, look to see if it has been toggled (a blue check mark would be in the box next to it).
The second option is called Secondary Click. This is similar to right-clicking. You can use the default option of just two fingers or a special option, which is offered in a drop-down box. The video on the right will show you how to use this option.
The Look Up option is useful for when you need to define a certain word on a site. You hover over the word and tap three fingers at once to bring up the dictionary term.
Three-finger drag is useful for quickly moving windows around on your screen while you are working. If you decide to use it, remember your cursor has to be on the window you want to move, and it must be a currently selected window.
Tracking speed is how fast the cursor follows your movements. It’s suggested to adjust the speed, as you feel necessary. Everyone is different—some like the cursor to be slower than their fingers, some like it to move faster than their fingers. Test a few speeds and adjust to how you feel.
 Four options are available in this setting bit. if you want to keep these options for your trackpad and either toggle them (have a blue check mark to the left) or untoggle them.The second tab in the Trackpad settings is the settings for scrolling and zooming on your Macbook. These are the most known settings for the Apple industry since they work on the iOS systems as well.


Scroll direction: natural—This is how you scroll contents by using the trackpad instead of holding the scroll bar and moving it on a screen that is too long to fit on your monitor.
The default scrolling is actually the opposite of a PC; the contents move with your fingers. Two fingers touch the touchpad, and by sliding them up, the content page moves upward, allowing you to see further down the page. By sliding down, the content scrolls down, letting you go back to the top of the page. If you untoggle this, it reverses itself.
 To zoom in, place two fingers together on the trackpad and slide them apart. For zooming out, pinch together two fingers.


Another way to zoom is to use Smart Zoom, which is the second option given. Simply tap twice with your two fingers at the same time, and it will automatically zoom in. You can have better control with the zooming in and out with pinching your fingers on the trackpad.
Usually meant for photo-editing, the Rotate function allows you to rotate a picture just by the twist of your fingers on the trackpad. With two fingers, you can turn a picture to the right or left by rotating your fingers while touching the pad.
 This last tab has many different options to adjust your trackpad to your desire, like being able to swipe between pages or full-screen apps, to bring up elements of your laptop such as the Notification Center, Mission Control, Launch Pad, and Desktop.


Use the App Expose so you can see all the currently open application windows. These work with three to four fingers, sometimes using the thumb for the ones where you pinch or spread your fingers (Notification Center only needs two fingers).
Some of these options have extra choices where you can change the finger command. It’s recommended that you go over the video of each option so you can make the best judgment to whether you want the option enabled or not.
 Under the Mouse settings, you can change the direction of the scroll. The natural option will be how the Macbook defaults the scrolling moves with your fingers—sliding downward moves the content up, so you can get to the bottom of the page, and sliding up brings you to the top of the page.


Untoggle this if you want the opposite actions.
In Trackpad settings you should have edited the Tracking speed, but you can also change the setting on this screen as well with the slider bar. If you are going to change this, make sure you move the mouse around so you know if you’re comfortable with it or not before exiting.
You can also change how fast your computer will scroll a page with your fingers. Bring up a page that has a scroll bar when you are editing this so you can test out the speed of the scrolling so you can set it to your preference.
 Slower speeds allows you to click things slower and still have them open. You shouldn’t have to mess with this sliding bar too much.


It’s recommended that you don’t change the Primary mouse button either. Changing it to Right would cause you to right-click everything instead of left-clicking. This setting is mostly for when you are using an Apple mouse and not the trackpad.
All your settings should save automatically, and when you feel comfortable, you can quit System Preferences by going up to the toolbar at the left top, next to the Apple icon. Select System Preferences and click the Quit System Preferences to close the program.

