 Mix one teaspoon of salt and one teaspoon of baking soda into a cup of hot water. These ingredients will react with the aluminum foil, which will help to clean and polish your silver.








Scale this recipe as needed. For example, if you have a larger piece of silverware, you may want to use 3 cups of water, in which case you should add 3 teaspoons each of baking soda and salt.
You can also add 1/2 cup of vinegar to the mixture for each cup of water. This will speed up the cleaning time.
Add the vinegar last, and be careful pouring it, as you will notice a reaction with the other ingredients.;
, To get started, boil some water. Then pour it into a pan that has been lined with aluminum foil. The aluminum foil is crucial to this process, so don't forget to line your container.








Make sure the pan is big enough to hold all of the silverware you want to clean. If you don't have a big enough pan, you can clean your silverware in several batches.
This process will cause the tarnish to leave the silver and stick to the aluminum in the foil. To avoid tarnishing your pan, you may want to avoid using an aluminum one.
 Once your solution is ready, place your silverware in the pan. Make sure that each piece of silverware is touching the aluminum foil and that no two pieces are overlapping.Avoid placing any silverware that has other materials (including other metals or stones) in this solution unless you have confirmed that this is a safe cleaning methods for those materials as well.
Do not place antique silver knives in this solution, as many are held together with glue, and the solution may dissolve the glue., Depending on how tarnished your silverware is, you will want to let it soak for between 30 seconds and several minutes. Once it appears clean, remove each piece and use a clean rag to buff it.








The water will still be hot, so it's a good idea to use tongs to remove the silverware from the pan.
Dry thoroughly to prevent water spots from forming on your silverware.

