 Open any web browser and go to the MSN Travel website. Press Enter to be directed to the website.;
, Click the “Sign In” option at the top right corner if you already have an account. Enter the your login details (Microsoft ID and password ) into the fields. Click “Sign In” to continue.


If you don’t have an account yet, click “Sign up” instead, and provided the required information to instantly get an account.
, The tab is located between “Hotel Search” and “Flight Status.” This will lead you to a new page asking for the flight information to be used to filter your search.
 The new page will have different fields to be filled in that are to be used as key points in the search. At the top you can find three options for type of trip, flight class, and number of passengers.


Select the type of trip—Click the arrow beside “Round trip” and two options will drop down: “Round trip” and “One way.” If you want to check for to-and-from flights, select “Round trip.” If the flight you want is just one way, click the other option.
Select the class—Flights have three classes: Economy, Business, and First. Click the arrow beside “Economy” and three options will drop down: Premium Economy, Business, and First. Click the option you want depending on your budget.
To add the number of passengers, click the arrow beside “1 adult.” Six options will drop down, ranging from 1–6 adults. Choose accordingly, depending upon on the number of adults that are travelling. As of now, there are no options for selecting the number of children travelling in MSN Travel.
 Enter the boarding station’s name in the “From” field and the destination station’s name in the “To” field, and then click “Depart” to select the departure dates. Set the respective departure date by clicking the calendar. If you are going to search for a round-trip, enter the return date by clicking “Return.”

, Once you’ve entered all the necessary information, click the “Search” button. This will give you a list of flights arranged according to Airline, Duration, Stops, and Price. Browse through the list, and decide accordingly which flights you believe make your journey economically feasible.

