 To do this, turn your focus outward. Instead of thinking primarily about what you need or want, look around you and think about the needs and wants of others. The first step to doing this may be simply to become more social; joining clubs or groups and cultivating relationships can keep you from feeling isolated, which can hinder empathy., If you feel as though you lack empathy, think about your childhood environment.Many times, a lack of empathy or the presence of prejudice begins at home.Becoming aware of the limitations or biases that you grew up with can lead you to break the cycle and become empathetic of others yourself. This will help you understand the humanity of others.


For example, you may have grown up hearing your mother and father making racial slurs. Acknowledge that your parents’ views were prejudiced, then think about what you can do to minimize or eliminate any lingering feelings about people of a different race in your own mind. You may also want to resolve that your own children will not have similar memories of their parents.
 Donating your time and money for an organization that helps other people can give you a broader view of the human condition. Find an organization that places volunteers “in the field,” talking to people who need help.
 Volunteering or spending time around people with different cultures or circumstances can give you a window into the living situations of others. To develop more empathy, try living the way that someone else lives for a while.


For example, if you wish to develop empathy for people who are living in poverty, find out what an individual’s weekly budget is. Then put away all of your comfort items (such as your cell phone, your tablet computer, your television, and your fancy crystal stemware). Try to live for 2 weeks the way someone in poverty would live.
Even if you don’t give up the roof over your head, sacrificing your luxuries and trying to feed yourself on an extremely limited budget can give you a good impression of the way other people have to live every day.
 If a particular type of person makes you feel somewhat uncomfortable, try talking to him. Finding the common humanity of people who we see as “others” can help us feel empathy towards them.For example, if dirty homeless people make you feel uncomfortable, try talking to someone who is homeless. Ask him what his name is and whether he has any family. Ask him his favorite food and what his favorite weather is. Then ask him about how he became homeless, where he sleeps at night, and how he gets regular meals.

