 Get out a small bowl and pour 1/4 (60 ml) of water into it. Sprinkle 1 tablespoon of powdered gelatin evenly over the water. Don't stir the gelatin into the water. Instead, just let it sit for 5 minutes. The gelatin will begin to soak up the water as it stands.;
, Wash 2 pints (680 g) of strawberries and put half of them aside. Use a sharp knife to trim off the stems from 1 pint (340 g) of the strawberries. Chop the strawberries into pieces. Sprinkle 3 tablespoons of the sugar over the strawberries and let them sit for several minutes while you prepare the rest of the strawberries.Letting the strawberries sit with the sugar is known as macerating the fruit. This will help the strawberries release their liquid and make the strawberry flavor stronger.
 Transfer the sugared strawberries to a food processor or blender and blitz the strawberries until they're slightly chunky. Set these aside and get out the remaining pint of whole strawberries. Trim off the stems and slice the strawberries. Sprinkle the last 3 tablespoons of sugar over the sliced berries.If you don't have a blender or food processor, you can use a fork or potato masher to mash the strawberries.
 Set a fine-mesh strainer in the sink or over a bowl and place the sliced and sugared berries in the strainer. Let them sit for a few minutes, so the liquid from the strawberries drips into the sink or bowl.Discard or save the liquid for another recipe. You want to remove the excess liquid, so the mousse sets up properly.
 Pour 1 1/2 cups (350 ml) of heavy cream into a large mixing bowl and add 3 tablespoons of powdered sugar along with 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Use a stand or hand mixer to whisk the cream on high speed. Whip the mixture for a few minutes, so the cream becomes stiff.Try to chill the bowl and whisk attachments before you beat the cream. This will help the cream whip up faster., Place the dish of gelatin in the microwave. Microwave it for 30 seconds, so the gelatin completely dissolves into liquid. Avoid boiling the gelatin. Pour the gelatin into a large bowl along with the pureed strawberries. Stir them well.You can also melt the gelatin over a double boiler, if you don't want to use the microwave.
 Gently scoop and fold the whipped cream into the strawberry gelatin mixture. Keep twisting your wrist holding a spatula, so that the cream is completely incorporated. Lay the sliced strawberries in the bottom of you serving bowl and scoop the strawberry mousse over the berries. Refrigerate the mousse for a few hours, so it sets up.Garnish the mousse with additional sliced berries.

