 Evelyn was a nurse, so she was especially thoughtful towards other people's feelings. She let Rafe off when he couldn't pass the eye test, because of his passion and strong will for flying. She forgot about her desire for Rafe as she was pregnant with Danny's baby.


Just remember that caring for other people's feelings doesn't necessarily mean forgetting about your own — although Evelyn was thoughtful, she was definitely not a pushover.;
, At no point in the movie do you see Evelyn raise her voice because of her emotions. She is extremely soft spoken and temper-controlled. This coincides with manners — when Danny knocks on her door and wakes Evelyn and the other nurses, she's polite and thanks him for dropping off her handkerchief when it wasn't necessary at all.
 Dignity is when you have the quality of being worthy of respect. Everyone deserves respect, but not everyone has self-respect, like Evelyn does. When Rafe was trying to ask Evelyn out on a date, she wasn't having any of it considering he was bent over with his backside on full display. She refused to accept his offer of going out on a date as he was asking very sloppily — until he made an effort and turned up to the hospital (Evelyn's workplace) at night, as she was leaving with her friends — with a bottle of champagne. This shows Evelyn was not easy to get, until Rafe made more of an effort to show how much she was worth.
 This may seem hard in today's modern generation, but having manners and class can really change the way you see yourself as well as how others see you. Evelyn was definitely liked by many due to her friendly and fun nature. Being a lady isn't walking around like you're the best there ever was; it's being generous, elegant and kind. Evelyn was all of these things.
 This may seem completely hypocritical as referring to the title of this how to. But, Evelyn was definitely full of life and let her personality shine through as well as having all of those previously mentioned good personality traits. She was definitely a joker — the 2nd to opening scene proves that — but she was well mannered and lady like too.

