 Sometimes you might have a personal conflict that can materially limit your representation of a client. If so, you must decline the representation. There are some standard personal conflicts you can easily recognize:


You are seeking a job with the law firm that represents the opponent.Here there is a conflict.
You are drafting a will or trust under which you will receive a substantial gift. A conflict exists unless you are related to the person.
You accept payment from someone other than the client. You can cure this with informed consent from the client.
 Lawyers are generally free to represent who they want. For example, you can represent a victim of workplace sexual harassment and also represent employers accused of sexual harassment. Although some lawyers represent clients on only one side of disputes, you are free to represent either side. However, a potential conflict could exist when you make inconsistent arguments in different cases. You should be alert to this at the conflicts check stage.


For example, you might represent a bank in a lawsuit involving whether certain late penalties are legal under state law. A person comes to your firm wanting to sue a different bank over its late penalties. If you win the lawsuit representing the bank, you could create legal precedent that works against your other client.
The Model Rules list several factors to consider, including whether the precedent will “seriously weaken” your other client’s case.However, any inconsistent position should be treated as a potential conflict, just to be safe.
 Many personal conflicts arise only after you start representing the client. Accordingly, you won’t catch these conflicts with a conflicts check. Nevertheless, you have an ethical duty to avoid conflicts throughout your entire representation. Some of the more common personal conflicts that can arise include:You want to enter a business transaction with a client or obtain a pecuniary interest that is adverse to a client. You can only do so if the terms are fair and reasonable and you notify the client in writing. You must get informed written consent from the client, and you should also advise them to seek independent legal advice.
You want to provide financial assistance to a client in connection with possible or existing litigation. Although you can advance court costs and other expenses as part of a contingency fee agreement, you can’t financially support a client.
You have a sexual relationship with a client that started after the representation. This is prohibited.
You try to get a proprietary interest in litigation apart from an authorized lien or reasonable contingency fee. This is prohibited.

