 You should not leave a wound improperly treated for long. As soon as you or the wounded party is stable enough to move, seek medical attention. If you have cellphone reception, call 9-1-1. If you do not have reception, move to an area where you get reception and make the call. It's critical to seek medical attention immediately if you've dressed or cleaned a wound without proper supplies.


If you're without a phone, find the nearest rode and try to flag down help.
If you're camping, make use of emergency devices. Use emergency flares to signal you need help, if you have them. You can also blow a whistle to try to get the attention of other campers or people nearby., A deep wound may require stitches. At the hospital, a doctor will evaluate whether stitches are necessary. If they are, you will receive stitches in the hospital after the wound is properly cleaned.Stitches that are applied quickly after a wound is discovered are unlikely to leave heavy scarring. It also greatly reduces the risk of infection.
There are many different types of stitches. The proper care protocol for your stitches depend on their type, and the amount. Talk to your doctor about follow up care for your stitches before leaving the hospital. Follow all your doctor's instructions regarding caring for your stitches at home.
 Not all wounds will require stitches. Some wounds merely need to be covered to prevent infection. At the hospital, you should receive proper covering for your wound.Adhesive tapes and bandages can be used to dress wound. You can also use paper tape, rolled gauze, or an elastic bandage.
At the hospital, a doctor or nurse will choose the best dressing for you given your wound's stage. As long as you're getting dressing from a hospital, it is probably clean and safe.
 A wound's dressing needs to be changed to prevent infection. As your wound heals, you'll need to change the dressing as it becomes messy or wet. Usually, you'll need to change the dressing at least once a day. For more serious wounds, dressing may need to be changed more often.Usually, your doctor will provide you with instructions on how to change your dressing before you leave the hospital. You can usually buy fresh dressing at a drug store. You doctor may also provide you with extra dressing before you leave the hospital.

