 In order to request a custody hearing, you will have to fill out a request for an order.This form will require you to divulge information including your request for custody and the facts supporting your request.These facts should indicate why you deserve custody of the child and how your custody request will be in the best interest of the child.
 Once you have filled out the required forms to request a custody hearing, you will want to review them carefully. These forms are going to be the basis of your custody argument, so you want to make sure they have been filled out accurately and completely. Because you will not have the help of an attorney, consider using some of the free legal resources available to you. For example, in California, you can contact a family law facilitator or a self-help center for assistance with these forms.If you are in California, use this link and this link for more information about those resources.
 Once your forms have been reviewed and you have determined they are ready to file, you will want to go to your local courthouse to file them. At the courthouse, file your forms with the clerk of courts.The clerk of courts will take possession of your forms and will require you to pay a filing fee.Fees will differ from state to state, and even county to county. If you cannot afford the fee, you can always ask for a fee waiver.In order to receive a fee waiver, you will need to show some sort of financial hardship.For example, you could show that you are receiving public benefits or that you do not have enough income to provide for basic necessities and pay the filing fee., After you have filed your request, the clerk of courts will schedule a court date and provide you with that information.In some states, the clerk of courts will also schedule a mediation, which will take place either prior to or in conjunction with your court hearing.
 When you serve the other party, you will hire someone (the sheriff or another competent adult) to give a copy of your filed documents to the other party to look over and respond to. To serve the other party, the person you hire must provide the required documents to them, either in person or through the mail.If you are serving someone through the mail, it must be sent by certified mail. In Pennsylvania, this process must be completed within 30 days of filing your documents with the court.In some states (e.g., Michigan), your answer must also be served on the other party at least five days before the hearing if you provided service through the mail, and at least three days before the hearing if you have the other party served personally.For more information about serving another party, look here.


In addition to serving the other party with the documents you filed with the court, you will be required to give the other party a blank response form they can use to respond to your petition., Once you have served the other party, have the server fill out a proof of service and give it to you so you can file it with the court.