 You should be able to find cases in most stores that sell iPhones, though you may also purchase them online. You can use glue, paint, and other materials to decorate the surface of a plain iPhone case.


Decide whether you want a soft (plastic/rubber) or hard (plastic or aluminum) case. Hard cases look sharp and sleek, and they may provide a smoother surface for decoration. Soft cases are more flexible, but they may tear more easily. Plastic cases may be more likely to crack under stress than metal cases, although you can find hard polycarbonate plastic cases that are built to absorb the impact of being dropped.If you want to experiment, consider buying the cheapest case that you can find. That way, if you don't like the result, you didn't spend too much money. Basic plastic cases are often cheaper than metal cases and "heavy-duty" cases.
If you are worried about dropping your phone, consider using a heavy-duty, shockproof, or "rugged" case as the base for your creation. These models are usually more expensive than plain cases, but they may protect your phone from the hazards of everyday use.
 Consider what you want your custom iPhone case to say about you. Before you begin to decorate the case, sketch out your design on a piece of scratch paper. This will help you perfect your vision, and it will give you a template to work from.









Consider writing your favorite quote onto the back of the case. You can do this with paint, stickers, permanent marker, or cut-out decoupage letters.
Consider drawing your favorite animal, your favorite anime character, or the logo of your favorite sports team. Try tracing the image onto a piece of paper before you move it to your iPhone case.
If planning isn't your style, then choose a medium (e.g. paint, decoupage, stickers, glitter glue) and improvise! Take it slow, and carefully consider each new addition. It may be very difficult to remove certain types of paint and glue.
 Consider what you'll need in order to make your design come to life. You will need some sort of adhesive--glue, paint, tape, etc.--to make your materials stick to the iPhone case.



Paint: You can find acrylic paint in a variety of colors at most arts-and-crafts stores. Watercolor and oil paints will not stick well to the surface of an iPhone case. Consider buying a paintbrush or a set of brushes; you may also try painting with Q-tips, sponges, or other absorbent household items.
Nail polish: Consider using nail polish to cheaply paint your iPhone case. If you don't already own the colors you need, you should be able to find an assortment of polish at a local drugstore. Be sure to have polish remover or rubbing alcohol on hand to clean up any mistakes!

Glue: If you want to attach any shapes or objects to your iPhone case, you'll need some type of glue. Any standard craft glue should suffice--but if you are committed to your design, consider using superglue or a hot glue gun for a long-lasting attachment. Keep superglue and hot glue away from your skin, and use them only sparingly.

Decoupage: Arrange paper shapes or pictures on the outside of your iPhone case, then brush a thin layer of decoupage glue over the surface to seal them in place. You can buy pre-mixed decoupage glue (e.g. Mod Podge) from an arts-and-crafts store, or you can make your own decoupage from regular craft glue by mixing 3/4 cup glue with 1/4 cup water.Stickers: Consider incorporating stickers into your design. Stickers are easy to apply and relatively easy to remove, but bear in mind that they may wear down more quickly than other decorations as they rub against fingers, fabric, and other surfaces. You make your own stickers using glue, packing tape, or sticker paper.
Glitter: Consider using glitter or glitter glue to jazz up your iPhone case. You will need to use an adhesive (e.g. glue, paint, tape) to make the glitter stick to the case. Consider using glitter with acrylic paint. Be careful: glitter rubs off easily and gets everywhere. You may find glitter in your purse, your pockets, your hair, and beyond.

Jewels: Consider bedazzling your cell phone with rhinestones, costume jewels, or other fake gems. You can find faux jewels at costume shops and arts-and-crafts stores. Some rhinestones come with peel-away adhesive backing, but otherwise you will need to use superglue to attach your gems.
Consider mixing media. There is no reason why you can't combine acrylic paint with stickers, decoupage with glitter, or rhinestones with all of the above. Get creative and dream big!

, Find a clean workspace, and give yourself plenty of time to unleash your creative flow.









Work carefully and methodically. Work from your sketch. Keep a small towel on hand to quickly wipe away any excess paint or glue before it dries.
Be sure to put down a layer or two of newspaper before you begin. If you work on top of the newspaper, you won't need to worry about spilling paint or glue onto any household surfaces.
 Leave the case alone for at least a few hours before you slip it onto your iPhone.


Do not touch paint until you are absolutely sure that it's dry. Even the slightest touch can leave an imprint that ruins your design.
Enjoy! Remember that once your decorations dry, you can always paint over your design if you don't like it.

