 Greens like kale and spinach are high in vitamins and minerals, making the veggies a great base for a smoothie. Greens contain lots of B vitamins and fiber, both of which can help you fight the signs of aging and prevent degenerative disease. Try blending one cup of greens with one cup of water, and then adding two cups of fruit.


Try a green smoothie with spinach, pineapple, and mango.
Make a green smoothie with kale, strawberries, and pineapple.;
, If you’re in a hurry, try grabbing an orange for an on-the-go anti-aging breakfast. Oranges help hydrate skin and cells, and are packed with vitamin C. Consuming vitamin C can help your body produce collagen more effectively.Add a glass of orange juice to your breakfast for an anti-aging boost.
Take an orange to work with you as part of a portable breakfast. Keep the size to 4 oz., though, to limit natural sugars.
 This fruit is packed with monounsaturated fat, which can help hydrate your skin. Monounsaturated fats also help your body absorb nutrients from other foods, making avocado an easy choice for an anti-aging breakfast.Spread some avocado on a piece of whole grain toast and serve with half a grapefruit.
Add avocado to your green smoothie for a boost of healthy fats.
 A pomegranate is filled with nutrients that can help offset sings of aging. The fruit can help treat and even prevent high cholesterol, high blood pressure, and inflammatory disease. Pomegranates have also been shown to reduce risk factors associated with heart disease.Add a glass of pomegranate juice to a breakfast of turkey bacon and avocado toast.
Upgrade your smoothie or bowl of oatmeal by adding pomegranate.
 Eating grapefruit can help lower “bad” cholesterol in your body, while increasing levels of “good” cholesterol. Grapefruit has also been linked to weight loss and improved insulin resistance, making it a smart addition to any anti-aging breakfast.Be aware that grapefruit can interact with some medicines, like Warfarin. Talk to your doctor to confirm it’s safe for you to eat or drink grapefruit.
Try eating half a fresh grapefruit for breakfast, pairing it with lean protein, like chicken breakfast sausage.
Add a glass of grapefruit juice to any breakfast for an anti-aging boost of vitamin C.
 This tiny fruit is packed with micronutrients. Diets rich in blueberries have been linked to improved motor skills and memory, decreased risk of heart attack, and lower cholesterol levels. Try eating one cup or 15 grams of blueberries three to four times per week as part of an anti-aging breakfast.Add a handful of blueberries to a small bowl of Greek yogurt for a quick, easy breakfast.
Grab a whole-grain blueberry muffin for an on-the-go breakfast.

