 Make an effort to eat less than you’re currently eating. Reduce your daily calorie intake gradually for the first week or so, then stick with an approximate amount that will allow you to lose weight without leaving you feeling totally wiped out. Counting calories isn’t a lot of fun, and it definitely requires discipline in the long run, but it’s a surefire way to achieve a leaner physique.The most elementary rule of dieting is that if you burn more calories than you consume, you’ll lose weight.
Consult with a nutritionist, keep a food journal or use a calorie-counting app like MyFitnessPal to track the nutritional value of the food you eat and calculate how many calories you need to keep making progress.;
, In order to keep your calorie intake low, the first things you should eliminate from your diet are salty, sugary, overly-processed foods and snacks. Say goodbye to French fries, pizza, cake and candy. Sweets and fatty foods contain more concentrated doses of calories per serving size, which means you can eat them in the same portions as other healthier foods and still gain weight. Junk food is a death trap for those seeking to lower their body fat percentage.The food you eat should be grilled, baked, broiled or steamed. Stay away from fatty additives like butter and oil.
One simple way to drastically reduce the number of calories you’re getting is to stop eating fast food and drinking soda. This allows most people to lose an additional 2-3 pounds a week., Low-calorie, filling food are key to your success. 400 calories of vegetables will fill you to the brim while 400 calories of oil or fried chicken will leave you wanting more. Know what to eat to trick your body into telling you it's finished.


Fruits, vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy and lean meats are all low-calorie dense foods that will help you lose weight. Fruits and veggies are mostly water-based and contain very few calories and very little fat--on the other hand, 1 g of fat is nine calories in itself. So stay away from processed goods and go green. And red, orange, blue, and yellow.

Fiber is great for you, too, and only has 1.5-2.5 calories per gram. Most legumes, nuts, and seeds are excellent sources of this.
 4 oz of lean chicken is good for you...until you slather it with butter and Colby-Jack.


When preparing meat, take the skin off and trim the fat. And don't coat it in bread crumbs or other unnecessary additives.
Don’t deep fry any food. Even if it's a vegetable; it loses its nutritional value when fried.

Steam your food instead and add lots of spice. Steaming your food instead of frying it will cut down on fat and calories, and spices will spike your metabolism.
 Starving yourself is not the key to losing fat -- it's choosing the right foods that will burn the fat for you. Throw out the junk in your pantry and stock up on the good stuff:


Fatty fish high in omega-3s help reduce the levels of leptin in your body. And that guy keeps hunger at bay and ups your metabolism. If you're not a seafood fan, talk to your doctor about taking fish oil supplements. Not as good as the natural thing, but still beneficial.An apple a day keeps the fat at bay. Apples are full of pectin, which reduces the amount of fat your body absorbs. They're also fiber-full and calorie-low, so they're really the perfect snack. Did we mention delicious?
Add ginger and garlic to your meals. Ginger widens your blood vessels, garlic lowers your insulin levels, and both increase your metabolic rate.
Use olive oil as your primary cooking oil. Even though oil is fat, olive oil is full of the good kind (monounsaturated) that helps lower cholesterol levels, and has many other health benefits, too., Water is the breath of life and of weight loss. Minimize your appetite (and clear your skin!) by drinking morning, noon, and night.


Drink two glasses of water before every meal. You will feel fuller faster (say that three times fast) and not have room for more calories.
While each person's hydration needs are different, the Institute of Medicine advises that men and women try to consume about 3.7 and 2.7 liters of water a day, respectively, including water found in food and other beverages .

Green tea is a good idea, too. It's loaded with antioxidants and may help increase your metabolic rate.Whatever you do, cut out the sodas and alcohol. They're just empty calories that pack on the pounds silently without even making you feel full.
 Eating 5 to 7 small meals a day leads to quicker weight loss than any other meal routine. You will feel fuller all day, removing the urge to overeat.


Keep your snacks healthy. Measure out portions of your favorite healthy snacks (carrots, grapes, nuts, or yogurt) and package them for easy access throughout the week. Instead of working all day, you'll be working and snacking, keeping your metabolism up.
Don't skip breakfast! Your body needs that kick in the morning to get reminded to get going. Not only will you be more likely to lose weight, you'll probably keep it off too .

