 Try and examine your life from a neutral perspective, without making excuses for bad behavior or over-praising good behavior. If you were your own friend, what advice would you give yourself? What would you want to change? What is going really well?


Make a little list of your own "pros" and "cons." Can you expand or spend more time on any of the good things, and can you eliminate some of the bad?

, Sometimes what we want or "need" to do is not really what is best for us. You need to learn to weed out things that drain your energy without giving you anything positive in return. For example, as much as you love your friends, going out to the bars the night before a big test is not always the best way to spend your evening. On the flipside, spending 2 weeks studying for a test and ignoring your friends can damage important relationships and lead to unwanted stress. Remember that you need to put your own health and happiness first -- no one will blame you for that., Make time in your day for the things that are important to you, but don't make yourself so busy that you can't be spontaneous every now and then. Having a schedule makes you more likely to stick to your goals and keeps you doing the things that matter the most to you. If, for example, you want to be a better writer, schedule 30 minutes each day to write. This makes it easier to tell someone you are busy when offered work or plans. Having some free time, however, makes it easier to fit in a last-minute plan here and there.
 If something makes you stressful, anxious, or upset, find a way to cut it out of your life. This isn't always easy, but it is necessary to make your life better overall. Examine the patterns in your life that make you unhappy and think of ways to improve them. Relationships, work, and bad habits should all be reflected on from time to time.
 Start your morning by getting up for the day with vibrant energy. Wake up early and prepare breakfast. Make sure you clean up your mess as you go. Do 15-20 minutes of exercise or yoga, read the paper, and ignore social media or TV for a moment. Starting your day with productive energy makes it much easier to get off on the right foot for a better life.
 You can't change what has already happened, so stop trying to try. Remind yourself every day that all you can do is work on the present, and make that your priority. This allows you to develop smart, effective habits that will, in time, make you a better person.


Practice meditation daily to focus your thoughts.
Work on mindfulness techniques.

