 You will need rags, a bucket, screwdriver or wrench for undoing the P-trap, and a wet and dry shop vacuum (also known as a shop vac).
 Position the bucket directly underneath the P-trap below the sink.
 This is the curved pipe that is often held together with screws or slip nuts. Make sure that the bucket is directly below to catch any of the standing water left in the pipes.


Depending on what the P-trap is held together with, you will use a screwdriver or wrench to turn the screws or slip nuts in a counterclockwise fashion to loosen them and then use your fingers to pull the loosened parts out completely.
 Every sink has two pipes, a vertical and horizontal one that intersect at an angle. You will be connecting the shop vac to the vertical pipe, also known as a stopper, that runs up into the sink.
 Place the nozzle directly from below in order to create as much of a seal as possible.
 Shop vacs have an option to vacuum wet or dry and in this case you want it to vacuum fluids to catch the clog.
 Doing so will ensure you have the tightest seal possible which will in turn help with the suction.


While maintaining your grip on the shop vac nozzle, seal the sink with a drain stopper and also plug up any open pipes where the P-trap was located by stuffing them with rags.
 If you cannot feel anything moving, you may want to allow a little air through by releasing the sink stopper for a few seconds at a time.
 Turn it on and off for a few seconds at time. Doing this will create more suction and help loosen the buildup, particularly if it is a very compact clog.
 If the shop vac’s suction is strong enough, the clog may directly shoot through the pipe and into the vacuum bag.Otherwise, you may need to use your hands to pull out the clog once it has moved down the pipe into a reachable distance.
 Remove the nozzle of the shop vac and, using either a screwdriver or wrench, put the P-trap back into the piping. Again, make sure to tighten the screws or bolts well to avoid water leaking.

