 Speak the truth in love as the Bible says, and then you do not let people walk all over you (seeking their own good). If you allow it, they will think that is perfectly acceptable, and will continue to do so. You need to stand up for God's way. Agree together, and then God's will can be done in your life for you. If you stop listening/accepting, you cause others to not accept or listen to you/your points. Don't ignore the truth, but rather speak the truth about what you are feeling, and saying in love. Say what you need, to others. But try to always say it in an non-accusing, and calm way.


Peter said, "Be sober and self-controlled, and be on the alert. The great accuser, the Devil, is going about like a roaring lion to see whom he may devour." (1 Peter 5:8);
, Care about yourself. The amount that you care about and respect others is the amount that others will care about and respect you too. If you don’t respect yourself, others probably won’t respect you either. See yourself as what you are, a creation of God that is fearfully and wonderfully made.
 The only being alive that should have power over you is God, not people.


There is a famous quote: "No one can have power over you without your consent." You can give power to others over you by how you act and by what you say. People do not have that much power unless you give it to them.
You allow certain people to be in your life, and you allow certain behaviors to happen simply by being around certain people. If you do not like certain things, you have the power to walk away and end the relationship/friendship, etc. You are not a victim to things that happen to you. You choose them.
 The Bible says, "In your anger do not sin." And, the Bible tells us there we are to have self-control. Some like to say that someone "made" them mad. But another person cannot "make" you mad. You make yourself mad by how you choose to think and to react.


You may have certain expectations that make you mad, or you may care too much what another person says, or does. Granted sometimes people might push your buttons on purpose, in which case you need to separate yourself from that person in order to calm down. But generally, you can choose to get mad or choose to not get mad.
Proverbs 19:11 says, "Good sense makes one slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense." You can choose to take offense of you can choose to overlook an offense (or decide: "That does not offend me.").
 If you never stand up for yourself, abuse may continue. And, if you would do well, you must serve others. If you never speak the mind of Christ, others will think they can control you or dominate you. When it's your call, deal fairly: so let the other go first and then say "My turn!" "Life and death are in the power of the tongue." Truth that you say will determine what you and others expect and will work for, call and urge into your future. Your words have power, to guide and protect you, and so protect others. You can speak life over your future and your situations. If you speak defeat/curses for yourself, or curses on others -- you cut your feet out from under you. Speak life, truth -- and speak victory when you "Bless, and curse not."

, Others will not just automatically respect you, you have to earn that respect. This is sometimes why arguments in relationships are necessary. People argue to regain respect that may have been lost. Anger is an attempt to regain respect, and it often works. Of course, it is better to earn respect by showing respect to others. The Bible says, "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you." Because generally, the kindness/fairness with which you treat others is how kindly and fairly people will treat you, if they are interested in agreeing with you.



"...I say to every one of you: Do not think of yourself more highly than you ought, but rather think of yourself with sober judgment, in accordance with the faith God has distributed to each of you." (Romans 12:3).
 You are not only called to love others as a Christian, but you also need to love yourself, but only as much as you love them. For Jesus said, "What amount you measure out to others, the same measure will be measured back to you.", and He also said, "Love your neighbor as you love yourself." This means respect yourself, exactly as much as you respect others. Christians often think they need to be self-sacrificing to the point of forgetting their own needs almost completely. But think about it; Jesus ate when he was hungry. He slept when he was tired. He went away to be by himself when he needed some alone time. He had friends to teach -- or to talk to when he needed them.


Jesus took care of himself. It is okay to take care of yourself. It is not a sin to take care of yourself first. For some reason many Christians think that it is a sin, even if they don’t realize that they do. Also remember that you cannot really be strong for others, at least not well, until you strengthen yourself first.
Ask God what you should do: "You don't even know what tomorrow will bring--what your life will be! For you are like fog that appears for a little while, then vanishes. Instead, you ought to say, 'If it is the Lord's will, we will live and do this or that.'


, The reason people get mistreated sometimes is because they don’t set up boundaries of what is okay, and don't ask or seek agreement with others. "Where two are three agree together, on anything, there I am in their midst!" So, such agreement is required to get God's blessing (for he will be with whoever is doing His will). Not agreeing together may come from having too much fear of man or avoiding choosing words of agreement in submission to the Truth, the Life and the Way. This comes from worrying that people will disagree or get mad at you, and cut you out of the loop. Those fears can keep people enslaved and easily dominated or controlled by others. But Jesus calls Christians to freedom. "He who the son sets free is free indeed." Amen? This includes being free from controlling one another as well.


On goals, Paul said, "I pursue as my goal the prize promised by God's high calling in Christ Jesus.

All of us, then, who are mature should take such a view of such things. And if on some point you think differently (from others), that too God will make clear to you.

Only let us live up to what we have already attained." (Philippians 3:14-16)



