 Basic M.A.S.H. consists of only four categories:

People you're going to marry: choose two people you love, one person who you think is okay, and another person you would NEVER want to marry.










 


Number of kids you're going to have: This goes on the bottom of your paper, you'll want to put down the numbers "1, 2, 3, 4".













The car you'll have: This will go on the left side of your paper. Choose 4 cars you want or choose 4 cars for the other person.
M.A.S.H. Write M.A.S.H. at the very top of your sheet. M.A.S.H. represents your home: 'M' meaning you will live in a mansion, 'A' meaning you'll live in an apartment, 'S' meaning you'll live in a shack, and 'H' meaning you'll live in a house.;
, You'll need to choose a number so you can go around the paper and cross off different options (this will be explained in the next step).









There are many ways to choose your number -- you can close your eyes and dot the paper until someone tells you to stop and then count how many dots you have, or you can close your eyes while making a spiral and count how many times you went around. In the example shown, there are eight dots on the paper, so eight will be the number used for this game.
 Starting from the 'M' in "M.A.S.H.," start going around your paper. In the example shown, the number chosen was eight so you will want to move eight steps to the right. Starting from 'M' it will go:









M - Step 1
A - Step 2
S - Step 3
H - Step 4
Harry - Step 5
Niall - Step 6
Zayn - Step 7
Liam - Step 8

, Since eight was the number chosen for the number of steps in the example, "Liam" will be crossed off since it was on the eighth step. Depending on your chosen number, something else might be crossed off.









For example if your number was 3, the 'S' in "M.A.S.H." would be crossed off. If your chosen number was 11, the number 2 at the bottom would be crossed off. If your chosen number was 6, whose ever name you put in the "Niall" slot would be crossed off.
 Now that "Liam" is crossed off in the example, you'll want to keep going around the paper using the same chosen number. After "Liam" comes the number 4 at the bottom:









4 - Step 1
3 - Step 2
2 - Step 3
1 - Step 4
Garbage Truck - Step 5
Jeep Wrangler - Step 6
Honda Civic - Step 7
Mercedes Benz - Step 8. So now that the second eighth step has been reached in the example, it will be crossed off.
Keep going around the paper as explained, but in this example the next eighth step is "Liam" and that's already been crossed out! What you do is skip over "Liam" since it's already been crossed out and cross out the next item, which in this case is the number "4."

, As you keep going around the paper crossing things off, your list in each category will get smaller and smaller. If you follow the example, you'll notice that the car category is the first to be left with only one choice! The remaining car is circled (to denote that this is the car that you will drive in the future). Then keep counting around the paper, skipping over the cars section.
 Keep going around and round until you completely finish the game. Once you finish, you can interpret the results! In the example, 'M', 'Harry', '5', and 'Garbage Truck' ended up being circled. If you were using the example that would mean that you would be living in a mansion, married to Harry, with 5 kids and your car would be a Garbage Truck.









Have a friend do it for you and you do it for a friend. Then present them with their future once you're done!

