 If you know that you will be working late every day, you should work on meal prep on the weekend. For example, separate vegetables and meat (raw or cooked) into single-serving portions. Freeze them in separate containers so you can easily and quickly combine ingredients into a stir fry or casserole.Make granola, homemade granola bars, breakfast muffins, or hard-boiled eggs to eat as snacks over the next few days.
Instead of buying prepackaged unhealthy freezer meals, make large batches of food on the weekend that you can freeze for the week. Casseroles are great for freezing and heating back up. Search online for recipes that are great for freezing.
 If you don’t think you will have time to do meal prep on the weekends, buy your food already pre-chopped and pre-separated. You can find pre-cut veggies, like broccoli, cauliflower, or squash, individually wrapped cuts of meat, or pre-packaged fruit and nut butters. Go for healthy soup or side dish mixes to help make it easier.You can grab your pre-chopped ingredients to make a quick lunch or dinner, or take them as a snack.
 Sometimes cooking meals is time intensive because you have multiple dishes to make in multiple pots and pans. Instead, work on putting everything together in one pot. This might be a crock pot, a stove top pot, a wok, a skillet, or a casserole dish.For example, you can throw all your vegetables and some chicken or beef into a wok or skillet to make a stir fry or saute dish. Try putting meat, vegetables, and sauce into a casserole dish for a quick healthy meal.
Most one pot meals make enough that you can carry leftovers for lunch or eat them the next night.
 Cooking with a slow cooker can save you a lot of time. You can throw your pre-chopped ingredients into the slow cooker in the morning, and then when you get home at night, dinner will be done. Slow cooker recipes can be healthy and delicious, and you can cook a wide variety of foods in one.Search online for slow cooker recipes. You don’t have to cook just chili or stew. You can cook just about anything in a slow cooker.
 If you live with someone who shares your healthy priorities, try alternating which nights you cook or pack lunches. Sharing the responsibility makes it easier to stick to a healthy diet when you are busy., If you are too busy to do your own shopping, have someone else do it for you. Many grocery stores offer delivery where you select your foods online and have them delivered straight to your door. You may also choose a healthy snack subscription service, where every month you get a box in the mail full of healthy, convenient snacks.There are also services that will deliver all the ingredients and the recipe for healthy meals to your door. All you have to do is put all the ingredients together and cook them.
Though some of these services can be pricey, it may be worth the convenience of you having healthy foods delivered straight to your door so you don’t have to take the time to do it yourself.

