 Gold is a very dense metal, so it will be heavier than it looks. Use a jeweler’s scale to determine the exact weight of the gold.Gold bullions typically have their weight inscribed on them. Make sure the actual weight matches this inscription.
Many gold coins and pieces will also have their weight stamped on them. Check that the weight is accurate.;
, Gold should be small compared to its weight. Fake gold pieces may have a heavier weight but also be too large for the weight to match the weight of real gold.


Check the diameter and thickness of any gold coins you’re considering buying. The specifications for collectible coins can be found in numismatic guides or online.
Gold bars are sold in many different sizes, but the size of a standard gold bar is 7”x 3 ⅝” x 1 ¾” and weighs 400 ounces or 27.5 pounds.
Determine the actual volume of irregular objects, such as rings, by placing them in a graduated cylinder accurate to .1 milliliters(mLs). Place 20mLs of water in the cylinder and add the object you wish to test. Record the difference in water level. 1 cubic centimeter is equal to 1 mL.
 Density is a measurement of mass per volume. Once you know the weight of the gold and its volume, you can easily calculate density by dividing the mass by the volume.24 karat gold has a density of 19.3 grams per cubic centimeter.
18 karat gold has a density of 15.6 grams per cubic centimeter.
14 karat gold has a density of 13.1 grams per cubic centimeter.
 Gold will be stamped with the karat weight or purity of the gold as well as the manufacturer’s name. The stamp will typically be on the clasps of jewelry.Typical karat markings are 10K, 14K, and 24K
Some counterfeit gold will have a karat stamp on it, but rarely have a manufacturer’s name.
 As a precious metal, gold does not tarnish or rust. If you see any discoloration on the metal, it is a sure sign that it is not pure gold.If your skin becomes discolored or greenish when wearing golden jewelry it is likely a bronze mixed with copper. Pure gold does not cause a reaction when worn against the skin for extended times.

