 You might be scared or nervous to tell your parents or friends about the problems you have. A therapist is someone you can talk to and trust. They can help you work through problems and make changes to help your life feel more stable. A therapist can help you cope with problems, find ways to relieve stress, and can help you talk about your struggles in a safe and supporting environment.Usually you would need to see a therapist for about an hour every one to four weeks as they deem appropriate.
If you can’t seem to get your thoughts and emotions together and they’re greatly impacting your life, you may want to talk to somebody about depression or anxiety.
Your therapist won’t share information with your parents unless you tell them it’s okay or else if they think you might put yourself or others in danger. However, your parents will have to give consent for you to receive therapy, so you will need to talk with them first if you think you need to see a therapist.;
, If you have a mental health diagnosis you may benefit from taking medications. Medications are sometimes used alongside therapy to help you feel more balanced and stable. Depending on your diagnosis, your provider may prescribe something to treat your symptoms and help you feel better.You might experience some side-effects, so talk to your provider regularly in case something needs to change. Report extreme or sudden side-effects to your provider immediately.
Keep in mind that these medications don’t work right away. They take some time to work. Be sure to take your medication exactly as prescribed by your doctor and do not stop taking the medication without talking with your doctor first.
 If you’re struggling to function and make it through the day, you may need a higher level of care. Residential treatment facilities allow you to live in a center that’s much nicer than a hospital but allows you to get the care you need. You can also look into a short-term residential treatment program. You may go to a residential facility for a drug or alcohol problem, an eating disorder, or for a psychiatric problem. These facilities often include a school component so you don’t fall behind. Mostly, the focus on getting you feeling well enough to return to regular life and being able to cope well with school, friends, and family.Residential treatment might last weeks or months. Treatment usually includes seeing a therapist, psychiatrist, and other medical doctors to treat physical and emotional health problems. Therapy usually includes group and individual therapy and there are other activities as well that are intended to be therapeutic.
 If you have a mental health diagnosis and are struggling at school, you can get some assistance. For example, if you’re finding it difficult to stay on top of your homework or are stressed or frustrated, talk to your guidance counselor. They can help you with a plan to lower your stress at school and give you resources to succeed.Students with mental health problems are often protected by laws and have resources available to help them succeed. Your guidance counselor can help set up meetings to discuss what will help you most in school.
 Most people approach problems by either avoiding them or going right into problem-solving mode. Instead, practice turning toward your difficult or painful emotions and acknowledging them. This can help you respond without reacting. When you’re quick to blurt out or stomp off or say something you might regret, take a few breaths instead. Taking a couple breaths can help your brain think clearly and can stop your immediate reaction.For example, instead of saying, “I can’t believe you would say that, you’re such a jerk!” take a pause before responding. Notice if you feel defensive or hurt. Explore your own thoughts and feelings without judging them or responding to them.
Try talking with a trusted friend or family member to get some perspective and identify your feelings. It might be easier for someone on the outside of the situation to see why you are reacting in a certain way.
In some cases, sleeping on it might be the best reaction.
 Even if you feel alone and want to isolate, don’t give up on your friendships or your family. Everyone struggles with something, so you’re not the only one with a flaw. Stay engaged with social activities and meet up with friends regularly. Ask for help when you need it and be upfront with how you feel.Talk to your friends, even if you fear they might not understand you. You might be surprised by how they respond. It can be as simple as saying, “Can you talk?”
Stay involved in social activities with friends. Call friends and see what they’re up to and do activities like game nights and bowling. Don’t let your social life slip away.
If you don’t have many friends, join a club or volunteer. You can meet other teens who have similar interests as you.
 Start to notice your negative thoughts when they come up. Counter your negative thoughts with a positive one, such as, “Maybe I made a mistake, but I’ll get it right next time.” Write your positive thoughts down and say them out loud to yourself and to other people. These different ways of expressing the thought will help to solidify them in your brain. Every time you find yourself in negative thoughts, look for an opportunity to be positive and think positively. You can also enlist friends and family to help you do this. Remember that things are rarely as bad as you think they are, so maintain a positive perspective and don’t jump to conclusions.For example, if you’re feeling unstable, remember a time that you felt calm, collected, and fully stable. Think about how it felt in your body and try to feel that way in this moment.
 A journal can be one way you communicate your thoughts and feelings without having to talk about them with anybody else. It can also help you track how you feel. For example, are there certain times of day, week, or month where you feel more unstable? You can track your triggers and stressors and learn a little about what causes you to feel unstable. A journal is also a healthy way to explore your emotions such as anger, sadness, frustration, and disappointment.Get in the habit of writing in your journal every day. Set aside time in the mornings or at night to write about your day, how you feel, and what triggers you. Pay attention to what time of day works best for you. You may find that you are too tired to journal at night or that you get too emotional if you journal first thing in the morning.
 If you have a friendship that’s constantly on the rocks or someone in your life that you’re always fighting with, consider adjusting this relationship. If it’s a friend, create some distance in the friendship by texting or calling less often or spending less time together. Make some new friends that you get along with better. If it’s a family member or parent, try avoiding topics you know you’ll disagree on and act neutrally toward one another. If you know a place will cause stress or problems, stay away from it. You don’t need to walk into problems. Keep your distance.Part of being stable is creating a stable environment for yourself. Avoiding problems and stress can help you do that. However, keep in mind that you cannot eliminate all stressors. Identify the ones you can control and work on those.
 Exercise is an important part of feeling healthy, and you should aim to get 60 minutes of exercise each day.Exercise can help you strengthen your muscles and bones, control your weight, and improve your mental health and mood.If you have a hard time sticking with exercise, it’s best to focus on activities you enjoy. You can also try out different activities or invite a friend to join you to help make exercising more fun.


For example, take a dance class, karate class, or attend yoga. You can join school sports teams or other community activities.
 Most teens need between 8-10 hours of sleep each night.If you have problems falling asleep, start a bedtime routine that helps your body calm down so that it can rest peacefully. Stop eating 2-3 hours before you fall asleep. Do some relaxing activities before bedtime such as journaling, reading, or taking a bath. Turn off the TV or cellphone as the light can be disruptive. Clear your mind and don’t focus on your worries for the next day; try to clear your mind so you can trail off.Do some relaxation before bed. Try some gentle yoga, meditation, or progressive muscle relaxation.
 Find some healthy outlets for stress, such as relaxation. Relaxation can help you cope with daily stressors and relieve them regularly. Practicing relaxation for 30 minutes each day can keep depression away and can help stabilize your moods.Get in the habit of practicing stress reduction by setting aside time every morning or night for a practice.


Find relaxation methods that feel good and that you want to do every day. Try daily yoga, progressive muscle relaxation, qi gong, tai chi, or meditation. You can sue guided meditation, take a meditation class, or meditate on your own after you learn how.
 Alcohol and drugs often lead to altered states, which can include confusion, hallucinations, delusions, and delirium. Drugs alter the chemicals in your brain, so if you’re already struggling with instability, it’s best to keep far from substances and alcohol. Substances can trigger psychosis or other psychiatric problems, so staying sober can help you manage your moods and mental abilities more soundly.Stay away from peers who use drugs and alcohol. Have friends that don’t do drugs and you’ll be less likely to do them, too.
It’s okay to say “No thanks” if you’re offered drugs or alcohol. You can also walk away or say, “I don’t do that.”

