 You can buy screw extractors individually at a hardware store as needed, or you can buy a set of screw extractors at a hardware store or home improvement centre.
Drill bits suitable for drilling into hard metal (e.g., high speed steel, titanium coated, or tungsten carbide), to drill into the embedded screw. You will need a 1/8" bit to drill a pilot hole, and additional bits in 1/16" or 1/8" increments up to the size hole recommended in the instructions that come with the screw extractor—typically 1/8" smaller than the screw you are extracting.
A sharp, pointed centre punch made for punching into metal.
A hammer.
A T-shaped tap handle from a tap and die set.
A padded work glove (optional).
Cutting oil (optional).
Locking (preferably) or slip joint pliers (optional).;
,, Using larger drill bits, in 1/16" or 1/8" increments, enlarge the hole until you reach the diameter recommended to accommodate the extractor. Be careful to keep your drill centred in the screw, drilling straight down the center line toward the screw's point (see Warnings below). Drill to the depth recommended in the screw extractor's instructions, typically about 3 times the diameter of the largest bit used to make the finished hole. When using the extractor, you do not want the extractor's point to bottom out before the lands (threads) engage the sides of the hole securely.
 Then, using a tap handle (the T-shaped handle that comes with a tap and die set), twist the extractor counter-clockwise into the pilot hole. As the screw extractor tightens itself into the broken screw, the screw will slowly start to turn. Using a padded work glove will enable you to get a firmer grip on the tap handle. If you use a tool to turn the extractor, take care to turn the extractor exactly around its axis; avoid any lateral pressure on the tool, as this may unseat the extractor.
 Or, once enough of screw emerges from the surface, you may switch to locking (preferably) or slip joint pliers to continue turning the screw to complete the removal; the pliers may give you more leverage.

