 If you are in immediate danger of being abused, get yourself as far away from the person as you can and call 911 right away to get help. Try to get out of the house and go somewhere public if you can. If not, barricade yourself in a room until help arrives.
 Sexual abuse can happen often or only once. Either way, it can be difficult to determine what is and is not considered abuse. Learning more about what qualifies as sexual abuse or assault may help you to respond in the right way. For example, you might be under the impression that a person can’t be sexually assaulted by their spouse. This assumption is not true, but it sometimes stops people from getting help.Consider the following questions to determine if you have been sexually abused:Has someone made sexual contact with you or unwanted physical contact with you without your explicit permission?
Has someone coerced you into having sex with them despite your explicit requests that they stop? This could include making threats or making you feel guilty for saying no.
Does someone often exert control, either physical or psychological, over your intimate activities? This could include intentionally making you afraid or guilty about leaving them or coercing you to have intimate contact with other people who you don’t wish to be intimate with.
 Go to someone you trust, like a teacher, counselor or loved one and explain the situation to them. Sexual predators count on you remaining silent and keeping their secrets, but can stop the cycle by talking to someone about what’s been happening to you. Tell someone as soon as possible. Building a strong support system around yourself has been shown to be one of the most helpful things for you to do in order to deal with the sexual abuse and its effects. Some tips for building and strengthening your support system are:

Accept invitations to events, even if it feels awkward and difficult at first.
Don't wait to be invited somewhere. Take the initiative and call someone.
Take part in campus and community organizations, residence hall or campus events, or family get-togethers.
Strike up a conversation with the person next to you in class or at a local gathering. You could be introducing yourself to a new friend.
Talk about things that interest other people. Be an alert listener.
 If you are reluctant to talk to someone you know, call a sexual abuse hotline for help. They may be able to refer you to local resources in your community--such as domestic violence centers--where you can receive individual support.Some hotlines you can call include:


Safe Path: 608-392-7804 or 800-362-5454 ext.7804. Safe Path services are free and confidential.National Sexual Assault Hotline operated by RAINN: To be connected to the rape crisis center nearest to you, dial 1-800-656-HOPE (4673).National Sexual Violence Resource Center (NSVRC) 1-877-739-3895.