 Much of the time you spend in cognitive therapy will involve tackling your real life problems.A therapist will help you to examine and adjust your unproductive negative thoughts and behavior, and try to reduce the effect these thoughts and behaviors have upon you. You will work as a team with your therapist, making joint decisions about what will be discussed and what 'homework assignments' you receive.


Cognitive therapy has been shown to be as effective as anti-depressants to improve mild to moderate depression.
Cognitive therapy is as effective as anti-depressants in preventing relapses.
The benefits of cognitive therapy often appear in weeks.
Chose a cognitive behavioral therapist and book an appointment if this option appeals to you. Begin with an online search of therapists in your area, try the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies website.
 Interpersonal therapy is specifically for individuals with interpersonal issues. This is a short-term treatment option, typically lasting one hour per week for 12-16 weeks. Therapy sessions are specifically designed to help with interpersonal conflicts, changes in a person's social role, grief, and problems with developing social relationships.The therapist will employ a number of techniques including empathetic listening, role-playing and communication analysis.
Find an interpersonal therapist if you feel this is a good option for you. You can do an online search for an interpersonal therapist in your area. Psychology Today has a large directory., A family therapist will focus on helping family members resolve conflicts with one another. The therapist will customize your sessions according to your problems, and any family member who is willing to participate will be welcomed. The therapist will examine your family's ability to solve problems, explore the roles that family members have, and will identify your family's strength and weaknesses as a unit.Family therapy is particularly effective for individuals with marriage and family issues.
Find a family therapist and book an appointment if this option appeals to you. Again you can begin your search online. The American Association for Marriage and Family Therapists is a valuable resource., This type of therapy is based upon the idea that greater well-being and happiness can be achieved by overcoming negative thoughts, feelings and associations. The therapist will work with you to change how you perceive negativity to help you see life in a more positive light.Find an acceptance and commitment therapist and book an appointment if this option appeals to you. Again you can begin your search online. The Association for Contextual Behavioral Science is a good place to start., You will want to examine their training and qualifications. You will also want to pay attention to any potential fees and whether they accept any insurance you may have. You should also ask about how the therapist usually sees patients.


Find out if the therapist is certified in your state, and if they are certified in the specialty you are seeking.
Ask how much the therapist charges per session, if they charge according to your income and if there is a charge for the first visit (there may or may not be).
Ask how often you will see the therapist (once a week or more frequently), how long the sessions are, and if there are any limitations on confidentiality.
 Feelings of depression can be very difficult to overcome, and many people seek out advice from their physicians regarding the solutions they can offer. If you have a primary care physician, he or she should be your first call. If not, find a primary care physician online and book an appointment to discuss your issues.
 People typically associate the doctor's office with blood tests and sending samples to the lab, but this is not the case in diagnosing depression as lab work will not help to reveal depression. Instead, your doctor will do a physical evaluation and a personal interview to determine if are suffering from depression.The doctor will be assessing the following.


Sadness or depressed mood.
Change in weight.
Fatigue.
Insomnia.
Thoughts of death or suicidal thoughts.
Lab work may be used by the doctor to rule out physical causes for depression.
 It is likely that your doctor will recommend therapy to help with your depression. However, there are a number of medicines that can significantly help with depression as well. If your doctor prescribes any of these medicines, be such to follow his or her advice exactly. Anti-depressants should only be taken exactly how a doctor prescribes them.


Some medicines prescribed for depression include Paxil, Lexapro, Zoloft and Prozac. Different medications work differently for different people, but thee medicines will usually take full effect in approximately one month.