 Flipping a house for profit involves a number of costs, including the home down payment, mortgage, interest payments, property taxes, real estate closing costs, inspections, permits, and contractors' fees.These costs add up quickly, and the flipped house might not sell at a profit. Before you decide whether to go ahead with flipping a house, you should ask yourself:


What will you do if the house does not sell right away? Would it be possible to use the house as a rental property, for example?If you do not have a reasonable back-up plan if something goes wrong with the sale of the flipped house, you might want to reevaluate your plans.
Are the potential profits worth the risk of a considerable loss? In 2015, houses priced below $50,000, saw negative returns. On the other hand, homes priced at $100,000 – $200,000, yielded an average gross return of 44%.Keep in mind that selling a house in which you have never lived might also involve heavy tax payments, which can lower your profit margin considerably.Can your investment partners weather the risk of a potential loss?
Have you done your research on local real estate markets, remodeling costs, and permits? In order to have a successful house-flipping experience, you have to educate yourself on local home prices, school districts, responsible contractors, and real estate regulations.;
, Sweat equity refers to the amount of value you might add to your home due to your own labor.For example, if you are a skilled roofer or licensed plumber, perhaps you can undertake some of the home repairs yourself. This will cut down on your overhead and reduce the amount of money you have to borrow.


Be sure that you take into account the amount of time you'll spend working on the flipped house. Your time also has value, and flipping a house can sometimes take months of work.Consider whether other ways of spending your time might be more lucrative or more enjoyable.
More importantly, will the partners putting up the financial stake consider that your sweat equity has any value? If so, how much value compared to their hard cash?
Be sure to adhere to all local regulations when you undertake home repairs yourself. Discuss your plans with a real estate attorney or local regulations board if you require approval for any construction or repairs.
 If you do not have money for a flipped house yourself, you will need to take out a loan to cover your initial costs. No matter who your lender is — a partner, a bank, or a private lender — you will have to demonstrate that you have the capability of repaying your loan. Your credit score reflects your credit history, your ability to pay off your loans, and your overall debt load. The better your credit score, the better the chances that you will be able to secure a loan at an affordable interest rate.


There are a few different credit rating systems, but in general your credit score will be a number somewhere between 300-850.The higher your score, the better your credit is.
You can get a free report with your credit score every 12 months by visiting https://www.annualcreditreport.com/index.action .
 If your credit score is too low for you to be able to secure loans for a house-flipping venture, you might want to take some time to improve your credit score. This can take some time, but it might be worthwhile in the long run. Moreover, the better your credit score is, the more likely it is that you will be able to weather a potential loss from house-flipping. To improve your credit score you can:


Pay off your debts in a timely way. If you do not have a good history of paying off your debt, you will not be able to secure a decent loan for a flipped house.Keep your overall debt load to a minimum. Avoid maintaining a credit card balance if you can.Only have credit lines when absolutely necessary. Do not have more credit cards than you require for your day-to-day life.Protect your identity. Monitor your credit card transactions and your credit rating to make sure that your identity has not been stolen by a thief or a hacker. Take reasonable security precautions to protect your information. For example, do not log into your online banking system unless you are on a secure, password-protected network., A financial advisor will be able to look at your current financial situation and help you determine how much risk you can afford to take on as part of a house-flipping investment. A financial advisor might also be able to help you come up with a plan for meeting your expenses even if your flipped house takes a long time to sell or requires extra repairs.
 In order to flip a house successfully, you will have to make your decisions based on logic and research, not on your emotions. Before you begin the process of finding a lender and purchasing a house, it is wise for you to have a solid business plan in place. This plan should keep you on the right track for making a wise investment as well as provide confidence to your potential lenders and partners that you can make a profit. Your business plan should include:


A maximum purchase price of the home that you will flip.
A list of in-demand neighborhoods where you will target your search. Pay particular attention to school districts, neighborhood safety, and proximity to amenities such as shops and public transit.A maximum cost of repairs and remodels that you can afford.
A list of dependable, affordable, licensed contractors who can undertake repairs successfully.
A reasonable estimate for the After Repair Value (ARV) of the flipped home. Ideally, the initial sales price will be no more than 70% of the home's ARV.A sense of who your buyer is and what they want. Will your buyer likely be a retired couple? A young businessperson? A couple with children? Depending on the neighborhood, your potential buyers might want very different things out of a home. Consider who your likely buyer will be and what they might need out of their house. For example, if you are looking at flipping a home in a neighborhood with a great school district, you might consider a remodel that has young children in mind.A specific buyer. In some cases, you might be able to line up a buyer before you flip the house. In this case, your risks are much lower as are your overhead costs.A plan for how to repay your loan if something goes wrong. Do not flip a house unless you can meet your expenses, even if something were to go wrong with your sale. For example, you might have a buyer fall through, or you might discover a problem with the foundation of the home. Build in a margin for error in your business plan, and brainstorm possible ways to weather a delay in the sale of the home or unexpected expenses.

