 To make your frappé, you will need about 1 1/2 cups of coffee. As a general guideline, use 4 tbsp. coffee per 6 ounces of water or 1 1/2 cups cold-brewed coffee concentrate.You can use fresh or instant coffee. Here are some things to consider:


"Filter" coffee refers to coffee beans that have been roasted and ground to be used in coffee making machines. This is fresh coffee and may have a variety of qualities not found in instant coffee, like sweeter or more distinct flavors.
"Instant" coffee refers to a coffee that has already been made and is dried (usually by freezing) into a dehydrated state. Instant coffee is recommended as a back-up to the fresh stuff.
Use stronger coffee to give your frappé a stronger coffee flavor.;
, Cold brewing your coffee is a process that requires about 12 hours.To make cold brewed coffee:


Add 1 cup of coarsely ground coffee beans to a large bowl and pour in 4 cups of cold water.
Stir until combined and cover in the refrigerator for 12 hours.
Take the bowl out of the refrigerator and place a strainer or coffee filter over another bowl. Slowly pour your coffee over the strainer and let the liquid filter through the strainer. Discard the grounds and remove the strainer.
Cold brewed coffee can be very strong. Dilute at a 1:3 or 1:2 coffee/water ratio. Refrigerate for up to 1 week.
 This method is called Japanese-style iced coffee and can be made much quicker than the previous method.To brew Japanese-style cold brewed coffee:


Use a kitchen scale to measure 8 ounces of ice.
Measure about 1.8 grams of freshly roasted coffee for every ounce of iced coffee you'd like.
Grind coffee beans until medium coarse. For about 16 ounces of iced coffee, use about 30 grams of coffee. One level tablespoon is roughly 5 grams.
Put your ice in a large glass and place a secure a coffee filter over the top.
Brew your coffee hot and pour it over the filter into the cup of ice.
Not all of the ice might melt, but by the end you should have a cold cup of coffee.
 Adding your sugar to your coffee while it's still hot will help it dissolve faster.Pour in two tbsp. of sugar, honey, stevia, or whatever sweetener you prefer.


If you have brewed your coffee in a coffee maker, you can pour your sweetener right into the coffee pot and stir it in.
 If starting with hot freshly brewed coffee, the fastest method will still take you about 20 minutes. To chill your coffee, try:


In an ice tray. Pour your coffee into an ice tray and put it into the freezer until frozen. This method takes a few hours, but will create a stronger tasting drink because you won't need to add any additional ice.
In a skillet. Once you have brewed your coffee, pour it into a wide, shallow skillet and let it sit. This method spreads your hot liquid over a large surface area, allowing it to cool more quickly than it would in a coffee pot.This method can cool your coffee significantly after about 20 mins.
You can also place your skillet in the freezer for about 20 minutes to chill it completely.
You can also chill your skillet ahead of time to quicken the process.
 Add your chilled coffee to a blender and pour in 1/2 cup of milk. You can use regular milk, soy, almond milk, or any other milk you prefer.
 If you have chilled your coffee in an ice tray, you won't need to add any ice. Start by adding about 1 1/2 cups of ice.Remember, the more ice you add, the more your coffee will become diluted, resulting in a less flavorful frappé.
 Put the lid on and blend your mixture until smooth, adding more ice if you desire a thicker consistency.
 Pour your frappé mixture into a tall glass. You can chill your glass in the freezer for a few minutes beforehand if you prefer. Top it off with a dash of whipped cream and enjoy with a straw!

