 If you purchased your Mac within the last 4 years chances are it won’t have a built in DVD drive. Look for a thin slot about 5 inches long along the right side of your computer. If it’s not there, you’ll have to buy an external DVD drive.


You can buy Apple’s own external USB DVD writer, Superdrive, for ~$79, or select from a range of similar but less expensive options from companies like LG and Samsung. Searching for “external USB DVD writer”;
, Click on “Disc Burning”. Any combination of “-R,” “+R”, “-RW”, and/or “-RW” lets you know your drive can burn a DVD.


If your Mac has no disc drive installed/connected, you will see a "No disc burning device was found." message.
 Attach one end of a USB cable to your external DVD writer and plug the other into any of your computer’s open USB ports.
 Be careful not to scratch or dirty the bottom of your DVD–even a fingerprint can distort information on the disc.
 Type “DVD authoring software Mac” into a search engine or “DVD burn” into the Apple App store. "Burn" is a trusted and popular free software, but other burning software will function similarly.


Make sure whatever software you choose supports DivX/AVI conversion (these video files are effectively the same).
Other popular programs include Roxio Toast ($100) and DVD Styler (free).
 The latest version of any software download is always available on the software author’s website. Burn is not available through Apple App store.


Unless you’ve specified otherwise, clicking “Download” will save the file to your computer’s “Downloads” folder.
 Click the “Downloads” icon on the dock or look for it Finder.
,, Below the top row of buttons is a box to name your project, as well as a drop-down menu with four options (VCD, SVCD, DVD-Video, and DivX). Make sure the drop-down menu is set to “DVD-Video”.
 Since your DivX file is not in the correct format, Burn will ask you to convert it.
 Burn will convert it to MPEG-2.
 Select the “Burn” button in the bottom right corner of the application. The application should let you know once it’s finished burning. Eject the disc and enjoy the show!

, Video files take up a lot of space on your computer. You'll be left with both a DivX file and an MPEG-2 copy. If you won’t use the files again, consider deleting them. Right click on the file and select “Delete”.