 That way you can lose a few pounds. If you are already thin just tone up a little by doing some light pilates.;
,: Get some really cute new clothes. Abercrombie & Fitch, Hollister, Forever 21, Aeropostale, American Eagle, and even Rue21 have some pretty nice trendy clothing.
 Take a shower when you start to smell a little. Always have a stick of deodorant or antiperspirant on hand. Also apply some good smelling lotion and body spray. You need to smell good. Nobody is going to want to hang out with you if you smell like a pig! Wash your face at least every night, and if needed use acne medication.
 Either straighten it, or put in some loose curls. A cute high ponytail is nice, but don't do it very often. Also if you can, add a few highlights to your hair, but they really need to look good with your hair color.
 Eye shadow is a definite plus, but you should change up with color of the eye shadow depending of the color(s) of your outfit. Clear gloss is a must. If needed put on concealer and cover up but DON'T cake it on! If you already have extremely long lashes, don't wear mascara, it'll look like you are wearing falsies!

, There is no way you can be popular if you are shy. The first day say hi to people you sit next to in your classes, and talk to a few people who are by your locker. Exchange numbers with those people. Try to figure out who the popular people are, and once you know who they are, go up to one of them and start conversation. Don't talk too much, or you will come across as annoying. You must be VERY social and friendly.
 If you see a guy you are interested in make sure he is single and popular (if you have a popular boyfriend that's like buying a ticket into popularity) and start to flirt with him. But don't be too clingy. Casually flirt with others, but make sure he knows you're interested. If you have a boyfriend from your old school you are still extremely interested in, don't break his heart! It's already bad enough you had to move away from him.
 You CANNOT copy anyone, or you will be known as a wannabe.
 Ask if they wanna go to the mall, or if they want to go grab a bite to eat. (Diners are totally cool.)

