 Before you begin building a fire, it’s important to verify that fires are allowed in the area. Look around your campsite for posted signs, which will usually inform you if fires aren’t permitted. You can also ask a ranger or the campsite’s host if fires are allowed.Don’t assume that a campfire is permitted just because there’s a fire ring at your campsite. It may be intended for use with a camping stove but not an open flame.
In some cases, there may be fire restrictions in place, which limit the types of fires that you are permitted to light. Make sure you understand what materials you’re allowed to use for your fire.
Campfires may not be permitted at certain altitudes, in areas that are experiencing droughts and are extremely dry, or at times when the winds are very strong.
 Some campsites have specific fire rings designed for building a fire. However, if you’re camping in an area that doesn’t have a fire ring, it’s important to choose the right spot for the fire. Make sure that the site is at least 15-feet from tents, shrubs, trees, and any other flammable objects.If your campsite has a fire ring, there may be ashes in it from a previous fire. Push them to the outside of the ring to make room for your fire. If the ashes are completely cold, you can also place them in a plastic bag so can dispose of them properly later.
Make sure the spot that you choose is shielded from wind gusts, which can not only make it more difficult to light but can help spread the fire if the flames get too large.
 It’s best to build a campfire on bare dirt, so you may need to clear the spot you’ve chosen. Remove any dead grass, leaves, or other vegetation to create an 8- to 10-foot area of bare soil for the fire. Next, dig down into the dirt for several inches to create a pit to contain the fire.Keep the removed dirt close to the fire. You can use it to help smother the flames in case of an emergency.
You can place the removed dirt in a mounded ring around your fire pit to serve as a firewall. Setting large rocks around the pit can also help insulate the fire.

