 Yes, using perfume too close to your vagina is a bad idea. However, putting a dab of perfume on the inside of each of your thighs, roughly six inches from the vulva area, is a time-honored way to smell amazing when anyone puts their head down there.


You partner will associate musky smells with sex (since this is the type of smell you have naturally) so try to get a perfume which is generally musky. Sandalwood and vanilla are common “sexy” smells.
 Your diet can greatly affect your taste and smell. Certain foods tend to affect your body in certain ways, by altering your body’s balance of sugar, bacteria, and chemical compounds. Much like how if you eat a lot of garlic, your skin excretes a garlic smell for several days, you can eat or not eat certain foods to produce a better smell and taste in your vagina.


You’ll want to start by eating less sugar. A spike in blood sugar can cause yeast infections and buildup, which will cause bad odor.
You may also want to try eating pineapple. Though there is no scientific evidence, many people swear by the idea that pineapple improves both taste and smell for both genders.
Yogurt is considered to be a great way to help women keep a healthy vagina, as it contains the bacteria which naturally occurs in our body to maintain a healthy vagina.
 Pubic hair does not cause odor in that area, but can create an environment that harbors bacteria if not cleaned properly. It is unlikely that shaving your pubic hair will affect odor if cleaned properly but if you want to reduce the likelihood of this being a problem, you can shave your pubic hair or keep it cut short. Keeping it cut short is a better option when it comes to odor as as stubble can cause skin irritation and invite infections. (plus it is itchy and uncomfortable including for your partner in many sexual situations)

, Sometimes you can’t quite get yourself clean enough with dry wipes. Some small amount of residue, either from feces or the tissue itself, can remain and harbor bacteria. Occasionally use a wet wipe or baby wipe to clean your vulva if you feel basic hygiene methods aren’t working well enough.


Use wet wipes which are fragrance free. Baby wipes tend to use less chemicals and often have fragrance free options.
Remember to only clean your vulva. Don't put wet wipes, wash clothes and soap inside your vagina.

