 Paradoxically, just knowing when a jump scare will likely occur may make you more likely to jump. That's because people start to fixate on the idea of the scare coming up, giving it their full attention as their fear mounts. But this is what a horror director wants -- you are focusing on the fear, just like the characters. When the jump eventually surprises you, you are so tuned into the moment that the scare hits you with twice the power.


Try not to let the fear of an upcoming jump scare bother you -- just tell yourself that one is coming and stop worrying about it.
The following steps detail ways to see jump scares coming, helping you anticipate scare. Instead of watching for these signals with dread, think like a filmmaker -- ask "how do these effects work to build tension", and not "when does the tension finally release?";
, This may seem like a broad assertion, but it stems from the larger artistic reason to use jump scares in a film. Horror is a genre that manipulates fear and tension, trying to grow this fear slowly throughout the movie so it all culminates in one big scare or set piece (like the reveal of the monster). To do so, directors use small scares to get your adrenaline pumping. This puts you in frazzled, tense state, which makes more complex or psychological scares easier to pull off later on.


Think of each jump scare as a horror director's early "brush strokes" and you'll be better equipped to handle them.
 Silence is the most common, but it usually comes right after a long, slow, and ominous swell in the music. Remember that jump scare work by hitting you with an image or sound very abruptly and quickly, not by slowly ratcheting things up. Thus a scare almost always comes right after a lull or moment of quiet -- this makes the loudness of the scare extra noticeable and frightening.
 If a character is leaning in the bottom of the screen and there is a big space of blackness or an empty room behind them, be ready for that frame to fill. The director is knowingly drawing your eye to that space and hoping that you'll dread the idea of it getting filled. Instead of sitting and waiting for the jump to occur, recognize that they are simply moving your eye to the place they are about to scare you. It's the oldest trick in horror cinematography -- but an easy on to see.


Note that some modern directors are adept at keeping the screen blank the first few times to lull you into a false sense of security.
 A cheap but common trick is to ramp up the music and suspense before a dramatic moment (like opening a dark hallway door), then show absolutely nothing scary. More often than not, this moment of relaxation is simply used to lull you into a false sense of security -- the real scare is coming shortly afterward.


Any scene that spends its time building or establishing tension will try and pay off in some way -- rarely do directors put you on the edge of your seat but give you nothing to "do" once you get there. Be on the lookout for this rising tension.
 The best way to get over jumping during horror movies is to jump a lot during horror movies. The more horror you know and see, the less likely it is that any particular movie or moment will be able to scare you. Horror has a lot of great qualities, but plot originality is not frequently one of them. The more you know, the more you'll be able to successfully anticipate.


Horror or thrilling video games are a great way to get used to jump scares as well, because they require you to not only react but also do something with your reaction (like shoot the bad guy) that helps you learn to stay calm., While they don't have every movie ever, they feature just about every movie you could want to watch. Furthermore, they have ratings on how "jump-heavy" each movie is, and some films have subtitle files that you can download that will warn you 2-3 seconds before a jump scare is coming. While it may sound like overkill, it is one of the best ways to completely avoid jumping.