 Turn on the Wii U, and select the Super Mario 3D World icon. You will be brought to a title screen. Press the + button to proceed.;
, The next screen will be a file-selection screen. Select whichever file you have been playing, or start a new one. In total, the game has 3 file slots, and you can begin a new file by pressing the A button to select a blank file slot.
 If you start a new file, a brief cutscene will begin, laying out the plot for the game. If you did not start a new file, you will immediately be brought to the controller registration screen.
 Now you must register your controller. To do so, just press A on any controllers you want to use (up to 4 players can play at once). Once all controllers are registered, you will automatically be brought to the character selection screen.
 Before you decide who you want to play as, you can scroll through the four available characters by toggling to the left and right. The default character displayed is Mario; scrolling to the right once will bring up Luigi, twice Peach, and three times Toad. Scrolling through again after Toad brings you back to Mario.


Note that players cannot select the same character.
 Mario is the most balanced of the four characters, with decent sprint speed, jump height, average fall speed, 1-second sprint-activation time, and no special abilities.


Luigi has the highest jump height out of the characters, medium fall speed, decent sprint speed, 2-second sprint-activation time, and has worse traction than Mario.
Peach has a decent jump height, the slowest sprint speed, the slowest fall time, .75-second sprint-activation time, and has the ability to float through the air.
Toad has the lowest jump height, the fastest fall speed, the fastest sprint speed, and a 3-second sprint-activation time.
 Each character is a fine choice for any world; however, there are some that are more suited to certain types of terrain than others. Overall, Mario remains a good choice for any level, as he has no glaring weaknesses and has an average build.


With his high jump, Luigi is best suited to levels involving platforming, but does poorly on levels with many twists and turns as he is prone to falling off stages.
Peach is also great on platforming levels, as her float ability gives her the power to glide over obstacles and easily navigate jumps other characters would struggle with. She is not good for levels involving sprinting though.
Toad is best with speed-based levels and is not at all suited to platforming because of his quick fall speed and low jump height.
 Once you have decided which character you wish to play as, press the A button. After everyone has selected their characters, press the A button once more, and you will all be brought to the game’s world map.

