 You will notice the following things:


A triangle on the left hand side. This only appears in our photo above, or in your viewfinder, if you have not armed the shutter.

A needle on the right hand side. This is a meter reading. Take note of the +, O and - markings on the scale; we'll be referring to them later.

Three circles in the centre of the image, which are your focusing aids.
 Turn the focus ring of your lens until you have a sharp picture. You have three focusing aids that will help you.

The split-image in the centre. This will cause straight vertical lines to appear split in half if they are out of focus, and they will rejoin when they are in focus. Sometimes half of this image will be blacked out, for example with slow lenses (f/4 and slower).
The microprism ring outside of that will shimmer when the subject in that area is out of focus, and will be clear when it is in focus.
The ground glass of the circle around that will help you if the above focusing aids are not helpful in your shooting situation.
 The MTL3 is a fully manual camera, but this is hardly any harder than doing the same thing on a digital SLR in manual mode.

Press and hold the metering key on the front of the camera. The viewfinder might darken as you do this. This is normal; the MTL3 needs to stop down the lens to measure how much light will come through the lens at the given aperture (this is called "stopped-down metering").


 Press and hold the metering key. This is the big black button near the shutter button, which turns on the camera's meter.


Look at the needle. If it is in the middle of the "O" mark, then you have a correct exposure. If not, then adjust either your shutter speed or the aperture ring on your lens until it is correct.
A fuller explanation of the role of aperture and shutter speed is beyond the scope of this article, but you might want to take a look at How to understand camera exposure.


 The MTL's metering needle in action. Left-to-right: indicating under-exposure (towards the - mark), indicating over-exposure (needle towards the + mark), and indicating a roughly correct exposure (needle close to the O mark).
 Press the shutter button all the way down; you'll get a nice, reassuring click from the shutter.
