 This is going to be a hard conversation, so you may want to write out the reasons why you want to end the friendship, or even write a script.Because you are trying to minimize hurt feelings, make sure your reasons are stated tactfully and that you’re not blaming her or being accusatory.You may want to discuss what to say with another close friend, sibling, or parent. This is fine, and probably a good idea, just make sure it’s someone you trust to keep things quiet. If she hears from someone else that you don’t want to be her friend—or worse, a few other people—it’s going to be very hurtful., If this person was your very close friend, you owe it to her to have a dialogue and give her a chance to respond, instead of emailing her or texting her.Be direct (but not mean) and don’t make lame excuses so she’s left wondering what just happened.Choose someplace quiet and relatively private so she can react without embarrassment (there may be tears). The lunchroom is not the place for this discussion.
It’s much too easy to misinterpret a letter or email, so try to talk to her in person or at least over the phone. Plus, she could show your private letter to other people.
Try to be nice but stand firm. Don’t say, “Hey, you’ve turned into a bitch and our friendship is over.” Try something like, “Our friendship has become a really negative force in my life, and I think it’s best if we stop being friends.”, Your friend may have questions and grievances of her own. She may become defensive, yell, get angry, or cry. That’s okay—let her have those feelings (unless she becomes violent; then get out of there). Down the line, you’ll both feel better that you had an opportunity to say what you needed to say, even if it’s difficult in the moment.Your friend may feel terrible about how she acted and want to try to save the friendship. If you are willing, you two might be able to talk it out.If your friend tries to bait you into a fight, don’t do it. Don’t involve yourself in a big, dramatic scene. Even if she’s calling you names, don’t retaliate.Stay with her until she's okay. Your friend may take this very hard, and you may need to stay by her side until she's together enough to leave on her own.