 French women look good because they believe in themselves as being the most stylish and elegant women in the world. It's a touch arrogant but it works.


You have faults? We all do. However, the secret for French women is not only to not care less but to accentuate the fault as a beauty feature. You can only do so when you feel confident about who you are inside. So get your confidence on and love every part of yourself!;
, Rather than spreading your clothing budget across as many items as possible, spend it sparingly on one to two quality items as you can afford them, perhaps each season. French women don't wear dowdy clothing, they abhor cheap fabric and they prefer stylish classics over faddish styles.


Even your exercise clothes should be well tailored and tidy in appearance.
A little nod to fashion is fine––don't be a fashion victim though. Know and stick with your own defining style.
 French women look good even when relaxing. For a working French woman, coming home from work might mean removing the jacket and jewelry and donning a cashmere sweater and trousers for a "more relaxed look". In other words, stay chic even when you're relaxing.
 French women love the luxury of fine lace, satin and silk for undergarments and nightwear.


Fine underwear is considered appropriate for unwinding in. Especially on Sunday mornings with croissants.
 For example, your accessories and your shoes should be chic, of good quality and tasteful. They are never an afterthought but are part of an entire carefully put-together package.


Shoes should be good quality and expensive.
Scarves should match your clothing. They should be made from the finest materials and be elegant, not overstated.
Your earrings and necklace should be of high quality, not copycat versions of the real thing.
 French women do not leave the house unkempt, ever. Good grooming is the basis of always appearing impeccable and chic. Good grooming is the guarantee that a plain woman can look beautiful.


Discover your favorite beauty products and use them religiously. French women adore their beauty products. Even if you don't wear makeup, get products to keep your face cleansed and moisturized. And as you age, use anti-wrinkle creams––for the mental boost as much as for their effect on the skin.
Grey hair is fine provided it's well cut and groomed. If you must have it dyed, do it subtly so that nobody knows. In fact, whatever your age, never get your hair dyed in an obvious way––no French woman would ever dare.
Good skin is important. Feed your skin by consuming healthy, nutritious foods.
Keep makeup simple and elegant. Caking it on is never acceptable.
Have well manicured nails and toenails at all times. No excuses, ever.
Don't hate people or your life. It will show on your face.
 French women know how to carry themselves well. They don't slouch, drag their feet or try to hide their height (or lack of it). They stand tall and walk properly.
 French women are renowned for staying slim. To look French, you'll need to perfect this too. Find an eating regime that works for you and keeps you fit and healthy, as well as slim. Read books like Mireille Guiliano's book French Women Don't Get Fat for more tips on this aspect.

