 Band shirts are helpful because they let other people know you are a fan of a given band without even having to open up your mouth. Many band shirts come with distinctive and appealing artwork that's specific to the punk pop look as well, so they're a perfect place to start.


You should only wear shirts of bands you sincerely like. Otherwise, you put yourself at risk of being called a poseur.
 Skaters like to wear beanie hats, and you won't raise any suspicions in the punk pop scene if you go for that look too. Beanies are cozy and casual. They're a symbol of what the punk pop lifestyle is about.
 Shoes are important for just about every style, so the same goes for punk pop. Vans and Converse shoes are the go-to brands for punk pop. Of course, any kind of skate shoe will do. Punk pop is unlike other punk lifestyles in the sense that it embraces some of the big name corporations. If you don't feel this appeals to you, you can always configure punk pop to your personal liking.


Brand name shoes are known as a part of punk pop but it's not necessary. If you are on a budget, you can go to a used clothing or consignment store and raid it for new digs., Punk pop is big into them with both genders. Some bracelets could be band merch as well. Rubber bracelets with band names and slogans ("Defend Punk pop") are big with this subculture.Pyramid studded belts are a useful addition too., Dyeing your hair is a welcome way to distinguish your look. Put streaks of some wacky colour into your hair. Be careful not to overdo it, however, as constant hair dyeing will strain your hair.


Hair length and style varies widely within punk pop.However, keeping your hair long and straight (if you're a girl) or getting a crew cut (if you're a guy) is a good place to start if you're unsure what to pick.
 Punk pop is all about being young and expressing yourself in a fun way. For some, the skinny jeans and shirt combo will be enough. Others may want to crank it up a notch by putting some focus on the colours they wear. If you make your wardrobe colourful, your appearance will match the happy-go-lucky attitude of the music you love.


Accessorizes like bracelets, hair streaks and patches are easy ways to add colourful life to your outfit.

