 Strengthen your beliefs and strive to move positively in a forward and more successful direction. Do not allow yourself to be caught in self-doubt and conflicting ideals which others try forcing on you, which can only make you feel bad about yourself.


When you sit and rehash past situations and things you wish you had done differently, you are only hurting yourself. Rumination has a direct effect on our physical health and stress levels and can contribute to developing an inferiority complex.
If you can’t stop ruminating, distract yourself for at least two minutes each time. You will gradually begin to develop a more positive world view and stop focusing on negative, unhelpful things. All it takes is two minutes of intense focus on something else and it will be worth it in the long run., When you spend too much time in the past or thinking about what could have happened, you may get sucked into negative thoughts. This can be hard if others are negative about you or try to bring your down. This will only bring you down and make you get stuck in your head, which can lead you to think you are inferior to others.


Learn to ignore negative and damaging comments made against you, especially if you make them about yourself. At the back of your mind, adopt the notion that people are entitled to their own opinions. Instead of internalizing these comments, filter or discard the negatively targeted opinions and remember how great you are., Self-compassion, or loving yourself, is a stepping stone to self-acceptance and defeating an inferiority complex. Treat yourself with the same kindness and understanding you show your friends. Be aware that imperfection, failure, and difficulty are all part of life, and that no one is perfect or always gets exactly what they want.Instead of reacting with self-criticism or putting yourself down, treat yourself with sympathy and kindness.Don't ignore your pain or try to plow through it. Acknowledge that you are having a difficult time and ask what you can do to care for yourself.It could be anything from wrapping yourself in a warm blanket to having a good cry to going out to dinner with your best friend.
Make changes in your life because you care about yourself, not because of a perceived inadequacy or to fit a perfect ideal., Show appreciation and respect for your own uniqueness and all the positives you have accomplished and hope to accomplish. Know your own limitations and learn your strengths. Steer clear of any person or situation that will drag you down emotionally and create doubt in your own capabilities as an individual, which can lead you to think you are inferior. If there are areas in your life where you can improve, do so constructively. Building on and improving your weaknesses is the best way to avoid feeling inferior.


This is where you might develop an inferiority complex, especially if you allow how others perceive you affect your self-worth. Learn to be happy with who you are. Don’t change yourself to make others happy.
You can never be exactly like someone else, so don’t try to be. Work with what you have and learn to love this version on yourself. This will prevent you from getting an inferiority complex, especially if you learn to never compare yourself to others.
Also watch out for cognitive distortions. Cognitive distortions are worldviews that are distorted either by faulty information or by faulty logic. Common cognitive distortions are personalization, which is where you turn everything around to think it is a personal commentary on or reaction to you.If you notice that some perceived weakness is weighing you down, try to process and deal with it. Don’t let the issue weigh you down or make you feel bad about yourself. Instead, work on the weakness if you can, but realize that the perceived weakness does not define you.Some ways to work on your self-acceptance include: making a list of your strengths, surrounding yourself with positive people, learning to forgive yourself for past mistakes, and affirmations., Bitterness and anger can lead you to feel bad about yourself. These negative emotions are energy-draining and set you back, depleting your self-esteem and wasting precious energy. If your anger is rational and justified by hostile circumstances, use it to motivate yourself.


Try to forget about it and decide you can be better than the person who angered you, showing more self-control and a more positive attitude. Instead, transfer your energy into real achievements that proves the person who angered or attacked you wrong. Re-track your thoughts to when got angry and bitter, and try to focus on another starting point where your aim is to succeed and move forward.

