 Some schools will have an orientation, where they invite the 6th graders to the school beforehand and have them meet the teachers and run through their schedule. It is highly recommended you do this, since you'll get your schedule and locker.;
, In order to succeed, the following skills are very useful.


Know how to open a combination lock to your locker. There should be plenty of faculty or fellow students who you can ask if you're having trouble remembering how to work the locks.
Know how to be nice. Common decency and politeness is the best way to go.
Know how to make friends. To survive middle school you need allies, and people you can trust. Find a group you fit in with quickly, and work at making friends with them. These should be people who connect with and enjoy spending time around.
Know how to be mature. You're turning from a child into a young adult, and you should learn how to act like it.
 Getting ready for middle school is a huge challenge. But in reality, It's just school. You have to convince yourself, middle school will be great.
 In middle school, people can sense when you're acting fake. Once they figure it out, they stop hanging out with you.
 It really annoys people if you take the easy route. Teachers will be disappointed. They will probably write notes to challenge yourself on your agenda or report card. This can be really embarrassing.
 If you're not healthy (as in overweight), you need to become more active. This is because the middle school will probably have locker rooms and showers. Also, you might be forced to weigh yourself in front of everyone in gym.
 People won't like it if you are never calm and you try to show off. They also don't like it when you get in their personal space.
 In sixth grade, rolling backpacks are so hard to use! It's really weird (in middle school) to walk from class to class with a rolling backpack.
 If you're messy have crumbled papers and trash all around your desk, you will be showing the teachers and students how unorganized you are. Also, if you come to school with stains, holes in your clothes, unbrushed hair, bad breath, and dirty skin, no one will want to be around you.
 It's really annoying to see an 11 year old with a revealing shirt and other inappropriate clothes.
 You can't expect people to always say, hey I wanna be your friend and all. You got to approach them and get them to be your friend. Everyone hates people who are lazy and don't do anything

, What a boring world it would be if everyone was exactly the same. Make friends with people you can respect and who seem friendly towards others.
 Dating isn't necessary. You don't need it. Dating can cause stress. Also, if you show that you're angered about your dating life, people will just make fun of you. Start dating in seventh or eighth grade. Sixth grade and lower is really uncool because you can't even do anything!

, Everyone hates a badmouth. Even if it's in a joke it won't be funny. It shows how much you can't protect yourself.
 It's a fad in most schools. It is just uncool. Most people do it because they don't have anything to do. It's just mean and everyone will think you are a prissy loser.

