 In a school system surrounded by mediocre teachers, it can be difficult to find a great teacher but a lack of this can be counteracted by use of a tutor and choosing a good school. Moreover, a child instilled with a love of learning for its own sake in the home environment will thrive regardless of the teaching, as there will be more self-responsibility and less tendency to pass the responsibility elsewhere.


There is no such thing as a perfect teacher. Every person has strengths in different areas. All teachers have something to offer in some way, so it pays to help your child learn how to make the most of the teachers' best skills. After all, in life, this is an essential skill, particularly for persons in a role of delegating or advising others on working together; no harm in starting to learn this skill early.;
, Establishing a social connection with a teacher creates a sense of responsibility for the child to complete school activities. It also gives them the confidence to ask the teacher for help when they fail to understand something.


Not all children find speaking up in class time easy. It is just as important to find other ways for the quiet child to gain the teacher's attention, such as talking to the teacher during a quiet time, after class or even by email. Quietness is not a sign of a lack of interest; it is often a sign that the child is processing but needs time to fully digest. Sometimes being pressured to ask questions can interfere with that reflection process and place undue stress on the child. If your child is inclined to be quiet, avoid badgering them into asking questions openly but help them to find constructive ways to get the teacher's attention.
 Exposure to multiple learning sources can increase a child's learning capacity to a great extent. This means learning subjects using visual, literary and acoustic aids from the internet and books. This includes diagrams, watching educational videos and listening to lectures. A combination of these resources will increase the learner's interest and give school subjects a holistic approach, making learning easier and more interesting, as well as relevant.
 Children function better in stress-free environments, so any domestic upheavals can affect their concentration and cause their focus to stray. Of course, no home is perfect and things happen. Be realistic and accept that some exposure to life's uncertainties is as much a lesson about life as aiming to run a perfect household. What does matter is that the children know that they matter, that they can come to you for help and clarification and that the bad times are temporary and soon roll back to an even keel.


If you are going through financial, relationship, work or other hardships, ensure that the children have stability of some sort so that the studies come first and they are aware that you expect this, no matter what else. It may be a quiet study area away from parental stressing, or occasional trips away for the whole family to relax away from the source of challenges. In other words, times of hardship can't be simply wished away but you can provide workarounds to help your children to feel less stressed by the adult issues confronting the household. Shielding them completely is both impossible and unhealthy––children learn by example how to cope with hardship just as much as they learn how to cope with the good times.
 Good time management is essential. An outline of how to spend the day should be made by children and slightly moderated by the parents, in order to ensure that it is effective.
 This must account for sports practice, activities, hobbies and leisure time too.
 Before children take examinations, they need to work with past year papers and exercises to familiarize with the questions. Sometimes, it is not that children do not know their work, rather they do not know what the question requires of them.
 This is essential for good focus. Taking nutritional supplements, especially to counter our unhealthy modern diets, is essential to improve focus.
 The age- old "pay attention in class" as well as punctuality is a valuable way to improve comprehension of lessons and get exam tips from teachers.
 Physical activity is essential for stress relief. Children should also try studying in serene settings.
 Parents need to be active in children's studying. Parents need to share their own studying experiences with children or enroll them in a study group to increase interest.
 Children need to be motivated to study. Sometimes, interest is hard to generate, so they need to be physically rewarded as well.

