 If you become reactionary in a fight, this can escalate the situation. It can make you the aggressor. This can make you look out of control and emotional, which can make you look weak in your opponent's eyes. Only respond to what your opponent does. Do not react.Pause before you react to something your opponent does. If he or she yells out an insult, do not become emotional and run at him swinging, for example. Simply remain standing tall with confidence.
 If you attack your opponent when he is down, you can seriously injure him or her. This could result in potential legal trouble. The only time you should fight is to defend yourself.


Seek only to deflect your opponents moves. Use your hands to block punches and kicks.
Do not do things like punch, kick, or otherwise lash out at your opponent. Seek only to push your opponent off of you to avoid injury.
 You want to make sure you are protected. If you're hurt in a vulnerable area, you may flinch or cry out in pain. This can break your confidence, and could even result in you becoming physically injured.Block your opponent if he or she goes for areas like the eyes, ears, nose, neck throat, genitals, or knees. Being harmed in one of these areas can cause serious injury, leading you to lose the fight. Always keep your arms up in a fighting stance, protecting your face.
Watch your opponent's moves closely. Try to predict where he or she will strike and be ready to protect yourself as necessary.
 Your tone of voice can also portray confidence. You do not want to sound scared, intimidated, or hysterical, so pay attention to your tone of voice if you speak during the fight.Keep an even tone if you need to talk. Do not talk too slowly or too softly.
Avoid nervous words like "um."
Talk in a clear tone. Mumbling can make you sound nervous.
 Strong emotions like panic can make you appear nervous. If you start to get nervous, you will display body language and a tone of voice that conveys fear. It can be very difficult to stay calm in a fight, but it's important to remain calm if you want to appear confident.If at all possible, take a deep breath. This can calm you down. However, when fighting, it may simply not be an option.

