 Pantyhose evens out your skin tone on your legs and provide the finishing touch to the look. For evening wear, sheer black or gray tinted pantyhose are an excellent choice. Colored tights could also work with a black dress provided the color matches with other accessories and is right for your age and skin tone.


For winter wear, remember that legs tend to look longer when the shoes and tights color match., Dressing up the little black dress with shoes is a significant part of the look because the shoes can provide contrasting color or style to the dress. Shoes worn with the little black dress should be of very good to excellent quality because they are a feature piece and people's eyes will be drawn to them with your black dress backdrop.

Try plain black and unadorned flats for a casual look suitable for the office or an informal event. Chanel-style slingbacks are also good additions for daywear.






Classic evening shoes that go well with a little black dress include ballet slipper flats, single-strap slingback sandals, or pumps.






Wear a bright color, such as red high-heeled pumps, to add a bit of excitement.
 The little black dress provides a magnificent backdrop for showing off your favorite jewelry pieces.

Additions that work well include a necklace that fits the neckline style of the dress, a brooch pinned in a cute spot, or an updo with daring earrings. The list is really endless as far as combos go!






A little bit of sparkle with costume jewelry can go a long way and is perfect for evening wear.






If you're in the possession of diamond necklaces, brooches, and other jewelry pieces, use the dark backdrop to let the diamonds shine their best.






Wear pearls. If it's a shift-style dress, pearls with white satin gloves and round-toed pumps make for an adorable look, à la romantic Audrey Hepburn. Don't wear pointed pumps though, as these are too fierce for such a soft and retro look.
 Provided the style of the dress can handle the addition of a belt, it can provide a very emphatic contrasting feature on your little black dress.


Select a belt for color, texture, glamor, or pattern. The only concern is to ensure that it fits well with the dress as a whole – check the complete look in the mirror.
 If you like wearing scarves, this can make a lovely addition to a black dress. Select a print or pattern that matches with the other additions to the dress and ensure that the scarf is of high quality, such as a silk scarf.


A silk wrap can make an elegant addition to a plain black dress. Try a very simple pair of black pumps, preferably rounded and a pair of chandelier earring with a Dupioni silk wrap. The chandelier earrings and Dupioni silk wraps look great when matching and a warm color.
 White gloves for the daytime and black gloves for the evening can work wonders.
 Again, the bag is going to get noticed because the black serves as a backdrop to anything you're holding, so make sure the bag is treated as part of the overall fashion look. The bag doesn't have to match the shoes or other accessories but it should blend well with the color scheme.

A small clutch bag is a lovely, discreet look. Try a dazzling or sparkling color to dress it up for the evening.






A handbag should be good quality and clean.






A larger bag can work for casual wear, provided it's in excellent, clean condition.
 A well placed hat can be suitable for special events such as race meetings, royal events, and very warm days.


An astutely placed hair bow, floral item, bejeweled hair piece, or simple ribbons can go a long way to making a lovely statement with the little black dress.


