 Scientific testing of a proprietary blend of plant-based compounds called Rowachol has produced encouraging results. A six-month course of treatment produced complete or partial dissolution of gallstones in 29 percent of a 27-patient research population.


These plant terpenes appear to stimulate bile production by your liver and inhibit the formation of cholesterol crystals.
Rowachol also enhanced the effectiveness of other solvent drugs., Opinions differ regarding the efficacy of gallbladder cleanses and liver flushes. No scientific evidence exists that these treatments are effective, but there are some anecdotal reports of success. Bear in mind that most of the “evidence” produced in your stool following a flush is not actually gallstone, but rather a byproduct of the treatment itself. That said, you may try various options:


Fast 12 hours. Then, starting at 7 p.m., ingest 4 tablespoons of olive oil, followed by one tablespoon of lemon juice. Repeat every 15 minutes for a total of 8 treatment cycles.
Alternatively, consume only apple and vegetable juice during the day. Then, around 5 or 6 p.m., ingest 18 milliliters of olive oil, followed by 9 milliliters of fresh lemon juice. Repeat every 15 minutes until you’ve consumed 8 ounces of olive oil.
Gallbladder flushes often produce pain and diarrhea.
By the next morning, you’ll typically pass soft green or brown spheres. Again, these are not usually gallstones, but rather the byproducts of the treatment., This treatment may not eliminate existing gallstones, but it can ease spasms, increase your bile flow, and restore proper liver and gallbladder function., It’s important to note that these remedies will not eliminate your gallstones; rather, under the guidance of a trained professional they may mitigate your symptoms so you can better tolerate the stones already in your system.


Green tea, milk thistle, globe artichoke, and turmeric can all support liver and gallbladder function. Again, consult a trained medical professional before undertaking a herbal regimen. Used improperly, these herbs may trigger a gallbladder attack or produce other unwanted side effects.Homeopathic remedies for gallstones include colocynthis, chelidonium, and lycopodium prepared in specific concentrations.Note that there is no evidence that homeopathy is effective.

