 Your customers will rely on you as the ultimate authority in whether or not they have been scammed, and you should know how to identify common scams such as phishing emails and spoofed websites, as well as how your customers can avoid falling for these tricks., You should be able to explain to customers in-depth how to properly use the security features that you offer. Some customers may need more help than others; customers who are not very familiar with computers may not understand how to choose a good password, or why their password choice would be important., If a customer requests that you sign into their online banking for them to assist them with something, thank them for their trust, but remind them that nobody should ever access their online banking other than themselves. Instead, offer them a computer (if one is available for customer use) and invite them to sign in privately, and then you can walk them through their transaction. Tell your customers that no banking representative should ever require their online banking password to assist them., If a customer comes to you with a concern that their online banking has been compromised, do not dismiss them. Listen carefully to everything they have to say, and look at anything they may have brought with them to show you.

If the customer has been scammed, you should write down whatever the customer tells you about the scam, and if possible, make a copy of anything they have brought in. Pass this along to the appropriate party, ideally your Fraud and Security department. They may be able to warn other customers about the scam and prevent any further fraud.
If the customer has not been scammed, reassure them that everything is alright but that they have done the right thing by being cautious. If possible, show them how they can identify that this situation was not a scam, so that they are better-prepared in the future.
 You can be a valuable resource to both your employer and your customers by being vigilant towards online scams.

If your bank's website does not list common scams and security tips, offer to write some up yourself.
If you hear of a new scam on the rise, share that information with your coworkers and your manager so that everyone is prepared to help customers guard against this new threat.
If you feel that your online banking interface could be more secure, discuss your concerns with the appropriate person in your bank.

