 This is the easiest and most straight-forward way to level up in the game. Completing all of the main story quests will easily get you to level 40. The main quests will also reward you with gold, equipment, and Eidolons.;
, Open your map by pressing M or clicking the enlarge button near your minimap. You will be able to see the golden-colored quest "!" icon, indicating that the NPC has a quest for you.


Most main quests are connected, and the NPCs will direct you to the next step once you're done. This makes leveling up easier, as you can easily proceed from one quest to the next.
Main quests may include monster-slaying, which gives you an added experience on top of the quest reward.
Main quests also includes dungeon-raiding in both solo and normal mode. Every dungeon raid gives a decent amount of EXP once you're able to complete it. Aside from equipment drops and gaining crystal fragments, you will also be rewarded with gold. These are useful when upgrading weapons, purchasing potions, and performing many other tasks.
 These quests can be seen in any city or by just simply opening the map and finding the blue-colored quest "!" icons. These quests reset every day for players to take and complete. Aside from decent experience, these quest also rewards players with crafting materials, gold, and Eidolon fragments, which can be exchanged for key fragments.


You can also check your Aura Kingdom Journal tab at the bottom right of your screen; this will show the location of the NPC and what kind of quest they hold. Each map typically has three daily quests: one monster-slaying quest, one item-collection quest and one dungeon quest. Make sure that the quest is within ten levels of your current level.
There are also fame quests that you can take from bulletin boards in every map. These bulletin boards hold special quests for players to take. Once accepted, you will be teleported to a certain place where you will be given a task to complete. This is a fun way to level up and will also reward you with fragments and mystery boxes.
Do all of your daily quests before moving on with available story quests. The levels you gain from the daily quests will make the main quests much easier.
Many higher-level players in Aura Kingdom prefer to do daily quest than grinding out fights with random enemies. The fragments they gather will help them unlock new Eidolons.
 If you have finished doing your daily quests and have no main quest to continue, you can focus on dungeon raiding instead. Dungeons, just like repeatable quests, reset every three hours or less.


You can enter dungeons with your friends in Hell Mode, which gives huge experience and a chance of dropping valuable weapons and equipment. Hell Mode may be difficult to clear, but with a decent Bard and Tank, one round will only take five minutes or less.
Many players prefer raiding dungeons because of the quick EXP, especially when you run with your friends in the game.
 Choosing EXP boost for your Envoy's Path skill tree will significantly increase the amount of EXP you gain throughout the entire game. Not only does it give you more EXP for defeating monsters, it also increases the EXP rewards you get for completing dungeons and quests.


Getting all the available boosts will increase the EXP you earn by 8%. This may not sound like much, but it is a significant boost over the course of the game.
You can reset your Envoy Path skill tree later once you no longer need your EXP bonus skills.
 Along with the EXP Envoy's Path, many power-leveling characters use EXP-boosting gear. These are blue relics that can increase the amount of EXP you gain. EXP gear can also be crafted gear with EXP bonus stats.


Place EXP-boosting gear in every piece of armor. If you can max out the gear you have equipped, you can get a 50% EXP bonus. Combined with the Envoy's Path bonus of 8% EXP, you will end up earning 58% more EXP.
 Now that you have a good 58% EXP using Envoy's Path and EXP gears, you can also make use of EXP cards and boost items. You can purchase EXP boosting items from the Item Mall with real money to help you with your grinding. EXP cards and boosts have time limits, and you typically can only stack a limited number of them before the boosts no longer increase.This is optional, if you have spare money. EXP cards and related items can help you level up faster.
A lot of players these days now sell Item Mall items for in-game gold; if you know a friend or anyone you can trust, you can buy these items from them. Be warned: purchasing Item Mall items from other players is not allowed in the game but is not totally prohibited, so if you get scammed, GMs or Admins will not honor your request for help.
 These books can be obtained from some quests, or can also be purchased with real money. These books will grant you an instant EXP boost depending on your level. The higher level you are, the more EXP you obtain. This means that it is best to save these to use on later levels.
 Whenever you join a party, you will obtain an EXP bonus with every monster you kill. The EXP boost is in effect when you are on the same server channel and the same map as your party-mates.


You do not have to be fighting the same monsters as the rest of your party to earn the boost. The best way to take advantage of this is to form a party and then split up. AS long as you are on the same map, you will earn the boost.
Be warned: if you're about to enter the Temple of Eidolon, make sure to leave the party you're in because being in a party may or may not kick you out from the dungeon before you can complete your task inside.
 As you grow stronger and gain more levels, the amount of EXP you earn from weak monsters drops off dramatically. Make sure that you are no more than ten levels higher than the monster you are fighting, otherwise it won't be worth the time investment.


Always check the amount of EXP you earned to make sure that the grinding you did was worthwhile.

