

Verbal bullying occurs when someone says something to you in order to hurt you or lower your self-esteem. Don't be afraid to be assertive and stand up for yourself but avoid being combative. You can also let others know that you are being verbally bullied and ask for their help.Don't respond with anger or emotion.
Bullies want to knock you down or start a fight. Deny them this by staying calm and positive.
Let the bully know that their attitude and behavior is unacceptable.
Calmly listen to the bully and ask questions. For example “It sounds like you think I'm stupid. Why do you feel that way?” Bullies won't often have actual reasons and will generally stop once you open an honest dialogue with them.
 Physical bullying occurs when physical violence is used against another person in order to intimidate and control them. This type of bullying is very dangerous and needs to be addressed immediately.

Don't be afraid to seek help if you are being physically bullied.Tell someone immediately if you are being physically bullied.
Bullies may threaten you with further violence or you may feel too embarrassed to talk about it. Don't be afraid to speak up, someone will help you.
Physical bullying tends to escalate. The sooner it is addressed the safer you will be.


Cyberbullying occurs virtually but its effects are just as real and serious as any other form of bullying. This form of bullying will usually occur when a bully makes threats or remarks on-line that aim to demean, hurt, or scare another person. Thankfully there are some established methods you can use to stop a cyberbully:Ignore any messages the bully sends to you. Bullies want you to get mad and respond. Ignoring them lets them know that you are not a target.
Threats of violence made on-line are taken very seriously. These can be reported to police or the FBI.
Save all instances and evidence of cyberbullying. For example, any emails from a bully that demonstrate their bullying should be downloaded or otherwise stored securely.
Cut off communication. If you are able, block their email address, phone number, or whatever method they are contacting you with.
Tell someone if you are being bullied online or through some other form of technology.

