 Changing diapers will be much easier if you always have everything you need right near the changing area. Keep a stash of supplies within your reach so you never have to go looking for something.For all diaper changes you will need clean diapers, baby wipes, and diaper rash ointment.
Try baby wipes that are homemade. Include in the wipes some baby soap, witch hazel extract to dry the baby, lavender to prevent diaper rash, baby oil to soften the skin, distilled water, and diaper rash cream to treat diaper rash. Having baby soap or shampoo in the wipes makes for a better clean. See the article How To Make Disposable Baby Wipes for more information and instructions.
You may not need these items for every diaper change, but it's a good idea to keep a clean pair of baby clothes and a wash cloth within reach as well, just in case you run into an extremely dirty diaper. Gloves are also handy if you want to keep your hands clean.
The bathroom is an ideal location for a changing station because you will always have access to a sink nearby.;
, If you're dealing with a particularly dirty diaper, you will want to make sure that you do not contaminate the surface. Always change the baby on a surface that can easily be cleaned.If you are changing the baby on a surface other than a changing table (like a bed or a rug), protect it with a towel or a waterproof changing pad.
Whenever you are changing your baby, you should always put them on a safe surface that they cannot fall off of. Keep at least one hand on the baby at all times to prevent falls.
 Changing a dirty diaper right away will make the task easier. Don't wait, or you may have even more of a mess to clean up., If you want to stay as clean as possible while changing a super dirty diaper, you may want to consider wearing gloves. You can use disposable gloves or thicker ones that can be washed and reused multiple times.


If you don't wear gloves, at least roll your sleeves up to keep your clothing clean.
 Take a look at the baby's clothing before you get started. If it is soiled, remove all of it before you get started. If it does not appear to be soiled, remove only what is necessary to change the diaper.If you don't already have clean clothes by the diaper changing station, be sure to get some before you begin changing the baby.
 Once the baby is lying on their back on the changing table, open the diaper so that it lies flat on the table. If the front part of the diaper is clean, use that section to wipe up as much mess off of the baby as you can. Then quickly fold the diaper in half so the baby's butt is on top of the clean outside section of the diaper.If the entire inside of the baby's diaper is dirty, do not try to use it to wipe the baby. Instead, fold the diaper in half right away and move on to the next step.
If the diaper is dirty on the outside, consider putting a clean diaper under the baby while you clean them. This will help contain the mess while you're working to get them clean.
 Once you've gotten as much mess out of the way as you can with the diaper, it's time to keep wiping with some baby wipes or damp cloths.If necessary, gently roll your baby onto one side, then the other, to thoroughly clean their skin.
If you have a baby girl, be sure to always wipe her from front to back in order to help prevent vaginal and urinary tract infections. But male babies can get penile infections.
Avoid using any wipes that contain alcohol or fragrances, as these can cause skin irritation.For a more thorough clean, always rinse your baby's bottom with some warm water. You can do this at the sink or tub, or by moistening a towel.If the baby has feces on their legs and/or back, it's best to give them a quick bath before putting them into a clean diaper.
 In order to prevent your baby from getting a painful rash, it's a good idea to make sure his skin is completely dry before you put a new diaper on. You can also apply petroleum jelly or ointment to his skin in order to prevent irritation.To dry your baby's skin, you can use a towel or dry cloth, give them some time to air dry, or even use a hair dryer on a cool setting.
 Once the old diaper is off and your baby is wiped down it's time to put the new diaper on. Simply open the diaper up, slide it under the baby with one hand while you gently lift up his legs with the other hand, fold the front part of the diaper up, and secure the straps from behind.If there is another diaper under your baby, remove this one first before sliding the clean diaper in place.
Be sure to position the diaper correctly. For disposable diapers, the tabs should be in the back.
 If you use disposable diapers, roll the old one up and throw it away. If you use cloth diapers, roll the old one up and place it in a container with a tight lid until it's time to wash it.To help contain the smell, place the diaper in a plastic bag and tie it tightly before you throw it away. Plastic bags are also great for containing soiled cloth diapers when you're out.
If you need to walk away from the changing area to throw the diaper away, always bring the baby with you. Never leave him on the changing table unattended.
It's a good idea to wipe off as much poop as you can into the toilet before you throw the diaper away. This will help reduce the odor.If you wore disposable gloves, throw those in the trash as well.
 Once the new diaper is on and the old one is removed, give your baby a once over to make sure they're clean all over. If you notice any messes, clean them up with a cloth right away.


Be sure to pay extra close attention to their hands and feet, which can sometimes come into contact with the dirty diaper during changing.
 When you're all done, be sure to wash your hands and your baby's hands thoroughly, even if they do not appear dirty. Also clean and sanitize the changing surface.If you wore non-disposable gloves, wash them thoroughly before you wash your hands.
If you use a changing pad, be sure to wash it on a regular basis.
If you removed the baby's clothing, you can put a clean pair of clothes on them now. Put the old ones in the wash as soon as possible.
When sanitizing surfaces, always be sure to use a cleaner that is baby-safe.

