,, Search for the business through the business' name and location. Towards the top of the using the two text boxes on top of the main screen. Fill in the business name in the top-left box and the location of the EXACT place. (i.e. If your business is located in Philadelphia, and the corporate location is in East Oshkosh, WI, type in Philadelphia, PA", or you may type in the exact zip code of this business. Try not to add business' local locations as the corporate addresses location. It's a one-to-one deal!


On the page that is displayed, you'll find your search suggestions for the business. If it's not found on this page of search results, you'll have to create a new business listing.
 It can be found at the bottom of the scrollable menu when you at first tap the ""More" button. It will be right above the Settings option.
 These are the only two mandatory fields that comprise a complete new business.


Type into the field the most-often searched/displayed name from the building's storefront sign.
Use all pieces of address you have on file (as if you are looking at a business card). Type the Street Address into the top line and the city and state into the bottom (Do NOT include the zip code, and if this is a non-USA address, select the country first, by tapping the box with the American flag on it).
Suites, apartments, departments as well as a more-specific address if contained inside another separate building, should be the only thing that goes in Street address box 2 (second line). Address box 2, should be, most of the time, not filled in.
If you are within a few yards of the business and you've enabled GPS location-sensing, you can touch the "Fill with Current Location" button to automatically fill the nearest addressed location (internally using the Google search engine) in most places.
 This is also mandatory. Move the placemarker so the marker is placed directly over-top of the business, or, if its already correct (99% of the time, this will be the case), you must continue to the next step.
 You can fill in it's Category, Hours, Phone, and Website.
 Give them a summary such as "adding business to database", so they know exactly what you're doing and that you aren't trying to maliciously vandalize the database details for the listing.
