 The following sections will explain the individual positions for each player involved, in the style of your role as coach telling the players where to go, and what to expect.
 Let’s say the puck is in the right corner down in the offensive zone. Depending on what your coach wants, the right winger would typically set up on the board side hash marks. They don’t want to be hugging the boards, but just a bit off of them. The right winger can act as a few things for this power play. They can be an outlet pass for the center that will be below the goal line or they can be the middleman and deliver the puck from down low to the defenseman up top.


The right winger can also drive towards the net and look to give a pass to the left winger that will be floating around looking to get open or take a shot on net. This is the same deal for the left winger, so it just depends on what side the puck is on.
 Again, depending on where your coach wants you, typically the center hangs out down below the goal line, shifting with the puck from the right corner to the left corner. The center is meant to be an outlet pass for the wingers on the hash marks and for the defensemen up top. The center can skate the puck from corner to corner looking to create something and to look for open ice. The center and the defenseman up top can pass back and forth, but that only depends on how tight the defending team is pressuring. The center can either skate it towards the net, pass to the winger hanging around the center of the net, or pass back and forth with the winger trying to cause a mistake for the defending team.
 This one is quite easy. Typically, the defensemen don’t want to go below the top of the circles. The reason for that is that just in case the defending team finds a whole in the power play, they can’t get a break away or an odd man rush. So, to be smart, the two defensemen should try to stay above the circles.

Let’s say the puck is on the left side of the ice. This will mean that the left side defenseman will be close to the left side boards just a few steps above the circle. They are looking for a pass down low or to take a one timer on net. They can also receive a pass from either the winger or the center and walk the puck towards the middle of the ice and take a shot on net or pass it over to the right side defenseman. While the puck is down in the right corner, the left side defenseman will be in the middle of the ice between the middle of the circles. Depending on how low the right side defenseman is, the left side defenseman should either hang high or can sneak down towards the top of the circles.
 There are an endless amount of options for the team running the overload power play., As mentioned above, the wingers have quite a few options when the puck is on their stick. They can either pass it down to the center, pass it up top to the defenseman, drive towards the net looking for an open shot, look for the opposite side winger hanging around the net, or if nothing is open, create a battle along the boards. Really, the wingers can do whatever they want to do with the puck as long as their coach approves of it. Those with a good hockey sense can create space and pick up on opportunities to create something good.
 These are pretty endless. If there is no open ice and the defending team has a pretty solid penalty kill going, the center could start what is called a cycle. The cycle can be run with either two players or three. Again, it all depends on what your coach wants.

Let’s say your coach wants a two man cycle. If the puck is down in the left corner, the center and the left winger will run the cycle down in the left corner. All that is done in the cycle is the center will skate the puck up towards the hash marks and throw the puck down back into the corner, trying their best to keep the puck along the boards so the defending team can’t pick it up. The left winger will loop and basically just follow the center. Once the left winger picks up the puck they can either walk it out and drive it to the net, get a quick shot on net, or cycle again back down to the center that will be looping back around to the corner. The cycle just creates space and can throw the defending team off.
 With these directions on where each player should be placed and what roles each player can play, your team's overload power play should be a success.