 Pour equal amounts of pure blue and pure yellow into a paint dish or onto a paint palette. Use a palette knife to thoroughly mix the colors together.


When mixed, the original colors should produce a pure green.
To get a more accurate idea of how this green looks, use a paint brush to apply a small amount to some scrap practice paper.
 Depending on what you want to paint, pure green may not be the best green for your purposes. The simplest way to change the hue will be to add more yellow or more blue.


Adding more yellow will create a warmer green, and adding more blue will produce a cooler green.
When attempting to change the hue, make small changes until you find the hue you want. Gradually building the correct hue is easier and less wasteful than overcompensating and needing to work back toward the center from the extreme.
 Clear room on your palette and try mixing together several different hues of yellow and blue. Doing so should produce different hues of green.Pure yellow and pure blue will create pure green, but if these starting colors have been altered prior to being mixed, the resulting color will also change. For instance, combining golden yellow with a standard blue may result in a more muted, brownish green. On the other hand, mixing standard yellow with a light blue could produce a light green.
The best way learn which blues and yellows produce which greens is through experimentation. Pick a few different hues of yellow and blue. Combine equal parts of one yellow and one blue hue, working through each possible combination. Mark down your results for future reference., If you have two hues of green that are close to the color you need but don't quite match it, you can try mixing the two hues together to achieve the desired color.


Since all greens contain elements of blue and yellow, mixing them should result in new hues of green.
You can also mix green together with different yellows or different blues to change the hue more dramatically.
 Once you find the right hue, you can alter the value without changing the hue itself using black or white paint.


Add white paint to create a lighter tint or black paint to create a darker shade.
Regardless of which value you desire, you should add the white or black paint in small amounts. If you add too much, you can easily create a value that is far too light or far too dark.

