 Place the brown rice in a fine mesh strainer and quickly rinse it under cold running water for about 30 seconds.


Make sure that the strainer is made from very fine mesh. If the gaps between the wires are too large, you could end up losing an unfortunate amount of rice as you rinse it.
Note that you may not always need to rinse the rice, and this is somewhat of an outdated practice. Rinsing is a cleaning process and is a necessary step if you suspect that the rice has been imported or handled roughly in bulk storage. If the rice is a fortified, domestic product, however, you probably will not need to worry about rinsing it.;
,


You can soak the rice up to 3 hours, if desired, but 45 minutes will often be enough.
If you prefer a more flavorful rice, you could substitute some or all of the water with chicken broth or vegetable broth. Substitute the broth in equal amounts for the water.
Soaking is beneficial because it reduces the stickiness of the rice. It also helps the rice expand into long, thin grains.
 Sprinkle the soaked rice with salt, if desired, to draw out more flavor from the rice as it cooks.


Give the contents of the rice cooker a quick stir with a wooden mixing spoon to distribute the salt more evenly.
 If your rice cooker has a brown rice setting, use that. If it only has a timer, set the timer for 30 minutes.


The rice cooker must remain covered for the duration of the cooking process.
Check the rice after the first 30 minutes. If the grains still seem tough and the content of the basin are still somewhat soupy, cover and set the timer for another 10 minutes.
Understand that each rice cooker varies by make and model. In order to cook the rice as best as possible, you need to read the instructions that come with your rice cooker and set the timer and other settings according to what you read there.
 After the timer goes off, let the rice stand for another 5 to 10 minutes so that it absorbs any remaining water in the basin.Leave the cover on as the rice continues to sit.
 If you want to flavor the cooked rice, you could add about 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of butter or margarine or 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of soy sauce. Stir well to coat the rice evenly.


You could also wait until after you place the rice in serving dishes before seasoning it. That way, everyone can season the rice according to his or her own tastes.
 Transfer the rice to serving dishes or set it aside for use in other recipes that call for cooked brown rice.

