 Don't just ask for your clients to make general appointments for a "discussion". Get out there and spend time with your clients and ask to view the range of their professional services (gratis) so that you have an excellent idea of what they are facing. Don't leave the client with the impression that any discussion meeting is based on your agenda, which is clearly to sell your client something!;
, In other words, be ready to answer the question: "What's in all of this for the client?" to avoid the uncomfortable silences.
 Try this very simple mantra: ‘If your services do not offer a compelling advantage to your clients over and above their current advisors then don't waste their time in attempting to sell it!'.

Are different parts of your firm bombarding clients with promotional material telling them about all your services? (Irrespective of whether your solution is more compelling than their current provider.)
Are your formal plans mainly focused on what you wish to achieve and your increased financial performance?
Are your partners and fee-earners under pressure to go out and tell as many clients as possible about their service lines?

,


Are you a professional advisor or salesperson?

, This is possible only when you have achieved the status of being a valued and trusted advisor and when you realise what truly professional selling is and isn't.
 Many definitions of selling use the words "persuading" and "convincing". The most successful firms understand that sophisticated and intelligent clients do not wish to be sold to in such a way. They understand that the greatest success comes when the energy to consider and buy additional services comes from the client.


The word motivation is key. The most successful firms at cross-selling will have the deepest possible understanding of how a client is thinking.
You must understand what is important to your clients and will know when and how to communicate additional services that the client will willingly wish to explore with you.
You must be motivated to explore because you trust that there is real value in the service and that it will help their business protect itself from challenges or help them to seize opportunities in the future.
 The iceberg principle illustrates the difference between the ‘surface level' information that a client will easily share and the ‘beneath the surface' information that often determines how they will respond to you and how their decisions are influenced.
 The key here is genuine interest. When the client knows that you and your firm's actions and advice always have the client's best interest at heart they will become very open and receptive to your approaches in helping them with additional services. Moving too quickly can prematurely end a potentially beautiful and lifelong relationship.
 Whilst a client has developed sufficient trust to reward you with an initial instruction you may not have had sufficient time to embed that trust to the point where the client's expectations of you and your firm have been exceeded. You need to invest an appropriate amount of time and energy to earn the right as quickly as possible to be seen as their valued advisor. Done correctly this should not take long and will allow you some early cross selling wins.
 You need to have earned the valued advisor status. You need to have the client's best interest at heart. You need to only consider introducing services where you believe there is a potentially compelling return for the client. You need to have a deep understanding of your client's iceberg and what's really important to them.
 The starting point is to stop being you and start being a client. This is sometimes difficult but it is a key mindset shift if you want to have the best chance of identifying which service to introduce, when to introduce it, and how. For example, help your client avoid the trap of trying to sell everything. Carefully select the best services based on a deep understanding of the client's world and where they are as confident as they can be that the client will be motivated to meet with them.
 The client however has no knowledge of your capability in this specific area. So what do you do?


If you have no reputation for the service you would like to introduce avoid diving in and asking a client for a meeting to tell them all about it. The answer is to take it slowly. Don't dive in and ask for a meeting to tell the client how good you are. You need to earn the right. You need to build the motivation in the client's mind for them to want to meet with you to explore.
 Every touch point is of significant value to the client and gives immediate and usable insight into how they can approach a number of key future opportunities and threats.
 Identify some of the barriers that exist. They include:


Lack of communication
Lack of knowledge of what others do
Lack of trust in other's capabilities
Fear of loss of control
Not knowing how to cross-sell
Financial considerations/penalties
Lack of a real understanding of the clients business
The client's current image of your firm

,
Introduce remuneration and reward packages that drive appropriate behaviour
Demand equally high standards across all service lines
Ensure consistency of client experience across all service lines
Demonstrate credibility, competence and compatibility consistently!
Ask fee-earners about how they view cross-selling
Encourage people to do what is right for the client
Develop the process, skills and behaviours of cross-selling
Invest significant amounts of non-chargeable time in gaining the deepest possible understanding of the client and their world
Build a ‘thinking information' file on the client's world
Widen the contact surface with the client
Change your marketing approach from telling to adding huge value
Stop trying to sell everything to everyone!

, Are your clients seeing you as vultures or wise owls?
And remember, stop cross-selling and start building the motivation to buy!

