 If you have Ghoulia Yelps or Jackson Jekyll, be sure he/she has a nice, clean pair of glasses or contacts so that they can see well.;
, Wash the clothes that get dirty.
 Give her a facial and paint her nails. Massage her back. Don't forget to do her make up. Make a facial out of play-dough and foam cucumbers.


If you want to make it more realistic, you can sit next to your doll and give yourself a real facial with real cucumbers at the same time.
 Maybe even twice. Don't forget the undercoat (especially if you have Clawdeen, as she's a werewolf).
 For example, Cleo and Clawdeen would barely be in the same social group, while Frankie and Clawdeen would easily be in the same group.
 And a bed for the pet, too. If you have Frankie Stein, give her a pet that is a mishmash of animals - maybe even a meowing dog or a barking cat.
 You could make a house from:


A Barbie dream house
Boxes stacked up, or made out of wood
Turn an empty bookshelf into a house.
 For example, wallpaper the house and rooms, depending on which doll lives there. You can also buy or make furniture for the house., Don't forget bathrooms, water fountains, library, computer lab, gym, dinner hall, dance room and lockers. Oh, and don't forget the bell. You can also buy her the amazing high school play set, but it will be a little costly. To make the principal, get a Barbie doll, cut her hair short and dip hair in grape juice.
 Make a bed or a row of beds from boxes or other recycled items. Identify a doctor and nurse, and make an admissions station from a cardboard box. Use lots of big red crosses to identify medical supplies. Use a doctor's play kit for items, if you have one.


Make sure you know all her allergies. You don't want to rush her to the hospital but you have one if you need to.
 Use tissue paper as flowers and sticks as trees. Also use toy flowers and stuff from your other toys that would belong in a garden.
 Just remember that if you have Draculaura, that she's a vegan.


The exception to this rule is Venus McFlytrap. Since she is a human plant, she can get by on water and sunshine alone, so make sure to provide both of these.
 You are her role model, so don't let her down.



For Lagoona, choose a job that involves water.
For Cleo, don't choose a job that would involve work in the dark.
For Holt Hyde, choose an evening job.
 She needs fresh air sometimes. And if you have shallow water, make Lagoona walk in it. If you have Dracula, make sure she has a toy umbrella or sunscreen so she doesn't get burnt.
 Don't forget to pack her food, make up, cell phone, clothes, and pet.
 If you have Deuce Gorgon,or Viperine Gorgon, this is the point at which you suddenly take off his sunglasses, turning the Barbie to stone for a day. If you have Clawdeen, she can howl at the Barbies; if you have Frankie Stein,she can shock the barbies with her bolts; and if you have Abbey, pretend the barbies turn to ice.
 Don't forget to celebrate!

, She does not like being cold. (Exception: Abbey Bominable)

, Make tiny snowflakes out of paper. Decorate her house with nutcrackers, paper snowflakes, Christmas trees, Christmas cards, wish lists, presents, mistletoe, countdown chains, posters, bows, gingerbread string, holly, and customized wrapping paper. Don't forget to celebrate with her.
 Feed her latkes (vegan latkes for Draculaura). Decorate the house with candles, menorahs, and dreidels.
 Decorate her home. Make her or buy her a costume. Host a party and invite her friends, or go to one. Make some punch. Trick or treat. Just remember that if you have Cleo de Nile, she's scared of the dark, and if you have Jackson Jekyll, he appears only during the day.
 Feed her turkey (or faux turkey for Draculaura). Make a Pilgrim or Native American costume for her. Decide what she is thankful for, and make her express that. Decorate her house in fall colors and fake fall leaves.
 Give her plenty of exercise and baths.
 You can learn ways to comfort her more.

