 Many employers offer a range of benefits. You should opt in to as many as you can. These benefits usually come at an advantage to you by either saving your money or making you more money in the long run. Increasing your financial stability will give you the opportunity to do more things.


For example, many employers offer things like a childcare flex plan that allows you to set aside money to pay for childcare without that money being taxed. This can save you significantly in the long run.
 Whether your only skill set comes from your career or you have skills and hobbies that you have never made money from, consider using them. Generating side income, especially from an untapped skill, will give you more financial stability, put you in contact with more people, and allow you to do more things. In fact, just the act of applying your skills outside the workplace might be something you have never done before.For example, if you work as a graphic design artist, you could take projects on your own that allow you to make all of the design decisions and earn a little extra cash.
Avoid projects or clients that would otherwise go to the business you work for. If your supervisors feel that you are taking clients or jobs from the business, you will likely be fired.
 Sometimes taking a last minute personal day is necessary. If it isn’t, save that day for a later time. Use your personal days to plan a trip or excursion that you wouldn’t normally have time to do. You will likely meet new people, see new places, and do new things on your trips.


For example, you could save some personal days for December and take a Christmas trip to a ski resort.
 All people experience some degree of fear when they are doing something new. The fear of the unknown is common in all cultures and personalities. By recognizing this fear in yourself, you give yourself the power to confront it and do something new. If you choose not to recognize it at all, you are more likely to make up excuses for not doing something new because it is uncomfortable.Force yourself to do something different each day, even if it is something as simple as taking a new route to work.
Take a few moments to journal about something new evening before going to bed. Soon you will have quite a collection!

