 This liniment is a basic one that you can use for any type of herbs. You can choose herbs such as peppermint, oregano, cayenne, ginger, lavender, eucalyptus, myrrh, or chamomile, all based on what properties you want. You can choose fresh or dried plants.For instance, if you want to increase circulation to a certain area, you could use black pepper, cayenne pepper, rosemary, or ginger. Increasing circulation can help with healing and pain.Many people have had good luck with cottonwood or aspen as a way to decrease pain and help with swelling. To make the best use of these trees, you need to harvest the buds of leaves in the spring while the buds still feel resinous (sticky) to the touch. However, if you want to harvest at another time of year, you can use the bark instead.Just keep in mind that some people are allergic to cottonwood. Make sure that you are not allergic to cottonwood if you plan to use it.;
, If you choose fresh herbs or plants, you may need to wash them off first, depending on what they are. For instance, you may want to wash off ginger root, but you wouldn't want to wash the resin off of the cotton wood buds.
 If you're using fresh plants, you need to chop them up first. They don't have to be very finely chopped. Just give them a rough chop so that their essence is more easily extracted. Try to get the pieces smaller than 1 inch at the least., Choose a jar that creates a tight seal. Place the plants in the jar., Once you've added the plants, pour in enough rubbing alcohol, vodka, or witch hazel extract to cover the plants. You don't want part of the plant sticking out., Once you've combined the ingredients, you need to let them steep. You can wait just a month, but 6 weeks is probably better., Though it needs to steep, you need to help the process along by shaking the mixture up. Once a day is sufficient, but you can do it more often if you wish., Once the time is up, you need to strain out the herbs. Pick a clean, dark jar with a tight-fitting lid. Place a clean piece of cheesecloth or muslin over the jar. Pour the mixture through it, leaving the herbs in the fabric.At this point, you can add a small amount of menthol crystals. How much you add is up to you, but start with a very small amount, just a small pinch. You can always add more.You can also add a few drops of essential oil at this point if you wish., Add a label that includes everything you put in the liniment. Also, make sure you add "for external use only." The liniment will keep a long time due to the alcohol., Gently rub a small amount on your skin as you need to do so. Let it dry on your skin.