 The best way to prepare for an exam is to consult and fill out your entire study guide. Most teachers who give out a study guide are basically handing the class a key to the test. Becoming familiar with everything on the study guide can ensure success on the test.


If your teacher does not provide a study guide, this option may not be available to you. You could try visiting your teacher before or after class or during her office hours and asking for a guide or for tips about where best to focus your studying.
 If your instructor hands out a course syllabus or calendar, read over it. Often, the instructor’s philosophy about exams is part of a detailed syllabus.This can also serve as a reminder about specific texts you read or items that you focused on.


Anything that your teacher spent more than one day of class on is sure to be important.
Most syllabi include a section about exams. At the very least, you should be able to determine what percentage of your overall grade each exam makes up, which can help you determine how long you should spend studying for it.
 For some exams, you may need to be able to provide definitions of key concepts or literary movements. For others, you may need to be able to talk about how a theme is explored in various works. Look through your notes to check for definitions, lists, and any theme or topic that comes up more than once; this is usually a good sign that these may be on the exam.
 Often, the day or days before the exam are the best times to attend class. Your teacher will likely preview the exam and indicate directions of focus that you should study. This is also when teachers usually distribute study guides.


If you must miss class, ask a friend or reliable classmate for copies of any handouts or her notes from class. If she knows that you will be gone ahead of time, she is more likely to take thorough notes instead of just listening.
As a last resort, contact your teacher to find out what materials you missed in class. It is best to let her know you will be gone ahead of time, and tell her that you have tried to have another student take notes for you. Don't phrase your request by saying you wanted to know if you missed anything or if anything important was covered; this may offend your teacher. Instead, ask if your teacher will share with you what she went over in class.
 If your teacher does not volunteer a study guide or information about the exam, ask her about it towards the end of class one day. It is best to be very polite and just ask for guidance about studying rather than demanding to know what the content of the exam will be.


It’s also important to know whether the exam is cumulative, covering everything from the beginning of the semester, or if it is only covering material since your last exam.
 If this is not your first exam for the course, look at the last test you took. Many teachers use similar formats for each exam, so an earlier test can serve as a study guide or at least give you an idea about what to expect for the format of the exam.
 In addition to asking about the content of the exam, you should ask your instructor about the format of the exam.Knowing, for example, whether an exam will be multiple choice or entirely essay can help you decide how to study.


Knowing whether you will be taking the test on a computer or with pen and paper will also help you determine how best to study. A computer with word processing software may negate the need to spend a lot of time studying the spelling of vocabulary words, for example.
 Be sure that you will be prepared for the exam by bringing the appropriate materials for the exam. If your exam will be administered on a computer, you may not need to bring anything with you at all.


Find out if you need pen or pencil, paper or a test booklet, and if you will be able to use your textbook or novels that you read while taking the test.
Some teachers may even allow you to use a notecard or a study guide while taking the test.

