 Chain letters usually include a story, poem, joke, recipe, quiz, a bunch of mis-attributed quotes, political rant, dire warning, or any combination of the above. The more outlandish and dishonest the better, since, as a chain originator, you're not going for accuracy, you're trying to be a jerk and manipulate as many people into passing on this kruft as possible. Then comes an attempt to get the reader to copy the message and send it to the specified number of, or as many users as possible. Read the examples on the side of this article for some examples.


Example letter from "Mary"

If you're reading this you can't stop. Hi my name is Mary. I'm 15, I have long black hair, and no nose. I'm in a white dress, and if you don't copy this on 5 other videos, I will stand behind you with a knife, and kill you. If you do I will give you a prize.
 Any combination of jokes, a scary story, or a joke to get a free computer from IBM are all typical chain letter jokes. You can write one of these typical chain letters, or write something creative.


Example joke story:

A few years ago, two parents went out for dinner. A few hours later, the babysitter was calling to ask if she could cover up the clown statue in the kids' room. The father said, "Take the kids and get out of the house. We'll call the police, we don't have a clown statue." The "clown statue" is really a killer that escaped from jail. If you don't post this letter on to 10 videos tonight, the clown will be in your bed at 3:00 am with a chainsaw in his hand.
 If you wrote a scary story, like the clown story, you can say that if they do not copy the message and send it to a certain number of people, the same will happen to them. If you wrote a joke, you can just say to copy and send to people. Love chain letters often have a number of people they must be sent to, and if it is sent to 5, something will happen, 10, something else will happen, etc.


Example viral trigger:

Don’t delete……if you love someone…. This is scary. If you don’t, the following will happen to you …. (you will find out later on). Now listen……… you will probably think…. This chain letter, like most chain letters, is full of crap and does not work. But guess...... , See the infamous Billy Evans article as an example., You can send it in mail, email, or post it as a comment for a certain thing. If posting online, be wary of what the site considers spam. Obviously, you don't want to post chain letters on wikiHow, your comment may be removed.
, It takes a long time for a chain letter to be spread to many people. You yourself may have to send it to many people to get it going, because many people do not obey the orders in a chain letter.

