 The following are common actions that companies implement as part of employee wellness programs:

Begin a smoking cessation program. Employees who smoke tend to cost more money on health insurance and have more employee absences. Companies can invest in smoking counseling sessions, nicotine replacements and incentives. Some employers offer bonuses, such as $2,500 after 12 months, for successfully quitting smoking.






Implement yearly flu shots. Most flu shots cost approximately $20 and they lower the risk of getting certain strains of flu that spread freely through office environments. Give free flu shots to those who want them in order to lower the risk of absences from flu.






Offer paid time off for cancer screening. You can also create and post fliers that give facts about the likelihood of cancer. Cancer prevention can save thousands of dollars in health care benefits.






Implement nutrition options. Replace candy and sodas in vending machines with fruits, juices, salads and teas. Charge less in vending machines for these options than the local cafe or than previous vending choices. Offer free filtered water to all employees.






Give your employees fitness options. You should take your employees' preferences into account. For example, older employees may appreciate a low-impact activity such as a walking club, where employees get a 20 to 30 minute break from work to do a fast walk. Others may choose to implement boot camp or yoga classes, or give bonuses to employees who have gym memberships. Within certain budgets, you can choose to install a gym at the office site.






Other fitness ideas include incentives for biking to work, weight watchers meetings at work, subsidized massages for stress relief, installing a "zen room" with complete quiet, or giving pedometers to employees and giving incentives for reaching 10,000 steps per day.
 Bonuses, paid time off, free healthy lunches or time off to exercise are examples of incentives that are often used. Ask your employees what they prefer.



Encourage your employees to journal throughout the year as the wellness program progresses. Studies have shown that journaling fitness and weight loss goals can make a wellness program be more positive. You can choose to distribute journals or calendars to help employees track goals independently, if that fits into your budget.

