 Everyone's body reacts differently to cancer. Your symptoms will also depend on what type of cancer you have. However, it is likely that you will deal with many physical changes. Finding ways to feel physically better can help you handle your illness.Your doctor will be one of your greatest resources. After you have processed the initial diagnosis, schedule a follow-up appointment.
Prepare a list of questions to ask. Writing them down ahead of time will help you remember key points.
You can ask things such as, "How will this affect my energy levels and my appetite?" You could also say, "Are there any physical restrictions I should be aware of?"
You may also want to ask about your short-term and long-term prognosis. Ask your doctor to be as honest and specific as possible.
 After you begin to understand your particular type of cancer, you can begin working to make a treatment plan. Many people feel better when they feel like they have a little bit of control over their medical care. Tell your doctor that you want to be involved in decision making.Discuss whether you are going to pursue the most aggressive treatment possible. Sometimes surgery is an option, but comes with risks.
Talk to your doctor about all of your options. Give yourself time to think about each possible course of treatment.
Involve your partner or a close family member in your decision making process. It can be very helpful to have some advice from a person you are close to.
Ask your partner to accompany you to your medical appointments. He or she can help you process all of the information you are taking in.
 Your treatment plan should also include ways to handle the day to day symptoms you will experience. Talk to your doctor about the potential side effects of your illness and medications. Make a plan to cope with anticipated physical symptoms.Many cancer patients deal with pain. Talk to your doctor about prescription pain killers and natural remedies.
Loss of appetite is another common problem. Keep foods on hand that are easier to digest, such as soup and oatmeal.
Chemotherapy drugs can cause fatigue. Allow yourself extra time to rest. You might also feel better if you can do light physical activity, such as taking a short walk.
Your sex drive might suffer. Have an honest conversation with your partner about other ways to still have intimacy. Try extra hugging and cuddling.
 It is important to try to be as healthy as possible when you are dealing with cancer. Your body needs plenty of nutrients to fight your illness. Try to eat a healthy diet.A balanced diet can help you fight fatigue. Try to eat whole grains, plenty of fruits and vegetables, and lean proteins.
If you are having trouble keeping foods down, try eating some homemade vegetable soup. You'll get lots of nutrients and hopefully avoid upsetting your stomach.
Remember to stay hydrated. Cancer medications can cause dry mouth and cracked skin, so it is important to drink as much water as possible.
Get plenty of rest. Allow yourself to take naps as needed and go to bed as early as you like. Average adults need 7-9 hours of sleep. You may need more.
 Although it is frustrating, you may not be able to complete all of your regular tasks. It's okay to delegate some of your responsibilities. Allow your friends and family to help.When people offer to help, take them up on it. If your neighbor asks what she can do, it is perfectly fine to say, "It would be so helpful if you could pick up a few things for me the next time you are at the grocery store."
Ask your partner to take over some extra responsibilities around the house. Maybe you've traditionally been the cook. It's okay to take some time off from making dinner.
Talk to your boss about your situation. Explain that you may need to take a reduced role on some big projects.

