 After all, it’s the paper clip’s designated purpose. Clip papers together by securing one metal loop on each side of the stack.


If you’re feeling adventurous, reshape your paper clip into a heart-shaped holder. It’ll lend a little love and excitement to your bundles.;
, If the bottom edge of your skirt or pants is coming undone, paper clips make for an excellent temporary fix. Just fold the rough edge under and pin it in place by securing paper clips around the circumference.


This is also a useful way to prepare a hem to resew it. Using paper clips around the edge will help ensure that your hem is even all the way around.
 It’s really difficult to zip and unzip clothing when there’s nothing to hang onto. If you’re missing the pull for a zipper, simply loop a paper clip through the eyelet where the original pull was attached., If you unbend a paper clip, its ends can be very useful for clearing up household items that are stopped up. The paper clip is an especially useful tool when the job calls for precision, such as fine drains or clogged glue bottles.
 Some small items, like jewelry or electronics, are difficult to clean using your hands. If you loop some tissue, paper towel, gauze, felt, or cotton around a paper clip, it can create a mini cleaning tool that’s perfect for dusting hard-to-reach crevices.
 When you need to reset your modem or router, a paper clip is the ideal tool for pressing that tricky-to-reach reset button. Bend it into a key-like shape, that is, a long wire with a handle at the end. You hold the handle and use the extended wire to press in the internal reset button., A paper clip can serve as a simple bookmark. Just clip it to the page you are on in whatever you’re reading, and you won’t lose your spot.
 You can either hang an object using the paper clip alone or hang it from a string tied to the paper clip with the object on it if you’d like a longer loop.


This is an easy and cheap way to hang everything from ornaments to strings of lights to wall decor. Just be sure that whatever you’re hanging is light enough that it won’t break the paper clip with its weight.
You can even reshape the paper clip into a miniature clothes hanger.
 If you’re constantly annoyed about losing where you are in a roll of duct, scotch, or painters’ tape, why not wrap the edge around a paper clip to create an easy tab. The end will not only be easy-to-find, it’ll also be easy to pull when you need it., Lots of items in your cupboard and fridge come in bags. Ensure it all stays fresh by using a paper clip to seal each package.You can either fold the open edge of a bag over and clip it closed or unbend your paper clip to use it like a twisty tie.
 This is definitely not advice to do anything illegal, but sometimes you lock yourself out of an old trunk or locker, and paper clips can be quicker and more cost-effective than a locksmith.To open a padlock, you’ll need two paper clips, one unbent to be completely straight and the other bent into an “L” shape.
Insert the straight clip into the very top of the keyhole (where the jagged edge of your key would normally go), and the L-shaped clip into the bottom. Then, you need to swiftly and firmly pull the top clip out while firmly twisting the bottom clip in the same direction as you would your key. It’s tricky to get the action exactly right, so it may take a few tries.

