 These systems deter break-ins and crime because they offer a direct line to emergency services from inside your home, whether you are home or away. If burglars notice that your home is equipped with a home security system, they might pass on your house and move on to an easier target.Only share your home security code with individuals whom you absolutely trust. If you think someone untrustworthy has obtained the code, change it as soon as possible.
Choose a home security system with a lighted motion sensor. When these systems detect movement, they turn on flood lighting, making it easy to see what or who is approaching your home.Some home security systems involve cameras. Be sure to invest in a high definition camera, so that if your home is ever burglarized and the cameras capture photos or video of the perpetrator, the images will be clear enough to give a good picture of the burglar.
Don’t give burglars the opportunity to hide or lurk outside your home. Keep bushes and shrubbery trimmed and leave your porch light on, if possible. You want your home to be as uninviting to criminals as you can make it., While everyone loves a bright, airy space, window coverings are important to install so that your belongings aren’t on display for potential burglars. It’s especially important to keep your window coverings closed at night when it’s easiest for prowlers to look into your home for things they might want to steal when you’re gone., This is a basic but very important safety precaution. Before you leave your home or go to bed for the night be sure that all your doors and windows are locked, including your garage door, if you have one.This applies to your car, as well. Be sure that all your windows are closed and any valuables are out of sight or locked in the trunk.
 Timers help you control when your lights and TV turn on and off when you aren’t home. This gives the illusion of someone being home and can help deter potential home break-ins.Many timers can be programmed remotely with your cellphone and some even have a battery backup in case of a power failure., Offering personal information on your mailbox or exterior of your home invites stalkers and burglars to learn who lives at your address. For safety and anonymity do not advertise your name on the exterior of your home., If they keep an eye on your home while you’re gone, ask them to watch for any suspicious activity. Authorize them to report any strange activity or suspicious individuals to police or the neighborhood watch group in your absence.


If you’ll be gone for more than a week, consider having the post office hold your mail and hire a teenager in the neighborhood to mow your lawn. An overgrown lawn with packages piling up at the front door is a dead giveaway to criminals that no one is home at your house. Make it a priority to have your home appear to have someone at home so that potential criminals will be deterred.

