 A back handspring is a very important skill in level 2 cheerleading. If you can't do one and want to be in level 2, take private or tumbling lessons so you can learn one. Most teams will let you in a level 2 team if you're close to a back handspring or have it on the trampoline, so just because you don't have a perfect one on the ground by yourself doesn't mean you won't make the level 2 team. It's better to learn a standing back handspring before you learn a round-off back handspring.;
, In level 2 you'll most likely do things like round-off back handsprings or standing back handsprings, but you can also learn things like dive rolls, front handsprings, and other things that are not legal in level 1.
 Jumps are also important in level 2. Most teams have you do toe-touch pause back handsprings in routines some girls don't even know if they should connect or separate. In level 2, you always pause in between jumps and back handsprings.  But, as you go on to higher levels you WILL connect. Its just a rule that certain levels have to do and respect an order to not be disqualified.
 In level 2, you won't be doing any single-legged extended stunts or twist tosses. Learn the rules of level 2 before you make the level 2 team, otherwise you won't have any idea what type of things you'll be doing at practice or in the routine. As you try out for level 2, they are sure to tell you want they're looking for on a sheet or the expectations they have or a certain thing you MAY NEED to have. The rules level 2 are different from any other level. But the number one rule is u mess up u keep going because it's better to keep going then to cry in the middle in the routine. Only you and the people who choreographed know if you messed up or our coaches. The judges don't know what our routine is. They just know what to look for IN the routine.
 In level 2, you start doing tosses. In level 2, you can only do a 1/4 rotation in a toss and you may not perform a toe ouch or a kick in any kind of toss. If you're a base or a spot, learn how to catch the flyer correctly otherwise she can fall and get really hurt.
 Some stunts in level 2 are single-legged half stunts, extensions, tosses, log rolls Single legged extended stunt are not allowed unless they are braced by a stunt at prep level or below(shoulder sit). .
, Remember that you can get in a level 2 team by having a back handspring on the tumble track or with a spot, because you'll most likely learn one when competitions start. Most teams also practice during the summer.
