 Tortoises should be bathed at least 3-4 times per week. Some experts recommend bathing them every day when the weather is warm., Tortoises can harbor salmonella bacteria, which can make humans very ill, so it is important that you not bathe your turtle in the sink or bathtub.Salmonella is very resistant to disinfectants, so the best course of action is to buy or find a special tub for bathing your turtle, and use it only for that purpose.A plastic bucket, wash tub, or kitty litter pan makes an ideal tortoise bath; just make sure it's large enough to accommodate your tortoise.
 To bathe your tortoise, you just need a tub, a toothbrush, and a jug or pitcher of lukewarm water. You should not use any kind of soap or shampoo on your turtle, unless it was specifically recommended by your vet., The water should be room temperature. Add the water slowly until it is the depth of the tortoise's chin, or a bit shallower. Don't add more water than this, as most tortoises can't swim and could drown if their head is below water.It can also be helpful to rest the bowl on a book, so that your create a "deep" and a "shallow" end in the water. Place the chelonian with his head at the shallow end. This enables his anus to be below the water line, which is great because they drink through their anus so it's a great way of making sure he is well hydrated.


Adding the water after the tortoise is in the tub ensures that you will not accidentally make the water too deep.
 Just let your tortoise be in the water for 10 to 20 minutes. During this time the tortoise will drink water, and rehydrate further by absorbing water through its tail. It will also likely pass waste at this time.Usually it is sufficient to just let your tortoise soak and skip to the rinsing step, but once a week or so, you should give the tortoise a good scrub.
 Be sure to lift the tortoise out of the water while you pour the water out, to make sure it doesn't fall.
 Use a toothbrush and gently scrub the entire shell, paying special attention to any areas of buildup. Then scrub the tortoise's legs, tail, and neck, but be careful with these areas as they are more sensitive. Finally, scrub the turtle's plastron (belly), and be sure to remove all dirt between the scutes or scales., This is the perfect time to check your tortoise all over for any sign of injury or disease. If you see anything out of the ordinary, take your turtle to the veterinarian to have it checked out right away. Common signs of illness include swollen eyelids or ears, other swellings on the body, skin abnormalities, and discolored or fuzzy patches on the shell that may indicate shell rot., Rinse your tortoise thoroughly using lukewarm water from your pitcher. Then place the tortoise on a towel, and wrap it up and over the tortoise to thoroughly blot the tortoise dry. You can then return your shiny, clean tortoise back to its enclosure., To avoid the risk of salmonella contamination, you should not pour soiled tortoise-water down the sink. Flush it down the toilet, instead, and be sure to wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm water when you are done.

