 Rinse the wound thoroughly using light pressure from a garden hose, or ideally, flush with clean water or betadine/chlorhexadine solution(diluted)using a 60cc syringe with an 18 gauge, 1 & 1/2" needle attached to the syringe. Following flushing, lightly scrub with betadine or chlorhexadine surgical scrub if handy. Apply several gauze pads over the wound, and cover them with one or more large quilted pads.


If you don’t have chlorhexadine surgical scrub, Ivory dish soap or any other mild soap will suffice.
Bandaging wounds on a lower limb are easy, but anything higher (stifle, shoulder, hock or upper body) are difficult places to keep a bandage in place.
If the wound is on the lower limb, apply a clean telfa pad, then wrap a quilted pad and an elastic bandage, and make sure it is secure, but not so tight as to interfere with circulation., Have the horse stand still with the swollen leg in a bucket filled with Epsom salts and lukewarm water, if the swelling is on the lower limb. If the horse is fidgety and will not stand still, you can dip a quilted stable bandage in the Epsom salt water and bandage the leg to reduce the swelling. After the horse has been standing with its leg or hoof in the bucket for about ten to thirty minutes, apply a poultice, either homemade or store bought to the swollen area

, If you notice pus or discharge in your horse’s eye, your horse has a swollen eye, or you see a small object stuck in their eye, treat it at home to relieve your horse of their discomfort. Remove any objects or items that you see that are stuck in the horse’s eye. Then, use an equine eye rinse to flush the eye and remove any discharge. You can follow up with a soft, damp rag to wipe away any remaining discharge or solution.
 Most typically found on the hooves of the horse, punctures can be dangerous because they appear to be minor while they are in fact very deep. Refer to your vet for the treatment of puncture wounds, but in the mean time remove the object (and save it) and clean the wound with clean water. Then, have your horse stick their foot in a bucket of warm water that has epsom salts dissolved into it.


If your horse won’t stand with its foot in the bucket, you can soak a quilted pad and wrap their hoof with it. This may be more difficult though.
 Ill-fitting tack can cause minor sores and cuts to appear after a long or strenuous ride. As long as the sore isn’t too deep and isn’t infected, treatment at home is appropriate. Trim the hair around the sore, and then clear the area with clean water. Clean it out with betadine and smear a thick paste of antibiotic ointment or vaseline over the wound to keep it from getting infected.


If you’re out on the trail when you notice the sore, cut a piece of 2” foam in a donut shape around the sore, and tape it to the bottom of the tack. This will prevent the tack from rubbing the wound and making it worse as you continue to ride.
If you notice tack sores, have a professional help you determine if your tack truly fits and ways that you can improve its fit.

