 You'll still have to listen to the lessons, but you can have all sorts of fun manipulating the treat inside your mouth.


Find out if there is a no-food policy in your class.
Make the decision to chew or not- weigh the consequences of getting caught.
Put your piece of gum or candy in your mouth when your teacher is not looking.
Keep a straight face while enjoying your treat. You don’t want to give yourself away!

, Bring an empty notebook or some paper to class and use it as your drawing notebook or just use some binder paper. Not only does it occupy you, it can also indirectly boost your writing skills.Write everything on the board into your notebook- you will still need your notes, as there will be a test at some point.
Sit far from the teacher and tilt your notebook up- it will just look like you are taking notes.
Draw whatever shapes come to mind- geometric patterns, circles, blobs- most teachers won’t mind, as it keeps you occupied and you don’t disturb the class.
Look up and glance at the teacher every so often- it will give the impression that you are paying attention.
 This is another quiet way to pass the time- and what is more interesting than your fellow classmates?


Entertain yourself by counting how many students are wearing a school sweatshirt, how many have dyed their hair, etc.
Play classroom bingo with your neighbor. It's fun and hones your observation skills.Zone out, but but try to remember the last sentence your teacher said, just in case your teacher asks you to prove you were listening.
 They are often more engaging than the textbook, and you can disguise them easily.


Pick a book or magazine that is smaller or the same size as your textbook.
Hide the magazine behind the book, and read it.
Look up every once in a while, not only to feign interest, but also to check if the teacher makes rounds.
Find a way to hide your book or magazine quietly and elegantly before you get caught.
 This may not be distracting to others, but is truly rude towards your teacher. However, sometimes you’re short on your sleep.


Stay in the back of the room, if you can sit behind a bigger classmate, even better.
Try to hide behind a book.
Have a friend near who can wake you before your teacher notices.
If you get caught sleeping,then say you had a migraine or come up with an acceptable excuse.

