 You should sign up for dog obedience classes well in advance of your due date, so that your dog is well trained and prepared for the new family member. At the obedience classes you could ask other people about their experiences of introducing dogs to new family members.You could ask your local pet store if they know about good obedience classes in your neighborhood.
You could check if there is an American Kennel Club that offers obedience training in your area.;
, You should make sure your dog knows how to sit, stay, heel and other basic commands. If your dog does not know basic commands, it will be difficult to properly introduce them to a new family member. Consider additional training if your dog does not respond to basic commands.To teach your dog to “come,” you should find a quiet place. Kneel down so that you are the same height as your dog. Say “come” and open your arms wide. When your dog gets to you, give them a little pat on the head and a treat.Another basic command is “heel.” It will take some effort to teach your dog to heel, but it is very worthwhile.
You should work on getting your dog to sit.
 Teach them by pointing at their bed or a particular place in the house and saying “go to place.” This will be a useful command when you are introducing your dog to the new family member.Learn how to train your dog to “go to place.”


, Take your dog for a walk in the park and observe their reactions to babies. See how your dog looks at babies from a distance. If your dog growls or reacts aggressively, you should consult a dog trainer immediately to find a solution.If your dog seems neutral or fine with babies, you can try walking closer to them and just get your dog familiar with the general looks and sounds of babies., Ask a friend or a family member with a baby whether you could go for a walk with them with your dog. Keep your dog on a leash and walk a safe distance from the baby stroller. By walking with your friend’s baby, your dog will get used to the sights and sounds of babies. You could tease out this idea by saying to your friend:“I am trying to get my dog used to the idea of a new family member in the house. I have heard it can be good to expose dogs to babies prior to the arrival of a new family member. Would you be up for a walk with my pooch and I?”

, Since your household will have new routines when the baby comes, you should get your dog used to the changes ahead of time. If you anticipate having to walk your dog for shorter periods or at different times of the day, for instance, you should start this new walking routine prior to the baby’s arrival.If you anticipate being really tired in the mid-afternoon after your baby’s arrival, you could start taking naps at that time so that your dog is used to the new routine.
If you anticipate eating dinner a little earlier every evening, you could start with the new dinner time so that your dog gets used to the new routine.
 Get a doll, as well as a stroller, crib and other equipment you will need for the baby. Start taking the doll for walks in the stroller and putting it to bed at night in the crib. Let your dog watch you take care of the doll. By watching you with the doll, your dog will start getting used to some of the changes that will take place with the new family member.If your dog shows good behavior around the doll, you should give praise.You could take your doll for a walk in the stroller with your dog., In the weeks ahead of your due date, you should gradually give your dog less and less attention. A gradual transition of routine and attention will be easier on your dog than a sudden shift in the amount of attention you give them.For instance, if you usually cuddle with your dog and watch a movie on a particular night of the week, you could try skipping this routine some of the time. Your dog will get used to the diminishing attention, as long as you make sure it is a gradual transition.
 Install a baby gate, or a screen door, in front of the baby’s room. Your dog will be able to see and hear what is going on, but will be unable to go in. By installing the gate ahead of time, your dog will get used to the new boundary.When shopping for a baby gate, remember to measure the doorway where the gate will be installed. You should also know the height of your dog, since you want to purchase a gate that your dog will be unable to jump over.You should avoid pressure mounted gates, since your dog will be able to push them over. Instead, get a hardware mounted baby gate. Hardware mounted gates are much more difficult for dogs to get around., Play a soft recording of baby noises in the background when you are hanging out with your dog or cleaning. Your dog will get used to the sounds. If they are behaving well, you can try turning up the volume slightly.