 Go to your local hardware store and select two timber beams for your stand. Make sure to get solid timbers that are not going to break on you. For example: 3.5 inches (8.9 cm) wide and 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) thick timber beams.


For the length of the timber beams you’ll need roughly twice your own height, so if you’re 6 foot tall, get 12 foot timber beams. This will ensure plenty of height to hand the punching bag.;
, Drill a hole 2 feet from the top of each timber. This hole needs to be big enough for the eye bolt to go through, so if using the 8mm eye bolt, drill an 8mm hole.



Lay the two timber beams down, intersecting at the second hole (two feet from top).
Thread the eye bolt through the two beams and attach the eye nut on the other end. Do not tighten - allow enough space for the beams to open and close easily, so that they can be folded away when needed.



Grab three carabiners. Measure and cut 20 feet of rope.
Seal off the cut ends with a cigarette lighter flame to prevent the ends from fraying.
Thread one end through the top hole in one timber beam to a length of about 3 feet.
The other end, thread it through a carabiner, then through the eye bolt connecting the timbers, then back through the same carabiner and finally through the other timber’s top hole.
Tie an overhand stopper knot about 2 feet from the end of each rope with a carabiner going through each knot.
Tie the ends of the ropes together using a double sheet bend knot.
 Correct anchoring of your stand is the most crucial part of setting it up.


Use it to hang a punching bag; do not anchor it to any walls as the constant jarring can cause the wall to shatter. The best anchor point is the base of a tree or a solid branch. If using over concrete floor, you could use a link bolted to the floor.
The force on the anchor point will be substantial, so use common sense.
Take the main length of rope and tie an overhand bow knot on the end.
Attach a carabiner and connect it to the anchor point (for example, around a tree trunk).
Measure off enough rope, but do not cut it off yet. Tie an overhand bow knot and attach a carabiner.
Connect this carabiner to the carabiner on the distribution rope and position the stand upright as shown.
 Once the stand is up, make sure that the feet can’t slip from their positions. There are different ways to set the feet in place depending on the surface:


Lawn or dirt: Cut wedges into the bottoms of the timbers, so that they can dig into the lawn or dirt.
Concrete or tiles: Cut the bottom of each timber on an angle so that the foot is flat on the floor when in position. For tiles, you may be able to sink the tile where each foot is positioned by half an inch so that the foot is wedged and cannot move.

Alternatively, you could cut out rubber souls from a rubber mat such as a yoga mat and glue to the bottoms of the feet to prevent slippage.
 For each handle, you’ll need about 3 feet of rope and 9 inches (22.9 cm) of PVC pipe.


Drill a hole one inch (2.5cm) from each end of the pipe (large enough for the rope to pass through).
Pass the rope through each end and tie an overhand stopper knot at each end.
Attach a carabiner to each rope as shown.
 Attach a spare carabiner to the eye bolt. Take the main length of rope and thread the end through one of the stand’s top carabiners, then through the carabiner on the eye bolt and then through the stand’s other top carabiner.


Pull it all the way down; you should have an M shape. Tie an overhand bow knot at each end and attach a carabiner to each bow knot.
Attach the handles to each of these carabiners. This will be your lowest point, so adjust the suspension rope length so that each handle is about 6 inches (15.2 cm) off the ground.
 The suspension grip component is how you will adjust the height of the suspension handles. It grips around one of the timber beams. To make it, take 3.5 feet of rope and tie an overhand bow knot at each end.


Connect the two bow knots using a single carabiner.
Loop the rope around one of the beams as shown, threading the carabiner through the loop.
Use a round file to file notches on the opposite side of the timber beam. This is to stop the suspension grip device from slipping.

