 Heat rash occurs when sweat does not evaporate from the skin. It manifests as clusters of small, red bumps or blisters and, while not serious, should be treated before the condition worsens. Remove the affected party from the heat and humidity while keeping rashy areas dry.


These rashes will most likely appear on body parts with folds or increased chafing and contact with clothing, such as the chest, neck, groin, elbow and knee crease, and under-breast areas.
 If you lose too much salt and moisture through sweating, your salt-depleted muscles can begin to cramp. Affected individuals should retreat immediately to the cool, dry area to rest and hydrate for a few hours at minimum. If cramping persists, you should summon medical assistance.


Cramps most commonly occur in the abdominal area, but they can also affect your legs or arms, so pay attention to any unusual pain and address it at once.
You can try to avoid heat cramps in the future by removing excess clothing and consuming more electrolytes when hydrating., If a person begins to sweat heavily, complain of nausea, dizziness, or weakness, and demonstrate clammy skin and irritability, you should consider the person at risk of heat exhaustion. This is a serious condition and should be remedied immediately. Have the person lie down in a cool, shady area, give them cool beverages, and apply cold compresses or ice to their skin.


Even if you’re conscientiously administering immediate treatment, don’t let it drag on for too long. If you’re not noticing tangible and substantial improvements within the span of 30-60 minutes, call paramedics immediately in order to prevent exhaustion progressing to heat stroke., Heat stroke occurs when a person’s internal temperature reaches 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius) and the body loses its ability to regulate cooling and temperature. This condition can cause permanent disability and death, thus it demands urgent professional care. You can recognize heat stroke from the following symptoms: dry, hot skin due to discontinued sweating, rapidly and catastrophically climbing temperature, confusion, slurred speech, and disorientation.You can tend to the affected person while waiting for emergency services by treating it as you would heat exhaustion or cramps. Place them in a cool area removed from sunlight, loosen or remove their clothing, and give them fluids and cold compresses.

