 Your needs for mobility, stability and space will determine the type of tiny house you will be seeking to develop. Consider the following:

If you intend to move a lot, then a trailer-based home is probably a good choice.
If you think you'll maybe move once or twice, then you can use a bigger trailer base for your house a rent a truck to move it for you when the time comes.
Build onto the tiny house. You also have the option of building extensions to the main house, such as a deck or rooftop patio.
If you have a spot to build on, then you can do normal construction on a spot of land (this tends to be more expensive and permanent).;
, Sit down and make a list of all the things you want in your home. Of course, this is a tiny house, so you need to focus on the necessities, as there isn't any room for a lot of stuff. Examples of important basics for the house include:

One or more beds
Appliances such as the oven, fridge, stovetop, microwave, etc., remembering that all of these will likely be much smaller than those you'd have in a standard size house.
Washer-dryer combo instead of two different machines.
 Choose a location with accessibility to water and electricity. If this is not possible find a way to come up with alternatives. For example, many people prefer to use solar power and collect rain as part of the tiny house philosophy., As you do so, keep in mind the exact amount of space you have to work with. It will always be less than you expect, so don't be surprised if you have to let go of some dream ideas but see this as an opportunity to be inventive rather than giving up on everything.

Include plenty of storage space and clever ideas such as stairs that include storage underneath.
This step works best by making an electronic floor plan of the house, or you can also make a actual model by hand so that you get a good sense of how it will look in your hands.
 A key aspect of this step is to build the house around the appliances you want. Go online and find the appliances that you will buy and go to the specs of the product. There will be dimensions for you to include in your floor plan/model., These are appliances, labour, building materials and tools. Usually to build the house with all the desirable (kitchen, trailer, siding, etc.), an average cost is about $35,000 for a 24 ft trailer house. Keep in mind that the smaller the trailer, the cheaper the build. And, if you want fancier things and bigger size, the tiny house can cost up to $100,000., With the appliances that you have selected in your floor plans as a base, include how much you can spend immediately. Then work out how much you can spend over time (that is, how much you can deduct from your paycheck towards the build)., Then include the amount of labour that you can put in for things you can do yourself., plumber, electrician, builders)., Renting the tools when necessary is one way to go so you don't have to put too much money into tools that you will not use again. For some basic tools it might be a better idea to just buy and own them if you don't already have them.This list provides a rundown of the tools you'll likely need:Air compressor – Drives air powered tools like framing nailers and paint sprayers.
Caulking gun – Used to apply caulking and building adhesive.
Chalk line – Helps mark strait lines so that paneling, siding, and roofing stay in line.
Chisel – Used to finish cutting notches in wood.
Circular Saw – Handheld saw for cutting wood. Very versatile.
Clamps – Very useful when you need a second set of hands and none are available.
Crowbar – Good for amplifying elbow grease, and pulling nails.
Drill – Used for drilling holes and driving screws.
Dust Masks – Essential for protecting your lungs during dusty work.
Eye Protection – Essential for protecting your eyes during most cutting and other debris flinging work.
Framing nailer – Makes driving nails much easier.
Gloves – Essential for protecting your hands from splinters and abrasions.
Hacksaw – Used for cutting metal like pipes, nails, etc.
Hammer – Used for persuading lots of things on the job site, most commonly nails.
Impact driver – Like a drill, but drives screws better when the job is tough.
Level – Used to keep everything strait and level.
Miter saw – Used as a chop saw when many identical angered or strait cuts are needed.
Pliers – Used for pulling nails and most anything when your fingers aren’t tough enough.
Reciprocating Saw – Commonly used for demolition but also very handy for cutting nails and rough cuts on wood.
Rubber mallet – Ideal wen gentile persuasion is needed.
Socket wrench – Good for turning nuts in tight places, like when bolting your tiny house floor framing to the trailer.
Screwdrivers – Needed for turning screws and useful for opening paint cans.
Staple gun – Good for hanging vapor barriers, roofing felt, and can be used on house wrap.
Table saw – Ideal for making long strait cuts.
Tape measure – Used constantly for keeping everything accurate.
Tin snips – Used for cutting thin metal, like the aluminum flashing you’d use between your floor and trailer.
Toolbox – Helpful for keeping everything organized and transportable.
Utility knife – Used to cut thin material like roofing felt, house wrap, and vapor barrier.
Wire cutter – Used when wiring your tiny house.
Wrench – Necessary for turning nuts on bolts, like when connecting your tiny house to the trailer.
 A typical list of materials that you will need in your tiny house. The amount of each that you will need depends on your build, and the cost will therefore reflect what type of tiny house you're building. Here are standard materials needed:

Trailer (varies in the size and length
wood for floors, walls, ceiling, and interior structures
Installation for the walls, floor and ceiling (recommend Roxul - fire and water resistant)
Class D tires for the trailer
Typical house siding
Typical shingles for roof
Drywall
Doors and windows
Cabinets and storage closets (many can be built from reclaimed wood if feasible)
Toilet (composting, RV toilet, or a actual functioning toilet)
Shower (typically small standing shower is used, a small tub can be added with creativity)
Sinks (kitchen, and bathroom)
Counter-tops
Plenty of screws, braces, and nails
Pipes for plumbing and propane lines for heating and water lines
Electrical circuit wiring, outlets, switches, and breakers
Tyvek wrapping for protection (or similar suited to your area)
Heating system
Regular appliances as selected by you
Metal sheeting for flashing the trailer base (galvanized for durability).
 If solar panels are going to be added, then you'll need the following as well: A charge controller, deep cycle batteries, and inverter to store charge and convert from DC to AC power., This step is important to do properly or your house will be tilted., Anchor the frame to the trailer so that your house does not slide off the trailer during transport keep in mind the weight distribution so that your house does not tip over., This helps protect the home from rodents, water, and other elements from the bottom., Add the insulation (Roxul) for more protection.,, Leave room for the windows and doors, as well as putting in the studs, and weight barring headers.

The headers are one of the aspects that are against building code, but are necessary for a tiny house, as every wall is a weight bearing wall.
You must ensure that everything is perfectly squared.
 Do this before you put the walls up.

At this point you might want to move anything inside the house that will not fit through the door depending on the design.
 Then raise the walls (with help, for safety reasons). Make sure that the walls are perfectly squared with the floor and other walls.,, Apply a spring brace to secure the walls and make them perfectly straight while installing the rafter

Double check the distance between the walls at the top for a good cut.
 Ensure that the height is under 13.5 ft to stay street legal (this may vary between countries, so check with the road authorities first)., Cut out the boards and glue the truss edges. Use clips to secure the sheets of wood into place and secure with nail/screws,,,,, Begin applying flash tape to the window sills to prevent water and heat from entering., Then test the functionality., Leave the bottom unsealed for water drainage, just in case.

For the doors, do the same thing as windows and flash the doorway then start installing the door frame.
 This can be made or purchased.,, Paint both sides of the siding before putting up, to prevent rusting.,,, This is a common practice in a tiny house. It will also need a ladder or staircase to reach the loft area., Do not do this yourself unless you are a professional in these fields.

Make sure you instruct the professional on where you want your outlets, lights and sockets for your tiny house to accommodate the floor plan, such as gas lines for the propane to the stove/oven or water lines to the water heater and shower.
Put in the smoke and CO alarms at the same time.
Consider the power usage or your appliances and adjust accordingly.
 Make sure to put foam in the edges so that it is completely sealed.

Make sure that all materials are not affected by the foam, as some do react and that is not a good outcome.
 This includes the heater, shower, toilet, sink, and water heater (preferably tankless). The heater weight should be considered in conjunction with the weight of the tiny house as a whole, and a safety zone and materials placed around it., For example, you could use hardwood in the living area and light tiles in the kitchen and bathroom areas. Splashbacks can also be used.,, It is great if you can use recycled wood for these purposes. Include hookups and openings for the oven, fridge, and sink, etc., Install vents and the toilet., You may also realize other possible storage options, so remain flexible and open to relevant changes.,, Your tiny house is complete. Now you can move in and enjoy your own space.