 It protects the body by detoxifying hormones, drugs, and any biological molecules not produced in the human body. The liver also synthesizes cholesterol and proteins that might otherwise lead to clotting and inflammation. It stores vitamins, minerals, and sugar while removing bacteria.


The liver is involved in several important body functions, so it can become taxed by overuse.
It's very important to return an overburdened liver to healthy enzyme levels to ensure all of these processes continue to function normally.;
, Partly because the liver performs so many essential functions, it is prone to a number of different diseases. There are a wide variety of diseases that can cause your liver enzyme levels to shoot up:Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH), also known as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD): fats such as triglycerides and cholesterol accumulate in the liver.
Hepatitis viruses: Hepatitis A, B, C, D, and E all have different causes. However, each different type of hepatitis infection taxes the liver.
Other infections that burden the liver include mononucleosis, adenoviruses, and cytomegalovirus. Tick bites and parasites can cause harmful diseases like Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever or toxoplasmosis.
Cancer that is often related to previous viral infections and liver cirrhosis
Alcoholic hepatitis
Jaundice
Cirrhosis or the late-stage scarring of the liver

, Because the liver is involved in so many different processes, there is no single list of symptoms that point to liver disease. However, every liver disorder has both unique and shared symptoms. If you experience any of these symptoms, speak with your healthcare provider immediately:Yellowish skin and eyes that suggest jaundice
Abdominal pain and swelling
Swelling in the legs and ankles
Itchy skin
Dark yellow or reddish urine color
Pale stools or bloody, tarry stools
Chronic fatigue
Nausea or vomiting
Loss of appetite
Weight loss
Dry mouth, increased thirst
A tendency to bruise easily

, See your doctor for a physical exam, and provide him with a complete medical history and description of your symptoms. The doctor will also order a Liver Function Test (LFT) analysis of a blood sample. The LFT will test for the levels of various liver enzymes and proteins. Your doctor will use that information to aid in diagnosis. Some of these enzyme tests include:AST (Aspartate aminotransferase): AST levels are analyzed to determine the likelihood of acute or chronic hepatitis.ALT (Alanine aminotransferase): ALT is used to detect and follow the progress of hepatitis and liver injury.High levels are found in those with alcoholism, viral hepatitis, and diabetes.
The ratio between AST/ALT levels is often used to tell if liver disease is due to infection, inflammation, or alcohol use. ALP (Alkaline phosphatase): Can help diagnose bone disease, liver disease and gallbladder disorders.GGT (Gamma-glutamyl transferase): With ALP, can be used to distinguish between liver and bone disease. GGT is also useful to help determine alcohol history; it is increased in about 75% of chronic alcoholics.LD (Lactic dehydrogenase): LD (sometimes known as LDH) is used along with the other LFT values to monitor treatment of liver and other disorders. High levels are seen in various liver diseases, anemias, kidney disease, and infections., If you have a history of liver disease, you may need liver tests every month or every six to eight weeks. Keep track of the numbers carefully. A downward trend in lab values over six to twelve months will indicate success in supporting the liver. Always keep your physician informed regarding any supplements you are taking, and let her know if there is any change in your symptoms.

