 If you want to stay informed about a carnival stopping in your area, you can always search online to find out more about its history. Enter the carnival company’s name into a search engine and combine it with search terms like “safety” or “accidents.” There’s also a non-profit organization that keeps a detailed record of all international amusement park mishaps: http://www.rideaccidents.com/


Try not to be suspicious or afraid of all amusement park rides, since the vast majority are safe, well-maintained, and issue-free. However, if you’re curious or concerned, you can find out if a particular ride or company has a history of issues. You can also check to see how those issues were resolved.
 Local regulations vary widely, so if you want to evaluate a ride’s safety or inspection history, it’s wise to stay informed about your local laws. For example, in the United States, some states have essentially no inspection regulations whatsoever for traveling carnival rides.The best way to check your local laws is to go to your state or other local government’s website. Look to see if they have a public safety section, or run a general search for amusement park safety regulations.
Check your local regulations to see how often rides must be inspected, who the inspecting body is, and what kind of insurance companies are required to hold.
If you live in a jurisdiction without any regulations, consider doing more research about a particular carnival company’s safety history. In the US,  Alabama, Colorado, Mississippi, Nevada, South Dakota, and Utah have no government oversight or inspection of traveling carnival rides., In the US, many states don’t require carnival rides to be inspected by government employees, but do require some oversight. These states allow companies to be annually inspected by private third-party inspectors. If you have any concerns, you can call the carnival ahead of time and ask who they hire to conduct inspections.You can then contact the inspecting company and request more information about the carnival’s safety history or more information about a particular ride.

