 Tell her it complements her midsection, or how the hemline showcases her legs. Point out the good aspects of her figure and hope she doesn't go for followup questions.


Focus on one feature and remark about how many women would kill for that body part. For example, if she always complains about her rounded backside, remind her that numerous women go under the knife to have butt implants or spend hours at the gym doing squats to achieve a similar bottom—and that that skirt really highlights that.
This is a great time to commend her for any dieting and exercising she's been doing lately! Don't, however, phrase it like this: "That diet is really working—a few more pounds, and you'll look good in that dress!";
, Tell her that the article of clothing in question is poorly fitted, or made of cheap fabric, or just plain ugly and does not do her figure justice.


The reality is that with a good cut of clothing in quality fabric, most people can look good, whatever their size. However, many people do themselves a disservice by trying to wear fashion fads, clinging fabrics or poor quality clothing and such clothing often accentuates figure weaknesses rather than disguises them. So you can definitely have a go at the clothing in good conscience.
Tell her the outfit doesn’t complement her shape. After telling her what you like about her body, explain that the cut or the outfit’s design does not accentuate the beautiful aspects of her figure. For example: "You have such nice curves and this dress is like a giant square!"
Explain that the clothing hides her figure. Point out certain areas of the outfit that are unflattering—it’s not her, it’s the clothing. "I don't like how it tugs at your chest so much."
Perhaps there’s too much fabric in one area, the color is wrong for her, or the pattern is too busy—verbally identify what seems “off” and unrelated to her figure.
 When asked whether her current outfit makes her look fat, tell her "I like the pink one you tried on before. You looked awesome in that." Tell her which outfit(s) make her look smoking hot.


Help her to see that she has clothing that makes her look wonderful by explaining that you love seeing her wear those other pieces. In fact, refer to those other pieces to use as a model when choosing a new outfit.
Grab a pair of pants or a dress that you love on her. If you're at her house, go to her closet and take out the items that compliment her shape. Find different pieces, such as dresses and work clothing to workout wear and casual ensembles that look good on her.
Explain why the other outfit looks good on her versus the one she has on now. Pick apart attractive outfits and identify why she looks great in each piece. For example, you may think she looks great in V-necks or straight leg pants because they compliment her shoulders or legs. Give her examples and why you like certain pieces on her.
 If all else fails and you panic, try to get her to answer her own question. It's cheeky but it may just work. When she asks if she looks fat in an outfit respond by quizzically saying, “Well what do you think?” Followed by, “Do you like the outfit or do you maybe want to try something else?”

, Point out one feature that you do like about the outfit, if there is anything. Not to confuse the situation, you could identify some redeeming features the outfit offers. For example, if you think the clothing is well-made, tell her you like the quality of the fabric and stitching. The drawback to this approach is that she'll probably notice you've not mentioned anything about how she looks and this may sting.
 There are a couple possibilities here. One is that she's overweight, and she's got to be careful how she dresses. She knows she's not a stick figure, and pretending she is could just suggest to her that you have a spine of jelly.


If the outfit makes her look fat, say "It's not a good look on you. Try that black number you had on earlier—that looked much better on you."
The other possibility is that she's not overweight, she's just insecure about her looks. In that case, just say something like "No, not in the least. You have a glorious bod, and pretty much anything you wear looks good." If you just don't like the dress, you can continue with "Now that other dress you had on a few minutes ago—that was a wow!"
If she keeps asking about this, cut to the chase. "I love you and think you're absolutely beautiful. It worries me that you're asking me this so often. Why are you so concerned? Is everything okay with you?"

