 Another way to grow a snowball tree is to grow new plants from cuttings taken from the stems of a fully grown snowball tree, or parent plant. To test if a branch has reached the ideal softwood stage, bend the branch. If the branch bends, then breaks into two pieces, it is at the softwood stage.If the branch bends but doesn’t break, it is too immature and likely won’t develop into a new tree.
Take cuttings from the parent tree between March and July.
 Use a sharp pair of gardening shears to cleanly cut a 6-inch length of branch. Make sure that the branch has at least two sets of leaves along its length. Try to make the cutting in the morning before the sun comes up to ensure that the shoots are well hydrated.Even if you only want to end up with one snowball tree, make several cuttings. Because cuttings don’t have a 100% success rate of blooming into plants, it’s better to use two or three cuttings than to put all of your hopes on just one.
 Use your fingers or a small pair of clippers to remove blossoms from the stem of the tree, making the cut close to the stem. Also peel off the leaves on the lower half of the branch, peeling close to the branch. This is the area of the branch from which roots will eventually grow when you plant the cutting., Rooting hormone powder betters the chances that the cutting will bloom into a plant. Pour the powder into a small bowl, and then dip the branch into the bowl, making sure that the powder covers the leaf nodes where you peeled away the leaves., Purchase a seedling flat with drainage holes in the bottom to plant your cuttings. Fill the flat with a well-drained potting mix that contains around 60% sand or perlite and 40% sphagnum peat., Poke your finger into the potting mix to make a hole that is about 2 inches deep. Then insert a cutting into the hole you made, making sure that the end of the branch with the leaf nodes you trimmed is going into the soil and that the leaf nodes are completely covered.Press the potting soil around the trimming so that it can stand upright in the container without falling over.
Water the potting mixture so that the soil is evenly moist., Place the tray into a large plastic bag, tenting the top so that the bag doesn’t touch the top of the cuttings. The plastic bag will ensure that water doesn’t evaporate away from the cuttings as they start to take root.If you are having trouble keeping the plastic bag from touching the tops of the cuttings, tape tall straws onto the corners of the seeding tray and settle the bag on top of the straws.
Check the tray every now and then and water the soil when it is dry.
 After about four to six weeks, the cuttings should start to grow roots. To check for roots, gently brush away the potting soil from the base of the plant, or very gently tug at the plant to see if there is some resistance from the roots. When you notice roots, remove the plastic bag and water regularly to keep the soil moist.
 After about one week from time you removed the plastic bag, transplant the cuttings into small pots filled with potting soil. Do this by gently lifting the plants from the tray, making sure not to break any of the roots. Place the plants into a small hole in the potting soil, then press soil around the base of the cuttings. Water evenly to keep the soil moist.If more than one cutting took root, transplant them into separate pots.
If you wish, you can transplant the snowball trees into the garden two to three weeks after you transplant them into the pots. Make sure not to forgo the potting step before transplanting into a garden.

