 One way to make a place comfortable is to match it to your personality. When a friend walks into your house, they should be able to see you in the design, and if they can, that is welcoming in itself. It will be familiar to them because they know you. Plus, creating an enjoyable atmosphere is welcoming, too.For instance, if you have a bright personality, that should be reflected in your decorating. Use splashes of bright colors throughout your space.
Similarly, if you have a quieter personality, maybe your style will be a bit more subdued, cozier, with jewel tones and throw blankets everywhere.;
, Whether you love baking, traveling, or gardening, you can use that as the basis of your decorating style. Your interests should be a part of your home and style. Of course, you don't have to create a "theme" necessarily. However, if you love to travel and fell in love with certain area, for instance, you can use that as inspiration for your style.For example, maybe you loved visiting France. You can use a sort of French bohemian look to develop your style, with lots of curtains, plushy throw pillows, and soft rugs.
 One way to figure out what you love is to look at what other people have done. You'll hate some designs and love others. Try tearing out designs you like to help you create your own look that screams "you.", Color can help set the tone for your design. For example, warm colors like reds and oranges can make a space feel more inviting by creating a cozier feeling. Blues, greens, and purples, especially in lighter shades, can help create the illusion of more space.Remember, you can add color in all sorts of ways. You can paint a single wall, add curtains, and use colorful pillows, rugs, and throws. You can also paint dull furniture a vibrant color., Artwork on the walls comes in all varieties. You can use framed photographs or posters, or you can opt for using original paintings by local artists. You can also paint a mural on the wall yourself. Either way, having art can help bring a room together.Art isn't limited to what goes on the wall. Think about pieces like sculpture or mobiles. These types of pieces can be whimsical and unique.
 When a guest enters your home, they should feel welcome to sit down. Provide good seating that's comfortable. You don't want it too soft, as sinking too far into something can make a guest feel uncomfortable. However, a guest should be able to sit several hours, so the furniture should be comfortable enough for them to do that.Think about comfortable couches that have a bit of firmness to them or dining room chairs that have padding and a comfortable back.
 When arranging your furniture, think about how it will affect conversation. If you're 20 feet (6.1 m) away from each other on couches, that doesn't make for good conversation. Similarly, you don't want to sit on top of each other. You need to find a good balance.Plus, you don't want things like furniture or decorations blocking people off from each other, as that can destroy conversation.
Also, try to have furniture facing each other, so guests don't have to swing their bodies around to talk to each other.

