 The Pig King is the most reliable way to gain gold, and the only way to farm the material. Once given a meat item (excluding Frog Legs, Cooked Frog Legs, Monster Meat, and Cooked Monster Meat) or the non-renewable Gravedigger items, the Pig King will reward you with some Gold Nuggets, depending on what you’ve given him. Because of this, as long as you have a steady supply of meat, Gold becomes an infinitely renewable resource.


The most reliable way to find the Pig King is to follow the roads and trails scattered throughout the game. These roads and trails sometimes lead to Pig Villages, which is a collection of huts and occupied by several Pigmen. Normally, if the Pig King spawned at all, he’d be close to a Pig Village.
Do note that not all worlds generated by the game have a Pig King in it, since sometimes there isn’t enough room for the Pig King to be generated in the game. The Pig King’s appearance is that of a very large pig with a crown made of dried grass lying down on a wooden floor and surrounded by black pillars.;
, Most farming methods require you to have a way to generate meat easily and quickly. If you find the Pig King early enough in the game, the easiest way to gain meat is to create Traps through the Survival tab, represented by a looped rope icon, on your crafting hotbar (right-hand side of the screen). This item costs 6 Cut Grass and 2 Twigs, and are easily renewable resources. Place it over some rabbit holes, which can be found all over the map and are especially concentrated around Savanna biomes (a biome with a yellow grassy look full of grass tufts, rabbit holes, and no trees).


After setting the Traps, check it regularly. A Trap looks like a normal stick-and-basket trap, and when you’ve caught something, the basket will be on the ground and shaking constantly. If you click on a shaking Trap, you can gather both the rabbit and the Trap, if you have space in your inventory, and you can kill the Rabbit right off the bat by right-clicking it. You now have your meat. Get Rabbits trapped in your other Traps, and kill them for more meat. Set the Traps again to get more Rabbits, ensuring a steady supply of meat.
Rabbits normally spawn at morning, but the best time to check Traps would be around dusk. Traps, however, wear out eventually, and you’ll be forced to keep making them to replace the broken ones and using up precious resources in the process.
 Another, and more efficient, method of getting meat involve luring nearby Spiders into a Pig Village. Get Spider Eggs, which you can get by destroying third-tier Spider Dens (Spider Dens with two additional layers on its mound), and plant the eggs somewhere near the Village to create your own Den. Spider Dens can be found scattered everywhere across your map (they look like white boulders covered in spider webs), sometimes clustered closely together. The Spider Eggs will immediately become full-grown Spider Dens.


Once the eggs become a den, simply walk up to it and a Spider or two will emerge to attack you. Attacking one will alert other Spiders in the den, and they’ll all emerge to try to kill you. Lure them to the nearest Pig, hitting them every now and then with your chosen weapon to ensure they’re still following you, and the Pigs will start attacking it.
The more Dens and the higher the Den’s tier, the more Spiders will come out at once, giving you a steady supply of Meat and Pig Skin from the unlucky slain Pigs, and Monster Meat, Silk and Spider Glands from the Spiders.
Once the assault of the Spiders are over, you can then feed the Monster Meat to some Pigs, which earns their trust and lets them follow you around for a while. Feed them too many Monster Meats, and they turn into Werepigs, making them aggressive and attacking everyone in the area, even other Pigs. Once a Werepig attacks a Pig, the entire village will attack it, and with luck, they’ll finish each other off without you having to lift a finger to help. Werepigs still drop Meat and Pig Skins, though, and are a slightly more reliable way of making sure Meat drops since they drop 1 Meat and 1 Pig Skin consistently upon death, unlike the common Pig’s drop rate of 75% Meat and 25% Pig Skin. You don’t even need to keep attacking the Spiders and Werepigs after luring them into the village; the normal Pigs can do that for you, and both the village and the den respawn their respective denizens eventually, providing you a steady stream of resources.
 Once you’ve gathered enough meat, simply walk up to the Pig King, select the Meat by left-clicking the item on the computer edition or by scrolling to it with your right analog stick (console), then give the Meat to the Pig King (left-clicking the mouse or left button on the D-pad). You can also hand him some excess Pig Skins if you want, since it’s considered a Meat item. As long as you have meat, he will keep giving you Gold.

