 Research speakers and see when to use different types. Find out which cords plug into mics and which ones go between soundboards and amps. You need to know how to set up all kinds of sound equipment. You can learn these things online through tutorial videos and also in person when you can work with sound people.Some sound equipment is the same as it was years ago, but many other technologies are continuing to evolve. Staying current on your knowledge is vital.
 You need to know how mix and edit in music software like Pro Tools and Cubase. If you can, purchase one of these programs and begin exploring what they can do and practice editing songs. Pick a song you like and import it into the software. Practice splitting the song into parts and changing pitches and volumes.


Not all sound engineers mix new music tracks, but being able to do it will make you more versatile.
It will take time to learn all of the things you can do, but it’s important to start building a foundation.
 Because sound engineers work with so many types of electrical equipment, you will need to learn some basic electrical safety. Learn about basic electricity, such as the difference between voltage and current. You will need to know how many pieces of equipment can be plugged into a specific power strip so you don’t blow a fuse or ruin the equipment.


Taking classes in physics, for example, is a good place to start. If classes are not an option, consider an electrical safety training seminar.
 If you are still in school, you have access to some opportunities that others don’t. Try to get involved with the theater program, which most likely uses a sound system during plays. Productions are often mostly run by students anyway, so this is an easy way to get hands on experience in a low key setting.In college, you also have some opportunities to get involved in running sound, even if you aren’t studying it. Check in with your campus theater and see what they require for their sound people. Find out if you could start working with someone who already does it and learn from them.
 While you can learn on the job and get lots of experience, earning a degree shows your commitment to learning. It shows that you can work hard on something until it is complete. A degree also shows that you have been properly trained in the field. While it may not be mandatory for some jobs, it’s going to make you look better to those looking to hire quality engineers.A typical degree might be an Associate’s or Bachelor’s of Science in Audio Engineering. The degree might also be called Sound Engineering.
These degrees will tend to be a mix of music, business, and technical classes which serve to give you a well-rounded education in the field.

