 Microsoft periodically updates the Software Updates web page with the latest OS version and firmware version.;
, In order to do this,


Head over to Settings > About.
The settings About page displays all related information about the name of the phone, model of the phone and the current software installed on the phone.
Click on the More information button to extend the information that is displayed.
Now, the OS version and the firmware version are displayed on screen.
Note the OS Version and the firmware version in a piece of paper.



The software update page displays a list of Devices on the left.
Select an appropriate device.
Once the appropriate device is selected, the Update Availability is displayed showing all possible regions for the device.
Select an appropriate Region.
 Once the region is selected, the web page displays all countries belonging to the region.


Scroll down to the country in which the Windows Phone was purchased.
You will find a list of device models belonging under the country.
Ensure your model and its description.
Note down the OS version and firmware version displayed in the page.
The OS version and firmware version that is displayed on the web page is the latest version released officially by Microsoft for the device.



If both versions of your phone and the web page are the same, then you do not have any official update from Microsoft.
If the versions of the phone and the web page differ, then you have a pending update that can be downloaded in your phone.
 You can update your Windows Phone, if and only if the OS version/ Firmware Version of the Phone differs from the one that is displayed in the Microsoft Software update Page. Before downloading the update,


Ensure that your phone memory has sufficient space (more than 500 MB would be sufficient).
Ensure you have an uninterrupted internet connection.
Ensure that the phone has more than 65% of charge. You can also plug in your phone during the update progress.
,


If you have a pending update, then the update will download automatically.
 It will take some time to be downloaded to your phone.
 Once the update is downloaded, you can either install the update immediately or at a specified time.


To install the downloaded update immediately, click on the Install button.
To install the update at a specific time, set the Preferred Installation Time.
 This should be automatic after your installation.


After displaying the manufacturer logo, you can spot the spinning gears on your display panel. Spinning gears generally denote that an update is currently installing on your Windows Phone.
 Once the spinning gears loads to 100%, your phone will restart again. After the restart, you can see the process of Migration of data on your start screen (which would take roughly about 20-30 steps). After the migration of data, a confirmation message will be displayed about the status update and its features.
 Ensure that you have the latest OS version and Firmware version by heading over to Settings > About > More Information.

