 The tube does not need to be very long, since the powerhead will be going under water. Plan on getting something at least twice the height of your sponge.


When choosing a powerhead, get something that will pumps twice as much water per hour as what's in your tank.
Sponge filters are ideal for delicate tanks.;
, What brand you use does not matter, but it needs to be the type of sponge used in aquarium filters. The easiest shapes to work with are a triangle or a cylinder. A triangle would fit the easiest in the corner of your fish tank. A cylinder may look neater, however. What ever shape you choose, make sure that is wider than your plastic tube.You can find filter sponges in pet stores and fish tank stores.
Consider getting a sponge with larger pores. They are better at housing the good bacteria, which help clean your tank.Sponge filters are ideal for shrimp and betta tanks. They are bio efficient, but don't create a lot of suction or water movement., The mark needs to be the same height as the sponge.You will be making air holes in the tube below this mark. These holes will be inside the sponge.
 You can use a heated nail and hammer to punch the holes, or an electric drill. Plan on making 8 to 10 holes per inch (2.54 centimeters) of plastic tubing., Make sure that you are plugging the end with all the holes in it. The tube will be going into the sponge, but the bottom still needs to be plugged up. You can use a pvc end cap that fits your tube, or even a piece of styrofoam., Push it all the way down to the bottom of the sponge. All of the holes in the tube should now be covered by the sponge.
 The powerhead will suck the water in, causing it to go through the sponge. All the mess in your aquarium will get caught in the sponge.
 The airline tubing doesn't have to be very long. About 3 to 4 inches (7.62 to 10.16 centimeters) will be enough.The clean water will flow out of this tube.
 If your air pump came with suction cups, use those to attach it to the wall of your tank. Angle the output tube so that the water will come out near the surface.

