 Foundations can look very different in the bottle as opposed to on your skin. Makeup counters at most department stores will let you try out different foundations, so a trip to a cosmetics counter is worth your time and effort if you want to avoid making a mistake about the best shade for your skin.


A department store will have multiple lines of cosmetics, making it easier for you to select the right foundation for your skin type and your makeup needs.
Typically the people working at makeup counters are very knowledgeable about a variety of cosmetic lines, and they can help you narrow down your best options.
Even if you don’t want to pay department store prices, you can find a good match for your skin there and then find a less expensive brand that is a close or even identical match.
 Some types of foundation need special application tools or techniques for optimal coverage and wear, or may take more time and maintenance than you would like. A makeup artist can give you advice and tips about the best foundation for your needs.Tell the makeup artist about any skin allergies or sensitivities.
Bring a few magazine ads or pictures with you to show them the kind of look you want to achieve.
Ask the makeup artist about any special brushes or applicators that you need to use with a foundation.
Ask for any tips or tricks about applying foundation.
Discuss your morning and evening routine and how much time you typically spend applying and removing makeup.
Find out what makeup remover or cleansing products work best for specific foundations types.
 If you only have time for a quick shopping trip, you can sample foundations from different cosmetic counters yourself. There are different options, and different opinions, about where you should try out foundation shades. While the most obvious choice is your cheek or jawline, if you are wearing makeup already you may need to test the foundation somewhere else on your body.


If you have avoided over-exposure to sun, your chest is a good option for selecting the best shade of foundation.The jawline is probably one of the most common areas for testing foundation colors. This is a particularly good way to make sure that your foundation matches with the skin on your neck.The skin on your arm or hands is not a good place for testing foundation colors. The skin on your face is very different in texture than that on your arm or hand, and probably very different in color as well.
 Apply a couple of colors to the jawline of your left check and a couple more to the right side of your cheek. Looking at several shades at one time will help you compare the look and feel of different products., The fluorescent lights in most department stores can alter how foundation colors look on your skin. Once you have found a color that seems to match your skin, apply a larger amount to your face. Step outside with a mirror and check your reflection in natural light to make sure it still looks right for you., Bring a friend to help you choose which foundation suits you best. You can always ask for feedback from the makeup professionals manning the counters of course, but sometimes the best advice comes from someone who knows you really well.

