 Terrorists gather information about a potential target when planning an attack. Acts such as monitoring or recording a security apparatus should raise a red flag. If you notice someone who is not involved with a building using the camera on their phone, a camera, or binoculars, be alert. If you see that someone has been drawing diagrams, blueprints or detailed maps, be suspicious.If someone is trying to hide what they are doing, be especially suspicious. While there are many reasons a person might be taking a picture, drawing a floor plan, or using binoculars, there are few good reasons for a person to attempt to hide such activities. Unauthorised or staff not related to maintenance work trying to gain access to such plans and diagrams
Notice when someone is taking pictures of mundane objects, such as entrances, exits, or security cameras.
Report security tests. If you notice someone leaving a bag, then coming back to check on it (or surveying it from a distance), they might be running a check on the security operations of a place.;
, Elicitation is the use of ordinary communications methods in order to gain sensitive information. If you have any information about military operations, capabilities, security procedures, or vulnerabilities, report anyone who tries to engage you in conversation on any of those points. If you find yourself speaking of anything sensitive, beware of eavesdroppers.Any questions about security should be reported. Information about campus safety, mall guards, or transport police could all be exploited.
 If you notice someone you know, or someone who comes into a store you frequent, is purchasing (or stealing) explosives, weapons, ammunition, or bomb-making materials, you may be witnessing a potential terrorist. Bomb-making supplies can be as quotidian as fertilizer or beauty supplies.Purchasing small amounts of anything not immediately lethal is not in itself a sign of stockpiling. Stockpiling happens when large quantities are accrued.
Notice unusual forms of payment. If someone is buying supplies with a prepaid card that holds a large amount of money, they may have gotten that card from a larger terrorist organization.
Recognize a stockpile. If you come across a store of goods such as weapons, chemicals or fertilizer hidden in an unusual place, such as a field or an abandoned building, report it.

