 Maintaining organized financial files will enable you to quickly locate the documents you need.


Find out ahead of time what documents the lender or agency will need to verify your income, and make a list so you can check it off as you pull documents. Then you can create a file to deliver to the lender or agency.
You might consider working with an accountant or bookkeeper to ensure your files are in order and you're keeping all the financial documents that need to be kept., Once you've found all the documents you need to prove your income, make copies of them and return your originals to your files.


You also may need to contact your clients to get verification from them regarding contracts or invoices paid.If you have a small business, you may need to copy receipts or other sales documents for the time period the lender or agency requested.
 A revenue statement draws a neat picture of your income over a given period of time.


If you own a small business such as a restaurant or shop, you also may need to create a profit and loss statement, which summarizes your revenues, costs, and expenses over the period of time requested by the lender or agency. This statement provides a more accurate picture of your business's profit margin and proves how much income you're actually bringing in.
 Particularly if you're applying for a mortgage or other significant long-term loan, the lender may want to see your projected income for several years into the future.


Most lenders want to see a projection over the next three years.Although it may be somewhat of a guess, make your projection as reasonable as possible based on the figures you've calculated as averages for past income.
 A lender or agency may need additional business documents to prove that your income is legitimate.


For example, if you work as a general contractor, you typically must have a license issued by your state, city, or county. Your business license can reassure a lender or agency that your business is reputable and above-board.Some companies such as mortgage lenders may require letters from companies with which you contract. These letters should be on company letterhead and verify your income and the type of contract you have with that company or individual. Additionally, the client should include the dates you've worked with them and the types of services you provided.You also may need a letter from a CPA or accountant to verify the existence and ownership of your business, as well as financial information you provided.If you run a small business, you may need to provide corporate certificates or proof of LLC registration. Sole proprietorships may need to provide any DBA forms issued by the state in which the company operates.The lender or agency also may require information about your business so they can assess the market and determine how stable your projections are and whether there's enough demand for your product or service to sustain you over a long period of time.