 Visit your local grocer, specialty candy shop, or check out an online vendor to stock up on a selection of dark chocolate. Your local grocery shop may have some popular chocolates in the candy isle. A local specialty candy shop or food market will have a wider selection of dark chocolates to choose from, while an online vendor may provide you with access to excellent chocolate from around the globe.
 Next time you are searching for a new chocolate bar to try, take a look at the dark chocolate selection and read the labels. Try to choose a dark chocolate that has only a few ingredients on the label.


Quality dark chocolate should have chocolate liquor or cocoa listed as its first ingredient.Chocolate liquor is the paste that is created while grinding cocoa nibs and it does not contain alcohol.You may also see cocoa powder, cocoa nibs, and cocoa butter listed on the label.
Sugar is usually added to dark chocolate to balance its bitter taste. When choosing dark chocolate, be sure that sugar is not the first ingredient., You may find that many dark chocolate bars list percentages on the front of the wrappers. These percentages describe the amount of cocoa in the chocolate bar. Quality dark chocolate typically has around 70% cocoa or higher.Dark chocolate with 70% cocoa or higher is full of antioxidants and may help lower your blood pressure and cholesterol., When buying chocolate, look for fair-trade chocolate brands to ensure that you are receiving a quality chocolate bar from an ethical company. A fair-trade certified company provides fair wages and a safe working environment for its employees.Plus, a company that puts a lot of effort into supporting its employees will most likely produce a delicious, quality product., If you keep your chocolate in the refrigerator, you may be missing out on some of its flavors. When chocolate is cold, it does not release its flavors and aromas as rapidly as it does when it is at room temperature. Plus, room temperature chocolate will melt in your mouth immediately, enhancing the overall experience.