 Etsy prides itself on being a unique marketplace. They are committed to selling items that buyers can’t find anywhere else. Familiarize yourself with their requirements before listing on Etsy.Handmade items must be made or designed by you. Outside manufacturers of handmade items must comply with Etsy’s ethical manufacturing guidelines.
Vintage items must be at least 20 years old.
Craft supplies include tools or materials used for the creation of a new handmade item.
You cannot resell handmade items that you did not create yourself.
Raising money for charity on Etsy requires that charity’s consent.
 It is free to become a member and create a shop. Give your shop an original, interesting name that customers will remember. Choose a name that reflects your style and refers to the product you are selling. Announce your new shop on social media. Post about it on Facebook, Twitter and your blog to direct traffic to your shop., Sign into your account and go to Your shop > Quick links > Add a listing. Click on the “add photo” icon to add photos to your listing. The first image becomes your thumbnail. Give your item a descriptive title with searchable terms. Use dropdown menus to select the type of item and category. Write a thorough description. Set the price. Set your shipping price., Each item listing costs $0.20 USD. Listings remain active for four months or until the item sells. Transaction fees are 3.5 percent of the final sale price. Fees are accrued to your seller account monthly. You need to have a credit card on file for paying seller fees., Etsy provides a direct checkout service. Customers from anywhere in the world can pay in their local currency. Funds are deposited into your account in your local currency. You can also accept payments from Paypal, checks or money orders., Participate in social media to promote your items for free. Use Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and Pinterest to advertise your shop. Join an Etsy team. These are groups of members who support each other to grow their businesses.Use Promoted Listings, Etsy’s on-site tool for advertising your shop and products.