 An optometrist is a specialized professional who is the most qualified person to address your fears and concerns regarding contact lenses. She will be aware of issues such as dry eye, infections, pain or discomfort, and other potential pitfalls. The good news is, she also knows how to calm many of these fears and has solutions to protect your eyes from any serious disease. Make a list of fears and concerns to discuss during your visit.
Ask for a free trial pair of contact lenses for practice.
Request an eye exam. They are painless, a good idea, and good practice of what to expect next time you visit the optometrist.
As an alternative, talk to friends or family members who wear contact lenses and ask them what their fears were and how they overcame them.;
, Another important step to overcoming your fear of contact lenses is accessing the reason for the fear and finding out if it legitimate or not.Prior to ever wearing contact lenses, you might fear that something on your eye will cause pain or discomfort. Modern contact lens materials, however, are flexible, comfortable, and designed to properly fit your eyes. If you do experience pain or discomfort, talk to your optometrist about finding a more appropriate lens.
A popular urban legend cites terrible damage or even death occurring because a contact lens slid up an eye and entered the brain. Biologically, this is impossible because eye anatomy only permits an object on the eye to be removed from the front.
Eye infection is possible, but modern contact lenses, along with products that disinfect and protect them, makes it almost impossible to get an infection. If this still makes you nervous, then you might opt for daily disposable contacts so that you enjoy a brand new and clean lens every day.
 Try to get used to touching your eyes by practicing for several days prior to purchasing lenses. Not only will you become more confident, your eyes will start to desensitize to objects near them. Always practice good hygiene by washing your hands thoroughly.
Take your time. Begin by touching your upper and lower eyelids followed by your eyelashes, then the whites of your eyes. Gently tap your eye a few times to prove to yourself that there is nothing to fear.
 Our natural reflexes try to prevent objects from entering the eye so a little practice to override this reflex may be in order. The key, of course, is to relax and try not to think about placing an object in your eyes; rather, you are placing a lens on top of your eyes. Practice not blinking by placing your index finger on the upper eyelid while your thumb is placed on the lower eyelid to hold open your eye. Take your other hand and imitate putting a lens on your eye so that your mind and eye get used to this motion.
It is important to practice the same order repeatedly because contacts are designed specifically for an individual eye. This means they are not transferable from one eye to the other.
The helper hand, the one that holds the eyelids open, needs to be steady in order to prevent blinking midstream.
 It is not unusual to look away when inserting the contact lens. This helps prevent the fear of an object touching your eye. Using a mirror to insert contact lenses on your eyes will help take some sensation out of the process. Take your time and practice since looking into the mirror will reverse the image, making it a bit more difficult to skillfully locate where the lens should exactly go.
Sit close to the mirror and concentrate on the process rather than the actual lens touching the eye. Then, when the lens is near the eye, look up slightly and place the lens on the white part of your eye. Carefully slide the contact into the correct position to finish the process.
If the lens is not exactly in the right position, that's okay. Try closing your eye and then look up, down, left and right to position the lens in the right place.

