 Get rid of trash and yard waste. Keep your lawn in good condition and mow it. Trim the hedges, get rid of weeds, and mulch the flower beds. If you don't have much to work with, plant some flowers or buy small shrubs. Anything more than that is a waste of money.
 Painting your walls can instantly brighten up your house and make it appear well cared for. First, patch up any holes, no matter how small. To get a silky smooth finish, apply a coat of primer. After the primer dries, lightly sand it with a fine grit sandpaper (220 grit). Apply the first coat of latex paint, and then lightly sand that layer also. Wipe the walls down with a damp cloth after each sanding session. Then, apply the final coat of latex paint.


Favor white ceilings and off-white or beige walls with white baseboards. Not only will these colors throw more light around the room and make it appear larger, they're easy for potential buyers to imagine over.
Choose an appropriate finish. Semi-gloss paint will make your walls seem brighter. If your walls have imperfections, such as dents in the drywall or cracks in the plaster, use eggshell finish paint to hide those imperfections. It is a low-lustre finish that can be lightly washed.
Upgrade the interior walls to a level 5 finish in order to give your rooms a "luxury" appearance. Simply use 60 grit sandpaper to lightly score the surface of the walls. Add two coats of joint treatment (USG Total or All Purpose works great), one after the other. On the second coat, sand lightly with 220 grit sandpaper. This will give you a level 5 finish over any textured wall.
 Blinds and curtains are relatively inexpensive. Over time, the sun fades the colors from your blinds and curtains, so new ones will make a better impression than old ones.
 Some modern switches can be easily installed using the wires already running to the old switches. Just be sure to turn off the power to the room or entire house before doing any work. New outlet covers look nice, and give the impression that the electrical wiring in the house is newer than it really is. Dimmer switches are especially desirable.


Beware: It can be illegal to replace the outlets with the three-prong type while the wiring is for two prong (not grounded). This could lead to trouble if the buyer's home inspector catches on.
 In the main areas of the house, such as the living or dining room, swap out your lightbulbs for ones with slightly higher wattage. Just make sure you don't exceed the maximum specification for lamps and other lights. (You could use compact fluorescent light bulbs in order to make the room brighter without getting new fixtures, plus they save electricity, meaning they save you money.)

, Sometimes your home's square footage will be higher than what your county assessor has recorded. Because homes sell for hundreds of dollars per square foot, even a small increase will allow you to list your home for more money. If you have a tape measure and some graph paper, you can verify the square footage of your home by yourself. Measure the around the entire house, noting any abutments and including the porch and garage. Use one square of graph paper per foot. Then, divide the perimeter into smaller rectangles and triangles - for instance, a bay window might look like a rectangle with two acute triangles on each side. Measure the area of each piece, and add it up to get the square footage of your house. You can also hire a residential appraiser to evaluate the square footage - the service could pay for itself if it was measured incorrectly before.
 Simple ceiling trim and armchair railing are the easiest and most typical upgrades found in newer homes. To make an even bolder statement, paint the walls a neutral, flat color and paint the trim a high gloss white.

