 This is the most common reason to apply for an EIN for an estate. If the decedent had income-generating assets, such as savings accounts, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, or rental property, you will likely have to fill out IRS Form 1041, which is an income tax return for the estate.This form must be completed if the estate's assets generate more than $600 in annual gross income.;
, If, for example, the decedent's will establishes some sort of trust—a legal relationship where one person holds property for the benefit of another person—out of the estate's funds, you will need to apply for a separate EIN for the trust.This trust is considered a different legal entity from the estate and therefore will need its own EIN.
 Another time you would need an additional EIN is for any business that funds from the estate will be used to operate following the death of the decedent.Just like any other business, this new business will need its own EIN.
 Form SS-4, issued by the Internal Revenue Service, is required to apply for the EIN that will be used to complete Form 1041, which governs the income tax return for the estate. The instructions for this form are available online.Be sure to read them thoroughly, as the requirements for this form are not easy to understand at first glance.
 Once you have read the instructions, you will need an actual copy of the form. This form is available online through the IRS' website in PDF format.Print out a copy of this form and get ready to fill it out.
 This information in this section serves to identify the estate. Fill out the information as follows:In Line 1, enter the first name, middle initial, and last name of the decedent, followed by the word "Estate."
In Line 2, write "N/A," which stands for non-applicable.
In Line 3, enter the name of the executor, administrator, or any other fiduciary, as applicable.
In Lines 4a–b, enter the mailing address of the estate. The IRS will use this address when sending any correspondence.
Fill out Lines 5a–b only if the executor or administrator has an address different from that of the estate.
In Line 6, enter the county and state where the will is probated.
 This information is only used by certain companies completing this form, and does not apply to an estate's application for a tax identification number.
 This establishes that you are applying on behalf of an estate. You will also need to enter the social-security number of the decedent in the space provided.


Write "N/A" in Line 9b. This only pertains to corporations using this form.
 This part of the form establishes your reason for applying for a tax identification number. After checking this box, you are asked to specify a reason. Enter "Estate Administration" in this space.
 This information will relate to dates that will be used in determining the estate's tax liability. On Line 11, enter the date the estate was funded (usually the date of the decedent's death), and on Line 12 enter the last month of your accounting/tax year.
 This information pertains to any employees working for the estate. For instance, if the estate hired cooks, maids, gardeners, etc., you would need to fill out these sections as appropriate. Most likely the estate will not have employees, so if this is the case enter "0" in Line 13 and write in "N/A" on Lines 14 and 15.
 This information again serves to identify that you are filling out this form on behalf of an estate. Fill out the information as follows:In Line 16, check the box for "Finance & Insurance."
In Line 17, enter "Estate Administration."
If the decedent has applied for and been issued an employment identification number in the past, check the box for "yes," and provide the previous number in the space provided. Otherwise, check the box for "no" and write "N/A" in the space provided.
 Complete this portion of the form if you want to authorize the person named in this section to receive the employer identification number and be able to answer any questions that arise regarding how this form was filled out. Otherwise, write in "N/A" here.


For instance, if you are completing this form and you wish your attorney to be the person to receive the identification number, you would put your attorney's contact information here.
 Also be sure to print your name and title and write your telephone and/or fax number in the spaces provided.
 If you have filled out the "Third Party Designee" section, you will want to make sure both you and that third party sign this form.
 This is an important legal document and, as with all such documents, you should make a copy that you can reference later. Be sure to keep it in a secure location because it contains a lot of sensitive information.
 The easiest way to obtain an EIN for the estate is to apply online on the IRS' website.Read the simple directions presented at the beginning, click the button to apply online and then, using the information you filled out in Form SS-4, answer the questions to receive your EIN. After your information is validated by the IRS, your EIN will be issued immediately.


After you receive your EIN, be sure to save and print your EIN confirmation notice for your records.
You can apply online Monday through Friday between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Eastern Time.
You will not actually need to mail Form SS-4 to the IRS if you apply for the EIN online.
 If you wish, you can apply for the estate's EIN over the phone. Have your Form SS-4 nearby, as the IRS representative to whom you will speak will need this information to process your request. Once your information is validated, you will be given an EIN immediately. Write it on the top of Form SS-4, sign, and date it.The toll-free phone number to use is (800) 829-4933 and you must call between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. local time, Monday through Friday (if you live in Alaska and Hawaii, this is considered Pacific time).
You may be asked to mail a copy of Form SS-4 after receiving the EIN over the phone. If you are asked to do so, mail it to the address provided within 24 hours of your phone conversation. (Be sure to make a copy for yourself first.)

, You can also apply for the estate's EIN via fax. Make sure your Form SS-4 is complete and accurate, and contains your fax number so the IRS can send you a response. Then fax the form to (859) 669-5760and you will receive the EIN by fax within four business days., You also have the option to apply for the EIN by mail. Be aware, however, that this process is considerably longer than the others, as it takes about four weeks for the IRS to receive and process your request.As before, make sure your Form SS-4 is complete and accurate and mail it to the following address:


Internal Revenue Service
Attn: EIN Operation
Cincinnati, OH 45999
You will receive the EIN by mail in about four to five weeks.

