 A brown recluse has a dirt or sandy brown body with a slightly darker marking at its center; they can also be dark brown and even slightly yellow. Its legs are a lighter brown and completely uniform in color, with no additional markings.If the spider has stripes or other pigments on its legs, it's not a brown recluse.
If the spider has more than two pigments on its body other than the violin (and maybe a slightly darker abdomen), it's not a brown recluse.
If the spider has legs that are significantly darker than its body, it's not a brown recluse. Keep in mind slight variation can exist in shade and tone.;
, It's a slightly darker brown color than the rest of the body, or cephalothorax. The violin shape isn't clearly defined, so it may not look to you exactly like the musical instrument.

Many spiders have similar shapes on their bodies, so this alone is not significant enough to identify the spider as a brown recluse.
Again, look at the color of the violin shape closely. If it has spots of different pigments, then you are not looking at a recluse. However, injury or sun damage may also cause what would appear as different coloring or texture.
 The brown recluse, unlike other spiders, has only six eyes. They are arranged in pairs: one pair is in the center, and there's a pair on either side. Because the eyes are so small, it can be difficult to see them without a magnifying glass. If you count eight eyes, you're not looking at a recluse. (Please be safe when counting -, The brown recluse has many fine, short hairs on its body. Unlike some other spiders, it does not have spines on its body or legs. If you see a spider with spines, it's definitely not a recluse.
 The brown recluse's body doesn't grow to be larger than 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm). If you're looking at a spider that's larger than this, it's a different type of spider., The recluse's range is in the midwestern, southeastern, and southwestern regions of the United States.If you don't live in one of these regions, then it is highly unlikely that you will encounter a brown recluse, although it is possible., True to their name, brown recluse spiders build their webs in out-of-the way places that aren't usually in plain sight. Brown recluses usually build webs in places that are dry and haven't been recently disturbed. Here are a few places you may spot them:


Rotting bark
Attics
Basements
Closets
Sheds
Barns
Woodpiles
Shoes
Dressers
Toilets
Cardboard boxes
Behind pictures
In unused beds

, Brown recluse webs are loose, sticky, and off-white or grayish.You won't see a brown recluse web strung between trees or walls - that type of web is built by an orb weaver.
 The initial bite of the brown recluse usually doesn’t cause pain. This means that you may not be aware of the bite for as long as 8 hours, at which time the bite area will become red, tender and swollen.
 In some cases the bite alone is the worst symptom, but sensitive people and children may develop other symptoms. Monitor your body for these symptoms that may occur:Chills
General feeling of illness
Fever
Nausea
Sweating

, The danger with a bite from this spider is severe tissue damage, and in rare cases it can cause someone to fall into a coma.Seek medical treatment as soon as you realize you were bit by a brown recluse. Seek immediate medical attention if a child or an elderly person has been bitten; the bite of the brown recluse spider is most dangerous to such persons and can produce very severe symptoms. While waiting to get medical treatment, you can take these immediate first-aid steps:


Wash the bite area with soap and water
Apply an ice pack directly to the bite area for ten minutes, then remove it for ten minutes.
Repeat until you reach medical facilities.

