 You may feel embarrassed, or just not want to tell anyone at home. That's fine, you can probably find the right sort of stuff. But if you show up in a dress, or even have one in your suitcase, you'll be teased!;
, You must have some of these at home, even if you're a skirt and dress girl, you must have something. If not, you could raid sisters drawers, or, buy some. Don't be afraid to even look in your brothers drawers!

, If you're hanging with guys, chances are they like sports, if you find some tops, or T. Shirts, you'll look the part. Try sports shops or sneak into your brothers room! Don't be afraid to check the boys section.
 This is optional, but a sporty cap would look good, not pink though, you could start a trend.
 Investing in a cool pair of Converse or Vans for the summer, will really look good. Don't go for colors like black, you'll look like a try hard. Blue is cool, but probably dark blue, or red. Then maybe get some cheaper pairs, so you don't always wear the same shoes.
 But if you show up with pink ones, no one will buy it. Maybe get some footballs (or 'soccer' balls as the Americans would say), or plain gold studs, or hoops for the evening.
 Quickly brush through your hair, lean forwards, scoop it all up and tie it with a plain black, white or blue band. Maybe took it through the back of a cap, try to make it neat so it doesn't draw attention, but, do it first time. Maybe practice before you go.
 Just pull it back and tie it, maybe took it into your t. shirt/jacket to hide it more. Don't be afraid of it looking bad!

, Start doing a low ponytail, then either don't finish pulling the hair through an leave it, or just fold it up and tie it. Tuck it in, to show you don't really care.
 Of course it's less tomboy, but you can wear it down, especially if you have a fringe (bangs). You can either clip them up, or wear them down. Maybe clip the front bit up, and leave the rest down.
 This is quite girly, but not overly, you can do them scruffy, messy, big small, just don't take ages.
 If you're mean or rude to the other girls, just for being girly, they won't like you. Remember, you have to live with these girls. Be polite, but don't make any close friends.
 Okay, you've never slept on a bottom bunk before, usually you'd be joining in the arguments for the top, but let it go... It's just a bed. If you choose activities, say you'd rather do certain ones-and pick the masculine ones, where you'll meet more guys.
 There's nothing worse than a tomboy wanna-be. Just make it clear, you like sports, don't really care about make up, etc.
, Choose one you think looks like a good mate, a gang may be hard at first, especially if you're naturally shy. Don't say 'mate' yet, just either say 'hey' or 'what's up'. Don't speak femininely or make a big deal that you're a girl. Then tell them your name. If you have a unisex name, go with that. If your name is Alexa or Alexis, go with Alex. If your name is Samantha, go with Sam. If you have a really girly name, just use it calmly, if you can't come up with a boy-ish name.
 If you're that desperate, 'where are you from?' works. Hopefully they will respond with questions for you, try to talk about sports, learn a bit before you come. Music's alright, just don't mention One Direction, talk about bands they like.
 Chances are, they guy you met has other mates, soon you should all be friends. Don't take charge of the gang, but make the others laugh a lot. Don't seem fake. Just, don't be quiet or they won't notice you and you may be ignored.
 Guys don't like that.
 Guys joke-a lot! They will tease you, and tease them back a bit. Also, guys may have fake arguments, and call each a name for a part of a boy you don't have. Then the come-back 'at least I have one' is used. Don't use that come back, and if they say it to you, just carry on like a guy would, it's not sexist.
, Don't overdo it, but maybe just a smidgen will be cool, one of them may fancy you!

, After awhile, you may wish to style your hair a bit.
 Even when being a tomboy, don't shut out the girls in your bunk.

