 To cut costs and be environmentally friendly, you should try to reuse your towels when possible. If you are running a hotel, you may encourage guests to reuse their towels to cut back on cleaning costs and water usage. Have a small sign in the hotel room that notes you are trying to encourage guests to be eco-friendly by asking them to reuse their towels for at least two nights.If you are a homeowner, you may try reusing your towels for a week and hanging them to dry so they are still clean enough to use throughout the week. You may then encourage others in your household to use the same towels for a week to cut down on costs and be more eco-friendly.
 Rather than throw away old linens, repurpose them as rags that you can use in the kitchen. Or stitch the old linens together to make kitchen aprons. You can also use old linens as scraps for a quilt or a blanket.You can also re-dye old linens and use them in your decor at home or in your hotel.
 Make an effort to cut down on the amount of paper you throw away at home or at your hotel. Wait to fill up toilet paper or tissue boxes until they are almost done. Provide a limited amount of paper items in each guest room so guests are less likely to use them up or throw them away.You can also reduce the amount of newspapers you throw away by offering them at the front desk rather than in each guest’s room. You can also encourage guests to look at the news online.
Always use reusable drinking cups that are made of glass instead of paper.
Avoid providing items that are one use only, such as plastic shower cups or liners for an ice bucket.
 Get in the habit of using containers that can be reused and refilled at home or in your hotel. Stock refillable soap dispensers in the bathroom and the kitchen. Keep refillable shampoo and conditioner bottles in the bathroom. This will cut down on the amount of waste in your home or your hotel and ensure you do not need to keep buying new single use only items for guests.You should also try to get into the habit of reusing containers once they are empty. Reuse containers by washing them out and repurpose them for something else, such as a garbage can, a recycling bin, or a container for other items.
 To be more environmentally friendly and cut down on waste, recycle as much as you can. You may put recycling bins in a central area of your home and write a note about what can be recycled and what cannot be recycled. Encourage members of your household to recycle paper, plastic, and glass products.You can also try to recycle any cardboard boxes that are no longer being used in your home as well as the packaging that items come in. Explain what can be recycled to the members of your household and make it a house rule that everyone must recycle.
You can also encourage guests at your hotel to recycle by setting up recycling bins by the garbages in common areas of the hotel. You may also put up a sign in the rooms noting what can be recycled in the room and where the guests can put the items to be recycled.

