 Clean and sanitize a table that has enough surface space for you to construct the helix; you do want to be able to eat the DNA afterward. Collect the necessary supplies including tooth picks, a bag of candies with four different colors, and, if possible, licorice sticks.


There are limitless number of food items that can be used to represent the DNA, it just need to be color coded and soft enough to put a tooth pick through. Colored marshmallows are a popular option, as are gummies.For a healthier option chop up four types of fruit, like strawberries, bananas, grapes, and pineapples.;
, Each of the color-coded items represents one of the four chemicals that make up the DNA code: Guanine, Adenine, Cytosine, and Thymine. It is important to decide in advance which marshmallows represent which chemicals, because the chemicals based bond in specific ways.
 Use the toothpicks to connect the marshmallows into pairs. Poke the toothpick through two marshmallows so that they are firmly stuck together. Remember, that in nature only two types of bonds are possible. Guanine must bond with Cytosine and Adenine must bond with Thymine. Consult your color key to verify that you aren’t breaking this pattern.Push the marshmallows close to one another on the toothpick so that there is plenty of space on the ends of the toothpick left to attach licorice.
You should repeat this process to create approximately six base pairs.
Base pairs can be arranged in any order. However, you should have at least one of each type of base pair for the sake of the project., The backbone is what holds the bases together into a single strand of DNA. Take the toothpicks with the marshmallows bases poke the end of the toothpicks through a stick of licorice on each end of the base.


If you don’t want to use licorice, you can also connect the bases to one another with toothpicks. You should also aim to make a ladder shape, taking several base pairs and lying them next to one another to form a line of parallel bases. Insert toothpicks into the top of the marshmallow on each side of the base, connecting it to the bottom of the marshmallow on the next base. Repeat until all of the bases are connected., Once you have connected enough bases that it resembles a ladder, twist the licorice so that it looks like a “double helix” or a spiral staircase. This is the shape that DNA takes in the real world., Review the color key to see if the bases are properly bonded. Remember, Adenine should pair with Cytosine and Thymine with Guanine.If Thymine is bonded with Thymine or Adenine with Guanine, the model is wrong, because these nucleotides cannot form a hydrogen bond with one each other.Remember, that the order of base pairs forms a code that tells your body how to work. Think of these two bonds as somewhat like binary code--the system of "0"s and "1"s that tells your computer what to do.
 If several students have made DNA together, have them compare what they made. See how they differ. Remind your students that an actual human gene can have as many as two million base pairs.Explain that the differences they see in their model DNA grow as a strand reaches two million base pairs, so that these strands can store an incredible amount of information, enough to make each person in the classroom unique and different from their peers.


If you have done the project alone, you can also make multiple strands and compare them to each other. Consider how many different arrangements were possible,

, The backbone of the DNA, in this case represented by the licorice, is ease to forget about because it doesn't store any information. However, as the name suggests, it holds the whole thing together.The backbone is composed of a sugar, deoxyribose, bonded with a phosphate group.These give structure to the DNA

, Build a checklist of genetic traits and have students compare their DNA to another student in the classroom or to their parents. Some genetic traits that you can compare include: eye color, hair color, dimples, dominant hands, freckles, curliness of hair, and color blindness., Remember, science isn’t just about abstract ideas; it’s about making our lives better. Science puts food on our table every day. What better way to realize the practical benefits of science than to eat it in all of its glorious sweetness? Edible DNA was literally made to be eaten.

