


Think about what sets your business apart from other theatres in your area and incorporate this into your mission statement. Consider what you want to accomplish when you start a theatre company. You may want to produce plays by local writers, put on classic American plays or produce plays from European and other international writers.
The theatre mission statement lets potential audience members know at a glance what they can expect from your theatre business.
If you plan on registering as a non-profit in the United States, you'll need a mission statement.;
,


Connect the name to the theatre's mission statement.
Don't pick a name that is similar to another theatre business in your area.



Some companies are run as collaborative, ensemble efforts. Other companies have 1 person who is in charge of the artistic direction of the theater. When you own a theatre, you need to find the management style that fits your business goals.



Apply for non-profit status if you are in the United States and want to be able to accept tax-deductible donations. Your theatre company will need to be a corporation, trust or association before you can register for 501c3 status.
If you plan to operate as a non-profit theatre business, you may need to set up a board to oversee the business.
,


Make a list of expenses, as well as potential income.
If you own a theatre, you may need to pay for the upkeep of the space. Some businesses need money to keep the theatre clean and in good condition.
You may have to pay rent and insurance for a rehearsal and performance space.
Some theater businesses may need to purchase or rent lighting and sound equipment, sets and properties. If you produce a published play, you may need to pay royalties to the publisher.



Ask other people for money, if this fits into your business goals. Your funders could be friends or family who want to see your theatre business succeed.
Set ticket prices high enough that you can recoup expenses when you produce plays. You may need to sell concessions during performances to raise extra money.
Apply for grants when possible. Government organizations and private funders may offer grants for theatre companies.
 You may want to find people who agree with the mission statement and who have similar artistic goals as you do.


Hiring people you have worked with in the past is one option. You know their work ethic and have experience with them.
Put out an open call for actors, designers and others in the theater business if you cannot find enough people to work with you from those you already know.



Read publisher's catalogs to find plays that appeal to you, then contact the publisher to purchase the rights for a set number of performances.
If you want to produce unpublished plays by up-and-coming writers, put out a call for scripts through a theater magazine or listserv or contact agents. Specify what you are looking for in a play and include terms of length, subject matter and cast size. Read through the scripts and contact playwrights or agents whose work you'd like to produce.

