 If you want to live in the wilderness, you need to learn specialized skills to help you survive. You can take a class on wilderness survival or read wilderness survival manuals, outdoor magazines, and nature blogs. Go the library to use their computers or books for free. Research the dangers of your region as well. Important skills to learn include:Building a fire
Cooking food
Healing minor injuries
Foraging for safe foods
Fishing

, No matter where you are going or how experienced you are, you should carry basic medical supplies at all times. Keep your supplies in a waterproof container. A good first aid kit should include:Gauze and waterproof dressings
Adhesive bandages
Tweezers
Antibiotic cream
Ibuprofen or acetaminophen
Any required prescription medications

, What you wear is one of the most vital aspects of survival. Make sure that your clothes are right for your local climate. As a general rule, always wear one more layer than you need.Choose fabrics that will dry quickly and which will provide warmth even if wet. Go with wool if you can. Avoid cotton.
Keep a waterproof shell, jacket, poncho, or raincoat in case of rain or snow.
Wear sturdy shoes. Make sure to have warm socks on underneath.
If you live in a place with cold winters, you will need insulated and layered clothing. Cover every part of your body, including your hands, head, face, and neck.Visit thrift stores, clothing donation sites, and charities for cheap or free clothing for all seasons. You can even find winter coats at low cost.
 If there is a storm, snowstorm, tornado, or other dangerous weather, you will need to make sure you can survive it. This means that you may need to find alternate shelter during these events.If you are living near an urban environment, you might go a public building to wait out the storm.
Find a ditch or a low-lying crevice if there is a tornado.
Rockwall and boulders can provide shelter from the wind.
Avoid tall structures during lightning storms. In the woods, go to a low-lying area or find shelter under smaller trees away from the larger trees. In an open field, go to the lowest area possible, and crouch down., It is important that you can get medical attention or rescue if you need it. Determine now how you will contact the authorities should you become injured, lost, ill, or stuck.


Always let someone know where you are living. Ask them to check up on you periodically.
You should always have a way to contact help, even if you live in remote wilderness. This could be a satellite phone, a cell phone, a two-way radio, or flares.

