 Getting motivated enough to do things can be a major obstacle for people with ADD/ADHD. To deal with this obstacle, you might find it helpful to develop a motivation strategy. Some things you might try include:Setting a timer to help keep yourself focused. Try setting a timer and work until the timer goes off and then reward yourself after. For example, you could set a timer to work on something for 20 minutes and then reward yourself with 20 minutes of playing a favorite video game.

Identifying reasons to be grateful. You might find it easier to do common household tasks and other jobs if you remind yourself that many people cannot do these things because of physical limitations. This gratitude may help to motivate you.

Prioritize your to-do list. It can be hard to get motivated if you have a huge to-do list and are not sure where to start. To help motivate yourself, try ranking the items on your list from most to least important. Then, start working on the most important tasks.
 Because they fear the reality that they can never become perfectly organized, they hesitate to make even minor attempts at improving organization. In essence, they see it as “I can’t fail if I don’t try.”By narrowing the focus to manageable, incremental improvements, your paralysis based on perfectionism can be overcome. If you have diagnosed ADD/ADHD, rely upon your treatment plan — therapy, counseling, support networks, medication, etc. — as a key element in changing your perspective.
 Remember that regardless of whether you have ADD/ADHD or not, you can’t accomplish everything. Whether it’s at the office, at home, or in school, you need to create priorities in your list of daily tasks and focus on completing those that are most important and most manageable.Don't try to do too many things. Don't sign yourself up for extra tasks unless you know that you will have the time and interest to do them when they need to be done. And if you do find yourself in the situation where you're unable to do a task, be honest and open with whoever assigned the task instead of stressing over it.
 While this quality is by no means limited to people with ADD/ADHD, you may find yourself eager to begin tasks but struggling to complete them. Even mundane tasks like retrieving, sorting, and filing the mail or taking out the trash and putting a new bag in the bin may often be left half-done.Create a layout in your home or office that makes starting and completing a task as simple as possible. Set up a mail sorting station right near the door closest to your mailbox and include a trash can or recycling bin so junk mail is immediately discarded. Keep the roll of new trash bags right near the receptacle, along with a hard-to-miss reminder of the trash pickup schedule.
 In the U.S. at least, the weekends during which Daylight Saving Time begins and ends are always filled with reminders to replace the batteries in your smoke detectors while you move your clocks ahead or back an hour. Merging two tasks into one is not only more efficient, it also makes it more likely that you will remember and follow through with them.Try associating paying the bills with weeding out unnecessary statements and receipts. Or, for that matter, take little breaks from giving the house a monthly cleaning to pay your bills. (This is especially effective if you can coordinate the due dates of your major bills, which is a good idea for anyone.)
However, breaking up tasks into smaller ones may help you as well. For example, you might have “clean the kitchen” on your list, which can be broken down into smaller tasks like “wash dishes,” “rinse sink,” “wipe off stove,” “sweep floor,” “mop floor,” etc. After you do one of these actions, cross it off the list, take a break if you want, and then do the next one.
 Everyone can use a bit of help getting better organized. People with ADD/ADHD, however, might particularly benefit from a “body double” — that is, another person who joins them in doing tasks (especially mundane ones). Having a trusted companion by your side can provide added motivation and focus.Don’t be afraid to delegate tasks as well. Why shouldn’t your kids help clean up the house? And isn’t that one of the reasons why you have an administrative assistant (or, even better, interns) at work?

