 The way you perceive the situations that happen in your life can greatly determine your mood and outlook. Thinking about your problems over and over without actually coming up with a solution is called rumination. This process can promote feelings of depression and even lead to cardiovascular disease.Challenge your negative thought patterns by questioning the validity or certainty of your thought.For example, you turned in an assignment late and think to yourself “Now, my professor hates me.”
Ask yourself whether the situation is as bad as you are making it out to be. Does turning in a paper late really call for such a strong word as hate? Consider that your teacher may be disappointed, but it is highly unlikely that he hates you because of it.;
, Comparison diminishes the unique talents and gifts of yourself or others in an attempt to size up achievements or personal traits. The thing is, it is a lose-lose no matter how you look at it.If you are pumping yourself up by comparing yourself to someone who is worse off than you in some area, then you are giving you are giving yourself a false sense of satisfaction. Comparing your own abilities to someone else who is better than you causes you to depreciate your strengths.
Everyone is on a different journey. What’s more, everyone has areas where they are talented and areas of weakness. Comparing takes away from individuality. The only person you should compare yourself to is the person you were yesterday.
 One of the greatest protective factors against negative life events is your ability to swap self-pity for thankfulness. Positive aspects exist in most life ordeals if you only just look for them. Research shows that gratitude combats toxic emotions, increases empathy, promotes better sleep, enables the development of positive relationships, and boosts physical health.You can cultivate gratitude in a number of ways.Let people who are dear to you know how important they are in your life. At the end of each day, think about 2 to 3 things that you are thankful for. Or, start a gratitude journal.
 People don’t always have an ever-flowing stream of self-esteem. Sometimes, particularly after a failure or setback, you have to search for positive things to say about yourself. But, that’s okay. In addition to changing self-talk, you also want to change what you say about yourself when you look in the mirror (and other parts of your day). Use these affirmations daily.I love who I am.
I believe in myself.
I am a valuable person who is worthy of respect.
My success is determined by how warm and loving I am to myself.
I count my blessings.
I am a work in progress.
My opinions match who I am.
I recognize my strengths.

