 A good speaker is a good listener. And a good listener listens to good speakers. This means, you should observe how good speakers (they can be public speakers, ministers, pastors, priests, actors/actresses, teachers, reporters, politicians, etc.) speak. How do they pronounce each word clearly? How do they use variations of tones while speaking? What's their accent (American, British, Posh, or Standard English)? Have your models and get ideas from the way they speak. But, be yourself and have your own uniqueness.

Besides, good listeners don't only listen to experts, they also listen to normal people. If you listen to others and give them chance to speak, you will gain respect. In return, they will listen to you as well.
 Your confidence is reflected on how you speak. An effective speaker is confident. Don't lose your listeners' interest and trust when you speak. Overcome social anxieties in speaking in front of people, if you have it. Project a strong voice showing that you can speak effectively and you know what you say.
 A person who knows and uses many words will sound smart! It will be easier for a person to convert his ideas to spoken words if he/she can pick the right, appropriate words from his/her mind. You can convey what you really want to say without much effort. In addition, your talk will sound interesting and not dull if you use different words. It's like a colorful picture not just a black and white photograph. As you use different words, your listener can easily picture out in their mind what you're talking about. And you can avoid redundancies with words


But, don't use complex highfalutin words often. Most people will not understand you. Use them minimally.
 These books will help you absorb new words for a richer vocabulary, and will help you to know synonyms and antonyms of words. The dictionary can help you know the proper pronunciations of words – especially those words you're not sure how to enunciate. Do not, however, always read and memorize words from dictionaries. Candidly, you will just forget them! The proper way of remembering new words is just by knowing its spelling, pronunciation, and meaning and by using it whenever and wherever you can. Apply those words to daily matters or conversations.
 By practicing speaking in front of mirror, you can see how you speak. You can see if you do unnecessary things when speaking, and so you can rectify it. This is also important to see if you do nice articulation. When practicing articulation, face the mirror. Take note, professional speakers rehearse in front of mirror and they suggest it.
 This is a sign that you are paying attention to your listener, that you are really conversing with them. You make a magnetic power through eye contact with your listener. Besides, you can get your listener's attention. You can make an instant camaraderie and a warm treatment. However, don't just stare at your listener's eye the whole time you speak. It's normal to look to your left, right, up, down, when you are thinking of what to say. You may look away from your listener, but after you pick from your mind what to say maintain eye contact again.


If you are not comfortable of maintaining eye contact:

Try to practice speaking in front of mirror and look to your eyes.
Try to look at your listener's nose if you are a meter away. Your listener won't notice that you're actually looking at their nose. If you're about 2-3 meters away, you may look at your audience's forehead.
 Speak professionally. It doesn't mean you're not going to talk the normal way with your family and friends. You will still talk normally but should sound professional and with image. Avoid using slang and unnecessary expressions. Most people think that doing such expressions will make them sound like Americans or any other innate English speakers. But, they just look like classless and somewhat uneducated. You don't want to be like that. Also, try not to add fillers or the "uhms, hmm, ahh, like" when you converse. To do that, think before you speak. Speak with a moderate speed so you'll not cram of ideas you want to say.
 Humor makes your conversation alive and colorful. Use it minimally and smartly. Avoid humors that could offend someone.
 The more you read, the more you learn. If you read a lot, you will know more and more topics. If you know more and new information, you will have more to talk about. You can expand your general knowledge. It will be easy for you to relate to others because you have a wide knowledge base.


But, don't just read and read. Read texts/articles from reliable books, websites, and other resources. Be smart in choosing.
 Elders are wiser than most of us, because they have more experiences and they are more mature. Although at first it may seem boring, talk to them sometimes. They can teach you many things. They can share their experiences and tell you how they overcame their obstacles. You can hear about events that happened before and when you understand those, you can relate those to present. And when you are able to talk with them, it means your mind can hold an elder's level of thinking.
 After giving a presentation or talk to class, work, or in public, ask close friends or someone about how you spoke. Were you audible? Did you convey your message clearly and convincingly? Ask them if there are some little problems you did when you spoke. Evaluate and rectify your mistakes.
 Even if you're not yet a professional speaker, talking with people is essential. This will be your foundation. It will be easy for you to face people and talking can be comfortable. This is also considered the best way of socializing. Your effectiveness and impressive exhibition in speaking is nothing if there is no communication.


Speak and speak and speak to be fluent!
Practice and practice and practice to be eloquent.

