 Get to know the characteristics of the border collie. Spend some time looking online at dog breed websites, such as the American Kennel Club (AKC). Many of these sites will provide the history of the collie as well as some useful care tips. You can also talk to any friends who own collies and ask them about their ownership experiences.If you need additional guidance you can talk with a dog breed consultant in your local area or online.;
, Border collies are highly intelligent and require a great deal of personal attention. They also need a fair amount of space to run around and play. Look at your daily routine and see if you can envision when you will spend time with your dog and how. Also, think about whether or not you can provide the material conditions (i.e. space) that a collie needs to thrive.Collies enjoying chasing things, including cars, so they can be a real challenge in an urban space. If you live in an area like this you will need to invest in a sturdy fence and a quality leash.
 You may or may not have a preference in this area. Or, you may like the idea of breeding your dog in the future. Females in the breed are generally smaller by a few inches and five pounds or so. There are few real behavioral differences., This is an important decision as it will broaden or limit your search options. Purebred dogs are generally automatically eligible (with paperwork) for AKC competitions and sports. However, they can also fall prey to a variety of genetic disorders and health issues. Crossbred or mixed dogs are generally restricted in AKC activities but can still compete in other areas. They can also combine the best (or worst) characteristics of multiple breeds.For example, a mixed breed Golden Retriever and Border Collie puppy could possess the affective characteristics of the Golden and the athletic prowess of the Collie.
 A puppy will generally require additional socialization and training in order to become a good mature dog. However, you can establish a very close bond from a young age. An adult dog may already have the potty training aspect down and some other tricks as well perhaps. However, they can also have behavioral baggage from their previous owner experiences.As you make your decision remember that a Border Collie puppy period lasts for around three years.
 Border Collies are herding dogs by nature and this means that they can occasionally take this impulse out on small pets and children as well. You will want to carefully consider the comfort of others when choosing a particular Collie. Some dogs do better than others in household situations.No matter which dog you choose you will want to carefully introduce it to any children or other pets. Make a point to monitor all interactions between the Collie and small children in particular. Never leave them alone together., Make sure to budget for the purchase of the dog itself (which can range from free to hundreds of dollars) and the dog’s immediate care as well. This would include veterinary treatment, food, training items, and bedding. Anticipating these costs in advance will make it less of a shock when they pop up.
 Not all dogs are the same. You want to look for a Border Collie that possess a mild temperament, basic manners, and an intellectual curiosity. Your dog should be interested in interacting with you or other strangers. It should be curious about new sounds or smells. It should fall somewhere between the leader of the pack and the wallflower., If you’ve never had a Border Collie before or even owned a dog, fostering is a great way to familiarize yourself with the breed and with dog ownership in general. You will be responsible for the day-to-day care of a Collie until a new home is found. This is a great way to see if a Collie would fit your lifestyle.Fostering also allows you to save a dog’s life in the process. Every dog being fostered is one less potential dog in a kill shelter or on the streets.

