 Speaking to and spending time with the elderly will increase your awareness about their daily concerns and challenges. Issues you might observe include concerns about healthcare, common health challenges like dementia, unmet nutritional needs, social isolation,and a continued need for physical or recreational activities.Ask the nursing home volunteer coordinators what you can do to help address issues that you see impacting the daily life of those living at the home, on top of your regular volunteer work.
If you have a friendly dog or cat, ask if the home participates in an animal visitation program. This allows you and your pet to share your time and provide comfort and happiness to senior home residents.;
, While many seniors live in a nursing home, many opt to stay at home and live independently. Volunteer to help them with household tasks, either by working with a local organization or directly contacting specific seniors you know.Household chores and heavy lifting can be particularly difficult for some seniors. Offer to perform basic home maintenance, such as cleaning out the gutters or making basic repairs to fixtures and appliances.
Consider working with a program that delivers meals or provides in-home visits for elderly individuals in your area. This helps seniors who cannot access a home or who wish to live independently to still get the care they need.
 Healthcare is a major part of senior care, and you can help improve the lives of the seniors with whom you live or work by learning about healthcare practices and policies. Get certified in senior first aid, CPR, and AED, or attend healthcare conferences to learn more about senior care.Check course listing at your local community centers or community colleges to see if senior first aid and emergency care classes are offered, or talk to a local senior center to find resources.
If you receive extensive first aid training, consider signing up as a community first responder with your local hospital and let them know that you specialize in elder care.
If you are at a conference, inquire about all aspects of health. The physical, social, emotional, and mental health of the elderly must be considered in order to create effective management plans to address these issues.
Attend seminars and workshops at healthcare events that are specifically focused on elder care.
 One major daily challenge faced by seniors is that they are unable to locate or access certain services they need because they lack vital computer literacy. Work with seniors in your community to get internet in their homes, and train them on basic computer skills.Volunteer with a local group dedicated to providing senior technological literacy courses. You may also be able to volunteer as a guide or lab monitor at your local senior center or community center.
Ask the seniors you work with, “What are you goals when you go online?” so that you can understand what they are looking to do and provide specific guidance. If, for example, their main motivation is to communicate with family, you do not need to confuse them by also teaching them to pay their bills online.

