 Getting around the court quickly is extremely important in badminton. If you really want to improve your game, you’ll need to train between games. Try jogging and walking weekly; it will keep you quick and your knees strong.You can play shadow badminton with a partner to improve your speed and footwork. Have a partner call out various points on the court (eg. “Left backcourt”). Move to that point as if in a real match. Work at this exercise for a few minutes then switch; you’ll see your speed improve.;
, If you're flat-footed on the court, you won't be able to return your opponent’s shots. Instead, stay on your toes, bouncing back and forth. This will make it easier to spring across the course. This bounce also gives you the ability to jump if you need to cross particularly large distances., You need good range of motion to get those hard to reach shots. Practice yoga at least once a week to improve this facet of your game. Besides flexibility, yoga can help you learn to better control your breathing, improving your overall cardiovascular performance., The first step to a proper backhand involves the right grip. The placement of the thumb is the main difference between the backhand and forehand grips. For the backhand grip, the thumb is placed upwards along the grip, pointed towards the head of the racquet.Start with your back towards the front of the court, keeping your eyes on the shuttlecock. This allows for a longer, more powerful backhand swing.
Keep your arm close to your body until it’s time to swing.
Swing your arm around, racquet aimed towards the shuttlecock.
Use a flick of your wrist to transfer the power of your swing to the shuttlecock.
 Each serves a different function, some driving your opponent back while others force them to play close to the net. Some are more aggressive while others are played defensively.


The low serve needs to be struck as gently as possible, barely passing over the net and aimed at the front of the opponent’s court.
The high serve is sent powerfully upward, so that it come at your opponent almost vertically. This serve is used to drive your opponent back.
The flick serve follows a similar upward trajectory as the high serve, but is not nearly as powerful. It’s meant to land behind your opponent’s starting position, forcing them to return the serve while backpedaling.
The drive serve is more of a gamble than the other types. It is struck quickly, low over the net. You aim to give your opponent the least amount of time to respond, in order to force them into a mistake. However, it’s possible they’ll return the serve accurately, and just as fast, forcing the same type of reaction out of you.