 For the most part, United States citizens are allowed to have one valid passport. Under certain conditions, you may qualify for a second passport. You may obtain a second passport under the following conditions:Some countries may deny a passport if yours contains stamps from certain countries. If you need a visa to a country that may deny your current passport, you may qualify for a second passport.
If your travel visa has been delayed due a lengthy government process, you may qualify for a second passport if you need to travel immediately.
If you are on a trip and you are unable to continue traveling due to conditions beyond your control, you may qualify for a second passport.
Keep in mind there are no guarantees when it comes to passports. Even if you meet the above conditions, there is still a chance your application for a second passport will be denied.;
, There are two forms associated with the with applying for a second passport: the DS-11 Application Form and the DS-82 Application Form. Depending on your circumstances, you will fill out one or the other. You can download the form online at the US Passport Guide website found at http://www.uspassporthelpguide.com/..


When obtaining a second passport, the DS-11 Application Form would typically be used if your active passport has been lost or stolen.
The DS-82 is used if you're renewing your passport, or applying for a passport by mail. You can not use it to replace a lost or damaged passport.
Both forms can be downloaded online and then filled out. Use black ink and write legibly. If you're filling out the DS-11, you have to present the application to an agent at a passport acceptance facility prior to signing.
 A second passport request letter is required as you will need to explain your circumstances. You can type up a letter that briefly describes your need for a second passport. You should print your name after printing your letter, and also sign and date the letter.Address the letter to the U.S Department of State. Write something at the top of the letter like, "Re: Second Passport."
You do not need to provide more than a couple of paragraphs explaining your situation. You should also write that you that you will report it right away if either of your passports is lost or stolen. The Department of State wants to make sure you will follow legal regulations regarding your passport.

