 While changing your diet and cutting calories typically has a stronger effect on weight loss than physical activity, daily physical activity, including routine exercise, is more significant in maintaining your weight loss and avoiding weight regain. Aim for at least 30 minutes of overall physical activity per day.Log all of this activity, even strength training.


Physical activity is not only important for weight loss but has also been shown to help prevent a number of diseases and medical conditions, such as cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure, and type II diabetes. It can also reduce symptoms of depression or anxiety, which will make your summertime more enjoyable if you suffer from these things., Spend 150 minutes each week doing moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 75 minutes per week of vigorous-intensity aerobic activity. Note that this is just a guide; the exact amount of physical activity required to lose and maintain weight is unclear and varies from person to person. If you're not seeing results (and are sticking to your healthy diet plan), then consider increasing your aerobic activity until you see a weekly weight loss of a pound or two per week.Moderate-intensity exercise means that you can still carry on a conversation while performing the activity even though your heart rate is elevated and your breathing becomes more intense. Examples include brisk walking (15-minute mile), light yard or outside work (raking leaves, shoveling snow, mowing the lawn), biking at an easy pace, etc.
Vigorous-intensity exercise means that you are breathing too heavily to maintain a conversation. Examples include jogging or running, swimming laps, jumping rope, biking at a faster pace or on an incline, competitive sports, such as football, basketball or soccer, among other activities.
 Strength training is also important for weight loss and preventing loss of muscle and bone mass.Strength training can be done in your day-to-day life, such as lifting heavy boxes and groceries or doing heavy gardening or other yard work. Pushups, sit-ups, and plank poses are also great exercises which require no special equipment or environment and instead use your own body weight as resistance. You can also use weight machines or lift free weights at a gym to build strength. Make sure to focus on all muscle groups when doing strength training.


If you're interested in strength training but aren't sure how to build muscle in all areas of your body, consider getting a personal trainer, who can show you the different types of exercises needed to strengthen all muscle groups. While this is an added cost, a trainer will also ensure that you are doing exercises correctly and in proper form, thereby reducing the risk of injuring yourself.
 Joining a gym is an excellent way to stay active during the summertime. Some gyms even have specials for students as a way to encourage young people to keep active; in addition, there may also be other summertime specials or discounts to encourage people, who are often busy and out of town in the summer, to get back into the gym. Try to find a gym in your neighborhood; if it's too far away you likely won't be motivated to go as frequently.Gyms usually also have personal trainers available for consultation and hire. Some gyms also have exercise classes that can help you diversify your work out and work different muscle groups. Some people also find exercise classes to be more motivating than exercising on their own. Another benefit of a gym is that you may make new friends!If personal trainers and gyms are not your thing, consider group fitness such as dance, aerobics, and more.
 You can also get more exercise without becoming a gym rat by doing exercise right into the comfort of your own home. Thanks to the internet, there are tons of workout routines and videos available online; you can do everything from a 10-minute cardio work out, to a hips, thighs and legs workout to a one-hour yoga class right in your own home.Exercising at home is ideal for people who can't afford to join a gym or sports club or who are concerned about exercising in public. At-home routines enable you to get a fun, studio-quality workout in the comfort and privacy of your own home.
Remember, however, that if you're following a video to only do what you're capable of and to try to maintain proper form. If you injure yourself, there is no one there to help, so be cautious about what activities or videos you follow online. A good idea is to watch the video or read the full exercise plan before undertaking it to ensure that this is something you feel comfortable and safe doing.
 Working out in a gym isn’t the only way to stay active and participate in physical activity during the summertime. With the nice weather that often accompanies summer, there are many opportunities to go outside and be active. In so doing, you can both take advantage of the amazing summer weather and also work to lose weight! Here are some fun outdoor activities you can partake in during the summer:Remember to MOVE. Keep your body moving. If you have a sedentary job, make it a priority to take the stairs, park further away and walk around on breaks.
Play a sport. Join a summer sports league or find friends to play a friendly game of soccer, volleyball, football, baseball, and more.
Go for a brisk walk, jog, or run. Find a trail, track, or other scenic area in your neighborhood to go for a walk or run and build up your cardiovascular strength.
Go for a bike ride. Find a bike path, park or bike-friendly road to go for a ride and work your legs in the fresh air.

