 Take a moment to think back to what the most romantic moments of your vacation were and maybe even jot them down. Then, use these romantic memories to help you create romantic scenarios in your normal life.


For example, if you felt more connected to your partner during a nature hike, then you might start taking long walks with your significant other or go on hikes at a local park over the weekend. If watching the sunset every night was part of your vacation romance, then try watching the sunset together from your living room window or backyard.;
, New experiences can ignite your passion while you are on vacation with your significant other.Exploring mysterious ruins, touring ancient castles, or visiting historical sites can be exciting and this may translate into a deeper connection with your partner. To maintain this type of excitement, you might consider exploring interesting places in your own community.


For example, you might take a drive to a local historical site, visit a local art museum, or go on a walking tour in your community. Look for the kinds of activities that people do when they visit your town or city and try some of them out.
 The experience of eating exotic cuisine can bring you closer with your partner. You can easily include exotic cuisine into your normal routine.


For example, you can try cooking something new together. Try getting a cookbook from somewhere you have visited (or always wanted to visit) and prepare a meal using the recipes. Or, if you are not a fan of cooking, then you can also try out a local restaurant that has exotic cuisine.
 Sometimes people learn new skills while they are on vacation and the experience of learning with your partner can be romantic.If you enjoyed learning new things with your partner, then you might consider taking a course together somewhere in your community or working together to learn a new skill at home.


For example, you could take a cooking or wine making class. Or, you could work together to learn a foreign language by borrowing some language instruction materials from your local library. You could even try to learn the language of a place you hope to visit on your next vacation, such as French if you want to go to France.
 Dreaming about the next vacation that you take can also be a good way to keep the vacation romance alive. Try setting aside a time when you are both feeling relaxed, enjoy a nice dinner, and discuss where you would like to go for your next vacation.


You can look up activities, hotels, and restaurants you’d like to try. Just have fun dreaming about the vacation and don’t worry about logistics (costs, timelines, etc.) for now. This activity should leave you feeling more connected to your partner and looking forward to your next romantic vacation.

