 Most people learn to do foam rolling through a class or a personal trainer. These classes introduce techniques that can help you make the most of your foam roller and give you exercises to use with your roller.;
, Although it is not round and only rolls slightly, a half-round foam roller can increase your balance when you stand on it. It is often used by physical therapists to enhance proprioception after injury to knees or ankles. Proprioception is your body's sense of its parts in relation to each other.


Half-round foam rollers are also a good choice for an elderly person or someone with little strength or muscle tone. When laid with the flat side down, the roller will not move easily out from under them. Simply laying on a half-round roller in the area of tight muscles can release tension. The user can also move back and forth slightly as they grow comfortable with the roller.
 A decision of firmness should be based on your experience-level with the foam roller. Most foam rollers are color coded according to firmness. White rollers are the softest, followed by blue or green rollers of medium density and black foam rollers, which are the firmest.

Choose a white foam roller if you are just starting off with a foam roller or if you plan to use it for exercises. White foam rollers are often made of a piece of polyethylene foam and they are the least dense, so they will allow some movement between the muscles, bones and the roller. Foam rolling can be painful at the beginning because tight muscles are pushed upon with your full body weight. A white foam roller will produce less pressure and less pain.






Choose a medium, lightly colored foam roller for advanced core-stabilization or a medium amount of massage pressure. These blue or green foam rollers are often made of closed cell polyethylene foam or EVA foam and they are common in Pilates classes.






Choose a black foam roller if you are very experienced using a foam roller or desire hard pressure for self-massage. Although most black foam rollers are also made of polyethylene foam, they are closed cell and manufactured under high heat, making them smoother, denser and less porous.
 For heavy use, it is recommended that you use a denser, black foam roller or EVA foam roller because they are highly durable. White and colored foam rollers made of polyethylene foam can warp over time in humidity and with repeated use. If you desire a softer foam roller, be sure to choose a brand that guarantees it will not warp.
 With the exception of half-round foam rollers, most foam rollers have a 6 inch (15 cm) diameter. However, the length of the foam roller differs, ranging from 12 to 36 inches (30 to 90 cm).


Pick a 36 inch (90 cm) foam roller if you intend to use it on your back. A long foam roller will allow you to roll with it perpendicular to your back, without fear of falling off the ends. It can also be used to create proper alignment by laying on it with the roller parallel to your spine, giving it full support.
 For example, you may want to bring it to a Pilates class and use it at home.
 The cost of foam rollers depends upon the materials used.


A 12 inch (30) white foam roller will likely be the least expensive, costing under $15 (10 euros, 9 pounds). White foam rollers cost less because of the lower density of the foam.
A black foam roller of any size is considered a professional-grade roller and would likely cost around $30 (20 euros, 18 pounds).
EVA foam rollers are becoming more popular. They are often green. They are moderately firm and offer a more comfortable surface that is warm to the touch. They are advertised as being more durable than polyethylene foam rollers but will likely cost up to $45 (31 euros, 27 dollars).
 Buy your foam roller.

