 For those looking for more advanced tips, scroll down to the "Captaining" section.
,, These are:

Answering after you buzz but before you are verbally recognized is known as a “blurt.” Blurts are treated like an incorrect answer to an interrupt (at least at the official Department of Energy competitions). Don’t blurt.

If you have trouble doing this, don’t watch the moderator; only listen to him or her. Eye contact doesn’t count as recognition. If you still have trouble, put your backpack or some other large object between you and the moderator.


Points are issued for a correct answer to a toss-up question. Collaboration is not allowed on toss-ups. If you say anything (except your answer, and then only if you are called on), your team will be disqualified from answering the question.
Points are issued for a correct answer to a bonus question. Should your team answer a toss-up question correctly, you will earn a bonus question, which only your team is allowed to answer. Collaboration is allowed on bonus questions, and you are given longer to find the correct answer. The designated team captain must start giving the answer before time is called. The other team can’t make noise (especially by buzzing).
Points are added to the other team’s score for an incorrect interrupt of a toss-up question or an interrupt blurt.
Once one person on your team has either collaborated, blurted, or given an incorrect answer to a toss-up question, no member of your team may buzz. If you don’t know the answer, don’t buzz in early and prevent your teammates, who may know the answer, from answering. If you do know the answer, buzz quickly. If nobody on your team has buzzed about 3 seconds after the full question has been read, guess before the question expires.
 Questions are not repeated., Is it a toss-up or a bonus question? Is it multiple-choice or short answer?, the correct answer as written on the answer sheet), or both. For example, if the scientific answer to a multiple-choice question were “resonance points,” “resonance point” would not be accepted. Hence, it’s usually best to just give the letter. The only times you would want to give the “scientific answer” would be when you had forgotten the letter or the correct answer has not been read yet. You never would want to give both answers because it would be counted wrong if they didn’t match.,, You may even want to write down the format of the question, because people often forget it and do silly things like blurt out “X” as the answer to a short answer question., Teams have five seconds to give the answer.,

The question clearly implies the exact format of the answer choices (such as a question asking for a simple numeric answer)
The answer-choice(s) read so far establish a pattern as to the format of the remaining answer-choice(s) (for example, if the first answer-choice is: “W. Milliohms,” and you know the answer is some variant of Henry's, you should buzz in and say “Millihenrys”.
Of the 4 answer-choices, if three have been read and none are correct, buzz in and say “Z.”
While some older Science Bowl questions include “none of the above” or “all of the above” as an answer choice, which could throw a wrench in this logic, no new Science Bowl questions contain these types of choices.
 Should you interrupt and give an incorrect answer, you will be penalized. The majority of questions are answered by interrupt in some matches, so interrupts are often worth the risk., On multiple-choice questions there is no advantage to waiting for someone else to guess if nobody knows the correct answer. (You have a 1/4 chance of guessing correctly if you go first. If you wait, then there’s a 3/4 chance that the other team will guess wrong, times a 1/3 chance that you’ll guess correctly from the remaining choices, which gives you the same 1/4 chance of guessing correctly.) Don’t wait for them to guess, because you have a brain and intuition, so your chances of guessing correctly are actually at least a little better than random.

Only refrain from randomly guessing if your team is running out of time to catch up to the other team or the question is computation-based, in which case your buzz would give the other team extra time to solve it.
Always make a reasonable guess; even when you think you have no idea, you might get it right just by saying a scientific word that seems related to the question.
 Do not hesitate. Be confident in yourself.,,, Don’t let that happen to you., Whether you trounced your opponent, vice versa, or it was neck-to-neck battle, thank them because they’re challenging you to improve (or because they were polite enough to take a pounding).,,,,,,,,, Never be too shy to buzz; decide whether or not to buzz rationally. Buzz a little more slowly than you have been during the week or two before a tournament but not necessarily to the point where you aren’t getting any interrupts., It may scare weak-minded teams when you get an impossible question right. Don’t be weak-minded; we beat many teams that knew way more science than us, because we were better at playing the game.,, The ideal speed also varies with the difficulty of the questions, because easier questions increase both the speed of your teammates and your opponents, so you’ll want to buzz really quickly while still getting the bulk of them right (after all, they’re easy).,, Ask your teammates to do the same for you. Ideally everyone on the team would know how to adjust their speed to the ideal during any match., They’re not just guessing; they’re really good at predicting what will be asked. If you want to beat a team that can do this consistently, you’ll have to push yourself to anticipate what questions will ask.
 The more divisions the better, but usually the problem only has a limited number of parts that can be done by different people. Have everyone who doesn’t get a part do the same thing as someone else as a double check. You can set up default roles during practice to eliminate the need for the initial “giving of orders” during the actual competition.
Feed – as long as you start talking before time is called they will let you finish your answer, as long as you don’t stall. If your teammate knows the answer, but doesn’t have time to tell you before time is called have them say it one word or phrase at a time while you repeat it to the moderator. You will want to tell practice this with your team during practice, so they learn how to feed to you.
 No one respects a cocky jerk or a timid pansy., Even if everyone agrees on the correct answer, ‘double check’ if you have time. There are a lot of tricky Science Bowl questions that will dupe everyone on your team no matter how smart you all are., Also, when you have time on a bonus question, ‘double lens.’ ask your teammates how certain they are of their answer and adjust for their tendency to have the correct answer, have the correct answer in that subject area/topic, and perceive their own accuracy correctly., Everyone has a tendency to trust themselves too much or too little. As with humility and arrogance, neither will help you or your team; adjust, adjust, adjust.,, If your team is moderately ahead of the other team, it is advantageous to slow the game down in order to preserve your advantage., Use eighteen or nineteen of them even if you know the answer immediately., (If you buzz in any sooner, the moderator will simply ignore you.), Consider participation in the National Ocean Science Bowl. It’s like Science Bowl, but focuses on ocean-related questions, and is sponsored by the consortium for ocean leadership., The most effective type of practice is one that simulates an actual match. Practices that simulate actual matches will help your team increase their speed, master the rules, develop their intuition for the types of questions that are asked (helpful if you start to ‘anticipate’), test out strategies presented in this guide and/or some of your own to see if they work for you, master the strategies that do work for you, and take the competition more seriously., To encourage bravado, you could give shy-buzzers the handicap of going without penalization for interrupts (until they are sufficiently bold)., They should also change their moderation style between each game (i.e. read more or less quickly, use clearer or less clear pronunciation, or even switch your accent to simulate judges from different countries)., Get everyone on your team to read the rule-book (including yourself). Know the rules; they change not just from year to year but from judge to judge. Most, if not all, judges, especially at state, will know the rules worse than you do, because they don’t spend all year training. (If they don’t, study them more.) Challenge them respectfully when you catch a mistake, and challenge during practice the same way you would at a competition. The moderators will likely (and rightly) get irritated if you whine like a brat., Additional methods of practice include studying the glossaries of science textbooks to build your science vocabulary (possibly having each team member specialize in certain subjects) and reading sheets with Science Bowl questions and answers. You can get questions by asking for a copy at the end of any competition you attend (they may or may not give you one), searching “Science Bowl questions,” and asking other teams to email you copies of their questions.,, The sooner you pick your team(s), the sooner you can practice that much more realistically. However, the sooner you pick your team(s), the sooner you will remove the motivation of making the top team(s)., Pick teams out of individuals who preformed well, participated often, complement each other’s weaknesses, effectively answer bonus questions together, and have experience at state or nationals or are younger and have the potential to lead the team to nationals in the future., (Note that although some old Science Bowl questions are in the computer science category, no new questions have this category.) You would then repeat the process with the remaining members for the B team, and so on.