 Dress in something that you can move around in and you don't mind getting messy, such as a T-shirt and jeans. Kids are always finding new adventures, and it's likely you'll be cleaning up after many messes., Bring sunglasses and sun lotion for summer babysitting jobs in case you go outside. Carry a coat, hats and gloves with you in the colder seasons.
 Choose a pair of shoes that are easy to slip on and off, and make sure the shoes are lightweight to avoid potential damage if a toddler decides to throw one of them. It's also a good idea to bring tennis shoes if you plan on going outside.
 Wearing a modest T-shirt or blouse with casual jeans will allow you to move comfortably all while looking professionally casual. Darker colored clothing often looks professional and tends to hide stains well., Kids often enjoy messy activities such as arts and crafts, and they also tend to spill easily. It's likely that you might get paint, glue or dirt on your clothes, so having back-up clothing on hand to change into would be ideal., Leaving your dangling earrings, necklaces, and bracelets at home is safer for the kids, ensuring there is nothing for the child or baby to pull off and potentially choke on. Besides, you don't want your favorite beaded necklace broken or children pulling on your bracelet., Take out any piercings before your babysitting job or hide them as best you can along with your tattoos. Kids may find you unapproachable if you have too many visible tattoos whereas babies love to grab things and might decide to yank on your piercing., If you feel the need to wear makeup, keep it simple so you look like you're going to work and not out to a party. Don't overdo it by wearing tons of eye liner, lipstick or blush.
 Choose a professional-looking hairstyle that won't get in your way while you work. With longer hairstyles, wearing your hair up in a ponytail looks professional and ensures you will be able to move around with minimal distraction from your hair.


If you have dyed hair in bright colors such as red, blue, green, etc., put it up in a ponytail for the first couple babysitting jobs so parents and kids can get used to it slowly.
Try pinning your hair back in a barrette if your hair is too short to tie up.
 This means nothing revealing such as booty shorts, belly shirts, low-cut shirts, skirts or low-rise pants. Avoid looking unprofessional and pass on the yoga pants and leggings., Don't wear T-shirts with racial or sexual comments on them, or tasteless words or pictures such as clothing that advertises alcohol. You wouldn't want the children you babysit repeating any inappropriate words or phrases., Even though your favorite pair of jeans might have holes in the knees, it's important to remember that you're dressing for a job. Skip the ripped jeans and choose an outfit that doesn't look sloppy.
 Make sure that your clothes are clean, you have showered, have clean hands, trimmed fingernails and well-groomed hair. Be clean, but don't wear heavy fragrances that kids might be sensitive to.