 One way to prevent tendonitis is to warm up before you exercise. Try light exercises and massage your joints and muscles before you get to the main part of your workout. Slowly build up to a higher intensity. If you jump right into the hard part, you're more likely to get tendonitis.When you're warming up, the idea is to warm up the muscles you'll be using in the exercise. Often that can just mean doing the exercise at a slower pace for five or ten minutes. For example, you could walk at a slow pace before a faster walk, jog, or run. For swimming, you could swim at a slower pace before going faster.;
, If you're always doing the same type of exercise, you're more likely to develop tendonitis. That's why it's sometimes referred to as "tennis elbow," "swimmer's shoulder," "pitcher's shoulder," and so on. It's doing the same repetitive movement that's the problem. If you're having problems with one exercise, do another for a little while instead.For instance, if you've been playing tennis and have developed tennis elbow, try running or jogging for a while instead.
If you've been running and have developed tendonitis in your feet or knees, try something with less impact, such as swimming.
You can also modify an exercise to put less stress on certain parts of your body. For instance, if your ankles hurt while doing pushups, try doing them on your knees instead.
 That is, find out the proper way to do each exercise and use each type of equipment when you're exercising. Use good form when you exercise. If you are exercising improperly, you're more likely to develop injuries like tendonitis.If you're at the gym and you're unsure how to use a piece of equipment, ask someone who works there.
If you're wanting to learn an exercise at home, use high quality training websites and videos to figure out how to do an exercise properly.
 Once you're done working out, don't just stop the exercise. It's time to cool down.Cooling down is basically the same as warming up. That is, you want to use the same muscles you've been using, just lowering the intensity of the exercise.If you've been running, walk for five to ten minutes. If you've been swimming at a high intensity, slow down for the last few laps.
Stretching all of your major muscles and taking all of your major joints through the full range of motion at the end of your workout will help to prevent tendonitis.
 If you develop a pain while exercising, you should stop that exercise for a while. It's particularly important to stop the exercise if the pain comes on suddenly, but you should also take a break from the exercise if the pain comes on gradually.If you do develop pain, see a doctor.
 After cooling down, take time to stretch out your muscles before finishing up your workout. Stretching increases your flexibility and range of motion, and you do it at the end because your muscles are warmed up enough that you aren't as likely to be injured in the process. You can also do stretching after the warm-up if you prefer., Lay on your back with your body flat. Pull one knee up towards you, wrapping your hands around the back of your leg as it comes up. Pull it straight up in the air so that it's perpendicular to your body. Return it to the floor. Do five reps, and then switch to the other side.You can also increase flexibility by adding reps at different angles. Try turning your thigh inward for five reps and then outward for five reps.
 Roll over on your stomach. With your toes pointed, lift your body off the ground by pushing your arms out until they are completely straight, which is how it differs from a pushup. Your thighs should be off the ground, too, and your back should be curved backwards. Tilt your chin up, and hold this position for five to ten seconds before releasing., Face a wall, starting a little less than a foot away. Put your hands on the wall. Move one leg backwards, and bend the knee of the other leg. The heel of the back leg should stay on the ground. Hold for a few seconds, and then change legs., Begin with your feet at shoulder-width. Step one foot forward about a foot. Interlock your fingers, and place your hands under your ribs. At the same time, try to pull your shoulders down. Lower your whole body by bending your knees. Go down as you count to three and lift back up as you count to three. Try five reps on each side., Lift one arm above your head with the elbow bent. Use the other arm to grab the elbow and gently pull it in that direction. Hold the stretch for a few seconds, and switch arms. Don't bend the arm too far., Yoga is a great way to increase your overall mobility, as it is basically just an intense form of stretching and moving.It will help increase your flexibility, too, decreasing your chances of injury, as tendonitis often results from having tight tissues.To prevent yoga injuries make sure you start your practice under the guidance of a qualified yoga instructor.
Consider joining a local yoga class. You can find them through your parks and recreation department or at local yoga studios.
 It's not good to jump into the highest level of a sport without building up your body first. Any time you want to start a new sport or intense exercise, it's best to start small and build up slowly over time.So you've decided you want to run a marathon. That's great. However, what you shouldn't do is try to run 10 miles tomorrow when you've been sitting on the couch for months. Start by working the muscles you need to run before you even starting running, then slowly increase how much you run day by day.
The same holds true for any sport. Work to build the muscles you need before you start the sport.
 Strength training should be an integral part of your week. Strengthening your muscles can help reduce the strain on your tendons. Work specifically on the muscles you use in your exercises and at your work.To build muscle, you can do things like use weights, use resistance machines, or do body weight exercises like lunges, squats, and push-ups.
When playing a particular sport, focus on exercises that will develop the muscles you need to use for that sport.
 You can develop tendonitis at work as easily as you can at the gym, particularly if you're doing the same thing over and over again. If you've been having pain, adjust your work space to better meet your needs. You may need to adjust the height of your chair or keyboard, for instance.A professional can help with this task. You can hire someone to do an ergonomic assessment of your work space to help you figure out what needs to be adjusted.

