 Kids are less likely to push your limits when you thoroughly outline your reasons for reducing screen time. Let them know that, in your family, you place a higher value on family bonding, physical activity, and positive sources of entertainment. When you make it less about the negatives and more about the positives of reducing screen time, your children are more likely to comply., Once you’ve described your family’s viewpoint on screen time, it’s important to develop a clear game plan. You won’t be able to enforce your plan if you simply say, “Okay, kids, everyone needs to cut back on screen time.” Instead, be specific on what they can and cannot do.


You might say, “Kids, we’re starting a new plan to cut down on how much screen time everyone gets—me and your mother included. On weekdays, you guys have homework and after-school activities, so we think an hour of screen time is appropriate. On weekends, you can have two hours per day.”You may also want to go over what types of TV shows and media are acceptable in your household. If you are unsure, read reviews beforehand. Even better, promote bonding by watching family-friendly shows and movies together.
 As the old saying goes, “out of sight, out of mind.” If TV isn’t in their face all the time, they won’t feel as tempted to watch it. Place TVs in only a few common rooms or tuck them away in cabinets until they need to be used.There are many interesting ways to “hide” the TV. You can find systems that slide behind artwork or are pulled down from slots in bookshelves or entertainment centers.
In the case of other screens, it may help to store them in a cabinet when they aren't in use so that they aren't always within eyesight.
 To help your children transition into less TV time, develop a ticket system that clearly defines the amount of time they have for TV each day. For example, each ticket (worth 30 minutes of screen time) might go into a jar with each child’s name on it. They might be allowed two tickets per day during the weekdays and four on weekends.You can even use tickets as a way to manage conduct. For instance, maybe only one child helps you unpack the groceries from the car, so they get an extra ticket to spend that week. However, if a child gets in trouble at school or fights with a sibling, they might lose a ticket.
 TVs aren't the only screens children watch. Your child may also access television shows, movies, and games on their tablets, laptops and smart phones. Be consistent by extending your rules to cover all screens, which means limiting how often your children can use these devices, too.

Make sure your children understand that these guidelines refer to other devices, such as tablets and phones.
Some kids may use other screens to help with homework or other educational activities. If you approve of this use for screen time, set up parental controls that block their access to other sites during these times. One such control is the application, Screen Time, which lets you manage how much time your kids spend on phones and tablets.