 Adrenal insufficiency, or Addison's disease, occurs when your body does not release enough cortisol.It is a rare, chronic condition with no cure; however, hormone treatment can be effective. Symptoms of adrenal insufficiency include:Extreme fatigue
Weight loss
Low blood pressure, which can lead to fainting
Low blood sugar
Reduced appetite and/or salt cravings
Nausea, diarrhea or vomiting
Abdominal pain
Muscle or joint pain
Irritability
Depression
Darkening of the skin

, Your doctor can perform tests to diagnose any issues with your adrenal gland. Some tests your doctor might run include:A blood test to measure levels of sodium, potassium, cortisol, and ACTH.
An ACTH stimulation test, in which the cortisol levels in your blood will be measured before and after an injection of synthetic ACTH. If your adrenal gland is damaged, there will be no change in your cortisol level.
CT scan to check the size of your adrenal gland.
 If your doctor finds that you have Addison's disease or another adrenal disease, follow your doctor's instructions for treatment. Adrenal insufficiency can be life-threatening if not treated, and can lead to an adrenal crisis.Take oral corticosteroids. Hydrocortisone, prednisone or cortisone acetate may be taken orally to replace cortisol.Take corticosteroid injections if you are ill or in case of emergency. If you are vomiting and cannot keep your medication down or if you experience an emergency like an adrenal crisis, you can inject yourself with corticosteroids.Keep extra medication with you. Forgetting your medication can have serious consequences. Keep an extra supply at work; in your purse, briefcase, or backpack; and in a travel bag or suitcase.Consider wearing a medical alert bracelet and carrying a medical alert card in your wallet. A severe drop in cortisol may cause you to faint or become unconscious; a medical alert bracelet can be extremely helpful to emergency workers. They will know precisely what kind of help you need., An adrenal crisis (or Addinsonian crisis) occurs when there is a sudden, critical drop in cortisol, causing acute adrenal failure. This usually occurs when the adrenal gland is damaged, most often by adrenal disease.An adrenal crisis must be treated immediately with an injection of hydrocortisone. If you notice any of the following symptoms, especially if you know you have Addison's disease, seek medical help immediately:Pain in your lower back, abdomen or legs
Fever
Severe vomiting and diarrhea, leading to dehydration
Low blood pressure
Loss of consciousness
High potassium (hyperkalemia) and low sodium (hyponatremia)
Shock (cold, moist skin; blue or pale extremities; hyperventilation; confusion)Weakness

