 Talk with your fiancée and consider your finances when making this decision. Estimate how much you can afford to reasonably spend on the entire wedding and reception. Once you have this overall amount, break down the costs into various categories, such as food or entertainment. Brunch weddings are generally more cost-effective than their evening counterparts.Estimates for brunch weddings range from $17 to $85 per person generally.
Make sure to negotiate for discounted rates with all of your vendors as you are not using what is considered a “prime” time slot.;
, Get out a journal or pad of paper and make a note of every wedding-related task that comes to mind. Include everything from the mundane, like pet feeding plans, to the complicated, such as choosing a caterer. If you like, organize these tasks according to time sensitivity and then check them off as they are completed.Look online for some great wedding planning lists to get you started. Use this as a jumping off point and then customize them to suit your particular needs.
 Choose a location that is within close driving, or even walking, distance from your wedding site. This will make it easier for your guests to move from one place to another. It is also possible to have both events take place in one location, especially in the case of a brunch wedding at a restaurant or at someone’s home., This is the standard window for a brunch wedding and gives you enough time for an early or mid-morning wedding followed by a reception. Keep in mind that a ceremony at 9 a.m. or 10 a.m. may require that you and your guests get up quite early, depending on the event details. You may also want to offer some light breakfast foods to keep your guests from getting too hungry between events.
Also, consider the travel time table of your guests. Those coming from out-of-town may need to get a hotel room or other lodgings for the night before. A Sunday or Saturday brunch can work particularly well for those persons who have to travel, but must be back at work on Monday., Talk with your fiancée, consider your budget, and the type of wedding that you would like to have. Write down the names of those persons who you would like to invite and consider their scheduling needs. Some people who work weekends may have to send their regrets, for example. However, people with children often find brunch weddings easier to attend.Send out invitations well in advance of your wedding and make note as you receive regrets.
When creating the guest list, give some thought to who you would like to include in your wedding party and what their tasks at the event might be.

