 When you have a fever, your metabolism increases and makes use of more water. The body tries to regulate the temperature inside you by making the stored water evaporate through sweat to cool you off. These two factors combined lead to dehydration. Thus drinking more than 10 glasses of water a day is recommended in order to replace the lost fluids.Water is definitely best, though sports drinks with electrolytes can be good, too. Stay away from sweetened juices, sodas, coffees, and caffeinated teas. These are just empty calories and sugar and can ultimately be dehydrating.;
, A viral illness is usually associated with weakness and a feeling that you do not want to get out of bed.This is a way the body tells us to get more rest and sleep – and you should listen. It is recommended to sleep at least 8 to 10 hours a day to aid your body in fighting infection for the first two weeks of glandular fever.During sleep, the immune system releases cytokines, a protein molecule that the cells of the immune system use to send signals between one another. When you have an infection or inflammation, certain cytokines increase.Cytokines usually help fight off infections by telling the immune system which specific viral cells it should be attacking., Heat up a cup of water in the microwave, add the salt, and stir it up so it completely dissolves. Gargle the entire solution over the course of the next few minutes to alleviate the symptoms of your sore throat.


This is a hypertonic solution (high in salt). These concoctions can aid in reducing inflammation by inhibiting inflammatory signals to the brain.This is not recommended for children as they can swallow the solution., Certain foods can create problems for your enlarged tonsils. Eat warm soups that will aid in soothing your throat and tonsils; you can add a squeeze of lemon, some soy sauce or even some milk or cream to improve the taste. Some soups, especially vegetable soups, can be put into the blender to make them smooth, creamy, and easier to swallow, too.


Warm drinks will give you immediate relief from your sore throat. They also keep your body warm, which aids in getting rid of the virus or bacteria. You can drink hot peppermint, ginger, cinnamon decaffeinated teas, hot lemon drunk alone or to be squeezed on tea, green tea, or anise. All these natural herbs and drinks can bring about improvement to your throat and tonsillitis symptoms as they all share anti-inflammatory and anti-septic effects.
 To reduce your fever, taking showers or having a nice bath can be helpful. However, this is a very temporary solution and won't affect the longevity of your symptoms in the long term.


Be careful if you sweat excessively from fever. Avoid going out in the cold air suddenly or sitting in front of the air conditioner; abrupt changes in temperature can lead to additional muscle aches, sore throat pain, runny nose and other common cold or flu signs. Instead, always keep yourself dry and clean, wear cotton clothes that can suck away all your sweat and prevent irritation.
 Using a home steamer (available in most supermarkets and drug stores), you can inhale steam through your nose or your mouth for about 10 to 15 minutes at a time, 4 to 5 times per day. The key is to take in deep breaths and then breathe out slowly. This will help to soothe and hydrate your throat as well as helping to dilate your blood vessels.


Dilation of blood vessels will help drugs act faster, as well as provide better oxygenation to all the tissues in your body which will indirectly help relieve your symptoms.
You might remember from your high school biology classes that blood transports oxygen around the body, and oxygen is vital for all the body's tissues and vital organs to work and function healthily.
 Immerse some clean bath towels or flannels in ice cold water, then squeeze out the excess water and apply the towels over the body (but not the face and neck) when you have a high fever.


Though you already feel very cold and might be shivering because of the fever, in reality, your body is doing the exact opposite, i.e. heating up!
Though this might cause discomfort, placing cold towels over the body will help speed up the process of bringing down the fever and will help to put you at ease and make you feel better.
 Glandular fever is transmitted through close and personal contact with people affected by the virus. It can be spread through saliva by kissing, which is why the infection is also referred to as the “kissing disease.” The virus can also be transmitted through airborne droplets by exposure to cough and sneezing, sharing of eating and drinking utensils and contact with the hands of the carriers. Here's what to keep in mind:


Never kiss or hug anyone while you’re infected with the virus.
Always keep adequate space between you and person in front of you while talking or working.
For spontaneous sneezing or coughing, always keep a tissue in your hand to cover your nose and mouth with and to be thrown immediately in the trash after using.
Never keep used tissues on your desk, in your pockets, bags or anywhere that anyone can touch to avoid spreading the virus on different surfaces.
Always wash your hands with certain medical soaps that contain antibacterial antiseptic agents to keep your hands clean while holding shared objects like pens, books, door handles, keys, money, etc.
Never share your cups, plates or anything you can eat or drink from at your work, school or home. Get rid of disposable utensils or put them in the sink to have a good wash.
Never share your personal things as towels, toothbrushes, or dental floss with others. They can easily carry infected saliva to others.
 Pain killers or analgesics help in reducing the sharpness of the pain and fever, especially in the first week of the symptoms. They will help you recover and be able to return to your simple daily activities. Paracetamol (Tylenol) is widely used for children and adults as it’s safe and available in many dosage forms. Naproxen and aspirin are also commonly used.


A dose of two tablets of 500 mg Paracetamol for adults is enough to be taken up to every six hours daily. It can be taken as regular tablets, acti-fast tablets like Panadol, or liquids according to the age of the patient.
These medications work by inhibiting the production of prostaglandin E2 which causes the cells in the hypothalamus (the part of the brain that regulates temperature) to fire at a rapid rate, therefore increasing the body’s temperature.These medicines also work by blocking specific body chemicals that send pain signals to the brain.
Aspirin is not recommended for children suffering from viral illnesses because it can lead to the development of Reye Syndrome, a rare disease that damages the brain and liver, that can be fatal.In addition, patients with hepatic failure should ask their doctor before taking certain painkillers, Paracetamol included.
 It’s considered a powerful antioxidant and immune stimulant agent. The normal dose for adults is 500 mg tablets to be taken twice daily. However, talk to your doctor to find out what dosage is right for you.


Some lozenges with vitamin C can be taken to ease the soreness of the throat, too. Lozenges such as Strepsils are available in many flavors such as lemon, orange, strawberry and menthol. They'll help in soothing your throat and locally fighting the infection.
 These can be used to fight glandular fever due to their analgesic, anti-pyretic (anti-fever) and anti-inflammatory effects. Common examples of NSAIDs are Diclofenac salts (Voltaren) and Ibuprofen (Brufen). Both are available in many dosage forms as tablets, effervescent sachets, and injections.


A dose of Voltaren 50 mg twice daily for adults can be helpful for treating glandular fever. Brufen is available in syrups for children, to be taken as one teaspoonful twice daily after meals.
NSAIDs have some side effects especially when it comes to gastrointestinal disorders, nausea, and gastric or peptic ulcers. Patients having hepatic or renal disorders or taking any blood thinning drugs like Warfarin should ask their doctor before taking these medications.
Aspirin acts as NSAIDs in inhibiting COX enzyme responsible for producing prostaglandin, which is contributed in the inflammation and fever process, and responsible for pain too, Aspirin is contraindicated in children below the age of eighteen to avoid the risk of developing Reye’s syndrome (affecting mainly the brain and liver).
 The virus can cause swelling of the tonsils that partially blocks the respiratory passage and leads to breathing difficulties. In such cases, a short course of oral steroid therapy can also be utilized to reduce the inflammation. The following common steroids are used:Corticosteroids. These work by blocking chemicals in the immune system that are in charge in the process of inflammation. Dosage is usually lowered as the condition improves since it can cause serious side effects.

Hydrocortisone. This is used to reduce the severity of swelling in joints and tendons. It can be in the form of cream, lotion or injections.

Prednisolone. This is used to treat autoimmune and allergic reactions. It is available in tablet, suppository and injection form.

Dexamethasone. This is used as an emergency medicine to control symptoms of serious conditions such as difficulty in breathing due to an allergic reaction. It is usually given in injection form.

Fludrocortisone. This is used to treat Addison’s disease.
 Glandular fever is caused by a virus. Antibiotics don’t work against viruses, but the complications can lead to the development of a secondary bacterial infection wherein antibiotics can be used to treat and prevent further damage to the body.


Wide spectrum antibiotics are mainly used, like Clavulanic acid and Amoxicillin (Augmentin). They're available as tablets or liquids and should be administrated according to the patient’s age. An adult dose of Augmentin is usually 1gm every 12 hours to be taken after meals.
Another type of antibiotics is Ciprofloxacin (Ciprobay), but its contraindicated in children below the age of 18. If prescribed, do not take it with any dairy products, multi vitamins or antacids, as it interferes with calcium and many minerals in them, leading to a decrease in Ciprofloxacin blood concentrations.
 This is a medical intervention that replaces lost fluids in the body by inserting a sterile needle into the vein, which is connected to a tube and fluid bottle. This is reserved for serious cases of dehydration.


If you have a fever, your increased body temperature also increases your metabolism. This means that all the biochemical reactions in the body needed to keep us alive start to speed up. In order for the body to do this, it needs both water and oxygen. We are able to breathe faster because the body supplies more oxygen. As you breathe faster, more moisture is expelled along with carbon dioxide. The body makes use of more water, thus resulting in dehydration.Also, if you have a fever, the increase in temperature causes you to sweat more because your body tries to regulate its temperature by making the stored water evaporate through sweat to cool you off. More sweat leads to dehydration.
 When EBV infects a person, it’s mainly located in the saliva. The virus can then be transmitted from one person to another through this route, even if the infected person doesn’t show any signs – the virus has an incubation period that can reach up to eight weeks. An EBV infection can be transmitted one of the following ways:



Kissing. Kissing and close contact can spread the EBV infection to a healthy person when they kiss an infected one. This is why glandular fever is sometimes called the “kissing disease."

Exposure to coughing and sneezing. These two actions get infected saliva on various surfaces, in your hands, or even directly on you if you're in close contact with an infected person.

Sharing personal things with others. This includes toothbrushes, towels, cups or kitchen utensils like plates, spoons or forks. All these things are used directly in the mouth or around the face. If used by an infected person, others are at high risk of developing the disease if they use them, too.
 Glandular fever symptoms can be uncomfortable, but in most cases are not a threat to your health. Symptoms of glandular fever usually develop one to two months after being infected by Epstein Barr virus. The symptoms include:



High grade fever (38°C or 100.4°F) or above. This symptom is usually felt for 10 to 14 days. Fever occurs as the body’s compensatory mechanism to infection.

Sore throat. If large amount of microorganisms are trapped in the throat, the tonsils will swell and become inflamed.This generally lasts for three to five days.

Swollen lymph nodes (Lymphadenopathy). These are in the neck and in some cases under the armpits and groins. Viruses, bacteria and other foreign bodies are trapped in the lymph nodes and are destroyed by lymphocytes which are special white blood cells. This causes the lymph nodes to swell.Severe fatigue and aching muscle pains. Extreme tiredness can last for several weeks up to six months. The common cause of temporary muscle fatigue and weakness is infection. The muscles become inflamed and pain receptors send pain signals to the brain whenever infection is present.Enlargement of the spleen (Splenomegaly). The spleen enlarges if it is asked to do excessive work in filtering or manufacturing blood cells, if there is abnormal blood flow to it, or if it is invaded with abnormal cells or deposits.Swelling of the liver. The infection can reach the liver causing it to swell and become inflamed due to the production of inflammatory chemicals of the body.

Jaundice. Yellow discoloration of the eyes and the skin may occur. If the liver fails to excrete bilirubin, which it can in cases of glandular fever, its level in the body will increase and this yellow pigment will contribute to yellow skin and yellow eyes.

Loss of appetite. Infection alters the normal eating habits of a person. When higher body temperatures occur, the enzyme’s function in your taste buds stop and therefore cannot send messages to the brain because they are able to work only in an environmental temperature of 77-98.6° F (25-37°C).Headache. Infection triggers the occurrence of headaches. Specific nerves of the blood vessels are activated and send pain signals to the brain. It’s not clear, however, why these signals are activated in the first place., A physical examination is the first step to diagnose a glandular fever. If your doctor suspects you have this ailment, they'll likely recommend a blood test known as the antibody test and a throat swab performed to eliminate the potential of a bacterial infection.


For pregnant women, tests to verify rubella and toxoplasmosis can be done to make sure that the health of the unborn baby is not at risk. The Epstein Barr virus can shorten the duration of the pregnancy leading to low average birth weight, length, and head circumference of the baby., Commonly, glandular fever is not a life threatening disease; however, in some instances serious conditions occur. Here's how it can affect you if left untreated:



Low white blood cell count. Low production of white blood cells makes a person more vulnerable to infection. And a low amount of platelets in the blood will contribute to abnormal bleeding and easy bruising.

Swelling or rupture of the spleen. A sudden, sharp abdominal pain can be an implication of a ruptured spleen. An enlargement of the spleen does not pose an immediate health problem but when the spleen bursts it is considered to be a life threatening emergency because it can cause severe internal bleeding.Neurological Complications. The Epstein Barr virus affects the nervous system and generates neurological complications such as Guillain-Barré syndrome, Bell's palsy, viral meningitis, and encephalitis.

Secondary infection. The infection causing glandular fever can spread to other parts of the body. Secondary infections cause pneumonia and pericarditis.

Breathing difficulties. Swelling of the tonsils can hinder good breathing.

Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). Glandular fever infection affects the nervous system, which leads to prolonged fatigue that can last for more than six months.

