 Perhaps the first and most important step in ending any negative influencing is to set household expectations of your children. This will include any rules and regulations that you might expect them to abide by when they are in your home. Children need a great deal of structure in order to understand appropriate behavior so give that to them by clarifying the rules.Set up a chore schedule for them so they know when and what they are required to do.
Set the same household rules for all children, but perhaps give a bit of flexibility for older children on bedtime and telephone use. You may have to explain to younger kids that privileges are gained with age and maturity – tell them that they can look forward to this flexibility some day, too.;
, In addition to having set rules in your home, you will need to make sure that your children are aware of these rules and have a standard of behavior to also follow for when they are out of the house. Set aside some time to have a family discussion of these rules. Write them down and have all of your children sign.Set rules for how they should behave at school as well, such as “no talking back to the teacher or talking in class.”
This will help ensure that your older children are being good influences both away from and while at home.
Discuss these rules from time to time. This will ensure the rules are ingrained, and will let you tweak things as the children grow and face new challenges.
 If the breaking of these rules has no consequences, your children will likely not take them very seriously. Communicate to them the punishments that will be enacted should they act out and enforce them even if your child is remorseful or you want to let them off the hook. Set punishments that are age appropriate and fit based on the wrong your child committed.For instance, grounding a 15 year old will have a different effect and is a more appropriate punishment than grounding a 6 year old.
Make sure to not show favoritism when one child acts out; this will foster negative relationships among siblings if they feel unfairly treated by parents.
Don’t enforce the rules while you’re emotional. Instead, wait a while and be sure that you feel calm and composed.
 You may feel that your older children are having a negative impact on your younger ones. However, the negativity could be coming from both parties. When you can, observe them quietly to see where the source of the negativity is coming from.


Don’t eavesdrop on them, however. Just listen casually. Don’t ascribe blame to your older children without fully understanding their dynamic.
Listen to both sides, too. Children need to feel heard and understood, and this will help you determine if some of their needs aren’t being met and if this is in some way fueling conflict.
Keep in mind that the more time an older sibling cares for a younger child, the more likely they are to influence behavior. For instance, if you’re worried about an older child’s impact on the younger, avoid using them as a baby sitter.
 In trying to assess and improve your children’s dynamic, you will need all of the support that you can get. Talk to your spouse, partner, or whomever their parent is to assist you in enforcing rules and setting boundaries. If the children feel that the rules are bent by one parent or caregiver, they will likely not respect the rules as a whole.


Avoid bickering or arguing with one another in front of the children. This will undermine your authority.
 Though it might seem awkward or sometimes frustrating to have very serious talks with your children, remember that it is your responsibility to steer them in the right direction. One tool that you can use to create a more comfortable and natural environment to chat is to use the scenes in TV and movies to spark conversation.For instance, if a scene depicts drinking or alcohol and your older child has encouraged your younger one to partake in that, you can show them the potential harm in a safe, non-judgemental way.
TV and movies often show the dangers of certain behaviors that your child may not have considered because they see their older siblings doing it.
You might start by saying “did you notice how badly drinking alcohol affected her life?”

, Though you certainly want the best for your child, avoid lecturing or preaching to them. Kids tend to blank out if they feel that a message is being constantly repeated to them or if it is told in a stressful or anxiety producing way. Avoid repeating yourself and being judgemental, as well.Instead, come to your children calmly and compassionately about issues. Speak to them peacefully without yelling.
 Talk to your younger children and explain to them the importance of being your own person. Though they undoubtedly look up to their older sibling, remind them that they are not perfect. Talk to them about their own personal strengths that you would like to see shine through more to counteract any negative influences, whether from their siblings or from others.Say “I know that you look up to your older brother but you must remember that sometimes he makes bad choices, choices that you don’t have to make. You are a very good person and I want to see more of that. Don’t let other people change you so much that you don’t recognize yourself.”
If you have siblings of your own, relate how you felt (and feel) about them. This goes for younger siblings, too. You can share with older children how your younger siblings interacted with you and perhaps emulated you.
 Talk to your children and impart wisdom to them, but make the conversation a truly mutual dialogue. Give them the space to talk and air their thoughts and concerns, as well. Make time to talk to both your younger and older children individually to assess any things going on that you might not be aware of.


Encourage your child to share their questions and concerns no matter how uncomfortable, and promise to listen without judgement. Watch your reactions at these times and be sure not to panic.
Avoid interrupting them, talking over them, or only listening to respond. Listen to understand them and their lives better.
 You may think that your older children are having a bad influence on your younger child, but if you look more closely, you might find that their friends are the true culprits. Take some time to get to your your children’s friends to see the kinds of influence they are having on them.Talk to your children about the importance of choosing good friends and how we often become like those around us.
Have them invite their friends over for dinner. You might also check out their friends’ social media accounts if they are public.
 Talk to your older children about the importance of their role in their sibling’s life. Tell them that even if they are not aware of it, they have a great influence and their younger sibling is watching them and modeling their behavior after them. Let them know of any changes you have seen in their younger siblings.


You might start the conversation by saying “Lately I’ve been noticing that your sister has been acting out, similarly to how you have been doing as well. You may not know, but she wants to be just like you. Keep in mind that you are her role model and work to be a positive one in her life.”
Be sure to say that good behavior rubs off just like bad behavior! It’s not just the poor choices that younger siblings will emulate.
 Encourage your children to talk to each other in healthy and positive ways. Have family dinners together and encourage conversations between the two. Monitor and correct any negative communication between the two, like insults, nagging, or snarkiness.Say things like “So did you see your sister’s play at school today? What did you think?”

, If you do not want your children to yell, insult, or be rude to one another, then do not display these behaviors to your children, your spouse, or to others outside of your household. Your children will not take you seriously if you are being hypocritical. Work to be the kind of person that you hope your children will be.


Show kindness to them, be respectful of others, and maintain your responsibilities.
 Encourage your children to spend positive and constructive time together. If your child asks you to help with their math homework, but their sibling is good at math, ask them to help instead.It’s important for siblings to have activities together – time that is “theirs” and something both look forward to.


You can also purchase tickets for them for a concert or for the movies.
Consider giving them an allowance per week for them to spend sibling time together.
You might also consider giving them a task and have them work together to complete it. This is an old and effective psychological tool for building rapports in relationships.
 Sometimes, your older children might be a negative influence because your household contains some negative influences. Eradicate any drug use, alcohol abuse, violent movies or games, and unnecessary loudness. Work to create peace in your home so that your siblings will feel more peace with each other.Often, this sort of behavior stems from conflict between parents. Parents should take a hard look at their own relationships with other adults in the house and be willing to seek help.
 Though it might be difficult, avoid making comparisons between your children or putting them down for not measuring up to the others. Don’t pit them against one another by making them feel competitive or inferior. Remember that all of your children are unique and are special in their own ways. Work on loving them for those.Make a list of all of the things that you love about your children individually.

