 You might be able to deal with a fear of loneliness by finding productive ways to spend your alone time. Instead of sitting and thinking about how lonely you feel, you might decide to clean out your hall closet, build that second bookshelf, or paint your bedroom.


You might even consider making a list of unfinished projects that you can pull out any time you are alone. This may help you to feel as though your alone time it an asset rather than a cause for despair.
 There are lots of different pampering activities you could do during your alone time, such as:


Taking a long bath.
Giving yourself a manicure or pedicure.
Enjoying a home facial.
Trying out a new hairstyle or makeup look.
Taking a nap.
 Your alone time can also be a great way to just do something that you enjoy doing or try something new, such as a favorite hobby or something you have always wanted to learn how to do. This might be something that you rarely get to do when you are with other people because you do not have the time or energy to concentrate on it.


For example, if you enjoy reading, then you could use your alone time to start a new book. If you like to play an instrument, then you can use the time to practice and compose. If you are fond of cycling, then you can go for a long ride.
Choose something that will help to satisfy a creative urge or that you think will help to give your life meaning. Try to avoid filling your time with mindless activities, such as watching TV., Some activities you might try include:


Journaling. Using some of your alone time to write in a journal may help you to get in touch with your inner self and identify what you think would make you happy. You can write about personal goals, professional interests, spiritual ideas, or just things that interest you. Or you can try using a prompt, such as answering the question “Who am I now?” or consider what you might be like at the age of 99 and write an imaginary conversation with yourself.Meditating. Meditation is an excellent way to quiet your mind and get in touch with your inner self. Try starting out with a short five to 10 minute meditation and work up to meditating for longer periods of time.

