 Children in the preschool age group (ages three to six) are typically not yet ready for real and lasting friendships and may still be learning to deal with others outside of their family. For children who have little real socialization outside of the sibling group, the preschool experience can be trying because they have to adjust to so many different skill sets at once.


At this age, children do not generally think of others in terms of what they want and are typically selfish but in a non-malicious way. Friends are basically defined as the person that is currently there, playing with them.;
, Of course, it is important to stop the behavior and that may mean some consequences, but it is equally important to understand the underlying causes of the bullying behaviors so that they can be dealt with and the problem corrected. This means talking to your child to find out why he feels the need to bully others.


Ways to talk to your child about this topic will be discussed in the following steps.
 Talking to your child about the feelings of others is important and should begin before the first day of school. Using reflective language allows the child to learn without feeling like he is in trouble. It is also important to use the words the child will understand.Saying that being mean “hurt Janey’s feelings” is more effective than talking about Janey’s self-esteem. Be careful that you are not using an accusatory tone.
 Asking ‘why questions’ may also be helpful and may allow your child to explain his own version of the events and give his reasoning for why he acted out.


For example, ask your child “Why did you pull on Janey’s hair?” or “Why did you use mean language yesterday?”.
 You might ask a child who is possibly engaging in bullying how he would feel if someone did the same thing to him. Let him act out that scenario. This question, which sounds simple and straightforward, may be the right push that your child needs to reveal that he has been the victim of bullying in the past, which explains his own bullying behavior now.


Take your child to apologize. Preschoolers often simply need to be explained to that something is bad, and then they will try to avoid it in the future. If you have helped your child to see that his actions hurt another child, he will most likely be open to apologizing. Preschool children tend to be able to forgive and forget much more readily than their older peers.
 Talk to your child’s teachers about dropping in at school during play time or during some other group activity. You could also volunteer to help on any projects that the kids are assigned; this will allow you to observe the situation better. Doing this can help you to see how your child interacts with other children.You could also have your child’s classmates over at your home or at an outing like a picnic. These outings or get-togethers will encourage mingling and if you do observe any bullying behaviour, you can address it right then and there.
 If you are there to witness your child being a bully towards someone else, step in and correct your child’s behavior. This does not mean yelling at your child, as this will teach him that yelling is ok. Instead, calmly tell him what he did wrong, focusing on his actions rather than his character, and then ask him to apologize.


For example, if your child takes away a toy that another child is playing with, simply talk him into returning the toy to the child. Making a proper and sincere apology can also be a good way to correct any instance of bullying.
 If your child’s teacher is the one who initiates the contact to inform you about any bullying behaviour, try to stay calm and to get as many details as possible about the incident. Ask for information about:


The name of the child or children that were bullied.
Where the incident occurred (whether it happened inside the classroom or during play time).
The type of behaviour that was exhibited.
 If your child refuses to stop bullying others, you may want to consider bringing him to a child psychologist who can help him to work through his anger and aggression. The psychologist will also give your child suggestions for what he can do to overcome his desire to bully others.


Remember that this counseling should not feel like a punishment and should not be treated like there is something “wrong” with your child. Above all, bullying is only improved and dealt with through love and understanding.
 Some children simply are not ready for preschool at the same time as other children. Meeting so many new people can be overwhelming, which can lead to your child acting out aggressively. If your child is having a hard time overcoming his bullying behaviors, consider taking him out of school and waiting another year before enrolling him in preschool again. He may simply need some time to get used to being around many people.


After you have dropped enrollment, work with your child to hone his social skills. Spend time talking about other people’s feelings and how your child can affect them, set up playdates for your child, and bring him on public outings.

