 First, you will need to decide how you plan on getting to Istanbul. For most people, this will mean taking an airplane. There are many great websites that allow you check for flights and compare prices, that way you can save on the price of your ticket and have more money to spend in the city!


Use the internet and explore anything you need to know about Istanbul such as Maps, Currency, Hotels, Restaurant, and more. While you are researching the fundamentals about Istanbul you should also have a look at what the city has to offer in terms of entertainment and tourism.
After you have finished researching the city, make a list of the things that you really want to do in Istanbul when you get there, and then come up with a timetable for your activities. This is known as an itinerary. An itinerary can help you plan and organize all of the things that you would like to do on your trip so that you can make the most of your time. Just make sure to budget a little bit of extra time in between your scheduled activities to allow for traffic.
Know how much it will cost to travel to Istanbul, and how much money you will need to spend on the various activities that you listed in the previous steps. Airplane tickets, accommodation, food, transportation in and around the city--all of these things add up quickly so you will need to come up with a budget for yourself. Don't forget that many museums and art galleries charge a small fee so depending on what you would like to see while in Istanbul, you many need to factor these fees into your budget. Add up the amount that you believe you will spend while in the city and even a little extra, just in case. If you already have enough money to cover the total that you have calculated, then you are ready to go!
Try to learn a bit of the language beforehand to make sure that you understand at least a few key words and phrases, and if you can, bring a language book with you so that you can make yourself understood when you need to.;
, Check in with them often to let them know that you are okay. And send pictures! Everyone loves getting pictures of beautiful foreign places like Istanbul.


Make a list of all the things that you want to bring with you, and tick off each item once you have packed it up.
If you are travelling with companions, make sure that they have enough money to cover their own expenses. It would be a good idea to discuss your budget with them, and vice versa. That way, everyone is on the same page where money is concerned, and no one in the group is left out of all the fun activities that you have planned.



Make sure you go to sleep earlier the night before your flight, and set an alarm early. For international flights, you have to be at the airport 2-3 hours before your flight takes off so make sure that you factor this time in.
Make sure your travel companions wake up too! That way no one misses the flight.

