 Stress is a major killer of willpower. When we're overworked and frustrated, we succumb to behaviors we'd rather work against. By developing good personal habits, we're more likely to stay on track when stressed.


Incorporate certain activities, like working out and studying, into your daily routine. This can help combat stress. If activities that take willpower are seen as a necessary part of day-to-day life, like brushing one's teeth at night, you're less likely to shirk on those duties when stressed.Also, people with good habits are less affected by stress. Regular exercise, a healthy diet, and a solid sleep schedule can all help lessen how much stressful life events affect you., Procrastination can kill willpower. Putting off duties that are seen as a burden makes us more likely to not do them at all. Avoid procrastination as much as you can if you want to ramp up your willpower.


Procrastination is often rooted in perfectionism. People tend to put things off as they're stressed out about not doing them perfectly. Understand delaying work does not actually reduce this stress and can actually heighten it. You're better off just getting to work despite reservations than ruminating over the task at hand., Journaling can help increase willpower as you can see a log of your progress. Setbacks will feel less harsh when you can look at them in comparison to your achievements. Say you gained five pounds over the holidays. Look back at your journaling from when you started your weight loss journey to remember how far you've come., No one can do everything. If you want to sustain your willpower, seek out support from others.


Certain specific tasks, like quitting drinking or smoking, have support groups at hospitals and community centers that can help.
Talk to your friends and family members about what you're trying to accomplish. Ask them to support you along the way. If you're trying to cut back on drinking, for example, ask that your family members not drink in front of you.

