 Laker Girls are expected to have at least 8 years of dancing experience. While this is not a requirement, it is recommended by organizers.Try ballet, jazz, modern, and hip hop dance classes. Your dance routines during the Laker Girls audition could include any of these types of dance, so you should know the basic moves in each of these styles.;
, You need to be in good shape to be a Laker Girl, so daily cardio workouts are necessary to maintain your physical stamina and body shape. Spend at least thirty minutes a day doing an activity like running, kickboxing, swimming, or any type of upbeat dance.Try a special workout class like barre, which combines aspects of ballet, yoga, and pilates for a full-body, high-energy workout.
 Don’t starve yourself. Your body needs some fats and carbs to have the energy to perform, so don’t cut these things out of your diet entirely. Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, but also eat protein like turkey sausage, grilled chicken, and eggs.Make protein smoothies by mixing greek yogurt, your favorite fruit, some spinach or kale, a scoop of protein powder, and some ice.
Give your metabolism a boost by eating five small meals or snacks a day rather than 2-3 large meals. Healthy snack ideas include veggies and hummus, hard-boiled eggs, almonds, and greek yogurt.
 If you make it past the first few rounds of cuts, you’ll perform a solo for the judges. Have this choreography ready and polished before you arrive. If you’re having trouble coming up with something, listen to several songs and pick the one that inspires you the most. Then just dance along to it several times, letting the music move you. After awhile, you’ll begin to associate certain movements with certain parts of the music.Keep your dance choreography down to a few minutes at most. Try to blend dance styles to show that you’re versatile. Include leaps and turns to show off your skills, and try to make it fun and upbeat to match the type of dancing the Laker Girls normally do.
 You’ll be taught your first routine in the span of about five minutes, and then you’ll only have a few minutes to practice before performing for the judges. Practice this quick turnaround time by attending advanced dance classes, where this technique is common. Or have a friend make up some choreography and teach it to you in five minutes, then perform it for them a few minutes later., Laker Girls know all kinds of dance styles, but most of what you’ll see them do is upbeat jazz. They may perform complicated footwork with quick transitions, leaps, and pirouettes. Watch videos of them performing on Youtube or on the Lakers’ website so you can become familiar with their particular style of dance., Many girls wear soft dance shoes from brands like Capezio or Bloch. But you can also just wear a regular athletic shoe as long as you feel comfortable dancing in it. The only rule is that the shoes have non-marking soles on the bottom.Opt for a tan-colored dance shoe to make your leg line appear longer.
 Make sure the judges can see your body as you move through the dance routines. You can wear a crop top with sleeves if you’re not comfortable wearing a bikini top, but this is not an environment for modesty. Most girls will be wearing bikini tops or sports bras.Look for a bikini top from a place like Victoria’s Secret, where you’ll find colorful padded tops that offer lift and support. Just make sure you can dance and jump around without anything coming loose.
 You can visit a dance store and buy dance briefs, which are just tight, spandex shorts. Or buy swimsuit bottoms that match the top you’ve chosen. Opt for the boy-short design so they look more like shorts than underwear.If you want extra coverage on your legs, you can wear nude tights under your dance briefs., Your dancing ability is the most important part of your audition, but with so many other good dancers out there, you need to find other ways to stand out. Many girls will be wearing black dance shorts, so opt for an outfit with lots of color. Pick a pink, purple, or turquoise bikini, and add sequins or rhinestones to make it sparkle., Your instinct may be to pull your hair back into a tight ponytail or bun, but you want to show off a little bit of sex appeal. Wear your hair down and style it with large, loose curls. Wear eyeliner, eyeshadow, mascara, and red lipstick to make your features pop when you’re out on the floor.Wear jewelry if you’d like to, but be sure it won’t fly off or get in your face while you’re dancing.
Practice dancing with your hair down to get used to how it feels before auditions begin.
 Laker Girls are required to be at least 18 years old at the time of auditions. While there is no maximum age, most Laker Girls are in their late teens and early twenties. Bring a photo ID to prove that you’re 18 or older., Include all of your dance experience on your resume as well as past employment and performance credits. Education is relevant is you’re attending (or already attended) a well-known performance school like Juilliard or the School of American Ballet. Include experiences like being a dance extra in a music video or a commercial.
 You may be disqualified from auditioning if you don’t have a photo with you, so bring a couple copies just in case.Consider hiring a professional photographer to take your headshot. Avoid just taking a selfie and printing that off to give them; it doesn’t look nearly as professional to the judges., Tryouts are held at the Toyota Sports Center on Nash Street in El Segundo, California every year in early July. Visit the Lakers website for the most recent information., Registration begins promptly at 9:00 a.m. There are hundreds of women who show up to audition, so get there an hour or two before 9:00 to get in line., The girls all move onto the gym floor after registration, and you’ll have some time to stretch before things get started. Change into your dance shoes and practice some turns and leaps. Practice your splits to get a good stretch in your legs., You will be required to learn a short routine quickly and perform it for the judges. Pay attention to what the instructor is saying and showing you. This will typically only take five minutes, and then you’ll get some time to practice. Run through the routine several times by yourself, and ask other girls around you if you have any questions., There are hundreds of girls there for the first round, so you’ll be performing the first routine in large groups. If you make the first cut, you’ll learn a harder routine and repeat this process a couple more times.Do your best during these audition dances. If you make a mistake, keep going and keep smiling. Making an error doesn’t necessarily mean you’ll be cut, as long as the judges still see your skill and energy.
 Toward the end of the day, when the pool of girls has been greatly reduced, the judges will ask you to introduce yourself and perform a solo. Tell them a little bit about yourself – your background, interests, and where you’re from. Then perform a dance that you choreographed yourself., Interviews will typically take place 2-3 days after the dance auditions. This is the final step toward becoming a Laker Girl. Since you’ll be representing the franchise at community events, the judges want to be sure you’re well-spoken, intelligent, energetic, and can carry a conversation. Be prepared to tell them why you want to be a Laker Girl.Leave the bikini at home for this part. Wear a dress that’s pretty and charming, but also hints at a little bit of sex appeal. A cocktail dress will typically work for this.Avoid generic answers like, “I love to dance,” since they already know that. Instead, talk about what you love about the Lakers or why this team and city appeals to you more than any other., Remember that they’re looking for more than just a good dancer – you need to be a brand ambassador. Be sure to smile and stay positive, enthusiastic, and friendly.