 Ludibrium is a Lego-like community with two towers, Eos to the left and Helios to the right. From Victoria Island, you board a ship to Orbis from Ellinia. The ship leaves every 15 minutes, on the quarter hour. When you get to Orbis, you board a ship to Ludibrium by going right from the map you landed in. If you are an experienced mapler, you can get to Ludibrium by way of Aqua Road and Korean Folk Town, but unless you don't think you are, stick to the ships.
 Once you land in Ludibrium, walk left and you will find yourself in a huge town map. Keep walking left (3 maps) until you find yourself in a map called "Eos Tower-100th Floor." At this point, head up and press up at the large oak doors. There are two sets-one when you walk in and one at the top of the map. You want the ones at the top., When you walk in to a map called "Eos Tower-Floor 101," advertise you are requesting a party by saying "J>PQ" in channel one, where people generally recruit for the party quest. It may take a while for you to be accepted, and you may be expelled a few times, but if you keep a good attitude about it and don't give up, you will eventually get into a party. When you have joined a party, ask which channel you should change to. If they don't answer, wait until you have a party of 6 and ask again or check where the other party members have gone., When you have found a channel, ask for a track. If they say they don't have one, ask if they have AC or if they are surfing. AC is automatic clicker, and it means that you cannot leave the map but you can be "afk" (away from keyboard). If you are surfing make sure you change channels quickly when they tell you to. If you DO have a track, tell the leader when it is the eighth stage, the "Crack on the wall," and the bonus. The leader should start clicking at the bonus, or at the "Crack on the wall"., When your leader gets in, you will be moved to stage 1. In this stage, you kill the rats and dark rats, as they will drop passes for you to give to your leader. If your party is a smuggle party, you will do this stage 3 times, but you will skip stages 2,4,5,and sometimes 7. If not, your party leader will clear the stage. DO NOT go into stage 2 until someone says you can., Once you have completed Stage 1, do not enter the portal and go to Stage 2. One person must volunteer to go in while the rest stay behind. The person who goes in will need to hit the second box down and will be transported to a separate map. He will then say "clear" in party chat which means the rest of the party can enter the stage safely. Stage 2 is about boxes. Poke the boxes with your basic attack button (assassins and archers can bend down and poke to conserve arrows/stars). The boxes drop passes; give them to your leader and wait for him/her to clear the stage., In stage 3, you are killing "Octopus"es. Poke the boxes and they will come out. Boxes are found both above and below your starting point, so it is advisable for some people to "take up" and some people to go down. When you are done, give the passes to your leader and wait for the stage to be cleared., In stage 4, you have to go through one of the portals you see. Before entering a portal, drop a worthless item or 10 mesos. This is called "marking" a portal and it causes others to keep from entering your portal. The top and bottom portals are not really portals. After that, the first 3 are for magicians and the last 2 are for physical-attackers. Although you can technically do any portal you want, it is easier if you stick to your class-portal as you will do more damage. The second-to last one has 2 monsters. Inside the portal, it is pitch black and you can only see/attack the monster when its eyes are open. When you have killed it, get the pass and go up to the top. When your leader gets to the top, give him/her your pass(es) and wait for the stage to clear., Stage 5 is another portal stage. Mark a portal and go in. If you are the only thief with dark sight in your party, put it on and head down. You must never touch the monsters in this stage as they will one-hit kill you. You may do so if you are an HP Warrior (puts points into HP to utilize Power Guard) with the leader's permission, however. If you are a magician with teleport, head to the very top and enter the portal to find the passes. In any case, when you are in a portal, you must poke the boxes and get the passes. Each portal has 4 passes. Then head back to where you came into the stage and give the passes to the leader, and wait for the stage to be cleared., In stage 6, there are numbered boxes. Each box is a portal back to the beginning of the stage or a passage to the next ledge. You must press up on the boxes in this order: 133 221 333 123 111. When you get to the top, go through the portal., In stage 7, if you are an assassin or an archer, kill the monsters at the top one at a time, then jump down and help kill the Rombot that was summoned. You do this 3 times. When all 3 Rombots have been killed, the leader will collect the 3 passes and clear the stage., Stage 8 is confusing if your party is uncooperative. Your party only needs 5 to do this stage, so one person will have to "sit out." Basically, there are eight numbered boxes, and you must try to figure out the correct combination of numbers by standing on the corresponding boxes. You start with the combination 1-2-3-4-5, and then the person standing on box 5 moves to box 6, and so forth, until you have found the correct combination. There is another method to do this as well, called "KMS" because Korean MapleStory is where the method originated. Once your party reaches 1-3-4-5, the person standing on box 1 will also try box 2 as well as going in ascending order. For example, with KMS, you will try the combinations in this order: 1345, 2345, 1346, 2346, 1347, and so forth., Your leader may decide to exit at this point. If not, wait for Alishar, the boss, to be summoned. If you are an archer or an assassin, summon the boss by killing the rat. Alishar can steal your skills and cast weakness, which causes you to become unable to jump, so watch out. Bringing holy waters and eye drops may be a good idea. When Alishar's HP is lowered to a certain point, he will summon monsters as well. When he is dead, the leader will pick up the keys and clear the stage, at which point you will be moved into the bonus stage., In the bonus stage, you have 61 seconds to poke the boxes and pick up the mesos and other goodies that come out of them. At the end of the bonus, you will be moved to the prize collection stage., In the prize collection stage, go to the top and click on the NPC to get your prize. When you get it you will be moved back to Eos Floor 101.