 Whenever changing any piercing start by washing your hands. You don't want bacteria or infections getting into a piercing. Wash the area around your nose stud, whether you have a stud in or not. Also wash the nose stud itself.


It is really important to clean the piece of metal that you are sticking into your body. Germs on the stud could transfer straight to your nose, so make sure the stud is clean.
It's a good idea to use a saline solution or a mild antiseptic solution to make sure the area is really clean but you can use hydrogen peroxide or plain soap too. Either way, make sure that the cleaner is washed off and the stud is dry before inserting it.
 A hoop-style stud is a simple piece of wire that has been shaped into a circle, with a small gap between the ends of the wire. To insert it you will slip the opening in the hoop over your nostril, taking one of the ends of the hoop and putting it in your nose. The goal is to put the end of the wire that is in your nose through the piercing, going from inside out. This may take a little bit of feeling around with the ring but you should be able to push it through the hole, making sure to be gentle and that the stud is going straight through to the other side of the hole. Gently rotate the ring through your piercing until the opening of the circle is at the bottom of your nose.


There are several styles of hoop nose studs, ones that close the gap with a bead and ones that have a ball at one end of the gap that keeps the hoop in your nose. Either way, inserting and removing the hoop is similar.
If you have a bead attachment, this is when you will pop it into place between the two ends of the ring. If you have the other style, just simply keep rotating your nose hoop until the ball at the end is up against the inside of your nose.
 With a hoop nose stud this should be obvious. If it is comfortable and feels secure then you have done it right.
 Taking the stud out of your nose is as simple as moving the ring around until the end of the hoop comes out of the piercing, and then sliding it down and out of your nose. Allow the stud to move naturally as it comes out. No need to force it, this will only end up hurting.


Like when you put the stud in, remember to have clean hands and a clean area around the nose stud!
When purchasing a hoop nose stud, remember that the diameter of the hoop needs to be at lease as long as the distance between your nose piercing and the bottom of your nostril, so that it will fit easily around your nostril.

