 You might know it's a show about mermaids, but what is it really about? How many people become mermaids? How do they become mermaids? Where did it happen (in a lake, pool, etc)? What problems do they face? Once you answer these questions, it will be easier to develop the concept and begin writing the script.


Watch mermaid shows on YouTube. See what other people have made for their shows. Think about what they are doing that's good and what is not good. Be inspired to create an original version for YouTube, not a copy.
Try not to copy other shows too much, or people will not like the show. Be original! Think what would happen to mermaids who didn't turn into mermaids, they turned into humans and joined the real world, for example. There are so many mermaid shows on YouTube, try to make show stand out and be different from the others! Don't worry, just think outside of the box!
It would be smart to set up a camera or audio camera while your brainstorming, so that if you forget something you wanted to put in your script, you can just go back and watch what you said.;
, Depending on what type of mermaid show it is or the color of your mermaid tail or where the setting is, etc. Let's say your mermaid show is about you and your best friend turning into mermaids, and your tail is Aqua! You could name your show Aqua Tails! Or let's say you and your two best friends move to California and you turn into mermaids, so your mermaid show name could be Mermaids of California. Make it unique!

, Don't freak out and run away just yet, writing the script is really simple. First you'll want to have a brainstorm session with yourself about how you want the video to go. Find somewhere quiet. Now all you have to do is imagine how the episode will go and say it out loud. Then you can write the script once you have the idea in your mind. Break it up into scenes and go easy on yourself. Don't stress about writing the script.


For the first episode, reveal each character's personality. Show how they became mermaids in this episode.
For the second episode, show how they adjust.
For episodes 3 onward, just show the mermaid adventures that they have and maybe introduce more characters.
 Be creative and make sure it goes smoothly and make sure it makes sense!

, Your actors might use their real names, like let's say you hire Chloe to be your actor. Well, if she's a mermaid, she might use her real name of Chloe. If you don't want actors to use their real names, tell them what their name will be. Or you can let them decide so that they feel more connected with the character.


Maybe Aqua or River, or maybe even Misty! You could use Ocean or Oceana, or maybe Celeste or Ria. Choose mermaid names or people names.
Don't use your full name online. Just stay safe.
 Will you record in your house, your neighborhood, your pool, the beach, maybe your friends house, where? List it down on paper to make sure you get all your scenes.


When filming your video, be sure not to get things like a street sign or your address in the shot. You don't want random people knowing where you live.
 Pick your actors wisely. Don't just choose your best friend because she's your friend. She might not know how to remember the script or she might say the lines awkwardly, like a robot. You want it to be like a real TV show, don't you? Choose people who won't make fun of you for making a show about mermaids. Choose people who can say their lines without looking fake, or else you will get bad comments on each episode! Pick people you think would be able to play each part well.


If your best friend hates water, you shouldn't pick her to become a mermaid because it involves a lot of swimming.
 You can't be a mermaid without a tail, right? You can make one (a How-To on Mermaid Tails is in the video) or you can buy one online. Making one is cheaper but will be more work, but if you're willing to do anything for your show you should make one.
 Practice swimming, practice acting, practice the script. Get ready for filming.
 HD is the best choice. Make sure you know how to work the camera. Decide if you will get an underwater camera. Maybe you will only record from above the water. Choose.


Get an underwater or at least a waterproof camera.
 Make sure that if you have someone hold the camera that they aren't shaking it too much, or else it will be hard for the viewers of your show to understand what's going on. Stand it somewhere where you can see yourself and your actors.


If there is an accident like a person walking in and talking to you while your recording, delete the video and start all over! It sucks, I know, but it's the only way to make the video perfect!

, Write the title of the show, the number of the episode, and the name of the episode when your make your title for the video. For example: Mermaids Of California~Episode 1~The Full Moon


Be sure to use the tags! If you tag it as #mermaids, whenever someone does a YouTube search for mermaids, it will show up!

, Don't go all the way up to Episode 69! Make different seasons. After you're done with ten episodes, make episode eleven like this: Mermaids Of California~Season 2~Episode 1~Lovely Waters


When making a new season, it's a good idea to do a season finale for the one your finishing. A season finale is a really special episode at the end of the season. It's usually really dramatic and awesome.

