 If you want to donate to a specific charity, you can start a fundraising program through one of the larger websites listed above. There are other websites, such as FundingFactory, that allow you to set up a fundraiser for an organization that collects cartridges.


FundingFactory is an organization where you can register your organization for free. You can set up an account on behalf of an organization by providing basic information about this organization, as well as contact information. You can then donate cartridges to that organization through FundingFactory and encourage others to do the same. If there's a local organization you believe would benefit, volunteer to start a FundingFactory page for them.The eRecycle Group is an online organization that provides money for empty cartridges. Various non-profits, schools, and other organizations can register for eRecycle and have members send in their cartridges. Cash from donations will be allotted to your organization. You can register your organization for free on the eRecycle website by giving basic contact information. From there, you will be given access to an online account where you can print shipping labels. These labels are used to send boxes of donated cartridges to the eRecycle Group's headquarters. Within a few weeks, you'll receive a check for your organization., If you work in a business and notice you produce a lot of empty cartridges, you can start a program to donate these cartridges to charity. Cartridges for Kids allows your business to register with their program, after which you'll be sent free shipping boxes. You can send your empty cartridges to Cartridges for Kids, and the money made will be donated to schools and non-profits working with Cartridges for Kids.Most companies that promote recycling for charity are willing to work with businesses. Try calling or e-mailing some of the above charities and see if you can set up a donation system with your business.
You can also simply ask your business to have a collections box for empty cartridges. You can take the initiative to get cash back for these cartridges, working with a local recycling center or one of the above organizations. You and your co-workers can then mutually decide on a charity you should donate that money to.
 If you want to donate to a local charity, do your research. Spend some time visiting non-profits and charities in your area. Browse websites and talk to members of these organizations. Try to find a charity that matches your values.


If you want, you can simply get cash back for your cartridges and pass that cash back to your chosen charity. However, you can also volunteer to set up an online program through one of the above organizations. This can streamline the donation process, and may help raise more money overall.
 Keep an eye out on recycling drives run by local schools and non-profits. As more and more people are realizing toner and ink cartridges can be recycled for money, many fundraising drives take ink and toner cartridges as donations. You may see donation boxes asking for recyclables, including cartridges, at local schools, churches, and community centers. This can be a quick and efficient way to dispose of cartridges while helping a worthy cause.

