 Burberry makes scarves for both men and women. You can pick any scarf from either line regardless of your gender, but keep in mind that the size, patterns, and materials used for women's scarves are easier to pair with most women's clothing, while those used for men's scarves are easier to pair with most men's clothing.


Women's scarves are available in rectangular and square styles. There are also poncho and wrap style scarves, as well as short fur collars. “Heritage” style scarves tend to present subdued, classic looks.
Men's scarves are also available in rectangular and square styles. There are also long blanket style scarves, as well as "heritage" style scarves, which tend to have a more classic appearance, just as they do in the women's line.;
, There is no single material used for Burberry scarves. Some are softer and more elegant, while others are a little more durable. The type of material you choose can change the overall tone of your ensemble.


Women's scarves come in cashmere, silk, and fur. There are also blends that combine one or more of these materials with other materials, like wool, linen, or cotton.
Men's scarves come in cashmere, wool, linen, cotton and silk.
Note that light, flowing materials like cashmere and silk tend to create a more elegant appearance. Fur is also a luxurious material. Wool, linen, cotton, and their blends still have chic and class, but they do tend to look a little less formal and may seem more versatile.
 The color and print will also change the tone of your ensemble. Classic prints are usually easier to pair with other clothes, but statement prints can add greater flair and personality to your look.


The checkered pattern is one of the most classic prints for both men and women. It can be found in range of colors, including everything from bold reds to neutral tans.You can also find solid prints, especially if you look in the heritage scarf collection.
Other patterns you might find can include abstract combinations of straight and curved lines, ruffles, large florals, vines, leaves, tropical florals, map prints, color blocks, and geometric shapes.
 Cooler weather is scarf weather. A Burberry scarf is best matched with clothes you would wear in cooler weather, like jackets and sweaters. As such, this wardrobe addition will usually see the most action during autumn and winter, with a few appearances in the spring, as well.


When wearing a coat or jacket, opt for a more stylish variety than a casual type. Trench coats, pea coats, leather jackets, blazers, and sports jackets are all fair game. A Burberry scarf, with all its class, tends to look better with styles like these than with fluffy down ski coats, though.
You can wear a Burberry scarf without donning a coat or jacket, but keep in mind that your outfit should still look appropriate for cooler weather. You can work with both short and long sleeves, but long pants or long leggings typically work better visually than shorts, capri pants, or short skirts.
 Since most Burberry scarves have a luxurious appearance and an interesting print, it generally works best if you avoid wearing other prints or accessories that might compete for attention. When too many separate components of an outfit stand out, they can clash.


Wearing a bold print scarf with a bold print blouse, for instance, might create an ensemble that is far too busy to please the average eye.
Similarly, your accessories should work with the scarf, not against it. A simple yet stylish hat will usually work great, as will a classy pair of bootsIf you opt for jewelry, position the bling away from your scarf. Bracelets and rings work better than earrings, but earrings still work better than necklaces.
 Tuck the scarf beneath a coat or jacket, hiding most of it underneath the other piece. If the color or print of the scarf stands out well enough, you can add a chic yet subtle bit of flair to otherwise drab-colored outerwear.


The way you wear your jacket and the way you tie your scarf can change the nature of this highlight. On days when you feel like leaving your jacket open, tie your scarf in a way that allows the ends to drape down over your front, thereby allowing more of the pattern to show through. On chillier days when you need to keep your coat buttoned up, tie your scarf in a way that keeps the majority of material at the neck.
 Even though it's best to avoid wearing a bold Burberry scarf with other bold prints, there are ways for you to mix patterns to create greater visual interest. Typically, it can be done if one or both patterns are somewhat subdued.


Pinstripes are a famously subtle pattern and can be paired with other patterns more easily than most. Consider wearing a pinstripe shirt or jacket with a classic checkered Burberry scarf.If you're feeling a little bolder, you could even throw on a floral print scarf with your pinstriped jacket.
 Burberry scarves made from luxurious materials like cashmere and silk are easy to wear without outerwear. When you choose to wear your scarf in this manner, make sure to coordinate the colors and patterns with those of your entire outfit.


Cashmere and silk scarves are easy to pair with business attire or chic daytime weekend wear.
You can match casual materials, like linen and wool blends, with your outfit in a similar manner, but they tend to work best with outfits that are well arranged yet still fairly casual. A sweater paired with dark jeans might work well for these varieties, for example.
 Another way to create visual interest when wearing a Burberry scarf is to pair together different materials with different textures. To prevent the ensemble from looking too loud or outrageous, though, it is best to do this when you are working with solids or subtle prints.


For instance, try wearing a smooth cashmere scarf with a stiff wool coat, or a wool blend scarf with a cashmere sweater.
You can also mix masculine and feminine elements. Try throwing a silk or cashmere scarf over a leather jacket., You can wear a Burberry scarf with a dressy outfit, but you can also wear one with a fairly casual—yet well put together—outfit. In fact, the same scarf will usually work with both types of apparel.


If you have a black checkered Burberry scarf, you can wear it with a pea coat and pinstripe dress pants one day, then wear it with a fitted t-shirt and black jeans the next day.The day after that, you could wear it over a sweater with skinny blue jeans.
 When done, the ends should appear very short or should not appear at all.


Drape the center of the scarf around the front of your neck, letting the ends fall behind your shoulders.
Bring each end over the opposite shoulder. The end first draped over your right shoulder should be brought back to the front over the left, and vice versa.
Adjust the loop to your desired looseness.
Wrap each end around the inside of this loop multiple times until the ends are either dramatically shortened or completely hidden.
 Loop the scarf loosely around your neck once. Both ends should hang down along the front of your torso.


Drape the center of the scarf around the front of your neck. Allow the ends to fall behind your shoulders.
Bring both ends to the front of your body again by pulling them over the opposite shoulder.
Adjust the loop to your desired looseness.
Cross the ends over and tie them into a loose overhand knot. Position this knot so that it lands out at or just below the bottom of the loop.
 With a hacking knot (also called a European loop), the scarf ends will drape down the front of your torso, but the loop around your neck will be slightly more snug.


Fold the scarf in half.
Drape the folded scarf around the back of your neck, bringing the fold and the ends to the front of your body.
Slip both ends into the loop created by the fold.
Pull the ends further through the fold to shorten the loop around your neck, adjusting to your desired snugness.
 If you have a long scarf with a fashionable print, you don't have to tie it at all. Instead, loosely drape it over your shoulders so that both ends can be seen from the front.For warmer, casual materials, like cotton or wool, keep both ends fairly symmetrical.
For lighter, dressier materials, like cashmere, consider letting one end drape down below the knee while keeping the other end just below your waist.
You can also change the appearance slightly by holding the scarf down at your waist with a wide or narrow belt.
 For the most part, any tying style that will work for any other square or rectangular scarf will also work with a Burberry scarf. If your favorite tying style is not described here, try it with your Burberry scarf and determine for yourself whether or not you like the results.

