 This is the standard metric that manufacturers use for glove sizing. Circumference is measured around the meat of the hand, from where the pinkie meets the palm to where the pointer finger meets the palm. If you have access to the gloves in person, you can simply try them on – but it may be useful to have your measurements on hand if you are ordering gloves online or getting them custom-tailored.;
, This measurement will be much easier if you have someone to assist you. If possible, measure your dominant hand to get an accurate hand size for gloves.
 If someone else is measuring for you, hold your palm out like you are going to wave to them. If you are measuring your own hand circumference, it might be easier to look at your palm. Keep your fingers extended, and let your thumb rest in a normal, comfortable position.
 Wrap a fabric-measuring tape around the hand at the fullest part, where your fingers meet your palm. This usually stretches around from the outer side of the palm (just below the pinkie finger) to the inner crook of the hand (between the index finger and thumb). Do not measure the outside of the thumb – just the palm.


If you don't have a fabric-measuring tape, just use a string or a long strip of paper. Wrap the string (or other loose length reference) around your palm as you would use a measuring tape, and be sure to mark off where the end of the string meets the looped length. Now, unfurl the string and measure the marked portion with a ruler.
 Read the number at the point where the end of the fabric-measuring tape overlaps with the rest of the length. Adult hands are usually between 6 inches (15.2 cm) and 11 inches (27.9 cm). Kids generally have a hand size between one and six inches. The number of inches of circumference directly correlates to the glove size., Once you've measured the circumference of your hand, you can compare the number against the "standard" measurements in order to find your glove size.Review the hand circumferences that guide the standard glove sizes:


XS: 7 inches (17.8 cm)
S: 7.5–8 inches (19.1–20.3 cm)
M: 8.5–9 inches (21.6–22.9 cm)
L: 9.5–10 inches (24.1–25.4 cm)
XL: 10.5–11 inches (26.7–27.9 cm)
XXL: 11.5–12 inches (29.2–30.5 cm)

