 If you have coffee with breakfast first thing in the morning, it is much easier to contain your coffee drinking to this one time. However, if you skip breakfast every few days or sleep in often, you start telling your body that coffee is okay -- and desirable -- at any time in the day. Keeping your coffee drinking to a routine is a great way to easily cut back on consumption.Hungry people tend to get both tired and cranky, and a cup of coffee seems like the easiest fix. Avoid the temptation by staying well-fed.
 Regular exercise increases blood circulation, wakes up your body and mind, and has long term physical and mental health effects that can't be overstated. Instead of reaching for a cup of afternoon joe, head out for a walk or bike ride. You'll earn a lot more than a smaller coffee bill., Caffeine is a temporary solution to a larger problem -- you're simply too tired. Instead of trying to fight the urge to sleep with coffee, recognize that a better, more consistent sleep-cycle is the best thing you can do for your mental and physical health. This means trying to go to bed at the same hour every night, getting up at similar times, and avoiding the cycle of late nights and heavy oversleeping on the weekends.Caffeine stays in your system for hours, meaning a late-afternoon coffee will adversely affect your sleep quality. Keep coffee consumption before 1-2PM at the latest. Effects can last up to 8 hours, meaning your sleep will be hurt., If coffee drinking has become a habit for you, you need to recognize your body's very real need to constantly sip on a nearby beverage. Having healthier beverages available is similar to the smoker's trick of reducing the need for handling cigarettes by keeping carrot or celery sticks on hand.


The most sensible substitute is water. Sipping water throughout the day will not only satisfy your need for having a beverage at hand, but will also make you feel better in general, which will further reduce your perceived need for coffee.This technique is also instrumental in weening yourself from large caffeine intakes. Black tea is stimulating but provides less caffeine than coffee. Green and white teas provide even less caffeine, while herbal teas provide none at all., For many coffee consumers, caffeine is a crutch used to escape the crashes caused by a carbohydrate-heavy diet. If your diet is heavy in carbohydrates (including starches and refined sugars), you will tend to experience more dramatic highs and lows that you may attempt to "correct" by drinking coffee. To help you reduce the need for caffeine, make sure that each meal you eat provides carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. Getting your calories from balanced sources will have a dramatic impact on your perceived need for coffee consumption.This problem is especially important during working hours, when many people have access primarily to sugary snacks from office vending machines. Packing your own healthy snacks is helpful in this setting.
 Saying you want to cut down on coffee is a great first step, but it isn't the only one. Make a measurable goal for yourself and it will be much easier to stick to, like only 1 coffee a day, no coffee after noon, or only visiting the nearby cafe on the weekends. Vague, larger goals like "cutting down" are hard to stick by. Specific, measurable goals are much easier to get down.


These goals can change, of course. You might start by saying "no coffee after noon" for the first two weeks, then gradually eliminate 1-2 cups a week as your body gets used to less coffee.