 When you change your name with your creditors and with Social Security, the credit agencies should be automatically notified of the change. However, it’s still a good idea to send them a letter informing them of the change.Send your information to Equifax at P.O. Box 740256, Atlanta, GA 30374
Get in touch with TransUnion LLC P.O. Box 2000, Chester, PA 19022
Let Experian know about your name change. Send information to National Consumer Assistance Center, P.O. Box 2002, Allen, TX 75013.;
, The credit reporting agencies will need specific documentation in order to process your name change. In addition to your previous and new names, they will need your contact information and legal verification of your name change.Tell them your name. In your letter, let the agency know your full previous full name as well as your new full name.
Inform them of a new address. If your address has changed, let the agency know both your old and new legal address.
Include your social security number on the letter. To make sure they are changing the information for the correct person, include your social security number on the letter. This number separates you from any other person out there with your same name.
Enclose proof of your legal name change. Provide in your envelope any legal documentation you have concerning your name change. This documentation may include a marriage license, official divorce papers or other court order.
 Obtain a copy of your credit report as a follow up to your name change request with the credit bureaus. According to the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), you are entitled to receive a free credit report once every 12 months. You can also purchase a copy of your credit report from the credit reporting agencies..


Visit AnnualCreditReport.com or call 1-877-322-8228. You can also download the Annual Credit Report Request Form and mail it to Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281.
If you have already received your free credit report within the past 12 months, you can purchase a copy from Equifax for $39.95. This includes your credit history from all three credit reporting agencies and your FICO score.You can purchase a credit report from one of the credit reporting agencies for $19.95 from myFICO., Changing your name should not change your credit history. Your credit should just continue to build in your new name. Your old and new names should be included on your credit report.When your last name changes after a marriage or divorce, your credit reports automatically update after you notify your creditors of your new name. As creditors update their records, they send the changes to the credit reporting agencies.
If you change your whole name, it is possible that creditors will have trouble verifying your credit history. This is because credit reporting agencies identify you not just with your Social Security number, but also with your date of birth and current and previous mailing addresses. When applying for credit under your new name, be sure to provide full and complete identifying information so the credit reporting agencies can link you to your credit history.

