 If someone is swerving towards you, honking, yelling, or flashing their high beams at you, you may feel scared or anxious. The important thing is to try and remain calm, and do whatever you can to get home safely.


Keep your own emotions in check when others act aggressively.Recognize how you're feeling, and drive as defensively as possible.
Try making yourself more comfortable to keep calm. Turn on the air conditioning to cool off, and adjust your seating position (if you can do so safely) to get better situated in your vehicle.
Remember that at the end of the day, it's just traffic. Someone else's bad driving shouldn't ruin your day, but if you lose your temper, it could end up ruining your life.
 If someone is showing signs of aggression, whether through honking their horn, flashing you with high beams, or just driving aggressively, make sure you avoid eye contact with that person. Experts warn that making eye contact with an enraged driver can be seen by that driver as a sign of aggression, and could usher in escalated attacks.Put your signal on to indicate that the other car can pass you (if he is trying to get around you).
Keep your eyes forward on the road. Do not even glance in the other driver's direction.
 If someone is behaving aggressively, it's best to let that person pass by and be on his way. If that driver is in front of you, you can watch him to ensure your safety.If he's behind you, though, he could follow you or try to escalate things further.If the aggressive driver wants to pass you, let him.
Any time someone wants to merge into your lane, let them. (Assuming you can do so safely.)
Try to avoid braking suddenly by keeping your eyes on the road at all times and scanning the sides of the road for potential hazards.
Don't tailgate.
Avoid blocking traffic, as this may cause other drivers to grow angry or impatient.
 When another driver cuts you off, changes lanes without signaling, swerves towards you, or engages in any other perceived act of aggression, you may assume that person is showing you hostility. However, it's possible that the other driver made a mistake. He may not have seen you, or he may be distracted by some pending family emergency. For all you know he's on his way to the hospital, and not out to get you.Remember that humans are capable of making mistakes, even behind the wheel. You've probably made a few yourself.
Sometimes extreme situations like poor health or the death of a loved one can cause people to act out in ways they may not even recognize.
Before you assume someone was driving aggressively and honk your horn or make a rude gesture, remember that that person may be experiencing something you're not aware of.
 If someone is following you and it's clear he intends to engage in some act of aggression, do not go home or to your workplace. That would make you an easy target for violence while also letting the driver know where you live or work. Instead, try to get someplace safe where there are a lot of people, or someplace you know the police can help you.Keep your car doors locked and your windows rolled up. Do not get out of the car, no matter how much another driver tries to antagonize you.
Any time someone follows you, take a detour to get somewhere safe, no matter how late you are.
Drive to the nearest police station. If the other driver is following you with the intention of assaulting you, he'll think twice before doing so in front of a police station.
If you can't get to a police station, try getting someplace crowded with people and call the police.
You should always avoid talking on a phone while driving, but if someone is following you you'll need to call the police before you even think about stopping your vehicle.
 In the heat of the moment, it may be very tempting to respond to someone's aggression with your own anger. However, this is simply not worth the risk. Many people are injured or killed during road rage-fueled exchanges with other drivers. Remember that responding to anger with anger will only add fuel to the fire.


Try keeping an image of a loved one taped to your dashboard. This can help remind you of everything you'd lose if you got arrested for assault or killed by someone else's violent outburst.Remember that aggressive behavior can lead to your own injury or death, or the injury/death of another person. It's simply not worth the risk.Driving is not a contest. You and everyone else on the road ultimately wants to get home safely to your loved ones.