 Begin with a “process talk.” This just means to talk about talking – you don’t need to get into the details at this point. “Process talks” will get your partner ready for the information you want to share.Try saying something like, “I don’t really know where to start, but maybe you can just bear with me and listen? I’ll feel better about things when you know.”
You could also say something along the lines of “There’s something going on in my life that I need to tell you about. Will you please listen and try to understand?”;
, Your partner will probably want to support you however he can. But, he might not know what it is that you’re experiencing. Bipolar disorder can be confusing and paralyzing – especially when you’re in the down cycle. But it will be easier with a loved one standing beside you.Tell your partner how you’re feeling and what your symptoms are like, i.e. “You’ve probably noticed how my moods can suddenly change, Kevin. I’m high and energized one week, low and depressed the next.” Or, “I feel like I’m on an emotional roller-coaster, Julie.”
Call the disorder by name. Share the fact that you have a diagnosis, if this is the case, so that your partner knows that you are dealing with a recognized mental illness. For instance, “My doctor thinks that I have bipolar disorder” or “I’m pretty sure that these are all symptoms of mania and depression. I think that I’m bipolar.”

, Every mental illness is different. Your partner might not know much about bipolar disorder or mental illnesses or even react very well to the news. You’ll better help him to understand if you can offer concrete instances of your symptoms – and how they’re affecting your lives together.You could say something about a specific time your partner will remember, i.e. “Do you remember last month when I was working so much that I barely slept for three or four days, Steve? I think that was a manic episode.”
You can also highlight the impact of the illness, i.e. “The depression is the hardest part – I sometimes can barely get out of bed in the morning.”
Don’t feel the need to disclose everything about the illness to your partner. Still, you shouldn’t make it seem less serious than it is. Stress that your disorder is keeping you from living a normal life and that it might be impacting your relationship.
 Bipolar disorder is a serious mental illness and can take a heavy toll on your life. You’ve probably already realized this if you’re talking to your partner. However, you may not have taken steps yet to get proper care. See if your partner will help you find and talk with a doctor or medical specialist, so that you can start treatment.Ask whether your partner can assist you in getting a diagnosis, for one. Can she take you to your regular doctor for a consultation, for example? If you’re feeling too low, can she perhaps make the appointment on your behalf?

, Your partner can also be closely involved as you start to get treatment and can help to make sure that you’re getting quality care. If you feel comfortable, ask him or her to help you prepare or even come with you to the first or subsequent appointments.Your partner might help you prepare for your appointments. Ask her to join you in finding out more about bipolar disorder in general but also about available treatments like mood stabilizers, antidepressants, and talk therapy.
Your partner might help you come up with questions for the doctor as you prepare for an appointment, i.e. “Do I have bipolar disorder?” “Do I need to have tests?” “What are the best kinds of treatment?” “Will you refer me to a psychiatrist?” You can also ask your partner to share with the doctor what sort of symptoms you’ve shown., Once you’ve gotten started with treatment – whether with meds, therapy, or a combination of approaches – you might need your partner’s assistance to stay on track. People with bipolar disorder can need help in sticking to treatment, so ask for your partner’s encouragement.Your partner can give concrete support by reminding you of medical appointments or support group meetings.
You might request that your partner keep an eye on your progress, too. If you find the idea useful, she can help you keep a treatment journal with records of your emotional cycles, setbacks, and victories.
She can also remind you to take meds. People with bipolar disorder sometimes go off their medication, either from careful deliberation or on impulse. Ask your partner to keep you on track and, particularly if you’re unwell, to advise you to talk to your doctor and make a smart choice., People who are experiencing bipolar depression can be frozen by inertia, a lack of energy, sadness, and despair. You may need help in functioning normally or even in getting out of bed. Ask your partner for concrete support in being active and maintaining a daily routine.Depression can disrupt your routine and sleep schedule, which in turn can throw off your body and worsen your moods. Ask your partner to help you stick to a routine, especially during depressive episodes. This means includes getting up at the same time each day.Have her make sure that you stay active, too. While hard, it’s good for your mental health to stay motivated and do everyday things when you’re depressed. Your partner can do as little as encourage you to take a walk, for example, sit out in the garden, or help with errands and cleaning.
You can also ask for emotional support, i.e. “Sometimes I just might need a hug and to hear some kind words.”

, People with bipolar disorder have a higher risk of suicide than the general population. This doesn’t mean you’ll have suicidal thoughts, but be aware of your moods and take any thoughts of death seriously. Tell your partner if you have even vague ideas of self-harm.Let your partner know if you are severely depressed, even if you haven’t had concrete thoughts of suicide. He can help you get in touch with a doctor, as a precaution, to do a risk-assessment.
Take suicidal thoughts seriously and let someone know. Even infrequent and vague thoughts about self-harm can be dangerous.
 Ask your partner to contact emergency services if you are having suicidal thoughts, especially if they are specific and you think you might be in danger of hurting yourself. Have your partner call 911 and get you to see medical professionals as soon as possible.Your partner can call 911 or take you to the nearest emergency room or hospital. You might also ask him to contact your medical team or other family members and trusted friends.
Another option is to have your partner call an emergency suicide hotline on your behalf, like 1-800-422-HOPE or the National Suicide Prevention Hotline at 1-800-273-TALK., People who are risk of suicide should have someone with them at all times. Your partner needs to stay with you at all times if you think you’re suicidal, at least until you can get proper medical attention. This is extremely important.Ask your partner to stay in the same room with you. You shouldn’t be left alone when having thoughts of self-harm. If your partner can’t stay, he should ensure that someone else is there to watch you.
Your partner should also remove anything that you could use to hurt yourself. Ask him to get rid of any objects that you are associating with self-harm, like blades, sharp objects, pills, or cords.

