 Jealousy is a sign that someone feels inadequate and that they may lack self-esteem. Some things you can do to be supportive include:

Helping them to cultivate positive feelings based on their own qualities.
Helping them take responsibility for their perceived lack.
Finding common ground with them.
 If your friend is jealous and is treating you or someone else in the friend group negatively, talk to them about it. They might not know they are being mean or underhanded. If they know it, you can take the chance to discuss the problem the two of you are having.For example, you may say, “I have noticed some issues in our group recently. I'm worried something is bothering you. We need to talk about this before it affects our friendship.”

, When you talk to your friend, they may get extremely defensive. If they are jealous, they may feel embarrassed, guilty, or angry. To avoid losing a friend, don’t accuse your friend of anything. Make them realize you don’t blame them or think they were out to hurt you.Use “I” statements instead of “you” statements. For example, you may say, “I feel hurt by how unsupportive and passive aggressive you have been. I think we should talk about this because I value your friendship.”

, You may need to distance yourself emotionally from the friend if they are jealous of you. If you are working towards a goal, a jealous friend may try to discourage you or undermine you. This may end up hurting you in the long run. To help with this, keep certain things to yourself.For example, if you make progress on your goal or hit a milestone, you may not share it with that person.
Keeping your distance can help you not feel discouraged or upset.
 If your friend continues to be jealous no matter what, you may want to physically distance yourself from that person. You may not be able to get them out of the friend group, but you can control how much you interact with the person.For example, you can limit what you tell the person and how much time you spend with the person.
If they ask you why you are acting the way you are, be honest. Say, “I do not appreciate your jealousy towards me. It is hurtful and destructive. I think we should take a friendship break because of this.”

