 Unlike glow jars made using glow sticks, these ones never stop glowing. You just have to recharge them every so often by placing them under a bright light for at least 15 minutes. Here's a list of what you will need:


Jar (lid optional)
Rubbing alcohol
Glow-in-the-Dark paint
Super fine scrapbooking glitter (optional)

, Even if the jar looks clean, there might still be some dust on it. Dry the jar off using a clean towel.
 Soak a cotton ball with rubbing alcohol and wipe it down. The rubbing alcohol will get rid of any oil residue, which might prevent the paint from sticking.
 You are putting the paint inside the jar, so it will be less-likely to get chipped or scratched. You don't need a lot of paint, because you will be shaking the jar to spread the paint around.


Consider adding some super fine scrapbooking glitter. This glitter will get mixed in with the paint, and give your jar an extra sparkle.
 You can also tilt the jar and rotate it to help spread the paint around. If the paint doesn't spread very easily, it could be because you did not add enough paint or the paint is too thick. Try adding in a few more squirts of paint, or a few drops of warm water, then shake the jar again.
 This way, the paint will dry faster, and you won't be wasting any paint.
 Most paints will dry in about two hours, depending on how warm or humid it is. Refer to the label for more specific drying times, as each brand will be different.
 The first coat you just did is likely very thin; this means that it won't glow very brightly Once the first coat dries, simply pour more paint into the jar and pour the excess out as before. Let each coat dry completely before adding another one.
 Because this jar doesn't have anything that could spill out of it, it doesn't really need a lid. On the other hand, a lid will help keep the jar clean and dust-free on the inside; it will also help protect the paint.
 Glow-in-the-dark paint does not need a black light in order to glow, but it does need to be charged. Once the glow starts to fade, all you have to do is charge it for another 15 minutes under a bright light.

