 On the works cited page, start the citation entry with the last name of the interviewee. After the last name, add a comma and then the interviewee's first name. Directly after the first name, insert a period. Then, include the type of interview followed by a period. Add the date of the interview followed by a period.


Dates should be formatted with the numerical value for the day, followed by the three letter abbreviation for the date followed by a period, and then the numerical value for the year. Most months just use the first three letters of their name. May has no period after the three letters. June and July both stay the same with no period afterwards. September is abbreviated using 4 letters: Sept.
For type of interview, state if it is a personal, telephone, or e-mail interview.
Example: Gambill, Mike. Telephone interview. 1 Apr. 2003.
 Published interviews include both print and broadcast outlets. If the interview is part of a larger work like a book or TV program, the title of the interview should be included in the citation, along with the medium of the interview (print, web, DVD). The title of the interview goes in quotation marks and the title of the book/TV show should go in italics.


For an interview published in a print source, start with the interviewee's last name, followed by a comma and then the first name. Add a period. Place the name of the interview in quotation marks, with a period inside the quotation marks. Next, list the name of the larger book or journal where the interview was published in italics. Add a period. Next, give the author or editor of the book by stating "By First Name Last Name" or "Ed. First Name Last Name." Add a period. Then finish the citation with information required by the medium.
Amis, Kingsley. “Mimic and Moralist.” Interviews with Britain’s Angry Young Men. By Dale Salwak. San Bernardino: Borgo, 1984. 34-47. Print.Blanchett, Cate. "In Character with Cate Blanchett." Notes on a Scandal. Dir. Richard Eyre. Fox Searchlight, 2006. DVD.If the interview has no name, just type the word "Interview" without any quotation marks or italics.
Jolie, Angelina. Interview. 60 Minutes. CBS. WCBS, New York: 3 Feb. 2009. Television., Online-only interviews are cited just like standard web entries. In place of the author, list the interviewee, starting with the last name. If the interview has a title, put it in quotation marks. Place the name of the website in italics, give the publisher name, publication date, the medium of the publication (web), and the date you accessed it.


If no publisher is given, insert the abbreviation n.p. If there is no publication date, use n.d.
If the interview does not feature a title, add the descriptor "Interview" after the interviewee's name with no italics or quotation marks.
Obama, Michelle. Interview by Caren Zucker. ABC News. ABC, 2009. Web. 19 Apr. 2009.
Antin, David. "The Way I See It." Dalkey Archive Press. Dalkey Archive P, n.d. Web. 21 Aug 2007.

