 Select a pillow, rug, fabric, artwork or furniture that will "lead" the rest of your decorating decisions. It should be colorful so you have a full palate to work with, and should tie into the energy and mood you want to set.Don't stop at colors--consider the pattern (geometric, organic) and texture of your lead piece and how to work those elements into the rest of the room.
Your lead piece doesn't need to be something new. It could be something you already own, or a vintage or antique piece you find on craigslist.
 An often ignored but essential part of decorating is having the right lighting. Rely on natural light from windows, table and floor lamps, and try to avoid harsh overhead lighting.Dorm rooms and rentals often have a single overhead light fixed to the ceiling. If you can, swap it out for something more attractive, like an inexpensive chandelier from Ikea (remember to save the original lighting to replace when you move), or soften the light by hanging scarf or covering it with a lampshade.Remember the lighting will affect how the colors appear in your room. That beautiful shade of green you painted your walls may look like swamp water in bad lighting.
Use mirrors and other reflective surfaces to create light sources., You can choose a brighter or more muted version of the color to emphasize different moods.Once you've selected a color, stick to complimentary or analogous colors (the ones opposite your color or right next to your color on a color wheel) to avoid clashing., You don't have to cram every square inch of your room full of pictures and furniture--your room will end up looking unfocused, busy, and cluttered.Having a lot of space in a bedroom can make the overall mood more calm and serene.If you have a large piece of artwork or something you want to stand out from the rest of the room, try surrounding it with negative space. It will draw attention to emphasize that particular piece., Sometimes a room can just feel "off," and chances are it has to do with balance. A balanced room means that you don't have all your heavy furniture on one side, or all your exciting fabrics and artwork clustered together across from an empty wall. It can take a while to get it right, but try moving things around so that the things that dominate the room are equally spread out.Try walking through the room to make sure there aren't any obstacles and you can move freely into the next room, or to the table, couch, or bed.If you are using prints, try mixing to bring balance to the room. If you use striped wallpaper, try adding in less structured, more organic details, like a pillow with a floral pattern.