;
, This tends to give less power at the beginning of the tear than the first image. You may feel that this is easier for you.
 With this method you will need a very powerful index and middle finger. Play around with the different grips during the different phases of the tear to find out where you are the most effective.
 Your ability to pinch relatively narrow objects firmly will come in really handy here. There are several exercises to do that will enable you to develop strong enough hands to tear a deck:


Tear with intensity to slowly rip through the deck rather than blast through it. It is much more satisfying to “feel” the deck tearing and then separating.






Your thumbs, index fingers, and middle fingers will play the biggest role in tearing the deck, so the whole time you are grasping the deck in your hands, squeeze very hard as if you were trying to fuse your fingers to the deck.






Imagine that you’ve a pair of vice grips for hands and clamp down on those cards. It seems that the heaviest burden of the deck tear lies with the thumb being strong enough to pinch the deck.
 Do this slowly and with a light weight (6-8lbs) at first just to get the feel of it and start adding weight to make it heavier. You can do this by either sliding the weight down the handle of the hammer or duct taping it to the end. If you’re already levering a 16lb sledge or heavier, stop reading this article and go tear some cards! You can also lever the sledge to the front of you and side to side., A narrow pinch block is valuable for your grip training anyway., Then start to do higher volume, more cards, and heavier weight gradually. The hands and wrists are remarkable in their ability to recover quickly, but you don’t want to overdo it at first. As you become an advanced grip enthusiast, you can make good gains training your hands hard 4-7 days a week. A typical day’s training would consist of:


25 card stack tear






Another 25 card stack tear






Sledgehammer levering – 6lb hammer held by end of handle, levered down to face 5-6 times with each hand






More levering – 6lb hammer held by end of handle, levered side to side 5 to 6 times.






NOTE: if you cannot completely lever the hammer down to your nose safely and under control, choke up on the handle so it becomes a little easier, then work your way towards the end of the handle as you get stronger.
 You can also do timed holds where you hold the weight in the air for 7-10 seconds. These are lots of fun and more and more pinch grip enthusiasts swear by them. Total time: Approximately 20-30 minutes with rest time between sets, Grip the cards and take a deep breath and begin the twist. Now you’ve worked up to thicker stacks of cards and are ready to tackle an entire deck. Take what you’ve learned, grip the cards,

, Keep twisting, and your deck will look like the one in the summary at the start of this article. Completely torn in half.

