 When you feel sound within your own self, there is nothing an arrogant person can say or do to undermine you. Your sense of confidence and self-worth will prohibit you from being vulnerable to an arrogant person. The arrogant person may be unable to relate to you and might even say noxious or cruel things but you can let it slide when you feel secure in yourself.;
, Perhaps your weakness is impatience, frustration, or annoyance. Perhaps you feel intimidated. Try to flip your usual negative approaches upside down and treat this as a learning opportunity in which you seek to listen without judging. Aim to tolerate the person, seeking to understand what motivates him or her, and how you might feel in the same position. Of course, there is no place for excusing bad behavior but at least you can listen with an open mind––you might just surprise the arrogant person.
 Do you assert yourself, or are you a people-pleaser; a grouch; or a timid mouse? Arrogant people look for those who won't assert because they like to push people around or press their buttons. If you have difficulties in this area, you may wish to improve your assertiveness as well as learning how else to respond to arrogant types.
 Why do you feel that a person is being arrogant? Have they been condescending to you or have they never spoken to you? If there has not been an incident that showed you this person feels superior to you, don't assume he or she is arrogant too quickly. You might wrong him or her.


If you feel that your interests and needs are not being respected at all, this can be a sign of dealing with an arrogant person, especially where he or she insists that his or her way is the only way.
 Is it always about them? Do they get mad or irritated if the center of attention moves to someone else? Boasting, dismissing others, and behaving as if they know everything is a sure sign of an arrogant type. Interrupting conversations or breaking off abruptly are other signs of arrogance when talking.


Look for the person constantly saying that they are better than you and other people. It may be subtle or overt but you'll certainly know of it.
Consider how dismissive the person is towards you and your ideas or thoughts. Dismissive attitudes signal a belief in being better than others.
Does this person put down the things you care about, especially in public?
Does this person sound and/or act plain bossy? Listen for a tone of voice that indicates bossiness and a dismissive attitude.
Does this person even notice when you are bored with the conversation? Arrogant people never notice this!

, Arrogant people rarely include others in decision-making because they're certain that they're right and already have the answers. Of even less concern is whether or not the decision impacts you.


Does this person try to hang around with, work with, or conspire with people of high status? This is because the arrogant person believes he or she is only worthy of those with high status.
 Through seeking to dominate and control, they feel in control, a reflection of their big fear of being dominated and controlled. The arrogant person finds it hard to admit being wrong and no matter how preposterous, will often cling to a belief that he or she knows things even when the knowledge is outdated or fails to take into account broader perspectives. Sadly, many arrogant people actually have less life experience than their pretense; it's all a big cover up embellished by imagination and envy.


Being a snob is a classic sign of arrogance. Pretending or even actually knowing as much as possible about something thought to be exclusive gives the arrogant person the upper hand and he or she isn't afraid to show off.
It is very difficult for an arrogant person to understand complexity. He or she is much happier with predictable, black and white situations and tends to see all of life with such a view. This can cause the arrogant person to assume a lot and know very little.
Anxiety can bring about a sense of arrogance without a real intention to treat you as inferior. In this case, the anxious person is simply overwhelmed by seeming inadequate in a conversation and tries too hard to be clever. This can end up sounding superior and, if coupled with dominating the conversation, can seem arrogant. Be careful to look more deeply before you judge the person's motivation. An anxious person will be interested in your responsiveness, while an arrogant one couldn't care less and won't ever apologize for talking too much.
 This can be easier said than done but by ignoring the practiced superiority, it's knocking down the whole purpose of the behavior. Be charitable in interpreting this person's obvious exaggerations and assumptions and try to find ways to excuse some of the big talk (especially if it's a relative or someone you see regularly). Probe for what you can enjoy about the encounter––among all of the fluff, there probably is something worth knowing or exploring more deeply together. Maybe this person is good for a story or is charming in spite of the evident snobbery.
 This means listening attentively and allowing the other person to speak freely. Be polite and acknowledge what is said without trying to engage any more deeply. As the person talks, his or her personality will be exposed and you'll find it's either friendly and equitable or mired in insecurity and therefore likely to bring up a range of irritating behaviors.


If, for expediency's sake, the person happens to fit the latter category (that is, unappealing and irritating), quietly plan to obtain the information you have come to seek from them or the business transaction you are obligated to complete and then resolve to quietly and quickly with the most polite tact make your exit (aka escape from their presence).
 By being tactful, you can still point out things that are self-evident or down to luck rather than any person's actual skills. Discuss how much you owe to luck in life and the kindness of others. Note too, that many people do it tough in life, and how amazed you at how such people manage to thrive all the same. This gives a hint that you're not going to stand around listening to blarney about the arrogant person's amazing supernatural abilities.
 This can take the wind out of an arrogant person keen to dominate a conversation on a topic that he or she feels comfortable. If there is an attempt to return to the old topic, politely point out that you have already made known your views and return to yet another new topic. This will help to make it clear that you're not standing there all day to listen to a one-comedian show.
 There are some good ways to lessen the impact of an arrogant person who is both dominating the conversation and exaggerating or intimidating as if on stage.


Smile a lot. Say very little. Nod here and there. Refuse to be drawn in. An occasional murmur like "ah," ha," or "mmm" can be helpful. Then plan your exit.
Laugh very loudly at a point where clearly laughter isn't right. It will baffle and gives a chance to change the topic.
A simple one often used by teenagers is the "Really?" comment. Say it with a tone of disbelief, look the person straight in the eye, and say no more. Practice this in front of the mirror to perfect it.
 You're not a punching bag or a mirror. You are entitled to voice your opinion politely. So, take the opportunity to do in a way that simply states that there are other views, too. Stay calm and polite while doing this. For example:


"You have an interesting point there. I've not found the same to be true in my line of work though. In my experience, X happens instead, almost 99% of the time. The other 1% is not worth the trouble to notice."
"For sure, that's one way of looking at it. However, in my experience, I've seen things happen quite differently. For instance..."

, This is a big one. Often, arrogant types are too self-centered to realize that others are making fun of them. Pretend that you don't understand simple concepts, and watch them swoop in and try to prove their superiority.
 If you haven't found a reliable method for dealing with this person yet, do your best to stay out of his or her way. It'll buy you time to work out how to better respond, or it will simply keep you away from their annoying presence.


If you must acknowledge them, generally speaking, in a group setting you can get away with addressing the group as a whole rather than speaking to the arrogant person specifically: for example, instead of saying,"Hi there, Wendy," say, "Hi there, everyone." Also, don't ask, "How are you?" as this might evoke a rude response.
 Pick up the phone and pretend to be having a conversation. If they are specifically wanting your attention, keep them waiting for as long as you can get away with it. Have a column of figures handy to be added up three times over. When you finally do acknowledge them, do so in a distracted, brisk, impersonal way whilst commencing yet another task. For example, say something, such as, "Right, what can I do for you," as you pick up the telephone receiver. This technique often works very successfully because you are, in effect, "putting the arrogant person in their place." This is the opposite of what they want.
 If this isn't working and the arrogant person is still getting on your nerves, tell them that you think they are being arrogant and really tell them how you feel. Don't shout or swear or insult them more than is necessary, because then you will just look evil.
 Manners will spare you from looking like the bad person in all of this. It'll be clear that you've tried and that you're patient. But it will also be clear that you don't tolerate fools either.


Once you have left their spirit-robbing presence, you can pride yourself on your professionalism, your intelligent awareness of the dynamics, and your presence of mind to escape quickly without wasting another valuable minute around such a spirit-robber. They on the other hand will be left with a profound surprise of having had such a pleasant encounter with a truly stable and mannerly individual and will feel "like a heel" in comparison, knowing that their rude arrogance will have no effect on you and that they cannot control you, hurt you, anger you or destroy you with their dark spirits that they themselves seem unable to control or resist within themselves.

