 The laws enforced by the EEOC apply to all government employersand to private businesses with at least 20 employees.Federal law applies whether you are an active employee or a job applicant at a covered employer.
 Federal laws enforced by the EEOC include Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Equal Pay Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, and Title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act.These laws protect against employment discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, or genetic information.For example, if an employer posted a help-wanted ad seeking only white female applicants for a secretarial position, that ad would violate the law and an affected applicant could file a complaint with the EEOC.Age discrimination laws only apply if you are over the age of 40. The law is designed to protect older workers from being treated unfairly because of their age, but it does not prohibit employers from discriminating against younger employees who may not have adequate experience.Prohibited practices also include making a work environment so intolerable through discriminatory behavior that a reasonable person would not be able to stay, a situation known as constructive discharge., Before you file a formal complaint, talk to someone at your workplace with authority. Your workplace should have a policy for dealing with discrimination or harassment publicly displayed.


This can be difficult if your direct supervisor is the one responsible for discriminating against you or harassing you, but don’t be afraid to go over his head.
If you’re represented by a union, talk to your union representative before you do anything else. They are there to help you in these kinds of situations.
Don’t gossip about the situation among your coworkers, no matter how upset you are, and don’t ask them about the person who’s bothering you. For example, suppose your direct supervisor, Larry, frequently makes comments about your body that make you uncomfortable. Speak to someone who has the authority to discipline Larry or make those comments stop, rather than asking your coworkers if Larry has ever said anything similar to them.
However, if a coworker witnesses the harassment or discrimination, ask them to write down what they saw or heard so you have their statement on the record.
Keep a record of everything that happens, including every encounter or episode of harassment, particularly if you’re trying to show a pattern of harassment or a hostile work environment., In most cases, federal law requires that you must file a charge with the EEOC before you can file an employment discrimination lawsuit against your employer.If your state has a Fair Employment Practices Agency, you can file there and your charge will also be filed with the EEOC if federal law applies.You must file your charge within 180 days of the last incident of discrimination. That deadline is extended to 300 days if your employer is covered by a state or local law that prohibits discrimination on the same basis as the federal law enforced by the EEOC.If more than one incident has occurred, the deadline applies to each event separately. However, if you’re charging an ongoing pattern of harassment, the EEOC considers all of the events as a whole. The deadline applies to the last and most recent event, although the EEOC considers all events related to the harassment, even those for which the deadline has passed.While the EEOC does not allow you to file your charge online, it does have an Online Assessment Tool you can use to determine whether the EEOC is the appropriate place for you to file a charge.When you file your charge, the EEOC will give you a copy of your charge with a charge number. Within 10 days, the agency will send a notice and copy of the charge to your employer.
 The EEOC will evaluate your charge and determine the appropriate response. In some cases, the agency will ask your employer to provide a written response to your charge, while in others it will ask you both to participate in a mediation program.


If the EEOC determines that your charge was filed too late, that it does not have jurisdiction to resolve your claim, or that it would be unlikely to find discrimination based on the facts you’ve provided in your charge, it will promptly dismiss your charge.If asked to participate in mediation, you and your employer will sit down with a neutral third party who will assist you in coming to a compromise. The goal is for both parties to discuss the issue and come to a voluntary settlement., If the EEOC finds no violation of the law, or if you and your employer are unable to reach a settlement at mediation, the EEOC will provide you with a Notice-of-Right-to-Sue. This document gives you the ability to file a lawsuit in federal court.If the agency does find a violation of the law and cannot reach a settlement with your employer regarding that violation, your charge will be forwarded to the agency’s legal staff to decide whether the agency wants to file a lawsuit. If they decline, you will receive a Notice-of-Right-to-Sue.