 If you're having a hard time contorting your hands into the bizarre shapes needed to make hand shadow puppets, don't worry! You can make wonderful, detailed miniature shadow puppets with just a few common materials you'll probably have lying around the house. For this project, you’ll need:


Construction paper
A light source (like a lamp or light bulb)
A cardboard box (for your "stage")
Straws or balsa wood sticks
Tape
Thin tissue paper or baking parchment (for your “screen”)

, To begin, cut the bottom out of the cardboard box, leaving a 5 cm (about 2 inches) border around the edges. Next, fasten a thin sheet of tissue or baking paper onto the frame with tape or glue so that it covers the hole you've just cut. This will be the "screen" for your puppet show — you'll hold your puppets in between your light source and the paper to project their images onto the screen.
 Next, grab a sheet of construction paper or cardboard (whatever you use, it should be thick enough that light doesn't shine through it). Draw the outlines of your puppets on this paper or cardboard. Your puppets can be as simple or as detailed as you like, so be creative!









One good idea is to draw small details like eyes or smiles on the puppet so that, when it's cut out, these details will appear in its shadow. However, this can require some tricky detail work on your part — you may need to use an X-acto knife to make these small cuts in the middle of the puppet.
 As noted above, for minor details like eyes, facial features, hair, and so on, you may need to use a small, sharp X-acto knife.









Another good idea is to use the sorts of special children's scissors that are often sold at back-to-school sales. These scissors can sometimes have designs like zigzag lines and curves incorporated into the blades of the scissors, making it easy to make these sorts of designs in your puppets.
 Grab a thin wooden stick (like a coffee stirrer or popsicle stick) or a drinking straw for each puppet. Put a piece of tape or a drop of glue on one side of each stick or straw. Fasten the sticks or straws to the backs of your paper puppets. If you're using glue, give it time to dry before using your puppets.









For especially big puppets (or puppets with moving parts), you may need to use more than one stick.
 Grab an audience, and, if needed, a few friends to act in the show with you. Position the box so that your paper "screen" is facing the audience, then crouch behind the box. Make sure that you can easily fit your hands into the box — if you need to, you may want to cut the sides of the cardboard box down a little to make it easier to put your hands in. As long as your box can still stand up on its own, anything you do to it is fair game.









You'll also want to put your light source (lamp, lightbulb, flashlight, etc.) behind the box so that its light shines clearly through the box and out of the screen. This light will make the puppets cast their shadows on the screen during your show.
 If you're not already behind the box, duck behind it, making sure it's positioned with the screen in front of you, and the audience in the front of the screen. Grab all of your puppets and turn on the light behind the box. Finally, turn off the light in the room. Showtime! Move your puppets between your light source and the box so that their shadows project onto the thin paper screen for your audience. Break a leg!









If you can't get it dark enough in the room for your puppets to cast clear shadows on the screen, try drawing all of the curtains in the room to keep light from outside from entering.

