 Alice packs are the number one pack used for training; their most notable features are the external frame for high loads. Most can be found at your local military surplus store. Be sure it is in moderate to good condition with little to no tears or abrasions at the bottom.


Take special notice of your load-lifter straps and belt stabilizer straps, which easily break from a more strenuously used pack.
;
, This will take a few months if you are not usually active to prepare for high mileage rucks. Take special consideration into weight training your lower body.

With a stationary bike, aim for at least 3 x 5-10 minute sessions at high-resistance intermixed with your daily weight training routine (squat - bike - lunge - bike). You will also notice it can simulate walking (with proper seat adjustment and wheel-resistance) with a loaded pack.
Do lunges (dumbbell overhead and one-legged split lunge) and squats (front-load and back-load) to develop leg strength. Aim for both high rep (20) and also high load (squats: 240 at 7 reps). Calf raises, preferably standing-dumbbell calf raises, also develop the proper leg strength needed.
Running is also a must; aim for varied hill/flat sprints intermixed with long distance running - for example, run 3 miles (4.8 km) 3 days a week and do hill sprints (at 80-90% effort) 2 times a week.
 You'll need to make your pack heavy. Some of the cheapest options include bird seed (pre-weighed), which can be dumped safely if needed, rock salt, or gravel/sand. You can also use dumbbell weights wrapped/taped in towels. Gatorade bottles filled with rocks is an effective way to fill your outer pockets and add a little extra weight when needed.
 Now that you've got the basics, get out there and ruck. Keep your head up, eyes scanning your surrounding and 20 feet (6.1 m) ahead of your path. Resist the habit to stare at your feet, which is less tactical. Keep your legs straight, back tight - concentrate on your posture, which will inevitable round out the further you go.

