 Each type of brain stimulation treatment has specific requirements you must meet to be eligible for the treatment, as well as specific criteria for who is not a good candidate for the treatment.Before you can treat anorexia with brain stimulation you need to talk with your physician or mental health professional about which treatments are options for you and which are not.


For example, you may not be eligible for DBS if you have other health conditions that may cause complications during the surgery.
Talk to your provider about the requirements, risks, side effects, and potential outcomes for each of your options. For instance, you might say, “Which option will have the most benefit for me with the least negative effects?”

, When you are treating anorexia with brain stimulation you should research the treatment in general. You should also learn about what exactly will happen during the treatment. Knowing about the specific procedure used in the brain stimulation therapy will help you decide if it’s the right option for you. It will also prepare you for receiving the treatment.


Ask your healthcare provider what you will need to do to prepare for the treatment. For example, try asking, “What will I need to do to get ready for the treatment?”
Talk to your mental health professional or physician about what exactly will happen during the treatment. Try something like, “Can you tell me step by step what will happen?”
Ask about what you should do after the treatment. For instance, you might say, “Are there instructions for what I should do right after the treatment? What about long-term aftercare?”

, Brain stimulation therapies aren’t used in isolation. They are used as part of a larger treatment plan that often includes nutritional counseling, psychotherapy, and medication management.When you are treating anorexia with brain stimulation therapy, you should work with your medical or mental health provider to create a treatment plan.


Talk about how other treatment components will support your brain stimulation treatment. For example, you might ask your psychiatrist, “How will therapy be included in treatment?”
Your provider may include treatment goals and other support in your treatment plan. They may also include check-ins to evaluate whether your treatment plan is working.

