 Ex: you are going to make a short film about a poor girl in Africa who dreams of becoming a famous singer. This is a basic idea.;
, try to keep it under 5 characters to make it easier. If not, that's okay too! Write their personality and background. And if your Artistic, draw them out, along with what they wear (costumes).
 If you are doing this alone, try testing different voices you can do. Go along with the story line, and have scenes. EX: Scene 1; Nina's home. Scene 2; The farm, etc. Then, write what you envision the characters saying and write what they're doing. EX: Scene 1; Nina's home. Nina: Mother, I'm done my chores. May I go sing outside? *Mother is cooking* Mother: Yes, Dear, etc. Have this going for every scene.
 Read it again and again to see if it makes any sense.  Try timing how long it takes to read with a timer. Take an occasional pause at parts where the characters have a big choice to make, etc.
 If not, skip to step 6. Maybe you don't know how to edit, And your best buddy Jim does. Have Jim help sort out the short. Also, maybe your friends Bob, Lois, and Sam want to act in this movie. Danny wants to make the costumes, and Cindy will record the short.
 Maybe she has a dress on because its so warm in Africa. Maybe you need to wear a parka because your character lives at the North Pole. Try to relate you costume with the weather.
 Don't just step in front of the camera with your script! Try to memorize the most part of your script. Make sure you are saying your sentences in the right tone of voice, and make sure your costume will stay on if you do some sort of dance.
 If you don't have one, make your own. if your filming in the hallway, put the camera on a chair, or even the closet shelf.  A good angle for a running scene its to turn the tripod upside down with the camera on it, and point it at whomever is running.
 Windows Movie maker is fine  if you're just a starters at editing, But if your more advanced, try Imovie, or even Adobe Premiere Pro or After Effects!

, Did you want to grayscale that clip, or flip it around? Editing takes a huge amount of patience. If you were talking in one clip and can't hear yourself, turn the volume on the clip up. Depending on how you want it, you can accomplish almost anything on the higher advanced software.
 Have the movie complete, and have the narrator record his voice as he watches the movie. Most computers now have a built in microphone, but if not, webcams work fine, and you can purchase microphones at your local Walmart or Target.
 MP4 is one of the most popular formats for video. AVI is another. Do some research on what file does what, because Youtube only allows some formats. Burn some discs to give to friends, e-mail your movie, Put it on Youtube, or anything. Now you can look back and say "I made a short film."!

