 Do not allow children to share others' combs, hats, or towels. If the child is out on a trip with friends, advise children that they should use their own pillows, combs, towels, etc. It is the sharing of these things that often leads to transmission of head lice., Ensure that your child’s hair is clean daily. Sometimes, if the child is taking bath on his own, he might not wash his hair well. So, ensure that you check your child’s hair daily to check if the hair scalp is cleaned well. Hair hygiene is important, but it won't prevent a lice infestation on its own. However, it is easier to check your child for lice when his hair is clean., Teach your children tips on how to avoid lice as mentioned above like not sharing combs, etc., and also not to mix their things with other children’s belongings, like coats and hats. Simple habits like these can go a long way in preventing head lice.
 Children are most likely to get head lice from other kids in group situations. Kids are at the greatest risk of catching head lice when in school, in recreational or community groups, and while on athletic teams. Make sure any group activity in which you enroll your child has measures in place to quarantine a child with head lice until he or she can receive proper treatment. This will help guarantee that your child is not exposed to lice in the first place.Most public schools actively check for the presence of head lice in their student body and will take proper measures to ensure that other students are not exposed. However, athletic teams, church groups, and other community organizations do not take this step, so be vigilant and check your child after any potential exposure.
 Excessive itching or scratching of the scalp and hair, while often attributable to other factors, are definitely cause for concern. If your child seems to be experiencing these symptoms, check their head and scalp for lice immediately.It may take weeks for itching to occur after the infestation has taken hold. However, many children will complain of tingling or tickling on their scalps before the infestation has become full-blown, giving you time to react., Check your child’s hair for lice or nits every weekend. Make him or her sit outside the house during bright sunlight, part the hair and check each strand for lice and nits. Even if you find any, you can take appropriate measures so that the child is ready to go to school on Monday.Lice, which are usually white or gray and the size of a sesame seed, are visible to the naked eye, but nits are often harder to identify when the adult lice are absent. Look for brown, tan, or yellow dots in your child’s hair, usually found at the roots of the hair nearest the scalp. Nits can look similar to dandruff, but can’t be removed by brushing or shaking them off. Once the nits hatch into lice, the egg shells will take on a beige or whitish hue.It is more common to find nits in a child’s hair than it is to find living lice, so be on the lookout.