

The drain should run about 1 foot (or 30 cm) away from the basement's exterior wall. Place it in the area with the greatest moisture. It should run to a collection basin in the basement (ideally placed in a corner), from which a sump pump will expel the water to the outside.;
,

The trench in which you place the drain should be about 8 inches (or 20 cm) wide and 18 inches (or 45 cm) deep. Use a pickaxe or a jackhammer to break through the floor of the basement. Remove the soil beneath with a shovel.


Your drain needs to slope downwards in order to effectively carry water to the basin. Tamp down the soil at the bottom of the trench with your shovel, and make the trench 1 inch (or 2.5 cm) deeper for every 8 feet (or 2.4 meters) of length. For example, if you have a trench that is 24 feet (or 7.2 meters) long, the end of the trench should be 3 inches (or 7.5 cm) deeper than the beginning.
,,

The drainage gravel allows water to seep down to the bottom of the trench, where it goes into the perforated holes into the piping and flows into the basin. Make sure the trench is filled with gravel all around the piping, including on top, but do not pack the gravel down tight. Cover the gravel with tyvek and tuck under the outside edges (this is to try and keep the cement from seeping into the gravel)

,

Quick-setting or quick-dry cement is the easiest option for sealing the trench. If water is coming in from below the floor (high water level) then seal over the entire trench. If water is coming in from leaks in the wall then leave a 2 inch (or 5 cm) gap so as to allow water to run down the wall and into the drain. Easiest to take the edge of the tyvek and pull it back, put a 2x6or 8 tall ways in the trench between the tyvek and the floor edge toward the wall (make sure its above the floor level so it can be removed after the cement dries), then let the tyvek drape over the wood. Mix the cement mix with water and pour it over the gravel that lies on top of and to the side of the piping. Tamp down with a trowel. Let dry for 24 hours. Remove the wood to leave a 1 1/2" weep trench.

