 There are websites online that will give you the location and times for live auctions in your area. Many modern day auctions will also give you a list of items that are being auctioned that day with photos and details. Make sure to search for the keyword “pocket watches” to find events that you can attend. Your goal early on is not to bid or purchase any watches, but see what buyers are currently looking for and how much they are willing to spend.


Beware of buying watches on online auctions. Although they are becoming more prevalent, it’s still hard to determine quality if you’re not in-person and looking at the item.
While it might not be the best idea to buy watches online, it’s still a good way to see what is selling on the market, so visit online pocket watch auctions as well.;
, There’s a wealth of knowledge about different brands of watches that you can buy. Names like Howard, Hamilton, Elgin, Hampden, Rolex, Waltham and Ball, are the most popular and sought after currently.Watches from before 1865 are also popular because many were used during the civil war.


Waltham are very collectible and sought after watches from this period and were the first mass produced pocket watches to have interchangeable parts.As a rule of thumb stay away from unknown brands, especially if you can’t find any information about it online.To determine the brand of your pocket watch, look on the back side of the watch movement, and it should contain its serial number and the company who produced it.
The value of your watch will vary depending on age, condition and brand.
Different brands of pocket watches have different aesthetic styles. Make sure to pick one that you enjoy, and not the one that costs the most.
 There are people who have been working on watches or selling watches for years and understand the market of antique pocket watches very well. These experts, who specialize in horology, or the study of timekeeping, will be able to give you tips on how to spot a good antique and point you in the direction towards reputable sellers.These experts typically are members of the National Association of Watch and Clock Collectors, or NAWCC.


The NAWCC often puts on full day workshops that will help you hone your skills when looking for antique watches. Make sure to check their event website often.
If you become really interested in antique pocket watch collecting, considering joining the association.
 The best way to understand the antique pocket watch market is to talk to other buyers in that realm. There are many websites and forums that are dedicated to the collection of antique pocket watches, including the official forum for the NAWCC. Antiques will fluctuate in value over time, so it’s important that you stay up on the market to see what watches are trending.


Google “antique pocket watch forums” to find listings on active websites.
Don’t believe or trust everything you hear on forums. They are notorious for misinformation. Instead of using it as a trusted resource, use it to open dialogue with other people looking to buy and sell watches.

