 You should be able to find most of your supplies at a dollar store or craft store. You will need glass gems with a flat back and a dome-shaped top. These gems are usually sold at dollar stores, and you should opt for the bigger varieties.You will also need glitter in your chosen color. You can also mix together many different shades of glitter.
You will need a top coat. Make sure to choose a cheaper top coat, as the glitter will likely bleed a little into the topcoat. You probably will not be able to use it on your nails after using it for this project.
 Find a small bowl or Tupperware container. Fill it about 3/4 of the way full with glitter. Unless you're making a large amount of nail gems, you do not need a large amount of glitter.If you're mixing different colors of glitter, mix them in this bowl before you begin the project.
 Make sure you're working with the flat side of the gem. You should not coat the dome shaped side with top coat. Add two layers of top coat so you have a thick layer of top coat coating the bottom of the gem.








It's not necessary to wait for one layer to dry before adding the other. You need the top coat to be wet for the next step.
 Place your gem into the glitter bowl, with the flat back facing downward. Press the flat back against the glitter for a couple of seconds to get the glitter to stick to the gem.When you take your gem out of the glitter bowl, tap the dome shaped side a few times with your fingers. This will get off any loose bits of glitter.
 The glitter will peel off quickly if you don't seal it in with another layer of top coat. Gently paint over the glitter on the back of the gem with another layer of top coat.








If you notice any loose bits of glitter sticking out, gently pull them off the gem.
 The gem will take about half an hour to dry. However, you can also set it aside overnight. When you turn it over with the flat back facing down the glitter should shine through. This creates a colorful, attractive nail gem.