 There are a number of reasons why a dog might be frightened around people. It's possible that you haven't done anything wrong to provoke this reaction from a dog; sometimes dogs are fearful of humans because they need to be in order to survive.


Some dogs are fearful around humans because of previous or ongoing abuse. It's possible a fearful dog you encounter is hurt, and is acting aggressively so that he does not appear weak and vulnerable.NEVER approach an injured animal that you do not know. It is very likely that the animal may perceive you as a threat and attack to defend itself.;
, A frightened dog may tense up his body, and raise his hackles (the row of hair along the dog's back). If a dog you are approaching turns suddenly, locks his body into a firm position, and has raised hair on its back, it's best to stop where you are and let the dog see that you are not a threat to him., A dog that feels threatened will often stare an approaching person in the eyes. It's a way of asserting dominance and letting you know that he feels threatened by your presence. Any time a frightened dog stares at you, you should avert your eyes to show the dog that you are respecting his boundaries., Bared teeth and growling are two of the biggest tell-tale signs that a dog feels threatened or uneasy, and may attack if you proceed.Growling does not necessarily mean that the dog will attack you, but it does mean that he may attack if you continue to make him feel threatened., It's possible that you are the cause of a frightened dog's anxiety. But it could also be that the dog is bothered by something in his immediate environment, and your presence is not a factor in his fear.Always assume that you might be the stimulus that is causing a dog to feel frightened or nervous, especially if it is not a pet you are familiar with.
 If it's a dog you know and encounter regularly, you may observe multiple situations or stimuli that seem to upset the dog. Understanding what triggers this response can help you avoid those triggers, or expose the dog to those triggers in a controlled environment.If you know the dog, scan your surroundings for things that might be upsetting the animal. Things that we take for granted, like a certain sound, a foreign object in the yard or house, or a new and unfamiliar odor, could cause a dog to act fearful or nervous.If the dog belongs to you or someone you know and you suspect that an environmental change is the reason the dog is upset (a vacuum cleaner, for example, or a new piece of furniture), expose the dog to that new element in short, controlled sessions. Allow the dog to become familiar with that object and to recognize, in his own time, that the object is not a threat.Examine the dog for injuries from a safe distance. Do not force close contact. Take note of whether the dog is limping or hiding one side from you, keeping his ears flat against his head, excessively licking an injured area, or whimpering., Approaching carefully, and knowing when to back away, are crucial for a successful interaction with a shy or frightened dog. Remember that if the dog does not know you, he may perceive you as a threat., Animals pick up on body language much more sharply than humans do. If a dog is shy or fearful, especially a dog you do not know, managing your own body language may be the most important thing you can do to calm and reassure a frightened dog.Never approach a frightened dog head-on or stare at it. Approach from the side, looking at him with your peripheral vision, so that the dog does not think you are approaching him with malicious intentions.Walk slowly around a frightened dog. If you rush towards him, or even appear to be rushing towards him, he may view you as a threat.It's best to crouch down while still a safe distance away, making yourself appear smaller and less intimidating. Keep your side to the dog, even while crouching, and take caution not to appear as though you are "looming" over him.Do not reach out to the dog. Hold out your open hand from a safe distance, and allow the dog to choose whether or not he wants to approach you.If the dog has an owner nearby, always ask the owner's permission before approaching the dog, and wait for the owner's response., Move slowly around the dog, and verbally praise him if he appears to be willing to approach you. This will let the dog know that you respect his boundaries, but are willing to offer him praise and kindness if he is willing to get closer.Speak softly. Never raise your voice around a frightened animal., Every dog has a "safety zone," an area around him which he will not allow strangers to enter if they could pose a threat. Remain a safe distance away, and do not approach the dog or enter his safety zone if he is showing signs of frightened aggression.There is no absolute when it comes to a dog's safety zone. Every dog is different. Cautious trial and error is the only way to determine a dog's boundaries., If you or someone you know owns the dog, consider offering treats to the dog as a reward for behaving calmly around you. Praise him every time he comes up to you without hesitation, and offer him a treat, if it's okay with his owner.This should only be done if you know the dog and are certain he does not have food aggression issues. Offering food to a dog with these issues could provoke further aggressive behavior.
 If you believe you've found a dog that may be lost or injured, the best thing to do is to call animal control. In rural areas without an autonomous animal control department, you should call the police.Give your contact information to the animal control or police dispatcher, so they know how to contact you in case of any further developments.Give the dispatcher your precise location so that the responders can locate you easily.Ask for a time estimate on when someone will arrive. If it will be a long time, the dispatcher may ask you to remain near the dog, or to follow and observe him from a safe distance., There are a number of reasons why a dog may be excessively shy around people.


Some dogs are frightened or shy around people because they were not properly socialized as puppies.Some dogs are simply prone to anxious behavior, and will always be shy around people for no real reason., If your dog is shy whenever he meets new people, expose him gradually, but make sure that he is having exposure.


If your dog clings to you whenever other people are around, try to ignore his pleas for attention. Eventually your dog will realize that he will not be rewarded with attention or affection until he is willing to interact with other people., Some dogs are shy because they never learned how to interact with people. If your dog is shy of humans but gets along well with other dogs, try having your shy dog spend time with a more social dog. Your dog may, over time, learn from his canine companion how to behave around humans., Once the dog has shown some progress in being around other people, have someone he is becoming more comfortable around offer him food. This should only be done with dogs that do not exhibit signs of food aggression, for the safety of all parties involved.Have the person crouch low or sit on the floor.
While avoiding eye contact, have the person hold out the dog's bowl with food in it.
Do not force the dog to come eat; let the dog come when he is ready.
 Reward your dog with treats and verbal praise every time he comes out of his shell enough to interact with other people. Rewards should be given immediately, to help establish the reward as being related to his behavior.