 If you need to borrow money in order to buy something from a retail store (e.g. you want to buy your child a nice christmas present) then using your credit card is an easy way to cover the costs of an item when you don’t have the cash on hand. Though you should be aware that it will incur interest fees unless you pay the balance in full before the end of the month.Try to pay back the money as quickly as possible in order to avoid racking up interest charges.
Your credit card company will usually send you a bill each month (or this may be online) telling you the minimum you’re expected to pay each month towards the money you borrowed. This amount is usually relative to the amount of money you borrowed. For example, if you borrowed $100, you may only be required to pay $15 each month, but if you borrowed $10,000 you may be required to pay at least $150 each month. Be sure that you pay at least the minimum on-time each month.
If you can, try to pay a little bit more than the minimum and always pay on time. This will improve your credit score. Failing to pay at least the minimum when it is due will incur high fees and will harm your credit score.
 As the terms and conditions of getting a cash advance can vary greatly from card to card, it is recommended that you call your credit card company before going down this road. Ask them how much money you will be allowed, what the interest rate is and when it will begin collecting interest, and also ask about whether or not there is a transaction fee associated with the advance.When you received your credit card, you probably received a letter giving you your PIN number. This is the PIN that you will need if you want to get your cash advance at an ATM. If you never received this, or have forgotten it, be sure to ask about it when you call.
Most credit cards will allow you to take money out of ATMs like you would with an ATM or debit card. However, some credit cards may do things differently so be sure to clarify this with the company representative.
 In some instances, you may need cash for one reason or another, and won’t be able to pay with the card directly. For example, if you need to pay rent, many landlords are not able to, or are unwilling to, accept a credit card for payment. In this case, you will need cash. Though not every credit card offers this method of borrowing money, many do.Be aware that you will not be able to get a cash advance for an amount that is greater than the limit of your credit card, and in many cases the amount you are allowed to take out as cash is significantly lower than your credit limit. For example, if you have a credit limit of $500, you won’t be able to get a cash advance for $501 or more dollars. In many cases, for example, you may only be able to get a cash advance of $200 if your credit limit is $500.
It is also important to understand that the interest rate on a cash advance is much higher than for normal credit card purchases, and this interest usually begins to incur immediately, whereas with normal purchases you have a grace period where no interest is charged on the purchase.
Cash advances also usually incur a transaction charge just for taking the money out.
 In most cases, this will be the easiest method to get your cash. You will need the PIN for your credit card. Then, just use the ATM in the same way that you would when using a normal ATM or debit card. Be sure to get a receipt for your transaction to keep with your records.Other methods of getting a credit card cash advance include convenience checks and bank transfers both of which will have to be set up directly through your credit card company.

