 Doing something different can be a great way to spice up a weekend and make it feel more satisfying. However, your weekend adventures don’t have to be elaborate. If you don’t feel like making any major plans for your weekend, you can mix up your routine with a few simple activities.For example, you might try:

Getting up early to watch the sunrise or enjoy an early-morning walk.
Trying a new brunch spot in your neighborhood.
Working on a fun home improvement or arts and crafts project.
Trying out a new recipe.
Signing up for a fun weekend class, like an art or exercise class.;
, When you try something new, your brain pays more attention to the details. This makes your memory of the event feel longer and more vivid than your memories of doing something routine. Plan to try something new over your next weekend. Your adventure will create an enduring and satisfying memory that you can carry with you into the work week.Keep in mind that new and exciting activities seem to go by faster while they are actually happening! However, a weekend packed with new experiences will feel longer in hindsight than a weekend spent lounging in front of the TV.
 You can use your time over the weekend best if you plan ahead. Decide exactly what you’re doing, and come up with a simple schedule. Discuss your plans with anyone else you’d like to spend time with, like friends or family., Once you’ve decided what you’re doing for the weekend, make the appropriate arrangements and gather whatever supplies you need.For example, if you’re planning on a weekend getaway, make sure you know where you’re going and how early you need to set out to spend enough time there.
If you’re doing something like going to a show, staying at a hotel, or eating at a fancy restaurant, call ahead to make sure you can get tickets or reserve your spot.
 It can be easy to overlook Friday night as an important part of the weekend. You may feel too exhausted to do much on Friday after a long week of work. However, even planning simple, low-key events can make your Friday evenings feel more enjoyable and your weekends seem longer.

Set aside time on a Friday evening for something enjoyable that does not require much energy, like a family movie night or a self-pampering evening in the bath.

