 The first step is to observe your facial shape intently and identify the key aspects and features that make your face stand out. To do this, stand in front of a mirror with your head tied back and an expressionless face. Take note of your key features to assess your shape. Even if your face shape doesn’t exactly match these guidelines, stick to what’s the closest to your face shape:


An oval shaped face is slightly long and has well defined cheekbones. It gets widest at the forehead and resembles the shape of an egg. Oval is the most versatile face shape.
A round face isn’t always pudgy. It is widest at the cheekbones and curves smoothly towards the top and bottom, forming a circular shape.
A square-shaped face is almost proportionate in height and width and has a chiseled jaw line.
A heart-shaped face is broadest at the forehead and greatly narrows down towards the chin.
A diamond-shaped face has a narrow forehead and a narrow chin. The cheekbones are the widest part of the face and the hairline is the narrowest as compared to any of the other face shapes.;
, Before choosing your hairstyle, you must identify those areas of your face that you should highlight and those that you should camouflage. Doing this will add just the right zing to your look.


Oval face: The perfect hairstyle for your oval face will help reduce the length of your face.
Round face: If you have a round face, you should opt for short hairstyles that make your face look slimmer and longer.
Square-shaped face: A hairstyle that complements a square-shaped face is one that softens the jaw line and enhances the cheekbones.
Heart-shaped face: The ideal hairstyle for your heart-shaped face should be able to divert attention from your broad forehead and add width to your tapered chin.
Diamond-shaped face: For your diamond-shaped face, your hairstyle must add an illusion of width near your chin.
 You could try the following styles:


A funky style like a razored pixie will look great on your face structure and will define your cheekbones.
Layered and messy bobs that add volume to your hair, take the attention away from the length of your face. They also help highlight your cheekbones.
If you are conscious of the length of your face and your broad forehead, you can opt for rounded bangs that will give your face a softer look.
Avoid short hairstyles with elements of height like bouffant and pompadour, as they are heavy on the crown and can make your face seem longer.

If you want to try out a pixie cut, make sure to ask your stylist to give your hair volume at the crown, with tapered edges and softness around the ears. A bigger crown will give the impression of a longer face.
Opt for side swept bangs rather than letting them fall on your forehead. These bangs help define your cheekbones and make your face seem longer and thinner.
Avoid blunt hairstyles that end at the jaw as they accentuate the roundness of your face.

Wavy and layered shag with soft edges will help soften the impact of your well defined jaw line. Ensure you ask your stylist to cut the shortest layer in line with your chin.
Opt for side swept bangs over blunt bangs to minimize the emphasis on your forehead. Go for side parting instead of middle parting
Avoid sharp cuts like the classic bob which will only further highlight your strong jaw.
 Adding bouncy waves to this hairstyle is even better as it will give the illusion of width.
An experimental yet stylish hairstyle that you can try if you dare is a sleek crop with side swept bangs. If you are willing to show off your pointed chin, this style is perfect for you.
Settle for long and side-swept bangs that cover your broad forehead.
Avoid hairstyles that add height at the crown as this may increase focus to your slender jaw line.
 Adding texture and waves to this hairstyle will help camouflage the narrowness of your face.
Opt for a side parting as the diagonal direction emphasizes the cheekbones and creates the illusion of an oval shape.
Bardot bangs work beautifully for diamond shaped faces as they help add some width to your narrow hairline.
Avoid hairstyles with too much volume at the crown.
 Before choosing any short hairstyle that suits your face shape, make sure it blends well with your personality and doesn’t hinder your professional standing.
 Reach out to a good hairstylist if you are opting for a drastic change of hairstyle. Remember, a haircut gone wrong takes a long time to outgrow.
 Once you have weighed all the pros and cons, get a haircut and flaunt your edgy new look.
