 Eevee can change into Vaporeon, Jolteon, or Flareon if given a Water, Thunder, or Fire Stone. Giving the Eevee one of these stones will cause it to immediately evolve into the form related to that stone.


These evolutions are available in every Pokémon game, and are the only evolutions available in Blue, Red, and Yellow.;
, The locations and methods for obtaining the stones change depending on which version of Pokémon you are playing. They are arguably the easiest to find in the original games, since you just need to buy them.



Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow - The stones can be purchased at the Celadon Department Store.

Pokémon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald - You can trade Shards to the Diving Treasure Hunter for the stones. You can also find a Water Stone at the Abandoned Ship, a Thunder Stone in New Mauville, and a Fire Stone at the Fiery Path.

Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum - Stones can be found by mining in the Underground. In Platinum, they can also be found in the Solaceon Ruins.

Pokémon Black, White, Black 2, and White 2 - Stones can be found in Dust Clouds in caves, and in a variety of shopping locations depending on the version you are playing.

Pokémon X and Y - Stones can be purchased in Lumiose City from the Stone Emporium, earned through Secret Super Training, or won from defeating Inver on Route 18. You can also find Fire and Water Stones on Route 9 and Thunder Stones on Routes 10 and 11.
 Once you have the stone that you want, you will need to give it to your Eevee. The evolution will begin immediately, and in just a few moments you will have your new Vaporeon, Jolteon, or Flareon. The evolution is irreversible, and can be performed at any level.


Performing the evolution will consume the stone.
 To get either of the evolutions, your Eevee will need to have a high friendship (a.k.a. happiness) level with the trainer. The friendship level must be 220 or higher.


You can only evolve Eevee into Umbreon or Espeon in Generation 2 or later games. This is because there is no time element in the original games, or in FireRed and LeafGreen.
 Using Eevee a lot in battle and keeping it in your group will help to raise your friendship, allowing you to evolve it. You can also perform special actions to raise your friendship level quicker. Having it hold a Soothe Bell will increase the friendship bonus.


Getting your Eevee groomed will give you a large friendship bonus.
Leveling up Eevee gives it a good bonus each time.
Every 512 steps (Gen II), 256 steps (Gen III and IV), or 128 steps (Gen V and VI) will give you a small friendship boost. Note that in Generation V and VI, the chance that you will get the friendship boost is 50%.
Letting Eevee faint will decrease its friendship by 1. Using Revival Herb, Energy Root, Energy Powder, or Heal Powder will decrease friendship significantly.
 There are many NPCs scattered throughout all the games that will give you a rough estimate of this value. When you talk to them, they will say something different at different friendship levels.


Kanto (FireRed and LeafGreen) has Daisy Oak in Pallet Town. Johto has a woman in one of the houses of Goldenrod City, Hoenn has a woman in Verdanturf Town and a man in Pacifidlog Town, and Sinnoh has a woman at the Pokémon Fan Club at Hearthome, an Aroma Lady at the Pokémon Center in Eterna City, and Dr. Footstep on Route 213, as well as a Friendship Checker Pokétech app. Unova has a woman at the Pokémon fan club in Icirrus City and a woman in Nacrene City. In B&W 2, you can also call Bianca on the Xtransceiver. In Kalos, there is a woman in Santalune City and a person at the fan club in Laverre City.
 The evolution will differ depending on whether it is day or night. You can either level up during a battle or by using a Rare Candy.


Level up your Eevee during the day (4 AM to 6 PM) to evolve into Espeon.
Level up your Eevee during the night (6 PM to 4 AM) to evolve into Umbreon.
 In Generation 4 (Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum) and later you can find Moss Rocks (Leafeon) and Ice Rocks (Glaceon) at certain locations in the world. Level up your Eevee in the same area as one of these rocks to start the evolution.


The Moss and Ice Rock evolutions will supersede any other evolutions you may be eligible for, such as Umbreon or Espeon.
These Rocks are objects on the game map, and cannot be picked up or purchased. You only need to be in the same area as the Rock; it does not have to be on your screen. The Rock can be found in different locations depending on the game you are playing.
 The Moss Rock will evolve your Eevee into a Leafeon. There is one Moss Rock in each game it can be found in.



Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum - The Moss Rock is in Eterna Forest. You can trigger the evolution anywhere in this forest except at the Old Chateau.

Black, White, Black 2, and White 2 - The Moss Rock can be found in Pinwheel Forest. You can trigger the evolution anywhere in this forest.

X and Y - The Moss Rock is located on Route 20. You can trigger the evolution anywhere on this Route.
 The Ice Rock will evolve your Eevee into a Glaceon. There is one Ice Rock in each game it can be found in.



Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum - The Ice Rock can be found near Snowpoint City on Route 217. Evolving anywhere near this rock will work.

Black, White, Black 2, and White 2 - The Ice Rock is located on the bottom floor of Twist Mountain to the west of Icirrus City. You must be in the same room as the Ice Rock in order to trigger the transformation.

X and Y - The Ice Rock is located in Frost Cavern, to the north of Dendemille Town. You will need Surf in order to get to the Rock and be able to evolve your Eevee.
 In order to trigger the evolution you will need to level up Eevee. You can either level up through battle or use a Rare Candy. The evolution will happen automatically if you are near the Rock.
 In order to attain Sylveon, you’ll first need to ensure that your Eevee has learned a Fairy-type move. As you level Eevee up, you will learn Baby-Doll Eyes at Level 9 and Charm at Level 29. Eevee will need to know one of these moves before it is eligible for evolution.
 In Generation 6 (X and Y), you can play with your Pokémon, raising its Affection towards you. Raising Affection affects a variety of attributes and stats, but also allows for some special evolutions. Raising Eevee’s Affection to 2 Hearts will allow it to become Sylveon.


Affection and Friendship are unrelated stats.
 In the Pokémon-Amie minigame, feeding your Eevee Poké Puffs will raise the Affection level. The fancier the Puff, the more Affection you will gain.
 Performing the right interactions will help to raise your Affection level. You can high-five by holding your stylus in one place for a few moments. The Eevee will raise its paw, and you can make contact with it to raise the Affection.
 Once you’ve got a Fairy-type move and 2 Affection hearts, you can evolve Eevee into Sylveon. In order to trigger the evolution you will need to level up Eevee. You can either level up through battle or use a Rare Candy.


Make sure you don’t try leveling up in an area with a Moss or Ice Rock, as these will take priority and give you the wrong evolution.