 Communication is the most important tool in your relationship. Talk about things that you are bothering by, your likes and dislikes, and discuss solutions to your problems. Be as honest as your possibly can, and dig deep to get at your feelings.As you communicate with your partner, listen and be open minded. Frame your statements in a positive way, using I statements. For example, instead of saying, “you make me sad.”, say something like, “I feel sad when you don’t remember our anniversaries”.;
, Your relationship may feel like an endless cycle of negativity; complaining about work and friends or constantly nagging each other. Break from the cycle by focusing on the good, and orientating towards what is positive in your relationship. For example, focus on the great attributes of your partner, such as their humor, or the wonderful things you have accomplished together, such as buying a home or going on great vacations.Think positively by expressing gratitude. Say thank you to each other to remind yourself of the good qualities of your partner.
Making light of certain situations will help you feel and think more positively. Be playful and embrace humor!, You chose your partner, flaws and all. Accept every part of your partner, both the good and the bad. If you partner chronically runs late for events, accept it, and don’t try to change them. Accept that is their decision to be late, and be on time yourself.To help you accept your partner, focus on their best attributes to outshine the negative ones.
 Plan an exciting date like kayaking, go on a spontaneous vacation, or go on a treasure hunt! Have fun doing new things together. This will get you back to your roots of when you first met. Everything you did together was new back then, so consciously doing new things will help you remember where the sparks came from.As you are doing new things together, pretend you are on a first date. On your first date, you tried to impress by dressing nicely and being on your best behavior., Some relationship problems are difficult to solve without outside help. You might want to consider seeking professional couple’s counselling to help overcome your issues. A counselor is professionally trained to give you both equal time to share your feelings and will provide guidance on how to overcome your issues.Be as honest as possible and ask each other and the counselor questions. Make the most of your couple’s therapy by being actively involved.