 Certain models are known for their distinctive personalities, which they bring into every photo shoot. If you want to be a top model, choose a pose that emulates your distinct attitude.


Dorian Leigh was known for her distinct brand of femininity. Twiggy was known for her charm and girlishness.Jon Kortajarena was known for sex appeal. Sean O' Pry was known for his coy attitude.What is unique about you? Do you have a special personality trait you can use as a model? Say you're a little quirky. Maybe you can smile more widely or laugh during pictures. Are you a brooding, serious type? Consider gazing off screen during pictures. Try to make it look like you were lost in thought when the photo was taken.
 Remember, the primary focus of the picture is you and not the pose. You want your expression and looks to speak for themselves. Do not get too caught up fancy footwork or weird arm movements. While it's okay to have fun and be creative when posing, your pose should not overshadow you. Sometimes, a simple pose is great.Try to relax. Practice taking a few pictures of yourself standing in a way that feels natural. Smile or give an open-mouthed gaze at the camera. Remember your personality. If you're a serious person, give a serious look. If you're fun-loving, offer a grin. See what works and what feels natural.
For example, say your realize you look great from your left side. You can simply stand, with your left side turned slightly to the camera. Place your hands on your hips, slimming down your waist and arms. Turn your head towards the camera, remembering not to look directly at the lens. Then, offer an expression that suits you. Smile if you want to smile or open your mouth slightly while gazing into space thoughtfully. This is a simple pose that can allow your personality to shine.
 Modeling is stressful. When striking a pose, it can be easy to forget certain body parts. For example, you may unconsciously clench your fists when nervous. Try to pay attention to your whole body as you pose.


Right before the photos begin, do a quick body check. Move from your head, to your neck, to your shoulders, and so on, making sure everything is posed accordingly.
The hands are often neglected. Remember to keep your hands loose and your fingers bent slightly. Also, remember to bounce your shoulders up a bit. This is another body part that is often forgotten when focusing on getting the right expression.
Pay attention to your feet and legs if you're doing a full body shot. Remember, standing straight up can look awkward. Try to bend your knee a little, lifting one foot off the ground. If you're doing an action shot, move as if you're running or walking.
 Before choosing a pose of your own, doing some research can help. Browse advertisements and websites like Pinterest and Instagram, looking for pictures of models and photo-shoots. Pay attention to how models are posing.


Vogue, Glamour, and V Magazine are great places to look for poses. Pay attention to how the models use their bodies. Are they turned directly to the camera, or slightly to the side? How do they hold their arms? How do they use their hands? Are their legs held stiff or bent slightly?You can also Google image things like "pose" and "models." Practice emulating some poses in front of a mirror. Have a friend help, asking him or her to tell which poses look natural and fun for you.