 You have probably heard that the first step to tackling a problem is to admit that you have one. If you suspect that you might be watching too much television, take a week to prove it. For one week, watch as much television as you normally do, but keep a log. At the end of the week add it up, and astonish yourself with how much time you’ve been wasting in front of the screen.Once you have your weekly amount, think about all the other things you could have done with that time.
It could have been 10 hours studying, 15 hours at the gym, or 20 hours practicing guitar.
 One popular tactic is to allow yourself only a certain number of hours (or minutes) of TV time per day. Start by limiting yourself to one hour per day. Then, once you are comfortable with that amount, maybe try to do half an hour per day, or one hour every other day., Rather than simply giving yourself TV time each day “for free,” you may want to use TV as a reward. For example, if you work out for 45 minutes, maybe this earns you 45 minutes of TV time. If you finish that letter you’ve been meaning to write, maybe this earns you another 15. This way, you’re still getting your hour to unwind in front of the TV, but you’ve also completed some important tasks in the process.You may want to create a list that details the number of TV minutes certain tasks are worth.
You may still want to enforce a daily cap (such as 1-2 hours).
 Eating in front of the television is an addicting habit. Not only has this been shown to have negative effects on your waistline, but it encourages longer and more frequent TV watching. Break the habit! Focus on eating your food when its time to eat, and pay close attention to the TV when it is time for TV., You can use any trick in the book, but ultimately your choice to watch less TV is going to come down to willpower. Willpower is like a muscle: the more you exercise it, the stronger it becomes. Watching less television is an important lifestyle adjustment that can have very positive benefits for you. Try to be strong and follow the goals you have set for yourself.