 A pantry is best located near your kitchen since most pantry items are food, cookware, dishes and other utensils.


Look for a closet in a clean, dark place that can be converted to a pantry. Make sure it does not share a wall with a laundry room or a room that holds a lot of computers or electronics. That might contribute to overheating your pantry and spoiling your food.;
,


Hang coats on hooks you keep on the wall, or on hangers in your bedroom closets.
Use other storage in your house or apartment for what you were keeping in the closet. Make use of basements, attics, other closets and storage in your bedrooms, den, living room and office space.
 Avoid an inward door because that will take up too much space in your pantry and make it hard for you to get to anything you store behind the door.


Use the closet door that is already in place if it works for you. Most pantries have a door that swings out, towards the kitchen.
 You will probably be storing food in the space once it becomes a pantry, so you will want it clean and fresh.
 The closet might have overhead light, and if it provides enough illumination for you, leave it as is.


Hire an electrician to set up the wiring required for good lighting. You will need to be able to see everything in your pantry, especially if it is deep.
Install a light that can be turned on by a switch or a string that hangs from the overhead light.
, Shelving will be very important in transforming a closet into a pantry.


Measure the height, width and depth of the pantry to estimate how many shelves you will need.
Look for thick, solid shelves that will make organization easy and efficient. Remember that you will have cans and boxes of differing sizes. You might want to vary the amount of space between shelves. Some pantries also use wire shelving.
Consider ease of access. While deep pantry shelves may allow you to store more canned goods, having to reach all the way back into the deepest part of the pantry might be difficult.



Ask for quotes on what it would cost to have your shelves installed by a professional. If you buy the shelving at a major home repair store, you can ask for a consultant to come and help you.
 Some people are satisfied just to have a pantry with some shelves for their food. Others like more detail and put racks to hold spices on the door, outlets in the wall to plug in appliances and decorative elements that make the pantry look custom designed and inviting.
 Use it supplies or dining linens.

