 Before beginning the cleaning process, protect the area where you will be cleaning. Lay out a plastic sheet underneath your rolling desk chair., It’s easier to work with the wheels of your chair when they are elevated and fully exposed., Most rolling desk chair wheels can be removed by simply pulling on them. However, some models require a screwdriver or wrench in order to remove the wheels. If the wheels of your chair cannot be removed, remove the base or legs of the chair from the upper seat portion.
 Remove any small objects, stickers or larger pieces of debris that can easily be removed by hand.
 If any debris seems stuck, grab a pair of tweezers to remove it.Other tools to help remove debris include scissors, nail clippers, bottle cutters and screwdrivers.
 Cut a strip of duct tape so that it can fit inside the wheel. Pat the piece of duct tape into the wheel so that the sticky tape can trap the small pieces of dirt. Once the dirt has attached to the piece of tape, remove the tape from the wheel and discard it., Use a vacuum to capture any small pieces of dirt or debris that could not be picked up with tape. Ensure you are using a smaller vacuum attachment for easier access., Scrub the outside of the wheel with a strong scrub brush. You may want to lightly soak the brush in soapy water., Hold the knife so that it is parallel to the wheel. Slice in the direction that the wheel spins., Allow the wheels to soak in a soapy water mixture for at least 10 minutes. You may use a brush to continue scrubbing them while they soak. It is important that you clean the inside of the wheels and remove outer debris first before soaking them.If the wheels of your chair cannot be removed, use a hose to power wash the wheels and base of your chair. This may require moving your chair base outside or into the tub. The pressure of the hose may also help to loosen and remove debris.
An alternate method to soaking the wheels is cleaning them with a cloth soaked in surface cleaner followed by a cotton pad soaked in rubbing alcohol., It is important to let the wheels dry thoroughly so that the moisture does not attract more dirt or debris. Dry with a cloth or let dry for a period of time. You may use a cotton swab to dry smaller areas you are unable to reach with a cloth., Once they are dry, put the wheels back on your chair or re-attach the base using the same tools you used to unattach them. Test that your chair is rolling smoothly by pushing it around the floor.