 If you conduct a general search on the Internet for the phrase "warrant search," you will find many third party commercial websites. These sites collect information from a range of publicly available sources about any individual that you wish to search. When you obtain the list of sites, you should check them to see what they claim and how wide their searches will be.For example, the site SpyFly.com asserts that its site is "Completely Confidential and Anonymous" and that it searches "over a billion pieces of specific information."
The site PublicRecordsReviews.com claims that "Warrant Lookup is available instantly. We allow you to search for free and to do unlimited searches on all records included in Warrant Lookup.", Realize that the commercial search engines are in the business primarily to make money, not to provide a public service or source of information. As a result, you need to be careful about the information that you find. Do not act exclusively on information that you receive from commercial search engines.


For example, the disclaimer on SpyFly.com says, "Please be EXTREMELY careful when reviewing a person's criminal history. Please DO NOT use this information without further investigating the accuracy of the information."The site InstantCheckmate.com contains a disclaimer that says, "The information available on our website may not be 100% accurate, complete or up to date, so do not use it as a substitute for your own due diligence."

, Most commercial search engines will allow you to initiate your search with just the subject's name. In some cases, if you are not certain of the correct spelling, you are able to mark a box that indicates that the name is approximate, and the computer will conduct a broader search.


For example, on the site InstantCheckmate.com, you can begin your search by entering only the subject's name. If you have a single state in mind, you can also select that to narrow the results that you will get., If you can narrow the search, your search is likely to result in more useful information. Some commercial sites will provide the opportunity for you to provide additional information. If you have the information available, your results will likely be more useful. This additional information could include any of the following:court name
case name, if applicable
case number
appearance of the individual
last known residential address

, An initial search, based only on name and state can result in as many as two or three dozen, or more, matches. On InstantCheckmate.com, for example, you will be offered the opportunity to conduct an advanced search. If you select this option, you will be prompted to provide a middle initial, current or previous city of residence, and the subject's age. Providing this added information will make your search more focused and more reliable., The initial level of searching on most commercial sites will provide you with just a list of names or places of residence that have turned up some information. You do not actually get to see the information from the public records. To see the report, you then need to choose one of the people from the list and click on "Show Report." This will then take a few minutes for the search engine to compile the actual report from the public records. During the process, you will see an update of the type of records being searched.


For example, during a search on InstantCheckmate.com, the report shows your progress through "Popular Records," "Criminal and Arrest Summary," "Social Media Summary," "Relative Selector," and "State Records Summary.", After the search is complete, you will be prompted to enter your name and email address if you wish to receive an electronic copy of the search results.Be aware that, on many sites, by providing your email address, you may be adding your name to an email list for that company.
 On most sites, you are required to pay to see the final report. Payment is generally completed by providing a credit card number, along with your name, expiration date and security code. Some sites accept payment through PayPal as well.You will need to select a payment option from two or three different choices:Single fee for obtaining the single current report
One month subscription fee
Three month subscription fee
You must read the disclaimer information carefully when making payment. On many sites, signing up for the subscription includes a recurring payment that will automatically deduct from your credit card each month, until you call to cancel.
 The results that you obtain from commercial sites are not going to be as reliable as the information you would get directly from a court or law enforcement official site. The commercial sites are readily available and are quicker to use. However, after you get information from a commercial search engine, you should then visit the official governmental site and attempt to confirm the information.For example, if an online search turns up a report of a warrant for unpaid child support in Oklahoma City, you could then call the court clerk in Oklahoma City. Ask directly, “I am calling to confirm some information. Do you have a record of an outstanding warrant for Mr. X (fill in the name)?”

