 Online volunteering is still volunteering, so it's worth choosing something you find fun.;
, Visit PGDP.net, which is a website for proofreading texts before being added to Gutenberg.org, the free ebooks website. Volunteers review a scanned page image and the corresponding OCR text on a single web page. They then compare the text to be easily compared to the image, proofread, and sent back to the site. A second volunteer then verifies and corrects the first volunteer's work and submits it back to the site. The book then similarly progresses through two formatting rounds using the same web interface. Register for a free account there and acquaint yourself with the website.
 Librivox is a group of volunteers recording chapters of books in the public domain and release the audio files back onto the net. Their goal is to make all public domain books available as free audio books. It's easy to volunteer. All you need is a computer with a microphone, some free recording software, and your own voice.
 If you would like to write your own material instead of just reading that of others, then try writing for a wiki. Wikipedia is the big one that everyone has heard of, and wikiHow is the one you are visiting now, but there are thousands of wikis on all conceivable subjects, ie PlanetMath, an online mathematics encyclopedia. You can contribute your knowledge or creativity and get to know other community members with similar interests.


Participating in a wiki does not only mean writing. It can be as simple as fixing a spelling error when you happen to see one.
 Even when you are not using it, your computer can help the world's researchers to perform calculations in a process known as distributed computing. SETI@home is among the most famous such platforms, but there are many. For a more down-to-earth project, try Folding@home, instead. It is a project to calculate and document protein folding and learn more about the proteins that can affect various diseases. If you'd like more options, do a Google search on "distributed computing".
 You can help others to learn a language by becoming a conversation partner (an especially good choice if you are also trying to learn a language). There are many other online tutoring opportunities, paid and unpaid; formal and informal.
 Even placing a link on your blog to a favorite organization or charity can help to publicize their cause. Many organizations need online volunteers to perform various tasks.

