 Different flowers have different growing times, so your bouquet may be constrained by what can grow in time for your event. Most flowers take 1-3 years to reach maturity, so it’s wise to start planning your homegrown bouquet with at least that much time to spare.Keep in mind that annual flowers usually grow more quickly than perennials, which can take longer to get established.


Some examples of annual varieties that do well in home gardens include sweet peas, dahlias, zinnias, and sunflowers.Some examples of perennial varieties that do well in home gardens are baby’s breath, black-eyed susans, daffodils and tulips.;
, Consult the Old Farmer’s Almanac to see which flowers are a good match for the weather patterns and temperature in your area. Certain flowers, particularly annuals, only come into bloom during specific months of the year in cooler area. Other flowers can’t tolerate heat and will wilt if you live in a tropical or desert climate., Maximize the amount of options that will be available to you by planting flowers that will be in season for your event.If your event will be in September, research flowers that will come into bloom around that time. If your event is in early April, it doesn’t make sense to plant a flower that doesn’t bloom until late summer. Gardening magazines can provide good information about the seasonality of your desired flowers.


If you have a greenhouse available for growing, this is less relevant, as you can regulate the climate according to your flowers’ needs.
Full sun is considered six or more hours of direct sun a day. Partial sun is four to six hours of sun a day. And shade is less than four hours of sun a day., Whether you’re getting married at city hall or having a rustic farm ceremony, there are flowers to complement your personal style. Keep the theme of your wedding or event in mind as you plan what type of flowers and greenery you’ll be growing in your garden. If you don’t know where to start, look to your favorite pieces of clothing for some personal style inspiration.


Are you someone who favors classic blue jeans? Maybe white roses, which never go out of style, are perfect for you. Or perhaps you’re more into billowy bohemian tops? Baby’s breath could be your throwback to eras gone by.
 Check out bridal magazines and Pinterest to get some inspiration for your bouquet. Make a list of the colors and types of flowers that appeal to you. Do you like all one kind or a mix of wildflowers? Strive for a look that suits your aesthetic desires while also meeting your growing capability based on space, seasonality, etc.


Many gardening shops actually sell bouquet seed mixes. If you select one, you won’t have to worry about your bouquet aesthetically “going” together or not, as the flowers have been selected to complement one another. Many mixes also call for one set of growing conditions, which streamlines planting.
 Now that you know what will be in season, find out the shade and space needs of your desired flowers. Certain flowers prefer more shade or sun than others. Similarly, some flowers don’t mind being crowded while others need to be plants a certain distance from others to get the nutrients they need. Observe your yard at different times of day to see what spots will give your flowers what they need to thrive.


Most garden shops can give you an idea of a particular flower’s needs for sun and space.
 Before planting your flowers, weed your flowerbed to clear any roots or competing plants from the area. Remove weeds at the root so they don’t grow back to contend with your flowers for sunlight and water., Use a rake to aerate all of the dirt where you’ll be planting. Be sure to break up any clumps of earth or loosen any debris from your flowerbed. This will make it easier for your flowers to take root and grow. When you’re done raking, the soil should be loose and light.
 Spread 2-3 in (5-7.5 cm) of organic matter such as compost, old leaves or manure on top of your raked area to help fortify your soil with nutrients.This will give your flower seeds a good place to germinate and ensure your soil has a good balance of nutritional support.
 Follow the directions on the back of your seed packs to plant your flowers at the right depth and spacing for them to thrive. Water the seeds well right away so they can begin growing.Note how often each type of flower requires watering, and make a calendar reminder for yourself so each one gets the amount of water it needs.
 Greenery in a bouquet is a bit more flexible and less time-sensitive than the flowers. You can grow herbs, which mature rather quickly, and add them to your bouquet for a fresh or unique scent. Scan your yard to see if there are any existing greens that appeal to you as well. Twigs and budding branches, such as pussy willows, can add visual interest to your bouquet without much additional work.


You can always trim non-flowering stalks from your flowers to add some green that complements your bouquet seamlessly. It is not necessary to plant greens unless there are particular ones vital to your look.
 Use clean, sharp scissors to cut the mature flowers for your bouquet shortly before your event. Bring a bucket of cool water out with you for harvest, and place the flowers immediately into the water while you cut the rest of your bouquet. The longer the flowers remain attached to the plant the longer they will last.


Most commercial florists use preservatives like silver nitrate to extend floral life.Homegrown flowers are beautiful but won’t be nearly as resilient.
 To make your bouquet more cohesive, trim all your flowers to a similar length before starting. This is also a good time to dethorn roses and remove any brown or pockmarked leaves you find unattractive.
 Start by placing 2-4 larger flowers in the center of the bouquet to anchor the look. Use floral tape to wrap these flowers to one another. This is the base to which you will wrap and attach other flowers. Add bits of greenery and additional flowers, mixing colors and textures for interest.Wrap floral tape around each flower or stem to secure it to your anchor as you go.
 Use a ribbon to cover the floral tape securing your bouquet for a more polished look. Use a floral pin to secure one end of the ribbon to the floral tape and wrap around the bundle, pinning the finished end with another floral pin to secure it. , If you want a bouquet made from your own flowers, but feel nervous about composing a bouquet yourself, ask a local florist. Many florists are happy to use your flowers to create something professional and polished with your blooms for a small fee.

