 To help you get a better sense of your story idea, you should write out a rough plot summary or a synopsis of your film. Your plot summary should identify the film’s protagonist, the film’s antagonist, and the goal of the film, or the call to action for your characters.


For example, the synopsis of Toy Story is: This 3D animated feature tells the story of a pull-string cowboy doll named Woody, who is the leader of the toys until the latest action figure, astronaut Buzz Lightyear, is added to the toy box. When Woody and Buzz are separated from their owner, they are forced to set aside their differences and work together to defeat a mean kid and return to the boy they both love.This synopsis is strong because it identifies the protagonists of the film (the cowboy and the astronaut), it identifies their antagonist or conflict (separation from their owner), and it discusses their goal (getting back to their owner by working together).;
, Once you have a strong plot summary, you will need to sit down and write out a rough draft of a screenplay for your film. The length of your screenplay will depend on how long you are planning to make your film. Most feature films are 100-120 pages long and are broken into three main acts. If you are planning to write a short film, it may be 40-50 pages long, depending on the desired length of the film.


As you write your screenplay, you should keep in mind the goals of your characters and the overall meaning of the film. Many script writers will create an initial flash draft, or first attempt, to get their ideas down and sketch out scenes. They will then go back and revise the script, cutting any drawn out scenes and adding in any necessary scenes to flesh out the story.
 It can be overwhelming to try to take a long script and turn it into a film. Make the storyboard process easier by focusing on one scene at a time, breaking down each scene into a series of shots. A shot is when the camera turns on to cover an event or action until it is turned off, so it is considered continuous footage with no cuts. You should evaluate each shot so you know what is required for each shot before you start to make the film.Consider the location setting for the shot. Is the scene all going to shot in one location or are their multiple locations for the scene? What will be in the shot in terms of setting?
You should also think about how many actors are required for the shot and if you need any props in the shot. Because you will be creating an animated film, you should list any props or effects you will need to build during the animation process.
Think about the type of shot you are going to use, such as a close-up, an establishing shot, or a wide-shot. You should also think about the angle of the shot, or where the camera is shooting from in the setting. Maybe you will use a high angle shot for a dramatic establishing shot or a low angle shot for a close shot of a character. Consider how the camera is going to move in the shot, will it follow the actor or the props in the shot?

, A shot list will help you get a better sense of what is required for each shot and make it easier for you to translate them into separate storyboard panels. Your shot list should cover the major shots for each scene and identify all characters, locations, and props for each shot.


Your shot list will likely change or shift as you start to build the film so do not get too attached to it. But you should still create a detailed shot list as a guide as you start to build your film.
 Storyboard panels look like boxes on a blank sheet of paper that you can then fill with a drawing of each shot on your shot list. You can buy pads of storyboard panels at your local art store or draw out your own panels. You should have four to six boxes per 8 ½ x 11 piece of white paper, with enough space between each panel so they are easy to read and follow.When drawing storyboards for an animated film, it is important that you try to think in a 3-D perspective. This will give your storyboard drawings more depth and as a result, give the shots in your film more depth. You can create a grid floor on the storyboard panels to help give the drawings more depth and perspective.
Try to add in as much detail as possible in your storyboards, especially for major shots or scenes. Use all areas of the panel, including the foreground, background, and mid-ground.
If you have more than one character in a shot, try to group them together and label them so they are easy to identify. You should also make sure all your characters are easy to recognize on the storyboard panels, whether it is with a label, a physical marker, or an arrow with their name. This will help you remember which character is in each shot when you sit down to build your film.

