 If the guinea pig is slow and lethargic, that's not a good sign. Of course, a guinea pig that is just waking up may be a little slow. However, a healthy guinea pig will be moving about the cage, using all four legs. It will be curious about its surroundings, including visitors like you.Lethargic guinea pigs could have a vitamin C deficiency.
If they are deficient, they may also have a limp or exhibit a number of other symptoms, from a dull, mangy coat to diarrhea.;
, A healthy guinea pig will have a full coat of fur. In addition to being full, it should be fluffy and silky. See if you can tell what the fur is like as the guinea pig runs around the cage.Patches of missing fur and raw spots can be a sign of illness.
Problems with its coat could be a sign of a fungal infection or mange mites. A rough coat could also indicate a upper respiratory tract infection., The guinea pig's eyes should be clear. You shouldn't see any cloudiness. You also shouldn't see any crustiness around the eyes. If you can't tell from outside the cage, examine the eyes again when you hold the guinea pig.Cloudy eyes can be a symptom of several conditions. The most likely culprit is an upper respiratory infection. If left untreated, the guinea pig will die, but it likely can be treated with antibiotics safe for guinea pigs.
Allergies could be another cause.
Oozing from the eye could be a sign the guinea pig has conjunctivitis., Similar to cloudy eyes, a runny nose can be a symptom of a number of problems. Check to see if it's nose has a discharge, which you should be able to see from a distance. If you can't, check again when you pick the guinea pig up.A runny nose can be a sign of pneumonia, for one.
It can also be a sign of any number of bacterial infections, as well., Diarrhea and other symptoms of an upset stomach can indicate sickness in the guinea pig. Look in the corners of the cage or the guinea pig's litter box to see if you find any diarrhea.Diarrhea can be a symptom of a bacterial infection or a virus. It can also be a sign the guinea pig has parasites of some sort.
Once you pick the guinea pig up, you can also check its rear end for signs of diarrhea.
 Drooling may seem fairly innocent, but it can actually be a symptom of a common guinea pig condition. In fact, the condition is sometimes referred to as "slobbers" because of the drool.This condition is usually a sign that the teeth are out of alignment, causing problems with eating. In fact, you can also look at the guinea pig's teeth to check to see if they're aligned. The two top front teeth should fit perfectly over the two bottom teeth.The condition can be caused by any number of factors, from a lack of vitamin C to genetics.
While a guinea pig can live with this condition, it will likely need to have some teeth filed down at the vet, and it may need regular vet visits.
 Take a moment to hear what its breathing sounds like. Its breath should be soft. You shouldn't hear wheezing, for instance. In addition, the guinea pig shouldn't look like it is having trouble breathing., Discharge from the ear could be a sign of an ear infection. Ear infections, though rare, often mean the guinea pig has another issue, such as pneumonia.Another bad sign with the ears is a bad smell coming from them. Take a quick sniff near the guinea pig ears to check for smells.
Also check to see if the ears have a build up of wax in them.To look at a guinea pig's ears, gently lift one up and peer inside.
 If you see any signs of blood near its anus, that is a bad sign. You can also look in its litter box to see if there is a blood in its stool. Either way, blood in the feces or anus is not a sign of a healthy guinea pig. Blood can indicate anything from bladder stones to pyometra.Blood in the urine is also bad, as it can indicate similar problems. It can also indicate urinary tract infections. Basically, if you see any blood where the guinea pig goes to the bathroom, that's not a great sign.
To check the rear end, gently lift the tail to look at the anal area.
 Shelters are often overrun with guinea pigs that need good homes. Plus, shelters that take guinea pigs often have a better idea of how to care for them than pet stores. Many pet stores do not properly care for guinea pigs., When looking at a guinea pig, make sure it doesn't show signs of the symptoms above. In addition, try to pick one that is friendly towards you and shows some affection, though it may take a while for a guinea pig to warm up to you.
 Once you choose a guinea pig, it's a good idea to have it checked out by a veterinarian. You should pick out a vet that has experience with small animals like guinea pigs.A vet will be able to identify signs of sickness better than you.
Don't jump to conclusions if your vet says your guinea pig is sick. Many diseases are treatable.

