 DMV.org is a popular website that allows you to access driving records from most states. Go to the driving record page of DMV.org, here.


This website is not affiliated with any state's department of licensing, but is instead an independent, privately-owned company.
The site’s primary advantage is convenience. You can access the information quickly and easily in a clear, understandable format. The drawback is that it typically costs a little more than getting your records directly from the state.
The driving record from DMV.org is not an official record, so if you need a certified record, you must go through your state DMV (usually by going directly to a DMV office).
 Drag your mouse over your state on the map and click on it to select the state in which you live. You can also make your selection via a drop-down menu in the top right corner and a list of states you can click on at the bottom of the page.


Not every state's driving records are available through this website.
In particular, the northeastern part of the United States is largely excluded. In such cases, DMV.org provides links to those states' official services.
 On the next page, enter your name, address, and driver's license number. If you have not lived at your current address for at least two years, click the appropriate box, and enter your previous address.


If you are ever confused or need assistance, then you can click on “Contact DMV.org” toward the bottom of the page. This link will take you to a page where you can ask a question.
 Make sure the information looks correct and decide whether you want a copy of the report emailed to you.


There is an additional fee for this service, which provides your driving history in a format that you can retain with your electronic records.
 After advancing to the next screen, you will need to review and agree to the privacy policies before your records can be provided. Provide your email address as needed, and advance to the payment screen to finalize your purchase.

