 Each message board is different from another, so don't assume that you can magically start trading automatically even if you know couponing basics. Some boards may have posting minimum requirements before a person can start trading, limitations until a person has a certain amount of trading ratings, etc.;
, Aside from trading, the entire point of these message boards is to get and share knowledge with others about scoring great deals. By interaction, everyone can gain trust and knowledge about others and their budgeting lifestyles.
 Besides the general couponing lingo, there are abbreviations and phrases applied to coupon trading.


CC: "Concealed Cash" - Actual money in an envelope; always "concealed" by a card or folded paper from prying eyes in the mailing process.
Envie: "Envelope"
FSOT: "For Sale or Trade" - The deals that a person is willing to sell or trade with others.
GC: "Gift Card" - Many people will trade gift cards for a cash value, coupons, or other deals.
H: "Have" - This is what a person has in their possession.
ISO: "In Search Of" - This is what a person is search of for their needs.
IVSO: "In Very Search Of" - This is what a person really needs as soon as possible.
Potluck - This is an envelope with a mixture of coupons. It can be either a specific category (Baby, Food, Pet, etc) or the seller will offer a list of the available coupons they have for the trader/buyer to select from.
PP: "PayPal" - To avoid additional costs, most people request a PayPal gift. To their discretion, they might add in the shipping costs in their deals.
RAOK: "Random Acts of Kindness" - By performing this, you are giving away coupons and deals without wanting anything in return.
W: "Want" - This is what a person wants in a trade.
 If you see someone offering a sale or trade with something you need or want, work things out in private messages.


Make sure that both of you agree and confirm to the trade.
Trade mailing addresses and/or PayPal email addresses after it's been confirmed.
Mail any envelopes as soon as you can, preferably the next morning. If there are any delays, always notify the other trader so that they can estimate on when their trade would arrive.
If you are new or do not have trading experience on that particular forum, you may be required to send/mail your trade first. This is on a trust factor in trading. There are lots of times where two people make a deal, but one party does not hold up to their end. This results in trust and savings loss.
 Be very honest when doing so. If you received your envelope/trade in a timely manner, always leave positive feedback through their profile. Please know that majority of the trades are mailed are sent on a first class post office schedule, so it might take anywhere between 3 to 7 business days, depending on the distance between the traders. If you have not received your trade in 1 1/2 to 2 weeks, private message the other person to inquire about the trade. If there's no response, you may private message the moderators of the message board. Never leave negative feedback if you received something that you agreed on, but decided you didn't want.
 When a trade is official between two parties, the messages can be treated as proof for any trading concerns/disputes. It is also useful for future trades when you have someone's mailing address.

