 Wearing open shoes lets the air flow around your feet, keeping them cool and keeping you from producing as much sweat. When you do sweat, it will evaporate quickly due to air circulation.


During colder months, wear leather or canvas shoes that allow your feet to "breathe." Steer clear of rubber and plastic shoes.
 Socks absorb your sweat when you wear them, and it dries when you take them off. Putting on a dirty pair of socks for the second day in a row is essentially going to reheat that sweat, leading to a foul smell. Change your socks every day, especially if your feet tend to get sweaty.


Unless you're wearing open shoes; you should always wear socks. Try two pairs of socks to help with the wicking of moisture away from the foot.






When you wash your socks, turn them inside out in the washer, so the dead flakes of skin have a better chance of being washed away.






Go for absorbent socks made of cotton or wool. Non-absorbent socks (like nylon) trap moisture around your foot, making a cozy little nook for bacteria.
 Dust out yesterday's baking soda before adding the fresh amount. Baking soda absorbs moisture and odors.
 Put cedar wood shavings or whole cloves inside your shoes for a few days when you don't need to wear them. The odor will disappear after a few days.
 In addition to cedar wood shavings you can also use cedar wood insoles. The natural cedar wood essential oils have antibacterial and antifungal properties, which fight bacteria and help to cure and prevent foot odor, athlete's foot, and nail fungus. It is also a convenient way without the need for daily routines like powdering or creaming.
 Let your shoes dry out completely so that bacteria don't set up camp in there. It takes at least 24 hours for a shoe to dry out completely.


Take out the insoles to help the drying process along. Otherwise, wearing the same pair day after day is a recipe for stinky feet. Crumple newspaper inside wet shoes so it will dry them overnight.
 Many shoes can be thrown in the washing machine. Just make sure they dry thoroughly before you put them on.
 Whenever you can take a break, and no one is looking, remove your shoes. This helps the shoes and your feet stay drier.
 There are several great, low-wattage shoe and boot dryers that use convection air currents to slowly and completely dry wet, sweaty shoes. Place your footwear on them at the end of the day or workout and put on dry, warm and comfortable shoes about eight hours later. Dryers eliminate the moisture that odor-causing bacteria need to grow and help your shoes to last longer.

