 Make sure your oven racks are placed in the lower third and upper third positions inside the oven. You will be baking the risotto on the lower rack and the squash on the upper rack at the same time. Then preheat the oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit or 190 degrees Celsius., You will be baking the butternut squash on a large, rimmed baking sheet. Tear off a piece of parchment paper that is slightly smaller than the baking sheet. Place the parchment paper on the baking sheet. Set the baking sheet aside., Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a medium or large Dutch oven over medium heat. Add the onion and a pinch of salt. Cook until the onion is translucent, or about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for an additional 1-2 minutes., Cover the Dutch oven. Bring the liquids to a boil over medium-high heat. Remove from heat., After you bring the liquids to a boil and remove the Dutch oven from the heat, you will add the rice. Place the rice in the Dutch oven. Stir to combine using a wooden spoon., After you stir in the rice, put the lid on the Dutch oven. Place the Dutch oven on the lowest oven rack. Bake for about 65-70 minutes, or until rice is done and a little bit dry. Remove from oven., Right after you place the rice in the oven, toss the squash with 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a large bowl. Then place the squash in a single layer on the parchment papered baking sheet. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Bake on the top oven rack for 50-60 minutes. Remove from oven.You can start testing the squash with a fork at about 40 minutes for tenderness.
The squash is done when you can easily pierce it with a fork.
 Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil over medium heat in a large or medium skillet. When the oil begins to shimmer, add the sage. Toss to coat. Fry until the sage is dark green and crispy, but not brown. This should take 2-5 seconds. Transfer to a plate covered with a paper towel and sprinkle with salt., After you remove the Dutch oven from the oven, add the final cup (240 mL) of broth to the rice. Then add the Parmesan, wine, and butter. Use the wooden spoon to combine the ingredients. Stir for 2-3 minutes, or until the rice is creamy., Then add a pinch of red pepper flakes. Add more salt and pepper if desired. You can also add more red pepper flakes if you desire a spicier rice dish., Serve the risotto in individual bowls. Top each bowl with a sprinkle of fried sage. Enjoy!