 TextWrangler and EditRocket are both code editing applications that let you view and edit different scripting language files such as PHP. You can download TextWrangler directly from the company’s website, or through the App store on your computer.Once your application has downloaded, run the .dmg file if you downloaded from the internet. Drag the TextWrangler icon over to your Applications folder.
If you downloaded an application from the App store, it will automatically get placed into your Applications folder.
 Find the PHP file you want to open whether it’s on your desktop or in a directory of folders. Once you’ve located the file, right click on it. Select the “Open With” option.


Once you click “Open With” you will see a list of applications pop up. Click on the TextWrangler, or other code editing application. Your PHP file will open in your desired application.
 If the application you downloaded, like TextWrangler, isn’t showing up in your list click “Other…”. Doing this will bring up a window with a list of applications to choose from. Scroll down until you find the application you want and click “Open”.


Though this shouldn’t happen, if for some reason the application is grayed out, click the drop-down menu next to “Enable”. Then click on “All Applications”.
You can also choose to click the box next to “Always Open With”. The next time you need to open a PHP file, it will automatically launch your desired code editing application.
 Another way to make opening PHP files easier in the future is by making the app you’ve downloaded your default app for this file type.


Click on your PHP file, but don’t open it. You just want to highlight it.
Press “Command” and “I” at the same time. this will bring up an informational panel for the file.
Locate the option that says “Open with:” and click on the dropdown bar. Click on the name of the app you downloaded. Below you will see an option to “Change All…”. Clicking this will make it so all PHP files in the future are opened with this app.
You will be able to double click to open PHP files now.

