 Before you can make any positive changes and move away from any potentially racist behaviors, it is best to correctly identify what racism is. Racism is the belief that another race of people is inferior to your own. Racism occurs both on an individual and societal level.


For example, one person may have preconceived beliefs and notions that persons from a different race are flawed. Or, society’s messages may convey that people from a particular race are inferior to another.
Racism is a systemic issue and not just the issue of a few people.;
, Racism is not just about the inaccurate beliefs and derogatory statements of a particular race of people. There are in fact several different types of racism that you may want to learn about.



Benevolent Racism. Identifying members of a race as sympathetic but incompetent.

Cultural Racism. The belief that the culture of a race is flawed.

Hostile Racism. The belief that a particular race is inferior to your own.

Institutional Racism. This works on a macro-level, where our social institutions, (government agencies, courts, or other large systems), perpetuate a system of inequality based on race (I.e., goods and services are disproportionate and often suppressed for minority groups).

Colorblind Racism. The belief that racism does not matter, and that racism no longer exists.

Genetic Determinism. The belief that a particular race is biologically inferior to another.

Internalized Racism. When someone’s internal dialogue becomes racist. For instance, someone may consciously internalize negative attitudes, beliefs, biases, or stereotype members of a race or ethnic group.
 Awareness is always the very first step in any process of change. You need to know when and how you make these comments in order to stop. Pay attention to your interactions with others and any thoughts you have regarding those who are different.


Try to understand the circumstances that lead to your racist comments and any thoughts or feelings you have when you make them. Keep a log in a journal or your phone’s note-taking app.
 Now you need to delve deeper and get some insight into why you make these comments. Sometimes, people repurpose racist jokes that they have heard from elder members of their community, not knowing how they sting. Or, you might make a remark with the intention of winning favor with a certain group of people.Analyze the racist comments you make. Try to find the “why” behind these remarks.
 In order to effectively end hate speech, you need to keep perspective. It can be easy to type out a nasty comment online or express it within the comfort of your home because you don’t witness the ramifications.


The truth is your racist comments negatively impact those they are directed at. Your words may reinforce negative stereotypes and even make people perceive you poorly.Spend some time stepping into the shoes of the person or group you criticize. How would you feel if those same words were directed at you?

, Those who are subject to racism are at a greater risk of developing physical and/or mental health problems.


For example, when institutional racism is applied, it inhibits one’s access to quality and effective medical and mental health care. This in turn leads to unaddressed medical and mental health issues.
On an individual level, a victim of racist comments and actions is at higher risk of developing depression, anxiety, and stress. When someone is in a prolonged state of these three mental health conditions, it increases their risk of other illnesses such as, colds, seasonal illnesses, heart disease, and cancer.
Additionally, chronic exposure to racism and chronic stress lead to poor health choices (tobacco, alcohol, drugs).
 You must make amends for ugly remarks you make about others. This helps you take ownership for inappropriate comments and shows others that you feel remorse. If you make an in-person comment, apologize immediately. If you cannot rectify your words in the heat of the moment, do so as soon as you can.Say something like “I realize how insensitive my words were. I apologize and I hope you will allow me to make amends.”
Or, you might send an email or letter at a later date. Say something along the lines of “I spoke harshly about you last week. I apologize. My relationship with you is important to me. What can I do to make this better?”

