 If you are gender variant, begin your appointment by telling the nurse or doctor the correct pronouns to use when speaking with you, the name you are to be called (as it may differ from that on your insurance card), and how you refer to your body parts. If you are comfortable with gendered anatomical language, let your doctor know that as well, but reiterate that you are firm that your pronouns and name reflect who you are.Some hospitals or larger practices employ Trans Health advocates or experts. Ask if one is available to assist you in making and managing your appointments. Many times they will contact office staff before your appointment to address your name, pronouns, and preferred body conversations.If you are a transman, you might consider going to Planned Parenthood for gynecological exams.
Also, wherever you fall on the spectrum, consider going to LGBTQIA health centers for your medical needs.
 Distracting the mind does wonders for alleviating anxiety and even helping block out pain. Bring something engaging to do with you while at the doctor’s office, which should distract you and calm your discomfort a bit. Make sure that whatever you bring is not noisy or distracting to others.Books and e-readers are great options.
Smartphones and tablets are also great to bring along. You can surf the web, play games, or explore other apps.
 Some patients are more comfortable if someone of the same gender is present during the appointment. If you are a female being examined by a male doctor and you need to undress completely, you can request for a female nurse to be present, and if you’re male, of course the same is true for you. If no nurse is available at that time, you may ask for a new appointment or an alternate doctor. Usually this is unnecessary, but you have a right to feel secure., A doctor that doesn’t seem interested in listening to your concerns, talking with you, or who has one foot out the door can be off-putting and make you pretty nervous. This may make you even more uncomfortable about undressing for an examination. Let your doctor know how you’re feeling can go a long way in helping alleviate your discomfort and improving the power dynamic between you both.If you’re interrupted, simply say, “May I finish talking, please?
If you’re uncomfortable with how you’re being treated, say so. “You seem to be pretty distracted and I’m uncomfortable with the idea of undressing for an examination because of it.”

, Although you’ve been asked to disrobe, completely or partially, and to cover back up with a gown or large paper sheet, you have the right to decline. No doctor or nurse can force you to disrobe for an examination. Politely decline and ask for an alternative to disrobing.You can say, “I’m uncomfortable with undressing here and choose to keep my clothes on. What alternatives do you suggest?”
The nurse may tell you that you have to disrobe so that the doctor can examine you. You don’t have to disrobe for anyone unless you choose to do so. You can say, “I appreciate that you’re saying that taking my clothes off would make the examination easier, but how about the doctor just lift up my shirt as necessary?”
As a compromise, you can request a gown or sheet so that you’re covered but still accessible for the doctor.
 You have a right to stop the appointment or examination at any time, which must be respected by doctors and nurses alike. The only exception to this is if you are in the middle of a procedure that would put you in an unsafe position were it not completed, or if equipment is being used that makes stopping immediately an impossible choice., Your body may react to your anxiety about undressing, the temperature of the room, or even the doctor’s examination. While these reactions are not probably what you’d hope for, they’re nothing to be embarrassed about. Your doctor understands that the body has varied reactions and that your reactions aren’t at all sexual.Some common reactions are erections, hardened nipples, underarm odor, and flatulence.

