 Swishing a simple saline solution has some antibacterial properties and may help relieve tongue bumps. It can also help decrease any inflammation that may present with the condition.Dissolve 1/2 a teaspoon of salt in an 8-oz glass of warm water to make your saline solution.
Gargle a mouthful of the salt water for 30 seconds and then gently spit it out.
Swish salt water solution after every meal to remove any debris in your teeth or on your tongue.Repeat this for three to four times a day until tongue bumps disappear.
Do not use saline solution designated for contact lenses as a mouth rinse.;
, There is some evidence that drinking cool or cold liquids can help soothe tongue bumps and reduce any associated inflammation. You can drink cool or cold beverages as a normal part of your daily hydration routine or as necessary to help relieve your discomfort.To keep yourself hydrated, drink at least 9 cups of water a day if you are a woman and 13 cups if you are a man. Persons who are very active and pregnant women need up to 16 cups of water a day., Sucking on an ice cube, ice chips, or an ice pop may help provide additional relief from your bumps.The cold may numb pain and reduce any swelling.As the ice melts, it can help you stay hydrated and minimize the risk of your tongue drying out, which may exacerbate discomfort from the bumps.
You can place ice chips or ice cubes directly on the swollen bump surface of your tongue for an easy application of cold.
Repeat icing as often as necessary.
 Some doctors may suggest consuming soothing foods such as yogurt. These can help relieve any pain or discomfort you may have.Try and eat foods that are cooled to enhance soothing effects.
Dairy products such as yogurt, ice cream, and milk may help alleviate your discomfort.Other foods like pudding or popsicles may also help.
 Certain foods and products may exacerbate any pain or swelling you have with your tongue bumps. Avoid consuming any substance that may make the pain worse, such as spicy or acidic foods or tobacco.


Acidic foods and drinks, such as tomatoes, orange juice, sodas and coffee can make you more uncomfortable. Also avoid pepper, chili powder, cinnamon and mint.
Stay away from cigarettes or chewing tobacco, which can exacerbate your discomfort.
If you suspect that your tongue bumps are a result of a food allergy, omit this food from your diet to see if it resolves the condition.
 Brush and floss your oral cavity every day, including after meals. Combined with regular dental checkups, this can help maintain the health of your teeth, tongue, and gums. A clean mouth may also help prevent tongue bumps.


Make sure to brush and floss after meals if you can. Having debris stuck in your teeth promotes an environment that is rife infection. If you don’t have a toothbrush, chewing a piece of gum can help.See you dentist at least twice a year for cleanings and checkups.
 In most cases, you won’t require any treatment for tongue bumps.The condition usually resolves itself within a few hours or days.If you experiencing any pain or discomfort with your tongue bumps or they don't seem to be going away, you should be seen by your doctor.

