 As a patient under the Baker Act, you have a right to make informed consent. Informed consent is the right to know the risks of the proposed treatment and the alternative treatment.Mental health treatment often includes the use of mental health drugs. Mental health drugs carry FDA warnings such as hallucinations, mania, psychosis, delusions, paranoia, suicidal and homicidal thoughts. Medical causes such as nutritional deficiencies, hormonal imbalances, thyroid imbalances and tumors, can be evidenced by medical tests and can be treated with traditional medical care that does not include the use of the mental health drugs.
 Whether you are being cared for voluntarily or involuntarily, you have the right to talk on the phone with your family, your friends, and your attorney/advocate. The care facility must notify you when the phone will be made available to you to do so., You have the right to visitors during visiting hours.  

, You have the right to a representative to assist you throughout your mental health treatment. The Baker Act provides you this right and includes a list of those who are eligible to be your representative and help you assert your rights:Your spouse
An adult child
A parent
Next of kin
An adult friend

, If you believe that you have been wrongfully detained, you have the right to formally file a paper with the court that questions the legality of your commitment. For this, you will need to rely on your attorney or representative. The writ of habeas corpus needs to be filed in the courthouse of the county where you are being detained and will cause a hearing to review the evidence and procedures surrounding your commitment., You could also file a complaint with the Agency for Health Care Administration or Florida Department of Health if you feel the facility has violated regulations. You can contact a Baker Act Attorney and/or a Mental Health Rights Advocate if you want assistance in asserting your rights or if you want help in filing appropriate complaints.