 To take an action photo of a cat you will need to open up the aperture of the camera. This will allow you to focus on the cat and blur out the background, creating a dramatic effect. Using Aperture Priority Mode will automatically adjust the shutter speed so that you can capture your cat in motion. A wide aperture will require a fast shutter speed.A wide aperture is also necessary for shooting indoors.
 When taking action photos of your cat, you should use a fast shutter speed. This can help to freeze the cat in motion. To create this effect, try setting your shutter speed to 1/500th of a second or higher. To do this, you can shoot in “manual mode” or “shutter priority mode.”Alternatively, you could choose a lower shutter speed. This will blur the image, giving the appearance of motion.
 One way to capture a cat in motion is by setting your camera to automatic mode. This will save you time and will make it easier to take a photo at an unexpected moment. You will not waste time fiddling with the camera settings. For example, the camera will automatically focus, making it easier to capture the cat.This is also a great setting if you are new to photography and you are still learning how to manually adjust the shutter speed and aperture.
 If you want to capture your cat jumping, you could take a picture of the cat taking off, in mid-air, and landing. This will be very difficult to do manually, unless you have cat-like reflexes! Alternatively, you can set your camera to “continuous drive” or “burst mode.” This way your camera will take a series of fast photos and will make it easier for you to get a quality image of your cat in motion., If you are taking photos of a cat, they can have more of an impact if you take them from the cat’s level. Get down on the floor and shoot directly at the cat. You will get a more intimate photo and will do a better job capturing the cat’s personality.For an action shot, you could get down on the floor and take a picture of the cat in hunting mode. This adds drama to the photo and provides a unique angle.

