 If you are new to the clinic, this will give you ample time to fill out any paperwork the office may need in order to perform your exam.
 This can include being asked about your medical history, your history of ocular problems, and your family history. Your pre-test may consist of any of the following:An initial eye test to measure your eye pressure and visual acuity. This may be conducted by a clinical assistant. The main way this test is done is by looking into an instrument that blows a small puff of air into your eye. This can feel startling but lasts only a fraction of a second. The test can also be done by placing an instrument that looks like a pen on the surface of the eyeball. This is not painful — it feel like putting a contact lens in your eye.Pretests done by a clinical assistant may also involve placing your chin on the a chin rest of an instrument and looking at an image of a hot air balloon that goes in and out of focus. This test estimates your distance prescription. Another test may involve looking at a monitor and clicking a button whenever you see a flashing light., The exam will be conducted by your doctor in any of the following ways:


A cover test. This is a simple way to check your your eye alignment. A doctor or clinical assistant will cover one of your eyes and ask you to focus on an object across the room, then an object nearby.A retinoscopy. This test is much simpler than it sounds — the lights in the room are dimmed, you look at a chart with differently-sized letters, and your doctor flips lenses in a machine that’s in front of your eyes until you see the largest letter clearly. Slit lamp exam. For this test, you will rest your chin and forehead on a large instrument that will allow your doctor to examine the back of your eye. You will be asked to look in specific directions as the lamp shines a high-intensity light into your eyes. Sometimes the doctor will also use a hand-held lens to look at the back of your eye.Subjective refraction. The doctor may also show you a series of lens choices and ask you which of the two lenses looks clearer: choice one or choice two? You will pick one of the two options, then the doctor will fine tune and provide you with further options. The process is repeated until you reach the prescription that best matches your needs.
 This will involve taking into consideration your budget, face shape, prescription, and style. Vision insurance plans will often cover a portion of your glasses expenses, but the costs can still run high depending on the type of glasses you get, so set a maximum amount you’re willing to spend on your new glasses and try not to go beyond it.


The strength of your prescription may limit the style of glasses you get. Stronger prescriptions mean thicker lenses. Thick plastic frames can help conceal the lenses, and you may also consider buying high-index lenses, which are thinner and lighter. Take this into consideration when setting a budget, as high-index lenses tend to be more expensive.When setting your budget, also consider whether you will want anti-reflective coating, which will add to the price tag but can reduce your eyestrain and improve your vision by reducing glare.Many anti-glare coatings also have scratch resistance and easy to clean properties also., If you can’t see well with your current prescription, your doctor may recommend making adjustments. This will entail getting new lenses or glasses.


Consider how well you’re taking care of your glasses or your contact lenses. Change your habits, if need be, to prolong the life of your eyewear. If you wear glasses, it is recommended that you clean them with dish soap and a microfiber cloth.If you wear contacts, it is recommended that you take them out every night and rinse them thoroughly.
 Ask your doctor whether you should schedule an annual checkup or whether your visits should be more frequent. The American Optometric Association (AOA) recommends that all adults who require a prescription and any adults who are age 61 or older see their doctor yearly.If you don’t need vision correction and are between ages 18 and 60, the AOA recommends you have an eye exam every two years.
Those who are at risk for visual impairment must follow a different schedule. People between the ages of six and 18 years should have their eyes examined every year. If the eye doctor recommends a different schedule, follow your doctor's recommendation.