 Whether you're a lass or a lad, there's an outfit just right for ye:


Make a pirate shirt
Be a pirate girl

Create a Captain Jack Sparrow pirate costume and don't forget his smoky eyes!.;
, There are a few essentials that "complete" the pirate look. These won't cost too much, especially if sourced from your household supplies or a dollar store.



Make an eyepatch. Read wikiHow's article on how to wear a pirate eyepatch.

Make a pirate hat from paper, or use a costume one.
Carry a pirate flag.
Add a pirate hook to the end of one arm.
Carry a pirate sword, known as a cutlass. A cardboard or plastic one is perfectly fine (and legal to wear around the streets!).
Wear your flashiest jewelry and your loudest, most colorful scarves as "rags".
Add a toy stuffed parrot. Perch the toy parrot to your shoulder. If you can't find a suitable stuffed toy bird, make one from papier mache.
 A pirate without a crew is bereft indeed! Involve friends and engage in pirate-speak with casual passers-by. The more the arr-ier!


Encourage work colleagues to join in the spirit if you're working on Talk Like a Pirate Day. Suspend normal clothing rules for those who want to be pirates!

, Pirate talk is colorful and old-fashioned - put on the manner of a pirate by muttering, and saying things like "Avast, ya scurvy varmints!", "Avast, me hearties!", "All hands ahoy!" ("all hands on deck!"), or "Shiver me timbers!".


Read talk like a pirate for more details.




Sing at the top of your lungs, even if you sound off-key or don't know all the words. Pirates love to sing!
To add to the mood, try listening to "piratecore" bands such as Flogging Molly, or pirate metal such as Alestorm.
Dance a pirate's jig.
 Wear your costume, talk to your stuffed parrot, wear the eyepatch all day, and keep spicing up the pirate-y goodness of the day with some pirate filled activities:



Release the pirate within! Learn how to let out your inner pirate and allow him or her to run about for the day!

Make a pirate's treasure map for children. If you've got kids involved in the day's fun, share a treasure-map making hour with them - you'll have as much fun as them! And go on a pirate treasure hunt for a bit of fun!

Make up a pirate name. If you're going to be a pirate for a day, make sure to give yourself a great name, from Hawk, Crowe the One-Eyed, Glowering Maggie, to Frank Big-Hearted Stoutbeard.

Draw a cartoon pirate. Get out the paper and pen, and impress your friends with a pirate sketch!
Throw a pirate party for kids or adults). What better way to celebrate than with a pirate party?

Bake a pirate cake or a pirate chocolate biscuit treasure chest cake. Hungry pirates need to be fed good food and a pirate cake (or two) will please many a starving pirate.

Build a pirate bar. When the sun goes down, the pirate bar can be a place of bawdy rowdiness and glugging, all in your backyard if you're feeling generous enough!

, Log into Facebook, if you're not already. Scroll to the bottom of the home page. Find the language settings. It's in a bar, to the left, next to the copyright information. Select "English (Pirate)." Skewer yer scallywag mateys!

,