 If your hair color drastically differs from your skin tone, it will give you a more dramatic look. If you want people to look at you and notice you, or you want to stand out in a crowd, consider going down this path. If you choose a hair color that compliments the tonality of your skin and eyes, you'll be able to achieve a more natural look.Think about the reasons why you want to dye your hair and choose a color that helps you achieve your goals.


If you're tired of being overlooked or passed by in the bar or a club, having a drastic hair color may invite people to have conversations with you.
The more drastic your dye differs from your natural hair color, the more likely it will look brassy or ashy.Colors that don't naturally occur in nature like pink, blue, green, or purple will make you stand out.;
, Certain hair colors will cost more for you and will be more expensive depending on your desired hair color. For instance, dark haired people that plan on going blonde must invest in monthly root touch-ups and quality sulfate free shampoos and conditioners to keep their hair looking healthy.When considering your finances, think about how you want to get your hair dyed. You can either go to a professional salon which will cost more, or go to a department store and purchase a home dyeing package.


Root touch-ups vary in cost depending on the salon or area that you are in and can range anywhere from $50 to $150.Call salons in your area and ask about prices for different services, as well as the frequency in which you'll need to maintain it.
If you are on a budget, you can at home root touch-up kits for less than $35.If you can't afford the cost of the expensive monthly maintenance, consider getting highlights instead.
You can also experiment or look into semi-permanent dye which may be cheaper.
 Unlike all-over color, highlights are a process that lightens portions or strips of your hair but not all of it. Lowlights, on the other hand, are when the hairdresser darkens part of your hair. Highlights and lowlights are more subtle than all-over color and cost less in maintenance because only a portion of the hair needs to be re-dyed. Also, they cause less hair damage because only a portion of the hair is being bleached or dyed.The cost of getting highlights can be anywhere from $75 to over $300.
While initial cost for highlights may be more expensive, touchup costs for highlights and lowlights end up being anywhere from 50%-70% less than all-over color., Semi-permanent or temporary dye does not require you to bleach your hair and can be healthier than using permanent dye. However, exposure to the air and shampooing will fade the color quickly, and the dye typically only lasts for six weeks. Permanent dye uses the process of oxidation, which infuses the color into your hair for a longer period, but can also cause more damage to your hair than a temporary dye would.If you are unsure of the color that you want, use a temporary dye first before committing to a permanent dye.
 Talk to your hairdresser and ask for advice when seeking out a new hair color. Their experience will allow them to give you tips on what colors they think are right for you. They can also fill you in on the cost of getting the color done, as well as the cost of maintenance over time. If you regularly go to the same hairdresser, ask for their advice, as they already have a good idea of your hair type and its health.


If you have damaged or broken hair, make sure to consult a professional before dying it yourself.
 A good way to choose a hair color is to copy a celebrity that you like. Make sure that you have similar skin tones or eye colors because the pigment can look vastly different on different people. If you find that a celebrity has the same eye color and skin tone as you, but their natural hair color is different, you can also try to dye your hair to their natural shade.


Actress Sofia Turner from the show "Game of Thrones" dyed her hair from copper red to icy blonde. She has fair skin and light blue eyes., Trying on a wig will give you a preview of how that hair color will look on you.You can even wear the wig out with your friends to see how comfortable you feel with the new shade.


Make sure to try to get the closest match to your intended hair dye so you have an accurate idea of how you will look in your new color.
You can purchase wigs at beauty salons, wig stores, or online.

