 If your partner has been thinking about getting a tattoo for a while, you should explain why you don't like tattoos before they actually get one. For instance, maybe tattoos are a trigger for you and bring back unpleasant memories and experiences. Or maybe you find tattoos unprofessional and unattractive. Once you explain why you don't like tattoos, your partner may decide not to get one.Remember that your partner has the right to control the appearance of their own body. Avoid using your apprehension about tattoos as a way to manipulate your partner into not getting a tattoo. You can share your apprehension, but try to be respectful of your partner’s wishes.
 If your partner comes home with a surprise tattoo without any warning, you should still vocalize your feelings. However, be sure to be respectful and keep in mind that your partner has the right to do what they want to do with their body. For example, you could say "I wish you would have told me you wanted to get a tattoo; that way we could have talked about it in advance and come to a compromise." This will allow you to get your feelings off your chest and you and your partner can come to an understanding.If your partner got a surprise tattoo of your name or image, it was likely intended as a nice gesture. You should not be overly critical because they are trying to demonstrate their commitment and feelings towards your relationship.
 When you are talking with your partner about their new tattoo, do not shout or use an aggressive tone. Instead, you should approach the conversation in a calm and gentle manner. This way you are not attacking your partner, but instead trying to come to an understanding. Take a deep breath before speaking.You could also try taking some time to cool down before approaching your partner about their new tattoo.
 Perhaps you are upset because your partner did not tell you about the tattoo in advance. As a result, you feel as though your partner does not value your opinion. Explain to your partner that you feel overlooked and disrespected. If your partner understands that your negative response is coming from a place of hurt, they may be able to understand your position better and will include you the next time they decide to make a major change to their appearance.