 Add 1 cup (227 g) of softened butter and 1 cup (200 g) of sugar to a large bowl. Use an electric mixer to beat the two together on medium-high speed until the mixture is light and creamy, which should take approximately 1 to 2 minutes.You can make the cookie dough in a stand mixer if you prefer.
You can mix the cookie dough by hand, but it will take longer.;
, Once the butter and sugar mixture is light and fluffy, add 1 large egg, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of milk, and 1 ½ teaspoons (7 ½ ml) of vanilla extract to the bowl. Blend the mixture on medium until the egg, milk, and vanilla are fully incorporated, which should take approximately 1 minute.If you prefer, you can substitute almond extract for the vanilla.
 When the egg, milk, and vanilla are fully incorporated, add 2 ½ cups (313 g) of all-purpose flour and 1 teaspoon (4 g) of baking powder to the mixture. Mix the dough on low speed until the flour and baking powder are fully blended in, which should take approximately 1 to 3 minutes.You will usually have easier time mixing if to add the flour to the dough in small increments and mix after each addition.
 When the dough is fully mixed, separate it evenly according to how many shades of food coloring you want to use for the marbled design. Roll each section of dough into a ball, and place them in separate bowls.For example, if you want to make red and blue marbled cookies, you’ll need to divide the dough in half and create two balls. If you want red, yellow, and orange marbled cookies, you’ll need to divide the dough in thirds and create three balls.
 After you’ve separated each ball of dough into individual bowls, add a small amount of gel food coloring in your chosen shade to the first ball of dough. Knead it with clean hands to mix the coloring into the dough, and repeat the process with the remaining balls of dough.Always start with a small amount of food coloring when you’re coloring the dough. If you aren’t happy with the finished shade, you can mix in more.
If you want “white” dough, don’t add any food coloring to one of the balls of dough.
 Make sure each piece of dough is still shaped into a ball, and remove them from bowls. Use your hands to flatten each piece until it’s approximately ½-inch (1.27-cm) thick, and wrap them in plastic. Chill the dough in refrigerator for 2 to 3 hours, or until the dough is firm.You can make the dough the day before you plan to bake the cookies, and leave it to chill overnight if you like.
 When you’re ready to make the marbled sugar cookies, it’s important to prepare the oven by preheating it. Set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Make sure that you understand how your oven indicates that it’s reached the desired temperature. It will usually beep and/or flash an indicator light.
 You don’t want all of the dough to get warm while you’re creating the marble effect, so remove just half of each color from the refrigerator. Place the dough that you’re going to be working with on a floured surface, and leave the rest in the refrigerator., Take a small piece of each color of dough that’s approximately the size of a tablespoon (18 g) and drop them on your floured surface. Be sure to position the dough pieces so they’re all touching one another. Continue adding pieces until you’ve used up all the dough.Drop the different colors of dough randomly so there’s no obvious pattern.
 Once you’ve dropped all of the first half of dough into pieces on your floured surface, use a rolling pin to flatten and mix the colors together for the marbled effect. Flatten the dough until it’s approximately ⅛- to ¼-inch (3- to 6-cm) thick., Once the dough is completely mixed and flattened, use cookie cutters to cut it into your desired shapes. If you don’t have cookie cutters, you can use a glass to create simple round marbled cookies.It’s a good idea to dip your cookie cutters into flour before pressing them into the dough. That will keep them from sticking.
 When you’ve cut the dough into shape, place the cookie on ungreased baking sheet so they are approximately 1- to 2-inches (2.5- to 5-cm) apart. Next, sprinkle each cookie with coarse decorating sugar in assorted colors if desired.While it’s not necessary to grease the baking sheet, you may want to line it with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat so cleanup is easier.
 Once the cookies are on the baking sheet, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the cookies to bake for 7 to 10 minutes, or until they are firm.Avoid baking the cookies too long or they may become browned, which can ruin the look of the marbled effect.
 When the cookies are finished baking, let them cool on the baking sheet for 1 to 2 minutes. Next, move them to a wire cooling rack to cool fully, which should take 15 to 20 minutes., After your first batch of cookies is finished baking, remove the second half of dough from the refrigerator. Repeat the entire process of breaking the dough into pieces, rolling them together, cutting them into shapes, and baking them with the rest of the dough.Store the cookies in an airtight container. They should keep for 7 to 10 days.

