 There are two ways you can approach protein shakes. The first way is using pre-purchased protein supplements, like whey protein and flavored protein powders. The second way is using natural sources of protein, such as chia seeds, peanut butter and milk. Supplements deliver an extremely large amount of protein and are usually favored by body builders and workout enthusiasts.

Natural protein sources offer a high amount of protein for the average person who isn’t weight training.
 Whey protein is one of the two proteins found naturally in milk. The body absorbs this type of protein faster than other protein sources, which results in increased muscle protein synthesis. Whey protein also provides a large amount of the amino acid L-cysteine, which can improve deficiencies caused by many conditions, most notably aging and diabetes.It can also be beneficial for those with depression, blood pressure, blood sugar and can also help to treat symptoms of HIV and cancer.Whey protein supplements aren’t known to cause liver or kidney damage.
However, if you have pre-existing liver or kidney damage, whey protein supplements may worsen it. Consult your doctor before proceeding.
 Wash the berries well and place them into the blender, along with the rest of the ingredients. Pulse the blender on low until the ingredients are mixed well. Pour into a glass and serve immediately. Feel free to adjust the fruit ingredients to your liking.


Consider adding a banana before blending your shake.
The banana will up your fruit intake and result in a slightly thicker shake.
 Many people have no reason or desire to protein-load their bodies with the amount of protein a body builder aims to intake. Unless you have a specific reason for doing so, the average person should not use these supplements, since they may put a strain on the kidneys and liver. Furthermore, protein from food sources is more nutritionally beneficial than supplements.

Protein shakes, made with natural sources, benefit most adults.
Most people don’t get the recommended amount of protein, 45 to 50 grams, in their daily diet.The minimum recommended daily amount (RDA) is 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. To calculate your RDA, multiply your weight in pounds by 0.36.
Keep in mind that the RDA is the bare minimum you should take in each day. Experts say that you should get at least twice your RDA in protein for best results., Peel the banana, cut it into large chunks and put it into the blender. Add all of the remaining ingredients. Set the blender on its lowest setting and pulse the ingredients until they are blended well. Pour the shake into a glass and serve immediately.

The natural protein sources in this shake are chia seeds, peanut butter, yogurt and milk.
This recipe can be made fully vegan by using soy yogurt and dairy-free milk. 