 It sucks to have compromised your public image but, in situations like this, there is a bright side. If you’re at rock bottom, there’s nowhere to go but up. You can use this experience to rebrand your image so that you reflect the person you want to be.Successfully repairing your reputation involves identifying your goals and developing a long-term action plan. Take some time to brainstorm what kind of person, leader, business owner, or public figure you want to be in the future. Write down some positive qualities you’d like to possess.
Then, create an action plan to help you built these skills and repair your reputation. You might use some of the suggestions you got from others as a part of your strategy.
 Your restoration plan will only crash and burn if you come out the gate trying to be someone you’re not. Plus, when you present yourself as someone else, you only leave gaping holes for you to slip back into in the future. In fact, trying to be someone you’re not could be the reason you need to rebuild your reputation in the first place.For example, if you never went to church before, it may not appear genuine if you start trying to go after your reputation is smeared. Find gradual ways to show your remorse like speaking to religious/spiritual advisers or going to support group meetings.
 After you have caused a public fiasco, you desperately need to show that you are invested in cleaning up your act and representing the community in a positive light. Again, this should be done with sincerity, so choose causes that you truly care about.


You might dedicate some time or resources to volunteering in the community. Help organize a cleanup day. Get a team together to host a charity event. Or, donate your time to helping with teens or struggling business owners. Offer your particular set of skills to those in need., Nothing says, “I’m trying to do better” than the notion of lending a helping hand to someone else in need. When you’re caught up in your own damage control process, you might not notice others who are going through similar experiences. Demonstrate goodwill by doing what you can to help them.


A second chance might translate to giving a job to someone with a criminal history or refusing to speak ill of someone who was involved in scandal. When you forgive others, people will be more likely to forgive you.
 In today’s world, your reputation extends beyond your present environment. Thanks to social media, what you say to a friend or casual acquaintance can be misinterpreted and re-shared to people across the world. Once your online reputation take a turn for the worst, it can be hard to restore it.Be mindful of what you say online—whether through professional or personal channels. Your online activities and posting can be found by anyone and continue to reflect badly upon you for years to come. Never say anything that you don’t want millions of people to see.
 Building a positive relationship takes time. Rebuilding your image may take even longer. Some people may never truly forgive or forget your mistake. Nonetheless, you should put your best put forward and give them the time they need to heal and move on.