 When it comes to setting the perfect table, colors matter. Formal and informal dining have different rules when it comes to color.


Formal dining should have light colors. Whites and ivories are preferable. If you want to add slightly more color, go with a light pastel shade.Informal dining is less rigid about color requirements. Any shade is appropriate, from bright, primary colors to lighter shades., When setting your table with your new tablecloth, placing the tablecloth should be the first step. Make sure you place the tablecloth correctly.


Buy a padded table liner, which you can purchase at a local home goods store, to set over your table. This helps hold the tablecloth in place. The liner should be slightly smaller than your actual table. Set this on the table first.Drape your tablecloth over the table. Make sure, on a square or rectangle table, the four corners of the cloth align with the corners of the table. Smooth out the tablecloth with your hands to get rid of any bumps or crevices., A runner is a strip of fabric that runs over the table in a horizontal or vertical line. If you want to add something extra to your tablecloth, consider adding a runner.


Runners are often holiday-themed, which can be helpful if you're planning a party around a particular event. For example, if you have a Christmas party a runner decorated with images of holly and snow could be a nice touch.
The length of a runner depends on whether you plan on lying it horizontally or vertically. It should be about a foot longer than the length or width of your table.
 You can add other toppings to your table. Vases, flowers, candles, and centerpieces can be a nice touch. Go with toppers that convey your personality and style.


Avoid any topper that takes up too much space. You want to make sure your guests are still able to eat and drink without disruption.
Be careful with flowers. Avoid flowers with a strong scent as this can affect the taste of food and drinks., If your tablecloth is made from a very silky material, it may slip and move easily. This can be disruptive if guests are trying to eat. You can buy tablecloth clips at most home goods stores or furniture stores. You can attach clips to the edge of your table, securing your tablecloth in place.

