 Now that you have some colors, pick out 3-5 tops. One should be a basic button-down, one should be a short sleeved shirt, and one should be a tank top, camisole, or other sleeveless shirt. The button-down should be a solid color, preferably from the neutrals that you chose. The short-sleeve shirt or sleeveless shirt can have a print but it will be easier to mix and match if you do not introduce prints. Only one of the two should have a print; one of these needs to be solid colored.
 With your tops picked out, you will want to move on to choosing some bottoms. One should be a nice pair of dressy pants, the other should be a pair of jeans. The third should be something that can be nice or casual, depending on what is worn with it. For women, this will probably mean a knee-length skirt. For men, consider some khakis or similar pants. All bottoms should be free of prints, unless there were no prints used on any tops (in which case a woman may want to have a skirt with a print).
 A few more pieces will be necessary to complete a fully mixable wardrobe. Women will want to find a knee-length dress with short or three quarter sleeves. This dress should not be a neutral color (preferably should be the main color palette color) and should be able to be both casual or dressy, depending on chosen accessories. You will also want to get 2 jackets: a button down sweater (simple or elaborate, it’s up to you) and a blazer or similar formal jacket. The blazer should be in a neutral color, preferably darker than the button down shirt you chose. The sweater can be neutral but should preferably be in a color (different from the dress color).
 You will want 2-3 pairs of shoes in your chosen neutral colors. One should be formal, one should be casual, and you can have a third pair which can be casual or formal depending on context (like a pair of boots). Buy a scarf which can similarly be used in either a formal or casual context . Women can get jewelry to emphasize a formal vs. casual outfit as well by having one set which looks elegant and another which looks fun.

