 These sorts of bracelets are fun, and easy to make. You simply put the beads onto the cord and knot it. You do not need a clasp. To learn how to make a stretchy beaded bracelet, click here. You can buy beading elastic in a bead shop, or in the beading section of an arts and crafts store.


Clear elastic thread comes in many different thicknesses. Thicker elastic is sturdy, which makes it suitable for large beads. Thinner elastic is more delicate, and looks best paired with smaller beads.Elastic cords have a thread or fabric covering. They are thick by beading standards, and usually come in black and white.;
, Beading wire cannot be tied like elastic, and must be used with crimps and clasps. The crimps help hold the bracelet together. Be sure to use beading wire, which is flexible. Wire used for wire wrapping is too stiff and thick; it is not suitable for beading. To learn how to make a beaded bracelet with a clasp, click here.


Consider using memory wire for a fun, spiral bracelet.
 Smaller beads will work well on thin, delicate elastic. Large beads, however, will need something heavier, such as a thicker elastic or wire. You will also need to add extra length to your bracelet if you are using bulky beads. These beads fill up the space between the bracelet and your wrist, making the bracelet fit tighter.
 There are many different types of beads. Each material has a specific look, and some types of beads are more suitable to certain projects than others. Here are the most common beads you will find in bead shop or an arts and crafts store:


Plastic beads are the least expensive and come in many different shapes and colors. They are ideal for kids' arts and crafts. For a fun, kid-friendly bracelet, try using elastic cord in a bright color, and using plastic pony beads. You can also use alphabet beads so the kids can spell their names on the bracelet.
Glass beads are beautiful, and come in many different colors. They capture the light well and had a mid-price range. Most glass beads will be translucent, and some will have designs.
Semi-precious stones tend to be more expensive than glass beads. They also tend to be heavier. Because they are made from natural materials, no two beads are alike.
You can also find beads made from natural material, such as shell, wood, ivory, and coral. These tend to be expensive and unique; no two beads are the same.
 When buying beads, you may find that the beads are already strung for you. This is simply another way of packaging them, and is not suggestive of a final design. Simply snip the beads off their string and arrange them in a new pattern on your desk or bead tray. Here are some ideas for a design:


Put the largest beads towards the center, and the smallest beads towards the clasps.
Alternate large beads with smaller/spacer beads.
Use a warm (red, orange, yellow) or a cool (green, blue, and purple) color scheme.
Choose a bunch of beads that are all the same color, but in different sizes and shades. For example, you could use light blue, medium blue, and dark blue beads.
 You can find them in bead shops or in the beading section of an arts and crafts store. They usually come in gray, and have a velvety texture. They have necklace-shaped groves with measurements. This allows beaders to lay out their pattern and see what their necklace or bracelet may look like before they put the beads on the string.

