 Genre is probably most important for fiction, as many readers use it to discover works they may enjoy. We'll start with realist fiction genres, or stories that are imaginary but theoretically possible:



Crime has many overlapping subcategories, including mystery, suspense, and the action-oriented thrillers.

Romance focuses primarily on a love story, and may or may not be erotic as well. This can stand alone or be combined with other genres, usually historical or paranormal fiction.

Historical fiction can be set at any point in the past. Large libraries categorize it further by specific times and places. The Western is a popular subgenre with its own tropes.

Action or adventure describe fast-paced tales of danger and exploration. It often includes elements from non-realistic fiction, but this isn't fundamental to the genre.
 These stories could not happen in the real world in the present or past. The exact sub-categories are difficult to define, as there is a huge amount of overlap and experimentation. Here's how they're most commonly arranged, but don't be surprised if one book could fit into two or three of the following:



Science fiction tends to focus more on ideas than plot. It's often set in the future or in space, and attributes unusual phenomena to science (which may or may not be plausible).

Fantasy includes magical or supernatural elements beyond the understanding of science. It tends to be plot-driven.

Horror seeks to terrify the reader. While usually grouped in speculative fiction, there are examples of realist horror as well.
 Any book that covers a topic in the real world is nonfiction, from chemistry textbooks to a collection of political speeches. You can refer to them just by describing the specific topic, or shelve them in a library with the Dewey Decimal System.


One popular nonfiction genre is the biography, which describes a historical figure's life. If written by the subject, call it an autobiography.
 Many libraries and bookstores have "young adult" or "children" sections with no other labels. This isn't technically a genre, but it tells you the subject matter and writing is appealing and appropriate for that age group.



Coming of age novels describe the transition from childhood to adulthood. They're often aimed at young adults, but not always.

