 Dietary fiber is a portion of plant-based foods that your body can neither digest nor absorb. Fiber helps move material through your digestive tract and also adds bulk to your bowel movements, but of which can help regulate your bowels.Though your diet should include a solid mix of both, dietary fiber comes in two forms—soluble and insoluble.Soluble dietary fiber means that the fiber is water soluble, the mix of which creates a gel-like substance that can help promote the movement of material through your bowels. Since this fiber absorbs water, it also cuts down on runny stools by solidifying them. Foods rich in soluble fiber include oats, peas, beans (navy, pinto, black, kidney), apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley, and psyllium.Insoluble fiber is not water soluble, so it helps add bulk to stool, which helps maintain regular movement of your bowels. Foods rich in insoluble fiber include whole wheat flour, wheat bran, nuts (pecans, almonds, Brazil nuts), beans, and vegetables (such as cauliflower, green beans, leafy greens, and potatoes).Your suggested amount of daily fiber depends on your sex and age. Men and women age 50 and under should aim for 38 and 25 grams per day, respectively. Men and women over age 50 should consume 30 and 21 grams per day, respectively.;
, Many common foods are very low in fiber. Relying on a diet too heavy in these foods can lead to irregularity, so you should always balance them with high-fiber options. Foods low in dietary fiber include:Cheese (and other dairy such as ice cream)
Meat
Processed foods such as fast food, hot dogs, or microwave dinners

, If you have any dietary restrictions due to a medical condition, then it is important to discuss these with your doctor. You may require a nutritional consult to ensure that you are following a balanced diet and to help keep you regular.
 You should aim to drink two to three liters of fluid each day.While most of your fluid should come from water, you can also include fruit and vegetable juices, as well as clear soup broths to meet your daily requirements.Some medical conditions (such as congestive heart failure) will require you to restrict your fluid intake.Consult your doctor regarding your acceptable level of fluid intake before making any changes if you have a condition where you fluids have been restricted.
Dehydration is also associated with a condition known as “retentive constipation,” especially in children.With this condition, initial constipation due to dry, hardened stool is worsened by stagnating in the colon/rectum where additional water is drawn out, hardening it even further. This can lead to a vicious cycle of irregularity.
 The lactic-acid producing bacteria (LAB) found in yogurt has been shown in studies to assist with regularity for some gastrointestinal conditions, including constipation and some diarrheal diseases.The most commonly studied strains of LAB are Lactobacillus and Streptococcus.Check the label on the brand of yogurt for the presence of these LAB strains.
 You can also purchase over-the-counter fiber supplements to help regulate your bowel movements. Some of the most common are products containing psyllium (such as Metamucil), which is a good source of soluble fiber.