 Himalayan cats have rounded features. They have a large head that is round in shape. Their eyes are also large and round, and they have full cheeks. Even their ears have rounded tips.Himalayan cats also have large, round paws.;
, In addition to round features, the Himalayan cat also has many short characteristic features. They have a short nose that gives their face a flat look, especially from the side. They have small, short ears. Their necks are short and thick, as are their legs.The tail is also short.
 The Himalayan has a very distinctive coat. Their coat is long and thick with a shiny gloss to it. The fur has a soft, fine texture. This long coat covers their entire body. Due to their coat, they have a thick ruff around their neck.A Himalayan will have long fur extending down from the front legs and have long tufts of fur in their ears and on their feet.
They have bushy tails.
 Aside from the long, white, silky coat, the most identifiable characteristic of a Himalayan is their blue eyes. The color blue is vivid and deep. Look for large, round blue eyes.The Himalayan cat is a human-made breed that crossed a Persian with a Siamese. One reason they used a Siamese is for the blue eyes.
 A Himalayan cat will mostly be a white or fawn color. Their face, ears, and tail will have an accent color. These accent colors can be just about any color.Common accent colors include chocolate, lilac, blue, red, cream tortie, blue-cream, and variations of these shades.
 Himalayans are not small, light cats. They have larger, thicker bodies that are quite solid and stocky. The breed also has large bones. Between this and the thick fur, they look rather large.Males can weight over 12 pounds, and females generally range between eight and twelve pounds.
 Himalayans have a few characteristic medical problems. Due to the Himmie’s flat face, they are prone to respiratory problems. This may include trouble breathing, though healthy cats shouldn’t have a problem breathing.Neutered Himalayans can develop bladder stones.