 As directed above, allow the pork to warm gradually. When the pork reaches room temperature, season generously with a "rub" of your choice. This dry, flavorful exterior translates into a crisp, delicious crust after grilling.


You have many options when it comes to dry rubs. For instance, for a BBQ-inspired rub, try rubbing the pork down with a mix of white and brown sugar, salt, pepper, and other spices of your choice (like cinnamon and cumin).
 Use a sharp knife to make fairly shallow cuts in a criss-cross pattern across the surface of the pork. As noted above, this allows the juices to escape, basting the pork, and allows both the heat of the grill and the flavor of the seasonings to penetrate deeper.
 Regardless of the type of grill you have, your goal is to cook the pork at a steady temperature of roughly 225 degrees Fahrenheit (107 degrees Celsius). A grill thermometer can help you keep track of the temperature in the grill as it warms up. Keep the grill lid closed to speed the heating process. Paint olive oil or nonstick cooking spray on the grill grates to prevent the meat from sticking during cooking.


If you have a gas grill, it's relatively simple to set the grill to a medium-high heat. If you have a charcoal grill, however, it's a little more difficult. Light your charcoal and allow the flames to die down before cooking your pork. The charcoal is ready when it is mostly or entirely grey and glows with a red-orange heat.
 To help regulate the temperature inside the grill and prevent the pork from drying out, place an oven-safe pan or metal pie tin full of water in the grill if you have room to do so. If you have a two-level grill, a good place for this tray is on the upper cooking rack.
 Add your pork to the grill and close the lid. Allow the pork to cook, checking occasionally to test for done-ness. When done, the pork should have a crisp brown and black exterior, a tender texture, and the internal temperature should reach 160 degrees Fahrenheit (70 degrees Celsius).


Because pork cooked in this way can take a very long time to cook, you may want to begin the grilling process in the morning to have the roast ready in time for dinner.
 As with the methods of cooking described above, grilled pork is best if it's allowed to "rest" away from its heat source before eating. Be sure to cover the pork as it rests to protect it from insects, etc.
 The coveted rich, smokey flavor sought by so many home grillers can be made with special electrical smoking equipment, but can also be recreated in a home grill with little effort. To smoke your pork shoulder on the grill, soak a handful of wood chips (hickory, oak, and apple work well) in water the night before cooking. Place these wet wood chips in an aluminum foil "boat" (a folded pouch open on the top) and place these directly on the burner of a gas grill or on the coals of a charcoal grill. As the wood smokes and burns during the grilling process, it will impart its smokey flavor into the meat (with delicious results).


Alternatively, to learn how to smoke your pork shoulder with an actual smoker machine, see wikiHow's guide on How to Use an Electric Smoker


,