 Finding a quiet area free from distractions is integral to productive studying and successful learning. Over time, the mind will associate actions and outcomes with environments and adjust its functions accordingly. Establishing a regular study spot, by this logic, will condition your brain to focus and retain information better in this setting. If you don’t already have a preferred study space, some choices to consider are:The library
A park
A quiet café or restaurant;
, To manage your time effectively and learn as much as possible, schedule blocks of time during the week to be devoted to studying and review. These study blocks should be 50 minutes long, or shorter if you lose concentration earlier than that. Fit these appointments around the rest of your schedule, but aim to hold them at times of the day when you are most productive., To be a successful learner, you must put studying before other commitments when necessary. If it comes down to a choice, extracurricular activities, social engagements, and fun hobbies must come second so that your studies can get your full attention. Identify the distractions that keep you from studying the most and work out a way to schedule them in during your free time, or to keep them from being a hindrance to your work.For instance, if social media is a distraction while you are trying to study, download an app to block it out (e.g. Freedom, a Windows, Mac, and Android app which keeps users from connecting to the internet for up to 8 hours)., As you study, use the summarization method to cement your learning. At the end of a unit, chapter, or study session, write out a summary of what you’ve learned, which can also serve as notes to review later. This process will allow you to re-evaluate and retain the knowledge that you have absorbed, and pinpoint certain points that you haven’t grasped fully. For example, after reading a chapter in a U.S. History textbook, you could summarize the Eisenhower Era to reinforce what you learned.
 An effective method of learning new material is frequent practice testing, or self-evaluation, to gauge your knowledge. As you read or study, compile a list of questions to quiz yourself on the material later. You can also look online for test preparation resources like trivia and practice quizzes, available across different subjects, age groups, and learning levels.For instance, the Ohio Department of Education website provides practice tests and sample test items in different subjects for grade 3-12., A good way to absorb learning material is to connect it to other subjects that you relate to, particularly things that might seem unrelated on the surface. The process of forging these links will provide a more in-depth survey of what you’re studying and develop associations that will make things easier to remember. Apply the principles of a domain that you are well-versed in to the topic at hand and write out a brief argument, for your own purposes, about why these two areas are similar.As an example, if you are well-versed in auto-mechanics and enjoy fixing cars, write about different branches of government as if they were various part of a car, and note how they work together to make things run.

