 If you are a low income buyer then the USDA has two loans backed by the Federal Government specifically tailored to help. It offers two products: the 502 loan and the USDA Rural Housing Guaranteed Loan.


Don’t be put off by the title! Many small towns meet the "rural” part of the definition, as do many city suburbs -in reality only 3% of the country is not eligible for USDA loan.
Compare your personal circumstances against the criteria for either of the USDA guarantees by reading up on their loan programs.;
, Some other guarantor loans are available across the country, but the USDA loan criteria varies from state to state. You can easily find where your needs sit against their guidelines by entering your information on the USDA website.


From the main USDA page click the ‘Eligible Addresses’ link and enter your details by adding a 'pin' from the toolbar. This will confirm that your desired geographical area is eligible for a USDA loan.If your area is not eligible, consider expanding your location search to areas which are. Do you need to stay local or could it help you if you widened your home search area?

, There is no down payment or maximum loan size. But there is a maximum income ceiling that it will lend to. This is to deliver the USDA's aim of serving those most in need. Household earnings must not exceed this ceiling to qualify.


Go to the USDA website and check the Loan Program Income Limits. This will show you on a state by state basis whether your income makes you eligible.The website has a searchable map which you can load and check against your specific circumstances. Review this map, find your state and read across the document to find the size of your household and monthly income before taxes.It is adjusted by household size - for instance in Pickens County, Alabama, the adjusted income limit for a low income family of 2 is $31,050. The amount increases for every additional family member.
 Everyone's situation is unique and there is expert help available so take advantage of it.You can find advice online, or alternatively you can contact your local Rural Development Office for help and advice.


You can find your local office via this simple location tool. Take a look at the application on the USDA e-forms website. This will show you the likely requirements you will need to meet. The relevant form is titled RD410-4 , Once you have received a guaranteed loan you still need to seek out a mortgage lender to (i) ensure they will work with a USDA guarantee and (ii) satisfy them that you meet their criteria for lending.


To find a mortgage you can choose to use a mortgage broker or find a mortgage lender yourself.
To help your search the USDA has compiled a list of approved lenders. Although they do not endorse any specific mortgage lender; they have a list of "Approved Lenders."Once you have found three potential mortgage lenders submit identical applications and compare their rates, loan terms and fees with a mortgage shopping worksheet.