 If you've had a large meal and are feeling bloated or overly full, the seated heart opener can help ease stomach cramps and give you more room for the food to digest.Sit on your heels or on the edge of a chair. Lean back, placing your palms behind you with your fingertips pointed away from you. Press into the ground or seat of the chair with all four corners of your palms, arching your back and lifting your chest.
Hold this position for five breath cycles, then slowly return to center and place your hands on your thighs. If you want to deepen the stretch and open your chest further, drop your head back behind you, arching your neck.
 The bridge pose increases blood flow to your abdomen and strengthens your abdominal muscles to ease cramps and aid in digestion. You can make a vinyasa of this pose or you can simply hold it for five breaths, then release.Start by lying on your back with your arms down your sides and your shoulder blades tucked under and into your back. Your feet should be flat on the floor near your fingertips, knees bent.
On an inhale, lift your hips up toward the sky, your chest toward your chin. Make sure your neck is soft and not crunched. On an exhale, slowly lower your hips to the floor.
You also can alternate hips to better stimulate and massage your digestive system.
 The twisting and bending detoxifies and stimulates your intestinal tract to help alleviate bloating. If you're not as flexible, you may need to use a yoga block or other prop to maintain proper alignment in this pose.Come to a stand and walk or jump your feet wide apart. Turn your right toes out to the right and straighten your right leg. Your left leg should remain facing forward. You may even want to turn your left foot inward so you're a little pigeon-toed, for some extra stability.
On an exhale, slowly lower your right arm towards the floor, taking care to keep your back neutral and in line with your pelvis, rather than folding forward. You can rest your right hand on the floor, or on a block or your shin.
Lift your left arm up towards the ceiling, forming a straight line from the tips of your right fingers to the tips of your left fingers. Stay in this position for five breath cycles, lifting with every inhale and deepening the twist with every exhale. Keep your neck long and soft.
On an inhale, slowly lift back to center and repeat on the other side.
 The bow pose will stretch your torso as well as strengthening your abdominal muscles to massage your intestinal organs and help you debloat. Do not do this pose if you cannot breathe through it.Start this pose lying on your belly. Bend your knees and reach back to grab each of your ankles. Point or flex your feet and lift off the floor as high as you can, shifting your weight forward. The arch point should be your navel, not your pelvis. Curve your back and open your chest.
Hold this pose for five smooth, deep breaths if you can. If your breath is shaky or you find yourself holding your breath, allow yourself to recline back to your belly.
 These three poses combined together with a breath for each movement will really get the blood flowing to your abdomen and massage your abdominal organs to get your digestion moving.Start on all fours with your knees hip-width apart and your hands directly below your shoulders. On an exhale, lift your hips toward the ceiling and press up into downward facing dog.
As you inhale, lower back down to all fours and pull forward, lifting and opening your chest for a full breath.
As you exhale, bend your knees and lift your chest, reaching backward to grab your ankles. Press your shoulder blades down your back along your spine, keeping your shoulders back and flat, your neck long and smooth.
Lower yourself slowly to the floor as you inhale and return to all fours. Exhale and lift into downward facing dog to repeat the flow. Try to repeat it four or five times.

