 Most libraries have a bulletin board where they display notices of special events and, occasionally, open positions. Check this occasionally so you can apply for jobs you're qualified for, or to find out what requirements you can work toward. The library may also advertise job openings on its website, or on local government websites.


Most libraries are non-profit institutions supervised by a board. Compared to most employers, this gives them less leeway for discretionary hiring. You're unlikely to be hired based on personal connections, and meeting the stated requirements is usually mandatory.
 When you see a job opening that fits your level of experience, visit the library in person. Evaluate the service you receive and the experience of visiting the library. Ask questions of the library staff. Look at the program schedules, the technology available, and other library resources. All these things give you material to talk about in your interview, both for showing that you've done your homework, and for offering suggestions of things you could contribute.


For example, if you visited a library program, come up with ideas to improve it. If a kids' gardening program is popular, suggest starting a seed library.
Gather as much information as possible about the library where you are applying for a job:

the domains the library covers
the classification system used
the database used
whether the library has digitized versions of books



, Many public library jobs, especially in large cities, have a computer scan the resumes rather than a human being. These resumes must include certain key words from the job description, or the applicant will not be considered for an interview.


In your cover letter and during the interview, highlight the qualities that would make you a good librarian (organizational skills, attention to detail, social skills), as well as your interest in the library and the domains it covers.
 Find out everything you can on politics which might affect the library, before you interview there. Has its funding been in jeopardy, or have hours or services cut? Consider a role as an advocate or supporter of the library. Look into a "friends of the library" group which may be serving this function.
 If possible, get acquainted not only with the librarians on staff, but with the board members who do the hiring. If, after applying, the library invites you to meet the board, the friends of the library, or another citizen's group, treat it as an extension of the interview. Be professional and engaged.

