 Remember to be grateful for your body. Instead of worrying over body parts that don’t appear quite the way you would like them to, be grateful that you are in the position to go the beach, pool, or lake. Focusing on what your body does for you prevents negative thoughts from setting in.Alternatively, if you are focusing on one body part that you are insecure about, counteract it with thinking of a body part that you are confident about. For example, if you are insecure about your legs, remind yourself that you have great arms.
 It is sometimes tempting to point out your flaws to other people. Repeatedly pointing out your flaws will lead you to believing in what you say over time.


Pointing out your flaws around others will make them uncomfortable and possibly make them think that you will look for flaws in them, too., Remember that you are more than your body. Societal pressure and media has placed an importance on an ideal body type, but it is important to remember that you are not your body. A healthy body is important, but in the end, it is “just” a body. What matters is how you act, what you are passionate about, and how you treat others. People will focus on how you portray yourself far more than they will focus on a swimsuit., Spend time in your swimsuit or in clothing that you would not normally wear. It may feel uncomfortable at first, but doing this will help you build the courage to wear a swimsuit without negative thoughts.Start by wearing your swimsuit around your home. Spend time walking around or going about your daily activities as usual.
Next, invite a few people over for a beach-themed party. Specify on the invite that your should wear their swimsuits or beach attire.
Once you are feeling more comfortable in your swimsuit, visit a local pool. Perhaps visit during a slow hour or day when it isn’t too crowded.
Go out to the beach, lake, or pool without considering how many people might be there once you’ve started to feel comfortable in your swimsuit.
 Spending time with people that are overly critical of themselves will eventually rub off on you. Especially avoid people that act negatively towards you. Surrounding yourself with positive people will be beneficial to you., Spend five to ten minutes thinking body-positive thoughts before you head out in your swimsuit. Clear your mind of judgment and insecurities. Beginning your time in your swimsuit with the right mindset prevents discomfort that stems from harmful thoughts.Repeat to yourself mantras such as “may I be happy.”

