, Sift the flour first, to get rid of any clumps, then stir in the baking powder, baking soda, and salt. You can do this using a wooden spoon or a rubber spatula.


For a more flavorful apple muffin, add 1 teaspoon of ground cinnamon and ½ teaspoon of ground nutmeg., Cut the butter into small cubes first, then add it into the bowl. Pour in the sugar, and beat it together with the butter. You can do this using a hand-held beater, a stand mixer, or even a food processor.

For a tasty twist, use ½ cup (115 grams) of white sugar and ½ cup (100 grams) of brown sugar., Add the eggs, one at a time, into the butter mixture; whisk the mixture well after each egg you add. Once you can't see any more streaks of egg yolk, add the vanilla extract.

If you added ground cinnamon and ground nutmeg, you might want to reduce the vanilla extract to just 1 teaspoon, otherwise the flavors might overpower the flavor of the apples.
 If you have not done so already, peel, core, and chop the apples, then gently fold them into the butter mixture with a rubber spatula. Be sure to scrape the bottom of the bowl from time to time to ensure that everything mixes in evenly.

If you want the apples to distribute more evenly throughout the batter, use 1 cup (120 grams) of shredded apples, and ½ cup (60 grams) of chopped apples.
 Using your rubber spatula, fold in half of the flour mixture until it is completely blended in. Fold in the rest of the flour mixture, making sure to scrape the bottom of the bowl often., A great way to do this would be with an ice cream scoop—this way, each cup gets an equal amount of batter., While not completely necessary for this recipe, a strudel topping and really take your apple muffins to the next level. Here is how you do it:Mix ⅓ cup (65 grams) of brown sugar with 1 tablespoon (7.5 grams) of all-purpose flour and ⅛ teaspoon of ground cinnamon.
Cut in 1 tablespoon (15 grams) of butter until you get a mixture that resembles coarse crumbs.
Sprinkle the mixture over the muffins.
 They are ready when a toothpick poked into the middle comes out clean.
 After that, you can serve them warm with some butter or cream, or allow them to finish cooling on a wire cooling rack.

