 This spell can be used early and has a massive impact on your Illusion magic level. You can purchase the spell in several locations, the easiest being from Farengar at Dragonsreach in Whiterun.
 As soon as the effects wear off, cast it on yourself again., This will quickly recharge your magicka and allow you to start casting Muffle again., This should only take a little while, as Muffle has a large boost on your Illusion skill level., You'll need to complete the questline to unlock the ability to purchase the Torture Chamber, which you can use to quickly raise your Destruction level.

Once you complete the "Hail, Sithis!" quest, you'll be able to start the "Where You Hang Your Enemy's Head" quest by speaking with Nazir. Purchase the Torture Chamber for 5,000 gold.
 Cast your Destruction spells so that you damage the people bound in the torture room. Make sure that you don't kill them, as they will not respawn.

You can enchant your equipment with Destruction cost reduction enchantments, which will lower the Magicka required to cast the spells.
Use healing magic to heal the hurt prisoners, which can help boost your Restoration level as well.
 This will take an hour or so. You can wait an hour in-game to recharge your magicka when you run out., This spell is one of the most effective ways to raise your Alteration level quickly. You can obtain this spell a few different ways:

You may find it as random loot on enemies.
You may be able to purchase it from Tolfdir in Winterhold, or Wylandriah in Mistveil Keep.
You’ll get the spell as a reward for completing the Infiltration quest from Stalleo at Treva’s Watch.
 Detect Life gives large bonuses for detecting lots of people at once. Go to a large city like Whiterun, or a busy inn., Cast Detect Life until you run out of Magicka. You can then rest for a couple hours until your Magicka refills, and start casting it again., Telekinesis is another effective spell for raising your Alteration level. You can obtain Telekinesis from several locations:

You can purchase Telekinesis from Tolfdir and Wylandriah after you reach Alteration Level 40.
You can find Telekinesis in a variety of chests around the world.
 Carry barrels and other heavy items around after you’ve cleared a dungeon and you’ll see your Alteration level go up quickly., You can raise your Restoration level fairly quickly and efficiently using the basic healing spell. You start the game with this skill,or you can use a more advanced one for quicker healing:

Fast Healing can be obtained once you’ve attained Restoration Level 25. You can purchase it from Farengar in Dragonsreach, or Colette Marence in Winterhold.
 This spell deals 25 damage to yourself, and restores 25 magicka. You’ll be using it to hurt yourself and then heal yourself. You can obtain this spell from the Labyrinthian Chasm., This will cause 25 damage over 25 seconds. Be careful not to kill yourself!, Use Fast Heal to restore your health and raise your Restoration level., You can repeat this process as long as you’d like, as long as you don’t accidentally kill yourself. If you run out of magicka, you can rest for a few hours and then continue., You can purchase this spell from Farengar in Dragonsreach, or from Phinis Gestor in Winterhold., You don’t need to kill an enemy, just a deer or other wild animal., Each time you cast the spell, you’ll raise your Conjuring level., This will restore your magicka and allow you to continue casting Soul Trap., The quickest way to raise your armor levels is to simply equip one of these armor types and then take damage. The more damage the armor absorbs, the more your skill will raise.The safest way to do this is to let weak enemies like wolves attack you.
 The quickest way to level up your Block skill is to travel to a giant's camp and start blocking his attacks. Repeat this until your Block reaches 100 (takes only 30 mins or so). Make sure you have enough healing potions and spells. This also works well with Armor skills., The best way to quickly raise your Archery skill is to complete the Dark Brotherhood questline so that you receive Shadowmere, a special horse with a lot of health that regenerates quickly. Attack this horse with your arrows and let its health refill, and you’ll quickly raise your Archery skill level., The quickest way to boost your Sneak skill is to sneak around lots of people. While some will notice you, everyone that you sneak by will help raise your skill. Crouch while moving around Whiterun or other populated towns.

You can sneak behind someone stationary, such as a shopkeeper, then keep backing into the wall behind you indefinitely. This lets you boost the skill with little effort.
 There isn’t really a trick to raising your pickpocket skill, other than to just steal as much as possible. You’re less likely to get caught if you steal light items, such as money., These two things will give you a large experience bonus, up to 35%. You can find the Warrior’s Stone to the southwest of Riverwood., Craft iron daggers over and over as they require the least amount of material to make (1 Iron Ingot, 1 Leather Strip)., You’ll be able to use this ore to craft jewelry and raise your level. Keep any jewels you find or receive as rewards., This will give you lots of material to make jewelry with. You can find this spell at the Halted Stream Camp., Crafting jewelry will raise your Smithing skill, and you can sell this jewelry to make money and purchase more Smithing training. The training is fairly inexpensive up to level 50, and should be easily purchasable with your jewelry profits., You can make these from scrap metals you find in Dwemer ruins. Using Dwarven ingots, create upgraded Dwarven Bows. These will raise your Smithing level significantly., When you’ve reached high levels of Smithing, the best way to keep leveling is to purchase armor from blacksmiths and then upgrade it. You can use items like the Necklace of Haggling to sell the armor back and make a profit from the endeavor as well. Keep upgrading armor to reach Smithing level 100.