


Once the page displays, there are many areas of the page, as well as several text fields to find your item.;
, To add a business, they want all members to login to their accounts so they have a name to go back and rely on and tell them what they did wrong should the business not need to be added.
 Towards the top of the page should be two text boxes. Fill in the business name in the top-left box and the location of the exact place. (i.e. If your business is located in Philadelphia, and the corporate location is in East Oshkosh, WI, type in Philadelphia, PA", or you may type in the exact zip code of this business. Try not to review corporate locations as locations in other cities. It's a one-to-one deal!

, On the page that is displayed, you'll find your search suggestions for the business. If it's not found on this page of search results, you'll have to create a new business listing.
 This button is mostly red with white lettering.
 If you need to, you may search for the business' web page from the web, or any missing information from the receipt. Yelp.com won't let you release the businesses without at least the name and address of the business.


For these new items to be searched for on the Yelp.com webpage, Yelp moderators will add this business, and will only be available after 48 hours.
You'll need to type the business' name into the Business Name box, their Address into Address (top box) and Address box (bottom, meant for suites), City/State/Zip into the box labeled "City, State, Zip", the business's telephone number into the phone number box, along with a website for the company.

Suites, apartments, departments as well as a more-specific address if contained inside another separate building, should be the only thing that goes in address box 2. Address box 2, should be, most of the time, not filled in.
Search on the web for a phone number, or look in the telephone book for an applicable phone number. Remember to type the area code of the listing. Although it's best to type with the parenthesis and hyphens, if you can't possibly do that, leave these symbols out and type the numbers only.
Find the official website of the company. They do not want other reviewing pages from Wikipedia, Facebook places, YP.com listing, etc., so leave these out of the websites. If none can be found, leave this line blank.
, Fill out the box containing the ratings scale you would have used for the business, along with the review itself.


On this type of review, they don't give you the option to save your items as a draft, so you have to know exactly what you're going to put, when you create these places.
If you don't want to write a review at the present time, click the checkbox to the left of the "Write a review for this business " button on the page.
