 Each time you're deciding whether or not to raise an issue, think about its longterm consequences. Is this something that could fester resentment in the future or is it something you'll be over in a few days? The answer to this question is vital to decide whether to discuss an issue.Say you're mad your spouse didn't invite you to a movie they saw with a friend. If your spouse usually spends time with you, this is likely something you'll get over.
Bigger issues can cause longterm resentment and frustration. If you consistently feel left out of your spouse's social life, and they failed to invite you to a major event, this may be worth a discussion.
 Fights and debates take a lot of time, effort, and energy. Each time you encounter a potential conflict, pause and ask yourself, "Is it really worth the extra energy of fighting?" If you're not that upset by the issue, you may not want to add more stress to the situation.For example, say your spouse is usually five or ten minutes late to events. While you may prefer to be more punctual, five or ten minutes is not a huge amount of time. The issue may not be worth pressing.
If your spouse makes you late by half an hour or more, however, this is fairly significant, especially if it affects your social life and relationships. This is a matter that may warrant an argument.
 In every argument, there's something at stake. However, what you have to gain or lose is sometimes minor. Spend some time evaluating the potential benefit of the discussion.If your spouse chews gum loudly, arguing over this wouldn't lead to major changes in your marriage other than your spouse abandoning a bad habit.
If your spouse consistently forgets to walk the dog, you're caring for the dog alone. Discussing this issue could lead to you getting help with a major responsibility and prevent resentment. This is an issue worth debating.
 In general, major problems should take priority over small annoyances. If you argue about every small issue, you and your spouse may not have the time or energy to resolve big conflicts. Fight your battles over major disagreements rather than subjective matters.For example, if your spouse prefers to stay up a little later than you, this is a subjective difference that can be ignored.
If your spouse consistently keeps you up at night when you need to sleep for work, this is a bigger issue that affects your life. It warrants discussion.

