 Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the cocoa, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Whisk everything together, then set the bowl off to the side., Pour the buttermilk into a medium-sized mixing bowl. Add the oil, egg, and sugar. Stir everything together until the color and texture are consistent. There should be not streaks of egg yolk., Pat down the flour mixture first, then make a hole in the middle. Pour the buttermilk mixture into the well. Stir everything together with a wooden spoon or a rubber spatula until just combined. Be careful not to over-stir; a few remaining lumps are fine. If you stir the batter too much, the pancakes will come out tough and gummy., You can do this with a rubber spatula or with a wooden spoon. Once again, be careful not to over-mix the batter. You simply want the chocolate chips to be distributed throughout the batter., Place a medium skillet onto the stove. Turn the heat up to medium, and let the pan get hot. Once the pan is hot enough to sizzle a drop of water, coat it with cooking spray., Use a measuring cup or a soup ladle to pour ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of pancake batter onto the skillet. If your skillet is big enough, you might be able to fit a few more pancakes. Be sure to leave some room between each one, or they won't cook properly., Let the pancake cook for 2 to 4 minutes first. Once the pancakes starts to form bubbles, wait for them to burst, slide a spatula under it, and flip it over onto the other side., The pancake is ready when both sides are smooth and the inside is cooked through. Use a spatula to slide the pancake off of the skillet and onto a plate. At this point, you are ready to make the rest of the pancakes. You will need to coat the skillet with more cooking spray after a few pancakes., You can serve them with the traditional maple syrup, or you can try a more unusual topping, such as strawberry or raspberry jam. You could also add some sliced strawberries or a sliced banana. For something a little more rich, try whipped cream or vanilla ice cream. For the ultimate chocolate-y goodness, top them off with chocolate syrup.