 Did you know there are 13,000 varieties of roses?Some roses grow better in certain regions than in others. When you're choosing what type of rose to grow, take some time to research the specifics of your growing region, then look for roses that have characteristics you find appealing. Take their shape, size, and color into account when choosing varieties to grow. Roses fall into the following categories:


Hybrid tea roses are beautifully shaped, colorful roses that often make appearances in flower shops and as part of bouquets.
Floribunda roses are the most colorful of all the varieties. Each bush has many blossoms, rather than just one to a stem.
Grandiflora roses are a cross between the hybrid tea and Floribunda roses, and they grow to be quite tall with several rose clusters to a stem.
Climber roses can be trained to stretch vine-like along fences and walls.
Miniature roses are intricate and tiny, perfect for planting in a container.
Shrub and landscape roses are quite hardy, resistant to pests and disease. They come in many colors, shapes and sizes.
Tree roses are roses that have been grafted to a long stem, giving them the appearance of trees. They require a bit more care than some of the other types of roses.;
, Once you've picked out the types of roses you want to plant, decide in what form you want to buy them. Bare roots are the roots of roses that are planted directly into the ground. You can also buy young roses that have already been planted in a small pot, and transplant them to the ground or another pot. Either type may be purchased in a nursery. Rare rose varieties may be found online.


Bare root roses are planted in early spring, giving them time to take root before sprouting several weeks later when the weather warms up.
Potted roses can be kept inside during the winter, then placed outside in the spring.
 Aside from the bare root or potted plant itself, you'll need a few other supplies to get your rose garden started. Go to your local nursery or check out online retailers to pick up the following:


Pruning shears. Pruning roses keeps them healthy, promotes the growth of blooms, and keeps them in a pretty shape. Shears are essential equipment for growing roses. Get small curved-edge shears and larger lopping shears.
Gardening gloves. Protect yourself from thorns with a thick pair of gloves.
Fertilizer. Roses should be fed with fertilizer a few times a season. You can buy fertilizer specifically formulated for roses, but this is not strictly necessary.
Mulch. Mulching rose beds can help keep pests away and distribute more nutrients to the roses. Get wood chips, pine needles, peat nuggets, or another type of mulch suitable for your area.
Compost or rose planting mix. Mixing this with the soil when you plant the roses helps them grow.
A shovel and spade. You'll need these to dig holes when you plant the roses.

