 One of the ways you can likely be most helpful to a loved one with SM is by explaining the condition to others. You don’t have to announce to the world that “my nephew has selective mutism,” but you can provide information as warranted.Remember, though, that SM is a medical condition, so don’t disclose it to others without the person’s permission (especially if your loved one is an adult).
In basic terms, SM involves an inability to speak in certain (usually public) circumstances even though the person has no trouble communicating verbally otherwise. To be diagnosed as SM, the symptoms must interfere with normal life activities, not be caused by other conditions, and last for at least one month.
 Awareness of SM is still fairly low, and people may assume your loved one is just shy, rude, or disinterested, or has autism, some sort of mental or emotional disability, or another condition. In addition to providing a basic definition and information regarding SM, you can help others recognize that your loved one is not acting intentionally and is fully capable of understanding, communicating, and learning.SM is not “fake” or “made up,” and it is not a plea for attention. It is a real condition based on an anxiety disorder. It does not mean the person has some sort of mental disability. It can be treated and overcome. The person can lead a full, healthy, successful life, have lots of friends, and manage just fine in social situations.
 People with SM may need a little extra patience, understanding, and effort in school, the office, or elsewhere, especially during the early stages of dealing with the condition. SM, however, may make it particularly difficult for your loved one to speak up and explain the types of simple accommodations that may be of great assistance. You may be able to help by being your loved one’s voice, defender, and champion.Once most teachers, co-workers, etc. have a greater understanding of selective mutism, they will usually be willing to make some adjustments to help your loved one manage the condition. Spread awareness, answer questions, and correct false assumptions.

