 Ripe fruit has yellow skin and a waxy texture. It should feel soft but not squishy. Avoid fruit that has brown spots.Do not wash the fruit until after you have sliced it.;
, Using a fruit or vegetable peeler, glide the blade away from you along the raised edges. The skin should slide off easily.
 Do this by using a paring knife to slice along the concave creases of the fruit. Be careful to avoid cutting completely through the fruit. The slices will separate easily once you have sliced into all the creases., Holding one slice with both hands, gently move your thumbs in opposite directions. The slice should easily come apart into two pieces.


You will find the seed packet along the edge facing you.
Gently pull the packet out from the top down.
Repeat this process with the remaining slices., First, spray the slices with cold water. Then, soak them in distilled water for about two minutes. Soap, detergent, and other cleaners are toxic if swallowed and should be avoided--especially on sliced fruit!, This can be done in a blender on the "purée" setting. If you are using a food processor, use the lower setting. Stop the blender or food processor when the mixture has become smooth but still thick. Do not let it liquefy too much.
 Store the trays in the freezer. Allow the purée to freeze for at least 24 hours.
 Write "Star Fruit" and the date on the outside of the bag. Tropical fruits tend to keep for about three months in the freezer., Use a low setting until you get the desired texture. For chunky jam, set the food processor or blender to a "chop" setting. If you prefer a smoother texture, set the food processor or blender to a "purée" setting.
 In a saucepan, simmer the mixture over a low heat. Watch it closely until it begins to sizzle. Stir regularly to prevent the mixture from sticking to the pan.
 Allow it to liquefy. Then, bring the contents of the saucepan to a boil.
 Allow the mixture to simmer for 15 minutes.Remove the saucepan from the hot burner.


If desired, add pectin. Simmer for an additional 15 minutes.
 Official guidelines recommend storing canned preserves in a dry, dark place between 50 and 70 degrees F (about 10 to 21 degrees C).


Unopened canned preserves usually remain safe to eat for about a year.
Store opened jars in the refrigerator and eat them within one month.
Keep the temperature in the fridge at no higher than 40 degrees F (4 degrees C)., Cool a glass of water or fruit juice with two or three frozen cubes. Spice up a frozen margarita with a few cubes. Add them to your favorite ingredients for smoothies or milkshakes. The frozen purée can also be mixed into homemade baby food.
 Slather a spoonful of jam on your toast. Turn "PB&J" into "PB&SF" by adding the star fruit jam to a peanut butter sandwich. Add a dollop of jam to your oatmeal as a healthy substitute for sugar.
 Follow the instructions in wikiHow's article on how to make lemon mousse. Replace the lemon zest and lemon juice with the star fruit jam. Enjoy!