 To seek a special administrative exemption, you must submit a written request to the EEOC that details the reasons you need to set an age limit for your apprenticeship program.Essentially, you're asking the EEOC to make an administrative rule, so your written request should follow the basic format for other rule-making requests.
You can find examples of the format to follow by searching online, or reviewing information in the federal register.
The federal register contains proposed rules, so you can get an example of the types of information you'll have to include in your request.
 The EEOC bases its decision to grant an administrative exemption based on its determination that granting an exemption would be in the public interest.For this reason, the more you can show that there is a public interest for your age limit, the stronger your request will be.
Examples of public interest include demonstrating that older people are a safety risk for scientifically demonstrable reasons, or that deterioration of various faculties as a result of aging causes significant danger to the general public.
 Before the EEOC will make a ruling on your request for an administrative exception, it publishes your request in the federal register and solicits public comment. This is the same process used for any federal regulations.The purpose of the federal register is to provide the public with notice of any proposed rules or regulations. It makes the administrative agency regulation process more democratic.
The EEOC will specify a comment period of between 30 and 60 days. During this time, any member of the public can file a comment on your requested rule, either supporting or opposing it.
The EEOC will take public comments into consideration when deciding whether to make an exception in your case.
 After the period for public comment has closed, the EEOC will review all information submitted and decide whether to grant you an exception to the general ADEA requirements.You will receive a written letter from the EEOC that states whether the agency has granted you the exception and explains the reasons for that ruling.
Keep in mind that there typically isn't any appeal from an EEOC ruling of this nature. However, if things are mentioned in the EEOC's reasons that can be changed or fixed, you may be able to make those changes and re-apply for the exception.
 If the EEOC grants you an administrative exception, you must maintain records as set forth in federal regulations. These records must be kept for three years and made available for inspection if requested.These records include the name, address, date of birth, occupation, rate of pay, and weekly compensation for each employee.
Any other records related to any employee, such as their job application or communications related to their promotion or transfer, must be kept for at least one year.
You also must keep any records or documents related to the employee's performance or benefits, along with written records of any policies you have such as seniority systems that apply to the particular employee.
You may want to work with an employment law attorney who defends employers to make sure all of the required records are in order according to the guidelines set forth in federal regulations.

