 Everyone feels anxiety from time to time, whether they are stressed, over-worked, or nervous about an approaching deadline. But when feelings of anxiety make it difficult to live your life you need to find a way to deal with them. Common symptoms of anxiety include:


Feelings of fear or panic.
Problems falling/staying asleep.
Nausea, dizziness.
Sweats, clammy hands, dry mouth.
Heart palpitations.
Inability to sit still., Examine your thinking, including beliefs, expectations, attitudes, judgments, values, and opinions. Try to pinpoint exactly what is making you nervous, on edge, or anxious. More often than not your anxiety is about the past ("I've done something terribly wrong") or the future ("Sooner or later my boss is going to fire me"), but every person is different. Think about your anxiety, don't run from it.


Are you anxious because of a project or deadline at work? Maybe it's time to take a short vacation.
Are you anxious about your relationship with someone? Maybe it's time to have a conversation with them.
Are you anxious about your future plans? Maybe it's time to sit down and think about what you want in your next year of life.
 To make your thinking more realistic and accurate, think: "I can't change the past, and I can't control the future. I can just do the best I can right now". Letting go of control is an important way to adjust irrational or inaccurate thinking as you put focus and energy in the here and now rather than the "what ifs," "should haves," and "I'm not good enough."


How can you make your current situation better?
Is the past really "your fault," or are there a lot of variables that influenced what happened?

, Reframing your negative thoughts with more positive language is a great way to take the power out of bad or anxious thoughts. Instead of thinking, "My mom is going to kill me for breaking that lamp," tell yourself that "Mom is going to be mad, but we will get a new one." While you know that your mom isn't going to actually kill anyone, the figure of speech "she is going to kill me" is loaded with negative thoughts that make you anxious. Extreme language is not only dangerous, it is rarely true.Instead of, "I'm worthless," after a failure, think "I've learned how to improve next time."
Instead of, "everyone hates me," think "not everyone can be best friends.", You don't have to be meticulous, but keeping the environment around you free of clutter can help you keep your head free of clutter too. Take 10-15 minutes to calmly organize your desk or room, which allows you time to decompress and take control of your situation, physically and mentally., Just getting anxiety of your chest can make it more manageable. When you take the time to put your anxiety into words you give them shape, allowing you to figure them out and find a way to handle them. Find someone you know is a good listener, like a family member, friend, or loved one, and begin with "Would you mind if I got something off my chest for a minute?"


Don't feel like you need someone to give you guidance or advice. Simply having someone sympathetic listen to your anxiety is often enough.
Find a support group to enter a safe, open environment to share your fears., When you start feeling anxious, counter your negativity with something good. Work on kicking out the bad thoughts for the good. For example, you might start with "I'm going to fail my chem test." But remember the positives before jumping to the negatives: "I passed my last test," "I'm really good at English" and, "I still have 3 days to study." Finding the good in every situation gives you something to focus on instead of anxiety.


Writing down these lists, or "counter-attacks" can help you see the good more clearly.
Have these thoughts ready when anxiety creeps in and use them to fend off upsetting thoughts.
 If you have persistent anxiety or anxiety that prevents you from doing normal, everyday tasks, you may have an anxiety disorder.While the tips and ideas here may help you manage or control your anxiety, talking to a trained, objective therapist is a great way to learn more about your feelings and find specific ways to manage them.There is no stigma to seeing a therapist. In fact, 1 in 5 Americans have seen a therapist or are on medication for anxiety.