 Lay it down on a table, sticky side up. Continue to cut multiple pieces of duct tape that are 15 inches long. Each time you cut a new piece, lay the non-sticky side onto the sticky side of the duct tape already on the table. Overlap the pieces about 1/2 inch. Do this until it is 11 inches wide.At the end of this step, you should have one large sheet of duct tape, all sticky side up. If the size is a little over 11 inches, you can cut the excess off later.;
, The direction in which the duct tape is facing should now be shifted. Cut more pieces of 15 inch long duct tape. Add them, sticky side to sticky side, onto the already made sheet. The pieces of duct tape should be placed perpendicular to the already existing sheet. Overlap each of these pieces by about 1/2 inch.Make sure all of the sticky sides from the previously made sheet are covered. If there are some sticky sides left around the sides, this is fine. You will trim them off later.
 Use a pair of scissors and cut off any excess amounts of tape. Try and keep the size, 15X11 inches, as best as you can. This project does take into account some discrepancies, so if your rectangle is a tad short, don't worry about it.If you want too, you can reinforce the edges of your rectangle with another layer of duct tape. After you get done cutting, simply take a piece of duct tape, and fold it around the edges and corners. This will keep your backpack from potentially fraying.
 Instead of one that is 15 inches long by 11 inches wide, you will want to make it 30 inches long by 11 inches wide. The first rectangle will represent the front of your backpack, while the second rectangle will be the back and the folding flap (that is why you need the extra length). Simply repeat the previous three steps, but this time replace the length from 15 to 30 inches., You are going to do exactly what you did in the first three steps. However, in this case, both the lengths and the widths will change. For the sides of your backpack, you will need TWO pieces that are each 11 inches long by 5 inches wide. For the bottom, you will need one piece that is 15 inches long by 5 inches wide., Lay the back piece (11X30) on a flat surface. Take one side piece(5X11), and lay it to the long side of the back piece. Take the other side piece, and do the same to the other side of the back piece. The long sides of the side pieces should lay against the long sides of the back piece.Slide both side pieces down, until their edges are parallel with the bottom of the back piece. This will leave room at the top for the flap in your backpack.
Tape each piece on using duct tape. Make sure to tape both sides. This will help reinforce and stabilize your backpack.
 Take the bottom piece (5X15) and place it at the bottom of the back piece. Make sure the long side of the bottom piece is against the short side of the back piece. Note: this should be done next to the side pieces, not on the flap side of the back piece.Tape the bottom piece to the back. Make sure that you get both sides.
 Take the front piece (11X15) and place it next to one of the side pieces. The long side of the front piece should rest next to the long side of the side piece you chose. Tape it on using duct tape. Make sure to get both the front and the back., Take the front piece in your hand and fold it over. As you are doing this, also fold up the side piece you will be joining it with. Hold them tightly together. Grab a piece of duct tape and place it on the outside of the conjoining edges. Do your best to also place of duct tape inside the conjoining edges, although this can be difficult., Press the sides inwards, while lifting the front piece up. Fold and bend the corners until the corners are resting at 90 degree, square angles. Pinch the edges with your hands to make nice creases, and hold the angles. This step is absolutely necessary in order to properly tape the bottom flap on.
 Lift it up and press it tightly against the other three edges. Take a piece of duct tape and run it along the long edge. Then take two shorter pieces and run them along the shorter edges. If you can, lift your backpack up, and place some extra pieces of duct tape on the inside of the conjoining edges.Crease the edges of the bottom flap, so that your backpack continues to hold the sharp 90 degree angles.
 Take a roll of duct tape, and place the loose end near the bottom of the backpack. Begin to wrap the duct tape around the back, sides, and edges. Shift over a little bit, each time you make another pass around. Once you get to the opening at the top, cut the duct tape off. This will give your backpack some extra stability, and protect your items from getting wet., You have two options here. You can square your flap, or let the flap remain as is. To square the flap, first take it down as far as you are comfortable with taking it. Do not take it all the way to the bottom. Hold the flap in this position, as you bend the flap, and make creases. These creases should bend nicely over the top edges of the backpack.


If you want to leave as is, simply bend the flap down, and use your hand to curve it slightly., Measure out one long piece of duct tape, about a yard long. Measure out a second one, a yard long as well. Stick the two pieces together, sticky side to sticky side. Cover the edges of the pieces with another layer of duct tape. Repeat this twice in order to make two straps.Tape each of these straps to the back part of the backpack (below the flap). You can move them side to side, up or down, depending on your own comfort level.
Reinforce the straps with multiple layers of duct tape. Since these straps will carry the brunt of the load, you will need to secure them with many layers of tape, crossed over one another.
 Cut two large pieces of duct tape, about a yard long each, and attach them together sticky end to sticky end. Place some duct tape on the edges to smooth out the strap, and to prevent it from sticking to your clothes. Finally, attach the strap to the back of your backpack, about two inches from the bottom of the flap, and 8 inches apart.You can adjust the measurements, depending on your size, and the comfort level.
Make sure to use lots of duct tape to secure the strap. The strap is what will be taking the brunt of the load.
 The most common way to secure a backpack is with a button. Punch two holes in the front of your backpack, about 3 inches from the bottom, in the center, 1/4 inch apart from one another. You can do this with a knife or a pair of scissors. Find a button that you like, and which goes with your backpack.


Lace a strand of string through the two holes in the backpack, and then lace them through the button. Finally secure the button with a knot. How to Sew a Button

Cut a slit, the diameter of your button into the flap. Do this cut about one inch from the end of the flap.
 First, you will need to buy magnets with removable adhesive strips. If you cannot find them, use super glue in order to secure the magnets. Simply put one magnet on the front of the backpack, about 3 inches from the bottom, in the center. Then attach another magnet on the inside edge of the flap.If you are using glue, give the glue a few minutes to dry before you test them out.
Make sure that you are using magnets which attract one another. You do not want to glue on two positive magnets, or two negative ones. Otherwise, they will repel one another.
 A more elegant way of securing your backpack is to lace a ribbon through, and finish it off with a beautiful bow. First, poke two holes in the front of the backpack, 3 inches from the bottom, in the middle, and an inch apart. Then cut two holes into the flap, about an inch from the end of the flap, and an inch apart.Find a nice ribbon and lace it through the front holes first. Then bring down the flap, and lace it through those holes as well.
Finally, tie a bow, or a knot, depending on your preference. How to Tie a Bow


,