


Check out books on all subjects from the library.
Enroll in a couple of classes at your local community college, technical/trade institution or community service center.
Take some online business and/or interior design courses.
Ask local fabric, craft and sewing notion stores if they offer workshops. Oftentimes they do, and usually for free.;
, Not only will you need space for making custom drapes, but you will also need an area to organize and maintain the business aspects of your venture.
 Remember that the cost of fabric must go into your design, so the less you pay for fabric, the more favorable your prices will be for customers. It will be hard for you to get wholesaler status from fabric distributors when you are just starting up, before you have the necessary business references, so you need a plan for providing fabrics to customers. You have several options:


Ask customers to provide their own fabrics.
Find local fabric liquidation warehouses and hope you can find enough of what you need there.
Pay full price for fabrics at fabric stores.
Make a deal with a self-employed interior decorator or designer who will lend you fabric swatch books and order wholesale fabrics for you.
 This should include your start-up costs, projected cash flow and marketing plan.
 If you are using anything other than your real name, you will need to register your business name with your government's business regulatory department.
, Keep them in a sketch book or portfolio to show to customers.
 Business cards, flyers and brochures are good for starters.
 Contact fabric shop owners, interior decorators and designers, window treatment storefronts and any other professional or business entity you can think of that might have reason to order from a custom drapery business. Give them business cards and brochures, and ask for referrals.



Place ads in free and paid classifieds.
Purchase advertising space in local newspapers and lifestyle magazines.
Put flyers on cars.
Spread the word through social media networks.

