 To ensure that the faux leaves will adhere properly, the surface of the vase must be clean. Wet a piece of paper towel with rubbing alcohol, and clean the entire vase to remove any dirt and oil.It’s best to use a glass vase for this project. Decoupage medium can work on some plastics but not all of them, so you may have trouble if you use a plastic vase.
 Faux leaves are usually made of a combination of fabric and plastic, so they can sometimes be a little stiff. To make it easier to adhere them to the vase, loosen up the leaves by bending them back and forth. They should become more malleable.You can find faux leaves at craft stores and online craft retailers.
You can use real leaves for this project. However, if they’re too dry, they may crumble and break when you apply the decoupage medium.
 Place a piece of foil down on your work surface and lay the leaves on it. Use a foam brush to spread decoupage medium all over the back of the leaves, making sure that they’re entirely covered with the adhesive.Choose a decoupage medium that is an adhesive, sealer, and finish all in one. You can find those types of products at craft stores.
It’s best to spread the decoupage medium over one leaf at a time. If you slather it on a bunch of leaves at once, they may dry out while you’re placing the other leaves on the vase.
 Once the back of the leaves are covered in decoupage medium, place them on the vase. Use your fingers to smooth them into place so there are no wrinkles or bubbles. Continue placing the leaves on the vase until you’ve covered it as you desire.You can completely cover the vase with the leaves or leave some gaps between them.
With the faux leaves and decoupage medium, you can overlap the leaves slightly if you prefer.
 After you’ve placed all of the leaves in the arrangement that you like, use the foam brush to cover the entire surface of the vase with another layer of the decoupage medium. A thin coat is all you need.Applying too much decoupage medium as a sealer can leave bumps in the surface of the vase.
 Once you’ve sealed the leaves on the vase, let the decoupage medium dry completely. It should take two to three hours.When the decoupage medium is dry, you can embellish the vase with ribbon or a bow.

