 The crate should never be used as punishment as in a cage, jail, or time out. Instead, let your husky become comfortable with the crate by keeping the door open. Always use a gentle voice and give praise when your husky is in or near the crate so that fear does not creep in. Avoid forcing or tricking your husky to enter the crate.


If your husky refuses or fears to enter the crate, place a tasty treat inside as a lure. Let him discover the treat on his own. Do this several times a day as necessary.Word associations are important. When your husky enters the crate use the same word to make a positive association with entering the crate. The best method is to use the key word or phrase as the treat and husky enter the crate.
On the first day, in particular, repeat these procedures often so that your husky recognizes and becomes comfortable around the crate.
 At the end of the day, place the familiar treat inside the crate, after your husky enters, close the door. To ease anxiety, place an interesting new toy inside to focus attention away from the closed door. Continue to provide company outside the crate until any crying or whining subsides. Keep your husky in the crate until there has been at least 30 to 60 seconds of silence. Resist the urge to let your husky out of the crate before reaching the minimum amount of time of silence or using corrective language to keep quiet.


Always have an extra toy available if the treat and initial toy fail to keep your husky from whining or crying. It is important to keep the focus off of the closed door.
A good strategy would be to exercise or play with your husky until they become tired and then place them inside the crate when they are sleepy. If your husky falls asleep inside the crate, let them sleep there overnight.
Be mindful not to praise your husky in the morning for staying peacefully inside the crate. This gives the dog the illusion that it is better to be out rather than in the crate. Indeed, pay little attention to your husky for the first couple of moments after exiting the crate to reduce this illusion.
 Siberian Huskies are pack dogs and like to be close to their “alpha,” plus this gives them reassurance that they are not being abandoned. Use your voice or place your fingers inside the crate to comfort the dog’s fears. Unless your husky has to potty, keep the crate door closed for at least four hours.


Comfort is the key. Therefore, if your husky soils the crate do not scold or discipline.
Keep the crate in the bedroom for a few nights until the routine becomes familiar. Once your husky no longer whines or soils the crate, you can place him somewhere else in the house.
 This should not be treated as some special event; rather, it is best to leave without calling attention to your departure so your husky does not fret.


Practice first until it becomes routine. Increase the time increments that you pretend to leave the house during training until you achieve two hours. Remember, if you have a puppy, they have to potty every four hours. Therefore, during training, make arrangements to come home or have a neighbor let the puppy out of the crate to potty.
It is a wise idea to inform neighbors that you are crating your husky since extended “howling” is natural when feeling lonely.
Siberian Huskies are masters of escape. When you leave the house, make sure that all unsafe toys, collars, and cords are removed from or near the crate so that the husky does not get injured.

