 Go to supermarkets and farmer's markets to see what is already being offered with success. You can choose to expand slightly to offer something more exotic, but the bulk of your plants should be common herbs that people buy for everyday cooking.


Popular herb plants include garlic, basil, oregano, ginger, fennel, parsley, chamomile, lemon balm, lavender, wheat grass, flax seed, ginseng, thyme, sage, rosemary, catnip, anise, mint and bay leaves.;
, Start up costs can be relatively inexpensive, especially if you already own tools for gardening and pots. Buy packets of seeds and high quality potting soil.


Consider how many packages of seeds you will need for all your herb garden ventures. For example, if you only plan on selling fresh herbs, they continue to grow, so you may only need 1 packet of seeds. If you plan on selling starts or seedlings as well, you should plant 1 to 2 extra packages.
 Clear a portion of a warm garage or a room in your house that gets plenty of sunlight. Starting to plant your herbs 1 to 2 months early will mean you have fresh herbs ready for selling before people are able to grow them in a garden.
 If you have particularly bad problems with insects or unpredictable weather, you may choose to keep them in containers for the duration of the season. Pay close attention to frost and use organic, non-toxic pesticides, if necessary.
 Weed your garden plot daily to ensure other plants are not competing for soil nutrients and water. Water regularly, even daily in hot weather.
 This is a necessity and selling point no matter where you sell your herbs. Fertilize at regular intervals according to package instructions.
 Trimming encourages new growth, and it is your main way of making money. Trim them and wash them right before you plan to sell.
 You can cut and weigh the fresh herbs and tie them together, or you can place them in a small plastic bag. A tie is more environmentally friendly, but a plastic bag will allow you to label them with the name of your herb garden, address and phone number.
 Sell the seeds in the fall or save them to use next spring.


Some genetically engineered seeds are made to produce sterile plants. Start your herb garden using seed from small organic seed companies. The seeds may cost more in the beginning, but you will be able to harvest and use new seeds from your plants year after year.
 Make sure to only purchase a small amount of space, which allows you to lower expenses and maximize profits.


Increase your profit at the farmer's market by increasing the number and types of products you sell. Seedlings, fresh herbs, dried herbs and seeds can all be sold at your stall during different parts of the season.
 Price your herbs so that they cost less than what you would find at a supermarket.
 You may need to pay a booth fee, depending upon the occasion. Events can be a great opportunity to market to a new crowd, with less competition than the farmer's market.
 If you are able to offer them organic herbs at a discounted rate, they can buy herbs in large quantities a few times per year.
 Some of the largest costs in producing these products are paying for large quantities of herbs. You can make oils relatively inexpensively and sell them at a farmer's market.
 This cooperative way to sell and distribute produce and other items brings farmers together to sell their products collectively. You will need to guarantee standards and the amount of herbs you can deliver.
 Through small steps and experiments, you should arrive at the most profitable way to sell your herbs.

