 After completing the first three assassination jobs previously given to you by another Dark Brotherhood member named Nazir, head to the Dark Brotherhood Sanctuary west of Falkreath and talk to Astrid, the leader of the Dark Brotherhood. She will then tell you that you’ll be assigned with a contract and will point you to whoever you need to talk to.;
, Leave the sanctuary and travel directly northwest for a couple of miles. You’ll eventually arrive to the westernmost city on the map; Markarth.
 Enter Markarth and find the alchemy store named The Hag’s Cure at the southern edge of the city. Inside the store you’ll find its female attendant named Muiri, the person Astrid wants you to talk to about the contract.


Muiri will then tell you her story about Alain Dufont and why she wants you to kill him.
This will also start the “Mourning Never Comes” quest; one of the many assassination missions in the Dark Brotherhood storyline.
 Alain Dufont can be found inside the Raldbthar ruins. Travel to the eastern city of Windhelm and take the south road from there. Stay on this path for a few miles, crossing the river, until you come across a mountain.


Leave the road and head to the right where you’ll see a stone ruin built on the mountainside. This is Raldbthar. Climb the stairs to get to its main entrance.
 Head through the door and follow the pathway until you reach a locked gate. To open this gate, press the “Unlock” button on your controller as indicated on the game screen, and use the directional keys to move around your lock pick and completely unlatch the lock. Once the gates are opened you’ll find Alain Dufont standing beside a table, talking with a few other bandits.
 Alain will have a white arrow mark above his head to easily identify and tell him apart from the others. Once you spot him, you can kill him from where you’re standing beside the gates using your long-range weapons, like a bow and arrow. You can also get close to him and attack Alain and the men he’s with using your close range weapons until they’re all dead. Either way, the objective will be met as long as you kill Alain Dufont.

