 Make a list of all the reasons you want to quit. This will help you clarify your decision to quit. Refer to this list whenever you're tempted to smoke.


Consider how smoking affects various important areas of your life: your health, your appearance, your lifestyle, and your loved ones. Ask yourself whether these areas would benefit from you quitting.For example, your list might say something like: I want to quit smoking so I can run and keep up with my son during soccer practice, have more energy, be alive to see my youngest grandchild get married, and save money.;
, Throw away your cigarettes. Wash your bedding and clothes to get rid of cigarette smells. Dispose of any ashtrays, cigarettes, and lighters that are hanging around your house. Make a commitment to yourself: you will not smoke another cigarette.


Remind yourself of your plan and carry a written version with you, or keep it on your phone. You may also want to re-read the list of reasons why you want to quit.
If you aren't prepared to quit cold-turkey, consider tapering off gradually. Fewer cigarettes are still (somewhat) better for you than more cigarettes. Some people find that they can only quit if they do it all at once, but others have found success through a gradual taper. Be honest with yourself: what is going to work?

, Cigarettes are highly effective at delivering nicotine throughout your body. When you stop smoking, you might experience increased cravings, anxiety, depression, headaches, feeling tense or restless, increased appetite and weight gain, and problems concentrating.


Realize that it may take more than one attempt to stop smoking. About 45 million Americans use some form of nicotine, and only 5 percent of users are able to quit on their first try.Try to avoid relapsing as much as possible. But if you do, recommit as soon as you can to quitting smoking. Learn from your experience and try to cope better in the future.
If you have a relapse and smoke for an entire day, be sure to be gentle and forgiving with yourself. Accept that the day was tough, remind yourself that quitting is a long, hard journey, and get back on your plan the next day.
 Your family and friends can help you stick to your commitment. Let them know your goal, and ask them to help you by not smoking around you or offering you a cigarette. Ask for their support and encouragement. Ask them to remind you of your specific goals when temptation is difficult.
 Many people find that certain situations trigger the desire to smoke. You might want a cigarette with your cup of coffee, for instance, or you might want to smoke when you're trying to solve a problem at work. Identify places where it may be difficult not to smoke, and have a plan for what you'll do in those specific places. If possible, avoid those places.


Practice an automatic response for a cigarette offer: “No thank you, but I will have another tea” or “No thanks–I'm trying to quit.”
Control stress. Stress can be a pitfall when trying to quit smoking. Use techniques such as deep breathing, exercise, and down time to help thwart stress. Make sure to get plenty of sleep, since this will help lower your stress.
 These apps provide a platform to help you track your cravings and moods, identify your smoking triggers, record your progress toward achieving your goals, and stay strong in stressful times. Search for "quit-smoking apps", read descriptions and reviews, and choose a program that meets your needs., Recent studies have suggested that using e-cigarettes while you quit smoking can help you reduce or quit smoking. Other studies recommend caution when using e-cigarettes since the amount of nicotine varies, the same chemicals as those in cigarettes are still being delivered, and they may re-activate the habit of smoking., Behavioral therapy combined with medication therapy can improve your chances of successfully quitting. If you've tried quitting on your own and are still struggling, think about getting professional help. Your doctor can talk to you about medication therapy.Therapists can also help you through the process of quitting. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy can help change your thoughts and attitudes about smoking. Therapists can also teach coping skills or new ways to think about quitting.
 This medication doesn't actually have nicotine, but it does help reduce the symptoms of nicotine withdrawal. Bupropion could increase your chances of staying away from cigarettes by 69 percent.


Usually, you'll want to start taking bupropion 1 to 2 weeks before you stop smoking. It's normally prescribed in one or two 150mg tablets per day.
Side effects include: dry mouth, difficulty sleeping, agitation, irritability, tiredness, indigestion and headaches.
 This medication curbs nicotine receptors in the brain, which makes smoking less pleasurable. It also reduces withdrawal symptoms. You should start taking Chantix one week before quitting. Be sure to take it with meals. Take Chantix for 12 weeks, and it could double your chances of quitting.Your doctor will have you increase your dose over time. For example, you'll take one 0.5mg pill for days 1-3. Then you'll take one 0.5mg pill twice a day for days 4-7. You'll take one 1 mg pill twice per day after that.
Side effects include: headaches, nausea, vomiting, trouble sleeping, unusual dreams, gas, and changes in taste.
 NRT includes all types of patches, gums, lozenges, nasal sprays, inhalers, or sublingual tablets that deliver nicotine into the body. You don't need a prescription for NRT and it can reduce cravings and withdrawal symptoms. NRT could increase your chances of quitting by 60 percent.


Side effects of NRT include: nightmares, insomnia, and skin irritation for patches; mouth soreness, difficult breathing, hiccups, and jaw pain for gum; mouth and throat irritation and coughing for nicotine inhalers; throat irritation and hiccups for nicotine lozenge; and throat and nasal irritation as well as runny nose if the nasal spray is used.

