 Do some research on their favorite topics so you can engage them in satisfying conversation. Realize that Scorpios are driven by a hunger for hidden truth and mystery. Often this will mean they have an interest in the paranormal, the occult, conspiracy theories or unsolved mysteries., When a Scorpio watches you and locks eyes with yours, they are giving you their full attention. There is nothing else going on in their world at that moment and they are listening with their entire being. When you spend time with them they expect the same level of attention so don't spend too much time on your phone.
 Scorpios value anyone who isn't afraid of being themselves. Scorpios have an intense and mysterious gaze, presenting a calm exterior that masks deep sensitivity.They observe and analyze from a distance, gathering information to augment their powerful intuition. You may be able to deceive a Scorpio for a short time, but Scorpio people are adept at seeing into the heart of any matter. When a Scorpio senses your dishonesty, you may as well be dead to them.
 Scorpios like to hear your stories instead of talking about themselves.Tell a Scorpio something about yourself and they will most likely remember it. In conversation, Scorpios are most fascinated by emotional truth, things that matter on the deepest levels. Scorpios love secrets.They despise small talk and shallow topics.
 Scorpios are natural detectives. Their curious nature longs for a mystery to solve. Create an air of mystery around yourself by keeping some details about your life or your past to yourself., Scorpios can be complicated and secretive. Asking too many questions may make them suspicious of your motives. Scorpios show their hidden selves only to those they trust and still may never reveal their whole self to you.
 It's not that they aren't interested in you. Scorpios tend to rely on their intuition and powers of observation rather than the unreliable testimony of others. If a Scorpio is willing to spend time with you then trust that they enjoy your company, even if they never say so.
 Scorpios, like many other people, love to discuss shared interests. If you have the same taste in music or like the same television show, be sure to bring those topics up in conversation.
 Scorpios are sensitive to the smallest gestures and will appreciate them even if they don't seem to show it. For example, let's say your Scorpio friend is standing next to a mutual friend. You can hug that person quickly, but when you hug the Scorpio, hold them and squeeze them with great warmth.


Give them sincere compliments to show your respect and affection. A scorpio will be able to tell that your words are heartfelt.
If you give them a gift, it doesn't need to be expensive but make sure it is special and meaningful.

