 Being overweight or yo-yo dieting (gaining, then losing, then gaining significant weight) can cause breasts to sag.When you gain a lot of weight, your breasts will stretch and grow heavier. If you then drop that weight, you will be left with excess skin that may cause your breasts to appear droopy. Maintaining a healthy weight and BMI can help prevent your breasts from sagging.

Breasts are more likely to sag if there is a higher ratio of fat to breast tissue. The denser your breasts — that is, the more breast tissue they have, as opposed to fat — the less likely they are to sag., Yoga can work to strengthen many parts of your body including your chest muscles. Consider taking a class to get a full-body work out. Otherwise, there are particular stretches you can try:


Bow pose:Lay on your stomach. Arch your back and place your arms behind your body. Pull up your legs so that your hands can grab your feet.
Cobra: lay on the floor on your stomach. Place your hands near your armpits, palms down, fingers pointing towards your toes. Gently raise your body so that your back arches. Your hips should stay on the floor. Hold the pose for five seconds., Swimming and especially doing the breast stroke can strengthen your chest muscles. Be sure to stretch before and after swimming. Swimming also will help your overall physical fitness, which will improve your appearance.
 Visit a department store or lingerie store to have a professional measure you. Many women wear incorrect bra sizes and that can lead to back pain too.


In comparison to bras with soft cups, underwire bras can give you extra support.
 Keep your shoulders back and do not slouch. This will not cure drooping, but hunching can make your breasts look heavier and droopier than they are. Do mirror checks to make sure you are standing straight., Use Vitamin E or shea butter to stimulate circulation in your breasts. This will also help the texture of your skin.Ayurvedic pomegranate breast oil is another option for firming purposes., While in the shower, wash your breasts first with warm water for one half minute. Then douse them in cold water for ten seconds. Repeat this process for a few minutes. End with cold water.This method can improve your blood circulation, which may improve your elastin and collagen levels., If you are not happy with your breasts, you can get a breast lift. There a number of different methods a surgeon may use, depending on your existing breast tissue and how much skin needs to be removed. Interview several different surgeons before making a choice. Find out how often the surgeon performs breast lifts, ask to see before and after photos, and how many procedures the doctor has performed. Make sure the surgeon you choose is board certified and the surgery will be performed in an accredited facility.Be aware that surgery may cause scarring or loss of sensation in your breasts.

