 People with ADHD tend to have lower serotonin and dopamine levels, so a change in diet might counter-effect those deficiencies to some extent. Experts recommend a complex-carb diet to boost serotonin for improved mood, sleep, and appetite.Rather than ingesting simple carbs that cause a temporary serotonin spike, such as sugars, honey, jelly, candy, and soda, choose complex carbohydrates such as whole grains, green vegetables, starchy vegetables, and beans.These act as an energy time-release, which improve your levels over time., Focus is a main problem for those with ADHD. To improve focus, incorporate more protein-rich foods into your diet several time over the course of the day. This will keep your dopamine levels high and help keep you focused.Proteins include meat, fish, and nuts as well as several foods that double as complex carbs, such as legumes and beans., There are certain kinds of fats that can make your symptoms worse. ADHD experts recommend improving the brain by avoiding bad fats, which are those found in trans fats and fried foods, burgers with non-grain fed beef, and pizzas. Choose healthier fats, such as omega-3 fats from foods like salmon, walnuts, and avocados.These fats may help lower hyperactivity while improving organizational skills.
 Increasing the amount of zinc you get in your diet may lower levels of hyperactivity and impulsivity, as shown in some recent studies. Seafoods, poultry, and fortified cereals are good sources of zinc.


You can also take zinc supplements to help increase your zinc intake if you think you won't get enough from your diet alone., There are some foods that have been linked to ADHD symptoms. Dairy has been shown to contribute to hyperactivity in children and teens. Try to avoid dairy and use alternative such as soy, coconut, or almond milk. For some, wheat or gluten has also been linked to ADHD symptoms.


To find out if these foods are linked to your ADHD, ask your doctor about it. You can also try to remove these substances from your diet to see if it improves your symptoms.