 Entry level construction jobs provide individuals with the opportunity to gain practical on the job experience and training. On construction sites, unskilled laborers are often responsible for cleaning and completing simple manual labor. These jobs, which are often titled “general labor” or “construction labor,” may not be your dream construction job, but they often lead to more skilled positions.In order to apply for these position, you often do not need a high school diploma or GED., In order to obtain a skilled construction job or pursue an advanced education in your trade, you need to complete high school or receive a GED. While completing these degrees, make an effort to take relevant courses. These include classes in math, physics, and English. If your school offers courses in shop, welding, or specific trades, consider taking these as well., Trade schools provide students with the theoretical knowledge and practical experience to flourish within the construction industry. Students may enroll in trade school courses while still in high school. If your high school does not offer construction related courses, enroll at a community college and work towards one of the following degrees: associate of science, associate of technology, or certificate of technology. Trade school programs often take 1 to 2 years to complete. While attending trade school, you will learn how to:


Read blue prints
Select building materials
Correctly install building materials
Interpret building codes, After completing a trade school program, you may choose to apply for an apprenticeship. As an apprentice, you will increase your knowledge of the construction industry and develop specialized skills. During each year of this five year program, you will need to log 2,000 hours on various job sites and 144 hours in the classroom. Your pay will gradually increase throughout the apprenticeship., In order to work within certain sectors of the construction industry, you may need to obtain specific certifications. Certification programs provide you with the specialized skills you need to effectively and safely conduct your work. Some of these jobs include:


Electrician
Hazmat
Rigging and Scaffolding construction, If you aspire to work as a construction site manager or own your own construction company, it is strongly recommended that you enroll in a Construction Engineering Technology program. This program aims to equip you to effectively manage a construction site or business. You will take advanced math, science, and physics, and engineering courses, as well as business management courses.