 Think about what kind of friends you have. For say, if you happen to have a friend who likes to take risks, and if very athletic, they are more likely to hide in places where others cannot get to; such as, high trees, or on a roof. Or if you have a younger friend that is scared of the dark, they are more likely to follow one of the other hiders and give away their spot by being loud. Figure out what you, and your friends are.;
, Where did your friends hide, where did the seeker look the most. Then you'll figure out where is the best place to go, and run if a seeker sees you.
 Look for good, dark places, such as behind a bush, or corner of the house. If you want you may write these down so you don't forget them.
 Most people get caught when they are running to find a new hiding spot! If you have a good hiding spot do not move! This may get boring, but at least you'll be the winner, and not have to be seeker next. (Unless it is an absolute must)

, Make sure you blend in with all of your surroundings. If you are playing in the dark, be sure to wear black. Weather conditions may change, as in winter, summer, fall, etc. Make sure you change with the season to be absolutely camouflage. (Night: Black clothes, Snowy: White clothes, etc.)

, Okay, you have just found the best spot! You are sure no one will ever look here! But, wait, someone is coming! The next thing you know, you are found. How did the seeker find you? Maybe it is because it is your lack of secrecy. Maybe it is winter outside, and you forgot about the snow on the ground and you left footprints leading to your hiding spot! Or maybe you had some loose change in your pocket that had led a trial right to your hiding spot. Make sure you carefully get to your hiding spot, with no one looking, and no evidence left behind.
 So, your phone randomly goes off in the game. It makes a loud sound, and the light from it is showing through your pocket. Day or Night this will not do you any good. Remember to leave all electronics, noisy items (keys, coins, etc.) and anything else that can give you away, inside of your house.
 Many of your fellow Hiders my find a spot next to you and then try to talk to you to go meet up in a new space. The best way to get these people to stop talking to you is to simply ignore them until the end of the game. If that does not work, try simply saying "I can't hear you. Tell me after the game." That shows them that you really don't care (in a nice way) and to just be quiet!

, Keep your Hiding spots a secret! Look for some good hiding spots and write them down. But make sure no one in the game finds your list of hiding and spots and never tell anyone your spots. But you might say "she/he is my best friend and will never tell anyone else." Yes, that may be true, but in the game of hide and seek, its one man on his own. If you tell your friend you best hiding spot, and they become the seeker, they will know right were to find you! So, lock your lips and throw away the key!

, Once you or a fellow teammate has been in a spot many times, it will become one of many of the first places a seeker will look. That's why you should have many Spots to choose from (that are different). You should also think about going to a spot in one game, don't go to it again for a couple more rounds, and then use it again. Most seekers forget places after a while.
 Remember to never move spots (unless it is a must) Well, Plan-B is where the must part comes in. Somewhere in the game, someone will give away your spot (to either try to be funny, or to get back at you for something you did earlier in the game) It's just like if your house where on fire; you would have a back up plan to get out of wherever you are!

, Okay, so your friends are not exactly your "enemies" but in hide and seek; they sure are! Be sure to keep close (secret) contact with your fellow hiders; but not too close. At some point in the game you might have to turn on them to save yourself from the seeker. Make sure you don't do anything to tick your friends off; they can be useful sometimes! But also remind your self that you are playing to win - not to be Mr. Nice Guy!

, Your friends can be useful sometimes! You and some hiders can create a code for when you are either signaled to run, the seeker is coming toward you, etc.
 Keeping yourself on low-profile or on the "DL" (down low) is the key to winning the game.
 Sure this game can get pretty competitive, but remind yourself constantly that these are still your friends and you are just playing for fun. There is no reason to fight or cheat at all!

