 Career counselors who have established membership with the National Career Development Association (NCDA) or the National Association of Certified Counselors are a first choice in the United States. In Canada, seek out professional counselors who are members of the Canadian Counselling and Psychotherapy Association.


Determine the credentials and experience of the career counselor. Upon meeting the candidate, you can determine where their licenses or certifications are valid (e.g. U.S or Canada). The Council on the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs (www.cacrep.org) maintains a listing of accredited graduate programs in the United States and internationally.
Ask to see a copy of the counselor's credentials and a professional disclosure statement including copies of publications or presentations where their career counseling work was published or recognized in professional journals and conferences.
Obtain a list of references from the career counselor. If the career counselor is legitimate, professional, and established, they will provide you with a list of references from past clients who can provide you with feedback about the counselor.
Ask the career counselor for customer testimonials in addition to references; as testimonials may confirm your decision or inspire you to work with a specific career counselor.
 This process will help you read about the nature of any specific complaints that have been filed against the career counselor by past clients. Contact the Better Business Bureau (BBB) at 1-703-276-0100 or visit the BBB website featured in the Sources section of this article to research a counselor's complaint history.


Choose a career counselor with styles and methods that meet your personal needs. Some career counselors may work with people in groups or offer one-on-one counseling sessions; whereas other career counselors may specialize in a certain age groups or cultural identities.
Make a list of counseling preferences that you can bring to your initial meeting with the counselor, then ask the counselor if they can accommodate your needs. For example, if you feel you need hourly sessions every week alone with the counselor, determine that the counselor can accommodate your request.
Verify the age group of clients the counselor typically works with. For example, if you have recently graduated from high school and need help determining your career strengths, you may not want to work with a counselor who typically works with individuals preparing for a different career before retirement.
Determine the fees charged by the career counselor. Good career counselors will be open about the fees they charge for each session and fees charged for any other materials such as textbooks or workbooks.
Ask the counselor to provide you with a printed list of all possible fees. Some counselors may charge a package deal for multiple sessions or charge you an hourly rate. Fees will vary depending on your career counseling needs.
Ask the counselor about initial consultation or meeting fees.

