 Is he conservative, laid-back, strict, critical, open, funny? These will all be helpful in preparing for the meeting. If you can't get any info out of him beforehand, take a cue from your boyfriend as to how he acts with his father. Does he joke around and is he sarcastic? Is he formal and reserved? Follow your boyfriend’s lead on this.;
, Is he cooking dinner for you? Is he taking you out to dinner? Are you meeting at a large family function? Are you watching a sporting event? Keep in mind where the event will be so that you can prepare yourself properly.
 You should have some insight as to what type of person your boyfriend’s father is and what types of beliefs he holds. Maybe your boyfriend’s father is a left-wing liberal and you’re a conservative Republican. Maybe he is old-fashioned and strict and you were raised in a less regulated family. If you think there is an area where you will clash, avoid the subject or at least take a playful approach to it. Don’t try to push any buttons or change his opinions. Be as cordial as possible; be honest and truthful about your opinions if asked but be sure to respect his beliefs and opinions as well.
 You don’t have to buy a new outfit for the event, but looking nice will show him that you care about his opinion and his son.


If you are meeting for a sit-down dinner at the father’s house, it is nice to bring a bottle of wine or a small gift to show your appreciation. Mind your manners at the table and help clean up afterwards.
If the meeting is someplace casual like a sporting event or watching sports on TV, wear jeans and comfortable clothes but still look nice. Be fun and don’t act bored or complain. Show him that you are easy going and can hang with the family.
If you are meeting at a large family event and the focus isn’t entirely on meeting the father, engage him in conversation and try to get him one on one. Afterwards, take an interest in the rest of the family and do not cling to your boyfriend’s side. Show them that you are social and smile a lot! This will win the father’s approval.
 Act lovingly and respectfully to him and his entire family. Don’t act jealous or put down your boyfriend.
 Ask the father questions and engage him in conversation. People love to talk about themselves, so act interested in what he has to say! Also, ask questions about your boyfriend. Fathers are proud and love to see that their children are admired and cared for. Do not dominate the conversation entirely. Talk about yourself, but make sure it is a two-way conversation. You are learning about each other.
 Say that the house is lovely, the food is great and the wine is excellent. If he takes you out to a restaurant and you don’t like your food, don’t complain. He is paying for it, so suffer through! You don’t want to come off as whiny and high-maintenance.
 It shows that you have respect for your elders and that you maintain a loving relationship with them.
 If the father’s personality clashes with yours and you dislike being around him, don’t forget that he raised the man you love and grin and bear it. If your relationship lasts, he will always be a part of your life. Be as polite as possible.
 People love getting thank you notes; it is a thoughtful gesture.
