 Civil court is where plaintiffs can sue defendants for money damages. Someone might falsely accuse you of, for example, assault and sue you for the injury they claim you caused. If the claimed damages are significant, you should consider hiring an attorney. The court may even award you attorneys fees for the costs of defending against the lawsuit.


If you are sued in small claims court, you may not need (and may not be allowed) to have an attorney represent you.
 When you are served with a lawsuit, you should also receive instructions on how to respond. There will be a deadline (usually about a month) for you to file an answer with the court. You can usually find pre-printed answer forms on the court's website or at the court clerk's office. Complete the paperwork, make several copies, and take them to the court clerk for filing.


The clerk will charge you a filing fee. If you cannot afford to pay the fee, ask the clerk how to apply for a fee waiver.
 The clerk will stamp your documents as "filed," file the originals, and return the copies to you. You must then serve your answer to the plaintiff. Do this, arrange for someone over 18 and not involved in the case to mail the documents to the plaintiff or the plaintiff's attorney.


Have the server fill out a "Proof of Service" or "Affidavit of Service" verifying that he or she served the Plaintiff. The form is available at the clerk's office. Then file the completed form with the clerk.
 Even if the accusations against you are false, you may want to consider settling out of court. You may be able to resolve the case for less than you would have spent defending the case in court. If you decide to settle, make sure that you get the terms of the settlement in writing and signed by the Plaintiff before you make any kind of settlement payment.
 Look for evidence and witnesses that can prove that you were not involved or present when the events took place. You can also conduct discovery, which is the formal process by which parties collect and exchange information about the case. While doing discovery or conducting your own independent investigation, try to locate witnesses who can testify that you were not involved in or responsible for the incident.


You will need to arrange to have your witnesses accompany you on the date of the trial.
When assembling photographs and other documentary evidence, put it in binders for easy reference during the proceedings.
 During the trial, the plaintiff and defendant will each present evidence and witnesses to support their versions of the story. After each witnesses testifies, the other side will have the opportunity to cross-examine the witness about the subject matter of his or her testimony. If you have an attorney, let him or her handle the details of your defense.


During cross-examination, keep your answers short and truthful. Do not be afraid to admit that you do not know an answer.