 For both federal and state income tax returns for a decedent, you typically will use the same forms that are required for regular individual tax returns, but you must indicate that the taxpayer is deceased.For example, to file federal income tax returns for a decedent, you would use Form 1040, or Form1040-EZ if the decedent qualifies.
You typically can find these forms by visiting the website of the IRS or the state tax authority of the state in which the decedent was a resident.
If you prefer to fill out paper forms, look for a toll-free phone number that you can call to request them, or stop by a tax office during regular business hours.
If the decedent was self-employed or operated a small business as a sole proprietor, his or her tax returns will be far more complicated than the typical individual. In that situation, you probably want to seek the help of a tax professional.;
, Before you file income tax returns for a decedent, you need to know their tax status and make sure they didn't fail to file tax returns for any previous years of their life.As the executor or personal representative of the decedent's estate, you are responsible for filing any missing returns, as well as the return for the year of the decedent's death.
You may be able to find information about whether the person's taxes were up to date by going through their files and financial documents. You also can request transcripts from the IRS.
Contact the state department of revenue to find out if the decedent's state taxes are up to date.
If the decedent filed joint returns with their spouse, in some cases the surviving spouse will file the decedent's final return rather than you as the executor or personal representative.
Talk to the surviving spouse as quickly as possible about the decedent's final tax returns and find out what they want to do.
 To complete a decedent's income tax returns, you'll need all documents filed with the IRS and the state, such as W-2s, that show the decedent's income earned, as well as state and federal taxes withheld.You can verify these forms with the IRS by filing the same form you need to request transcripts of the decedent's past tax returns.
Make sure you notify the decedent's employers of the death as soon as possible so all income is recorded and reported correctly.
You typically can find the income documents you'll need to complete the decedent's income tax returns by looking through their personal files and financial records.
 Even though you may file your own taxes and feel comfortable with the forms required, dealing with someone else's income and financial details may be more challenging than you anticipated.Keep in mind that any fees you pay to a tax professional are not only tax deductible, but will be paid from the estate – you aren't personally responsible for them.
To fulfill your fiduciary duties as an executor or personal representative, it is your responsibility to seek professional help if you doubt your ability to complete the task of filing income tax returns for the decedent accurately.
If you distribute the estate and have failed to pay all the taxes, you may be held personally responsible for the unpaid amounts.
 Once you have the documents and income information, you're ready to fill out the federal and state income tax returns for the decedent. You may be able to complete these using an online tax preparation service rather than using paper forms.Most online tax preparation services advertise that they can help executors or personal representatives file final income taxes for a decedent.
However, be aware that some states may require you to file paper forms. Check with the state department of revenue before you decide to go the electronic route if you want to do both federal and state all at once.
You probably got an employer identification number (EIN) for the estate soon after you were sworn in as executor or personal representative. However, you need to use the decedent's Social Security number on these tax forms, as these are their personal income tax returns for income they earned while they were alive, and as such have nothing to do with the estate.
Keep in mind that depending on the date of death, you may actually need to file "final" tax returns for two years.
For example, if the decedent died on March 2, and had not yet filed their taxes for the previous year, you must file tax returns for the previous year by April 15, as well as taxes the following year for the decedent's income from January 1 until their date of death on March 2.
 Especially if you've completed paper forms on your own, go over all the information you've included and double-check your calculations to make sure everything is correct and accurate before you sign them.When you've finalized your forms, sign and date them, indicating your relationship to the decedent. In other words, you should write "executor" or "personal representative" next to or directly under your name.
Make copies of the forms for the estate's records before you send them to the IRS or the state department of revenue. Even if you file electronically, you still should print paper copies of the returns themselves.
 Final income tax returns for a decedent are due on the same date everyone else's tax returns are due – typically April 15. Make sure you've filed them before the due date to avoid penalties and interest.Keep in mind that you should file a tax return even if the return shows the decedent doesn't owe any taxes.
If the decedent failed to file tax returns in previous years, you're required to file them as well. Essentially, you must bring the decedent's taxes up to date before you can distribute the estate.
The IRS does not require you to send a copy of the death certificate with the decedent's final income tax return. However, you may be asked for it later for verification purposes.
Some states may require a copy of the death certificate, the will, or the court certificate appointing you the executor or personal representative of the estate.
If you're filing electronically, print up any confirmation emails or codes you get for the estate's records.
 If the decedent owes taxes, you must pay these out of the estate bank account when you file the final tax return. Even if you applied for an extension, you still are expected to pay estimated total taxes at that time.If there isn't enough money in the estate to pay the taxes in full all at once, you may qualify for an online payment agreement or an installment plan with the IRS.
Generally, the decedent must owe less than $50,000 total for you to be eligible for an online payment agreement.
If the decedent owes more than that, you may be able to work out an installment plan, which the IRS creates on a case-by-case basis.
 The IRS and state departments of revenue have specific forms that you must complete if the decedent is owed a refund on their taxes and you want to claim that refund on behalf of the estate.The IRS has a fillable PDF for Form 1310, "Statement of Person Claiming Refund Due a Deceased Taxpayer," which you can download from the IRS website.
The state department of revenue also may have a form available for download from their website, or you may need to stop by a local tax office. The form may even have the same number as that used by the IRS, for simplicity's sake.
If you have questions about the state tax form, contact the state tax office and ask for assistance.
 The forms to claim a decedent's refund will ask for information about you and the reason you're requesting to claim the decedent's refund on their behalf or on behalf of the estate.The form also includes questions regarding whether the decedent had a will and whether an executor or personal representative has been appointed.
The only people who can claim a federal tax refund due a decedent are the decedent's surviving spouse or a court-appointed executor or personal representative. State requirements typically are similar.
According to the IRS, there is no requirement that a surviving spouse filing a joint return with the decedent fill out a separate form to claim the refund. However, doing so can prevent delays and ensure the decedent's name isn't included on the refund check.
Although you can get started on a decedent's income tax returns before you are officially appointed executor or personal representative by the court, you cannot claim the refund until you can provide court certification of your authority.
Even if you were named as executor or personal representative in the decedent's will, this is not considered valid proof that you are in fact the executor or personal representative of the estate.
 Typically you must mail the form claiming the decedent's refund along with copies of the documents requested in the instructions to the form or on the form itself.The IRS requires you to include a copy of the court certificate or order appointing you executor or personal representative.
Some states may require additional documentation, such as a copy of the will or a copy of the death certificate.
Even if you file the decedent's taxes electronically, you still must mail this form separately.
There's no deadline for filing this form. However, you want to submit it as soon as possible after you file the income tax returns for the decedent to make sure there are no delays in getting the refund.

