 Pour the cold water into measuring cup, then sprinkle the gelatin over it. Stir it briskly until the gelatin thickens.


If you are vegan/vegetarian and would like a more firm jello, use 2 teaspoons of Agar powder. You can also use 2 ounces of carrageenan instead., The water should be very hot, but not yet boiling. This will soften the gelatin and make it more liquidy. Don't worry, the jello will thicken back up again.
 You can use just one type of fruit juice, or you could use two different types of fruit juice for a more unique flavor. Apple, grape, orange, or pineapple juice are all great options.Take caution when using pineapple juice. Some people find that the enzymes in it prevent the jello from setting properly.
Give the jello a taste. If it is not sweet enough for you, add some sweetener, such as agave, sugar, or stevia.
 Just about any type of fruit goes well in jello, including blueberries, orange slices, pineapple, and strawberries.After you add the fruit, give it a quick stir.


If you want to cut the jello into cubes or fun shapes, pour the jello into a 9 by 12 inch (22.86 by 30.48 centimeters) or 8 by 8 inch (20.32 by 20.32 centimeters) baking pan.
If you'd like to add fruit to a fancy mold, fill the mold with ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) of the jello mixture first, then add the fruit. Fill the mold the rest of the way with the rest of the jello mixture; don't stir. This will help create a nicer design., You can also leave it there overnight. You can test whether or not the jello is ready by pressing your finger gently against it. If the jello sticks to your finger, it's not ready and needs to be refrigerated longer. If your finger comes out clean, the jello is ready., You can serve the jello as it is, or with a dollop of whipped cream.You can also garnish it with extra fruit as well.


If you chilled the jello in a baking pan, cut it into cubes or use a cookie cutter to make some fun shapes.
If you chilled the jello in a bowl, consider using a melon scoop to make little jello-balls.
If you chilled the jello in a fancy mold, dip the mold in warm water all the way up to the rim. Wait 10 seconds, then flip the jello out onto a dish. If it doesn't slide out easily, repeat.