 If the boy you like is just someone in your class and you don't know anything about him, the best thing to do is get to know him. Try to find out as much as you can! If the boy you like is a friend, then great! but still, you could try to find out more about his family and interests.;
, Talking to him is not one of the easiest things to do, even if you're his friend, but it's a must! If you're in his form/homeroom and you sit next to him or at his same table, then just start by saying "Hi". Talk about things as simple as something that happened earlier in class, or the latest dramas school has caused.
, The friends zone is not a good place to be for too long, because if you're in there for a while, you could be stuck there.
 Emphasis on a little. No guy likes a girl who's too nice, or who's too mean for that matter. Playfully make fun of him once on the date/outing. Pretend to be upset with him for a minute if he apologizes for something stupid, then laugh at him and say you were kidding.
 Make sure you touch him in cute ways, like fixing his hair or feeling the material on his clothes. If he leans back or steps away, then stop. Be sure not touch him in inappropriate ways, this could definitely send the wrong message, and it possibly will get you in deep trouble. Once you get closer and start holding hands, be sure to use a firm grip. Stroke the side of his hand with your thumb.
 If you don't already have his MSN, then get it! A great way to flirt on MSN is by playing 20 Questions! Ask him things like what he thinks you like, or who he thinks is cute. Just don't go too overboard! You should just use questions like that occasionally, or he may feel like he's been put on the spot.
 Guys like girls who are happy.
 Show interest by "liking" or commenting on his picture every once in a while If you're feeling particularly strategic, post a picture of you and him and make a few of your friends comment saying you two look good together.
 The most important thing about flirting is to not overdo it, or you may come across as way too desperate. Wink or nudge at him, and make subtle physical contact. Suggestions include as stepping on his feet (nicely, most guys are bigger than girls, anyway), poking him, and squeezing his arm. 75% of the time, guys are too shy to physically flirt because they don't know how you feel about it, so make the move first.
 If you don't wear makeup in school, (or even at all) do not come in one day with your face full of makeup. It will make it look like you're trying too hard. If you want to wear makeup, do it gradually, and don't do it just for him. There are plenty of guys that prefer the natural look, anyway. The hair is very important, also. You can wear it curled, straightened, etc., but it's more important to just keep it clean and tangle-free!

, But only rarely. It will keep him on his toes, and make it more special. Only compliment him if you can think of something specific. Tell him he's really good at reading your emotions, or that you love how his sweater matches his eyes and you can't stop staring.
 If he doesn't want to talk about something, don't pry too much, but tell him you're there for him. When he does talk to you, don't interrupt, and be understanding. It's pretty difficult for guys to open up, you have to make it easy on them.
 There are many ways to get his number - if you know he is not so good in a lesson, give him your number and tell him to text or call you if he needs help. If you know he wants to join a club, ask him for it and say you'll text with the details. You could even ask him out on a movie date, and then ask for his number!

, Don't text him first more than a couple times a week, or you could risk looking desperate. Also, once in a blue moon, when you're texting him and he texts back, don't text back for a few hours to a day then text him back saying sorry and give a flirty or vague reason.
 This is a big one! You don't want to go to school every day smelling like B.O. It's pretty simple: just shower once a day, make sure to soap up really well, put on deodorant, maybe wear a little perfume, keep your teeth clean, etc.
 If he feels he can't keep up with you, he might get too nervous and think that you're out of his league. If you are very socially active, invite him to come along one day with you and some of your friends. This will give him a chance to be around you outside of school and in your natural state.
 Make sure your hanging out with his friends when he is with them. But if you don't like his friends or don't know them well, at least try to make the effort to befriend them.
 When the friend is talking a lot, make eye contact with your crush. This will make you seem interested, but hard to get.
 Timing is everything. Mention how his shoe laces are untied, ask what band is playing, or even comment on the weather (that may sound boring, but it's a good conversation starter that is commonly used, and most people don't mind talking about the weather). Be confident and avoid stuttering and spitting out random words. Just talk to him like one of your friends.
 If you know the girl, chat her up nicely and get her interests. Learning more about her can help you find if she likes him.
 No one wants to be around a downer, or someone who is constantly grouchy. Even if you are not in too happy of a mood, try not to sound sad or annoyed.
 He might think you like them and not himself.
 If you're out in public or something, like a dance, and he seems too shy to ask anybody, just go up to him and ask him for a dance! Never be afraid to ask. He might want to dance and not have people care.
 That makes him feel that you don't want to be around him. If he has a phone, ask him for his number. Asking a guy out on the phone is easier than in person and not as embarrassing if he says no.
 It totally worked for Elle Woods in Legally Blonde.

