 On vacation or holiday, an amateur photographer takes photos that capture special moments or exotic locales. These photos are wonderful images for the family albums, but in order to sell photos online or in other venues, the photos must be excellent quality and saleable to the publishers, designers and editors who buy photos.


Research the types of photos that are currently selling online. With the results of this research in mind, review existing photos and plan trips to capture images that are currently in demand.





;
, A photographer who is computer savvy will find programs or instructions to create a website that will display the available photos and the tools to collect fees from the buyers. Photographers who are not confident enough to create their own presence on the web can hire experts to create a website.
 Follow the procedures for submitting photos to these agencies and present your photos to the selection boards. Established agencies are recognized by the individuals currently buying photographs so your photos will find an excellent showcase if accepted by a stock agency. The stock agency acts as an intermediary for photographers. The personnel at the agency work with the customers so the photographers concentrate on the business of acquiring new photos.


Take new photos to meet the standards of the stock photo agencies if your first submissions are rejected.






Rely on the stock agency to negotiate the rights that each photographer sells to customers. The expertise of staff at the stock agencies will facilitate the appropriate placement of photos with the buyers. Photographers do not want to relinquish rights to their photos without obtaining proper compensation for the right to use or publish their photos.
 These agencies accept photographs from an amateur photographer and provide a great entryway to a more sophisticated career. Although some microstock agencies charge a regular fee to participate, there are excellent microstock agencies that provide their services for free.


Start with a microstock agency to gain experience and expertise. Look for an agency that provides excellent guidance for photographers with limited skills.
 Practice and experience will pay off in better photographs. Develop both the art and craft of your photographic expertise.

