 If you don't have one, spend some time looking into colleges that offer a degree that can help you get the job you want. While a public administration degree is best, there are others you can use to get into this field.



US News and World Report ranks the best public administration programs annually. Their list may be helpful to you in deciding where to apply.Other degrees that may be useful in obtaining a job in public administration include political science, public policy, government management, and business management., Over the course of your studies, you'll develop a sense of what area of public administration you want to go into. This includes both the types of tasks you want to be responsible for and the types of policies are you interested in helping implement.


For example, do you want to eventually work as an accountant? An analyst? Do you want to supervise other government employees? Work on city planning? Work overseas?
Likewise, are you most interested in helping the homeless? Protecting the environment? Improving education?
Depending on your answers to these questions, you could end up hiring road crews for local city government, directing an NGO that feeds the homeless, analyzing the impact environmental regulations for the Environmental Protections Agency, or managing the budget for a school district. Knowing what you want to do will help you specialize in your studies and narrow your focus in searching for jobs.
 Many public administration degree programs provide opportunities to do an internship with a public administration organization or agency. Some programs even require it. This is because internships are a great way to gain hands-on experience with the work while making connections in the field.Numerous websites exist that can help you find an internship.If possible, look for an opportunity to do the type of work you are most interested in doing after you graduate. Better yet, look for an internship with an agency you hope might hire you!
An internship is a good way to start building your resume, and to determine if what you think you want to do in the field is in fact what's right for you.
 Before you graduate, join one or more professional associations for public administrators. Being a member of one of the organizations will look great on your resume and help you build a network within the field.


The best known of these associations is the American Public Administration Society (APAS). APAS has an annual conference, a newsletter, a journal, and a jobs website that can all be of great value to an aspiring (or experienced) public administration professional., Once you've finished your training, it's time to start looking for a job in a field that interests you. Because of the research you already did in Part 1, you should have some idea of where to look, but here are a few places you can find jobs in public administration.


Government job websites like go government and USAjobs.Professional associations like ASPA and various local and state-level associations that may exist in your areas.
Other career-specific websites like administrationjobs.comThe websites of public agencies and NGOs you are particularly interested in working for.

