 The quickest way to improve your score is to work on your short game. If you do not have a lot of time to practice, spending time on your short game is better than spending time hitting long balls.Putting is very important aspect of your short game.


Place ten balls in a circle, three feet from the hole. Move around the circle and try to sink all of the puts. Try to sink ten putts in a row. If you miss one, start over.
Try to practice your putting for fifteen minutes each day. The better you become at putting the more your confidence will increase.You can also start off with two-foot putts and then graduate to three-foot putts.;
, Lightly grip the club to decrease the tension in your arms. Place more weight on your front foot, use your arms and shoulders to swing the club back, and swing downward by pushing your right knee towards your target. Your left wrist should be flat throughout the entire motion.The swing is very short so your right elbow should never be behind your body.
The shaft of the club should always be in line with your left arm. Your left arm controls your chipping swing.Rotate your body forward as you swing.
 Your pitch shot is best when you rely on your arms instead of using your wrists and rotating your forearms. Keep your arms in the shape of a "V" as you do this swing.Stand over the ball so that it is right below the left side of your face to start your swing.


Keeping the "V" will make your ball have a nice spin and fly high.
Make sure your spine is straight before you begin your swing.
 The way the golf ball sits in the grass affects your shot. Learning how your shot changes depending on the lie of the ball will let you know what shot you should take. Your shot will differ if you are shooting in a thick rough, a bunker, or a tight lie.If the ball is sitting up in tall grass, you may have trouble hitting the ball cleanly. Take a few practice swings and only brush the tips of the grass with your club head. Then hit the ball with a club that has a lower loft (i.e. launch angle of a club, the amount of slope on the face of the club).
If the ball is sitting down in a thick rough, hit down on the ball to get it to come out of the rough.
If you are hitting on a tight lie where the ground is firm and the grass is low, use your putter to hit the shot.
If your ball is sitting on top of the sand, use an open club face to hit the ball or hit behind the ball to get the ball to go a greater distance.
If the ball is sitting down in the sand, your shot will not have any spin when you hit it. If the sand is very moist, use more power for your shot. If the sand is dry, it will be easier to hit the ball.

