 The most important thing you can do as you raise your introverted teen is to accept them as they are. Don’t try to make them become extroverts or get them to be more outgoing. Accept their personality for what it is. This will help them develop a better sense of self.It is also important to validate your teen, so make sure that you tell your teen that it is normal to be introverted. For example, you might say something like, “Being an introvert is totally normal. There is nothing wrong with being an introvert.”
According to scientific studies, extroverts and introverts have different brain chemistries, which means their brains are hardwired differently. This means they are naturally and biologically made to be an introvert.;
, People may use negative or unflattering words to describe your child. You can rephrase these descriptions into something positive. This helps your child refrain from adopting negative labels and descriptions for themselves and instead create a healthy, positive image.You should also use positive words in your own mind when thinking about your child.
For example, if someone says your child is “standoffish,” you can say “reserved” or “careful.” If someone calls your child “timid,” you may say “quiet” or “contemplating.”

, Many times, introverted teens don’t feel like they have a voice or the ability to speak up. This means they may let people bully them or run over them. They also may not speak their mind when they do have an opinion. Teach your teen that their voice is important.If your teen is being bullied, help them learn how to speak to a trusted adult or to address the issue. You and your child may be able to come up with a phrase that can work, like, “Stop treating me this way” or “Do not speak to me like that.”
When your child speaks, listen to them. Ask questions and encourage them to talk to you. Make sure they know that you value their opinions and ideas.
Teaching your child to be more assertive may also help.
 Introverted teens may have trouble expressing their feelings or talking about what they are thinking. Because they focus on their inner self and keep things internalized, they may have trouble figuring out how to communicate their feelings. Help your child learn how to express their feelings.


Create an environment where they feel comfortable sharing their feelings. Don’t make them feel embarrassed or wrong for their feelings.
If your teen doesn’t want to share feelings or ideas verbally with you, try getting them to express themselves in other ways. Get them to write in a journal, create art, or play music to express their feelings. You may also encourage individual sports, like boxing or martial arts, to help them release frustration.

