 Choose a 1.5-inch (3.8 cm) width for your first bow. Cut the end of the ribbon straight with a pair of fabric scissors.


A 22-inch length will make approximately a 3.5-inch (9 cm) bow. A 28-inch length will make a 4-inch (10 cm) bow.;
, They should each be 4 inches (10 cm) long.
 This thicker form of thread will make a sturdier stitch. Double knot the floss at the end of a 6-inch (15 cm) length of thread.
 Keep the rest of the materials close at hand.
 Take a lighter and hold the flame against the very edge of the ribbon where you cut it off the spool. Move the lighter along the edge so it will not fray.
 Crease the folded middle with your fingers so that you can see it when you straighten the ribbon again.
 You should see the center crease in the middle.
, Place your index finger on one end of the ribbon. Slide it in a semi-circle until it is perpendicular to the center crease.


Lift it and align it with the bottom edge of the center crease.
Hold it on the center crease with your index finger.
The ribbon should loop into an awareness bow, like the top of the breast cancer awareness symbol.
 Bring the inside edge around on the opposite side and lay it flat on top of the other ribbon end. It should be facing the opposite direction.


You will have a figure 8.
Hold both ends to the center with your finger.
 Bring the center of the other loop of the figure 8 into the center stack. This will give your center bow two more layers that you must hold in place.


Pick up the bow, while holding the center in place to see if your loops are even., The opposite side will be the front of your boutique bow.
 You want to make small accordion fold that will hold the center of the bow in place on your barrette. Pinch the center horizontally, gather the fold and repeat.


These are extremely small folds., Make sure you insert the needle through all the material in your center section. Pull the thread through until the double knot catches at the end.
 Tie the string off near the double knot. Your bow should now be secure and you won’t have to hold it.


Cut off the excess string.
, Grab a 4-inch (10 cm) section of thin grosgrain ribbon. You will wrap this ribbon around the center of the bow to hide your embroidery floss.
 Make sure it covers the embroidery floss.
 Be careful not to burn your fingers. Allow it to dry for 1 minute.
 They should meet at the back.
 You only need the ribbons to connect in the back.
, Fold one end down and press it as hard as you can without burning yourself.
 Fold the opposite end on top of the first end and press it down.
 Find a metal clip that is smaller than your bow.
 Cut a small section of thin ribbon, heat seal the ends and hot glue it securely to the top of the clip.
 Press the underside of the bow onto the hot glue strip. Press down until you feel it is securely attached.
