 You should leave at least 1/8-inch margins around all sides for a clean look.


Since the brochure will be folded, making the panels relatively small, it’s best to keep your margins on the narrow side to leave space for your text and graphics.
, The columns correspond with how many folds your brochure will have.


If you want to create a bi-fold brochure, you’ll need two columns on page 1 and two columns on page 2.
If you want to create a tri-fold brochure, you’ll need three columns on page 1 and three columns on page 2.
You can alter the spacing and width of the columns as needed, but the default spacing should be okay for most layouts.
 This will ensure that each column (i.e. panel) of your brochure holds separate paragraphs of information.


Making sure that your cursor is at the top left-hand corner of your first column, select Insert > Break > Column Break. Your cursor should jump to the beginning of the second column.
If you have three columns, repeat this process with your second column. (Your cursor should then jump to the beginning of the third column.)

, This will create a second page, which will become the outside of your brochure.


If it’s not already there, place your cursor in the right-hand column and select Insert > Break and choose Page Break. Now your cursor will jump to page 2, i.e. the outside of the brochure.
, This will help you visualize the proper layout of your Word document. (Because brochures are folded, some of the positioning will be quite counterintuitive.)


Take a blank piece of paper, turn it to landscape orientation, and write “Inside/pg.1” on one side and “Outside/pg.2” on the other.
With the Inside/pg.1 side facing toward you, fold your paper either in half (so that half of the Outside/pg.2 side now faces you) or thirds (so that two thirds of the Outside/pg.2 side face you) depending on whether your brochure is bi-fold or tri-fold.
Pretend that the folded paper is your brochure and mark it up accordingly. Write “title” on the front panel, “info” on the inside panels, and so forth depending on what you want the finished product to look like.
Unfold your paper to see where everything is located. Your title, for example, should be on the right-hand panel of Outside/pg.2, meaning it will correspond with the right-hand column of page 2 of your Word document.
 Use your mockup as a guide.
 Use this to make adjustments to your document if necessary.

