 While some disabilities are immediately apparent at birth, learning disabilities often appear in elementary school. Children may not know that they have a disability, so parents should watch for trouble reading, disciplinary problems, low-interest level and other indicators of a larger problem.


Go to the website of the National Dissemination Center for Children with Disabilities at nichcy.org/state-organization-search-by-state. You can find services that are available to school-aged children with disabilities.;
, Many states host schools for the blind, deaf or cognitively impaired. Request information about enrollment in these schools, to see if the disabled student is interested in attending a school that tailors the curriculum to work with any impairments.
 Many primary education districts have a special education director. Arrange a meeting with your school's disability contact.
 Many of these services are funded by federal or state aid, so they are required to keep track of specific services and student progress. Fill out all applicable forms to ensure your child will receive services when they need them.
 This should include services that are provided and a support network. Schedule appointments for evaluation of services during the semester, as well as at the end, after grades have been given.
 Before the start of the semester, you should schedule an appointment to speak with the teacher about the disability. This will help you to communicate any problems in the future and it also allows you to give extra support to the teacher.


The teacher may never have taught a student with this particular disability. There may need to be a period of trial and adjustment. You may be able to suggest ways to handle possible problems in the future.
 Request a copy of the school's disability requirements and request a meeting with school administration if those requirements are not being met. You may need to negotiate for some services, if the school cannot afford to adopt all the necessary disability services at once.

