 The funds on your myki card are valid on Melbourne's trains, trams, and buses; V/Line commuter trains; and regional buses in most large towns.Check the schedule for your chosen means of transport, and make sure that your myki will take you where you want to go.
 Your myki must have a balance of at least $0.01. Check the fares beforehand, and load enough money onto your card to get you \where you need to go. You may also ride if you've purchased a myki pass for the zone(s) you are traveling in – in which case, you must have a positive balance (at least $0.01.) If your balance is too low, add funds or buy a paper ticket.If your myki money balance is negative, you will not be able to touch on and ride until you "top up" your card with myki money. This applies even if you have a valid myki pass.
It's best to check your balance ahead of time. If you arrive at the station with insufficient funds, then you might miss your train in the scramble to top up!

, At the station, hold your myki up to the myki reader. Aim for the centre of the reader's card area, where you'll see a picture of the myki. Hold your myki on the reader until you hear a beep. This means your myki is now "touched on".


If you are touching at a train station barrier: you will hear hear a beep, the gates will open, and the screen will display "CSC PASS." CSS stands for Contactless Smart Card. Proceed through the gates.
Readers at non-gated stations—and on board buses and trams—will say "Touch On Successful." The reader screen will also display your balance and the expiration date of your myki pass.
 When you get off at your stop or exit the station, touch your myki to a card reader to tell the system that your ride is over. Listen for the beep indicating that your card has been "touched off." Proceed to leave the station.


Read your balance. Each time you touch off, your myki balance will be displayed on the screen for as long as you hold it to the reader. This does not apply at gated railway stations.
You do not have to touch off a tram unless you are travelling exclusively within Zone 2. In this case, touching off will give you the lowest fare.

