 Kardashian believes in deep cleaning her face every day. Pick something that's right for your skin type, and use it before you go to sleep every night.Cleansers come in a variety of types, for everything from oily to dry skin. The bottle will say what type of skin it's appropriate for. If you have frequent breakouts, you may want to consider a cleanser that specifically targets acne.
As an added bonus, you'll be removing your makeup and the day's grime, helping to make your skin happier and healthier.;
, Of the three sisters, Kourtney tends to keep it the most basic. Try to strive for less makeup rather than more, keeping it fairly simple, especially for your day-to-day look.For instance, keep powder light by only putting it in the areas where you might be oily, such as your forehead, chin, and nose.She's also not afraid to use basic products. For example, she really likes Johnson and Johnson Baby Body Lotion.
 Kardashian likes to rub this around her eyes. She also puts it on her eyelashes. Add it to your routine to help capture that Kourtney beauty.


Kourtney has used vitamin E oil since she was a teen to help keep these areas moisturized and beautiful. However, she also sometimes uses eye creams instead, such as ones with retinol to help prevent wrinkles., Kardashian likes to draw attention to her eyes with dramatic eyelashes and eyeliner. For big events, she prefers fake lashes or even extensions.For a day-to-day look, try just curling your eyelashes, adding mascara, and lining your eyes., Use blush on the area of your cheek that is the most prominent. Add a highlighter on top in the form of a light shimmer. Make sure to go over your bone structure to outline it., Kardashian prefers a nude lip color for most days. Pick a color that matches your skin tone or one slightly darker for a day-to-day look.To test it out, try it on the back of your hand. That way, you can see how it looks on your skin.
Don't forget to line your lips first, as that will give your lips definition., Another option for your hair is to wear it long and straight. Kourtney often keeps her hair way past her shoulders, and she wears it full and straight.Most pictures of Kourtney out on the town show her in this look. If your hair won't cooperate, try a straightening iron to help get the long, straight locks.
 Sometimes, Kardashian likes the no-fuss easiness of an up-do. Pull it up into a high messy bun, for instance, and go on with your day.Alternatively, try a tight, low bun or ponytail at the base of your head or even a basic high ponytail., Kourtney isn't afraid to rock a baseball cap. Most often, she wears something plain, such as a basic, black baseball cap facing the front.Similarly, Kourtney isn't afraid to throw on a large pair of shades as she runs around town., Kourtney is often a fan of ripped jeans. However, she often pairs them with something more pulled-together on the top, such as a mock turtleneck and flowing jacket.She may also go for something as simple as white t-shirt on top with a embroidered black and white jacket., Whether pants or jackets, Kourtney often favors leather as a fabric. Pick something in black if you really want to follow Kourtney lead.Consider hitting the thrift store if you can't afford leather pieces brand new.
 Often, Kourtney enjoys being at the head of every trend, even the most outrageous ones. Don't be afraid to try something new and a bit over-the-top.One way to stay ahead of the trend is to pay attention to fashion magazines and what's "in" for the season.
 While Kourtney may wear a flowing or over-sized top, when it comes to pants, she tends to wear them fairly tightly. The same usually goes for the dresses she wears, especially when it comes to pencil dresses and other similar styles., It's impossible to just lose weight in your waist area. However, if you trim up overall, you'll also lose weight in that area.Eat healthier foods. Instead of foods with processed sugar, pick whole fruits and veggies. Instead of foods high in trans fat, choose healthy fats. Fish, avocado, and nuts all constitute healthy fats. Also, stick to whole grains instead of processed grains, and eat low-fat dairy and protein.Practice healthy habits, as they will help you stay healthier and lose weight. For instance, don't smoke, and make sure to get enough sleep.Use aerobic exercises to burn calories and stay healthy. Aim for 30 minutes a day, most days, of exercise such as running, swimming, or working out at the gym., Kourtney Kardashian sometimes uses a waist trainer to help slim her waist. Basically, it's a corset-like garment you wear to the gym that helps work on that area., Part of the hourglass figure is a toned bottom. You can tone your bottom by increasing exercises for this area. Aerobic exercises like running work this area. You can also try doing squats and lunges., Another part of the hourglass figure is a large bust. Of course, you can't increase your breast size. Nonetheless, you can increase the size of your chest muscles, which can push your breasts out more. The key is to focus exercise in this area as well.Try a twisting dumbbell press. On your back, hold a dumbbell in each hand. Your arms should be bent at the elbow with the dumbbells above them. The elbow should be flush with your back when you're starting, and your palms should be towards your feet. Push the dumbbells up as if you're doing a standard press. As you push up, twist you arms so that your palms are towards your face. Fully extend your arms, and hold for a couple of seconds. Bring your arms back to the starting position, twisting back as you go. Try repetitions of 6 or 8, resting between sets.Do push-ups. Another way to work on these muscles is to do push-ups. Get down on the floor with your face down. Place your arms out to your sides, even with shoulders, with the elbows bent. Have the balls of your feet touching the floor. Lift your body off the floor with your arms, keeping it straight as you go. Go up and down, making sure you, at least, reach a 90-degree angle with your elbows as you come down.