 It will be easier to stay focused on what you need to accomplish if you take time to make a to-do list for each day or work session. For instance, your list might include handling correspondence, writing a client-facing report, working on an internal presentation, and arranging a meeting.If your to-do list isn’t accomplishable in the time allotted, select the most important or high-priority tasks to focus on. For example, if your report is due to your client immediately, you should prioritize completing it over correspondence.
 It can be daunting to face a huge project, which can lead to procrastination. It will seem much more manageable if you approach your work as a series of finite tasks.For instance, if you’re planning an event, list all the individual tasks involved, from booking a venue to sending an invitation to arranging speakers. Prioritize them according to their time-sensitivity, and tackle one thing at a time.
This approach will help you see that you’re making progress against a big goal while feeling the satisfaction of being able to check things off your list as accomplished.
 Take time to notice when you feel most alert during the day and when you have the fewest outside distractions. Set aside those times to tackle the tasks that require the most concentration.For instance, if you’re sharpest at the beginning of the day or have the fewest emails to attend to, do your hardest work then. Take on the tough tasks like drafting original case studies when you’re on-point and save daily correspondence for the end of the day.
 If you’re not aware of how much time you’re spending on a project, it can take more hours than it should. When you’re starting a task, decide how long you’d like to devote to it, and try to stick to that limit.If you’ve got an ongoing project, consider dedicating a set amount of time to it each day but no more. For example, you might decide to work on it for the first two hours of your day and then move on to other things.
 If you’re finding it difficult to motivate yourself, determine a reward that you will get if you accomplish a given task. It could be anything from going to a movie to getting yourself your favorite smoothie.

