 The Bible says that all of us have sinned and fall short of God's standard of righteousness. (Romans 3:23) Have you stolen? Lied? Cheated? Taken God's name in vain(blasphemy)? Thought bad thoughts? The Bible says "There is not one who is good, no one is righteous." (Ps. 14) In thought, word and deed we have failed to meet up to God's standards. The Bible says our righteous deeds apart from faith are like filthy rags before God. (Isaiah 64:6) If your motivation for being "good" is anything other than a desire to obey and honor God, it's not enough to please Him; to be in God's presence, we must be made holy through God's grace despite our sinful nature. Understanding that you are spiritually bankrupt and have broken God's commands is the first step to realizing you need God's forgiveness. Salvation is by grace and faith alone. It cannot be earned. (See Ephesians 2:8-9);
, Act on that prayer by getting baptized in water(Acts 2:38)(Acts 18:8)(Acts 22:16). God's purpose for making us is so that He can demonstrate his mercy, grace, and loving kindness. Our purpose is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. Embracing sin or trying to get "better" by yourself is a foolish attempt at ensuring the future. We often think that we can do enough good things to outweigh the bad, and God will reward us for it. But the truth is, purity and righteousness are unattainable without God's help. He sent His Son, Jesus Christ, to die on the cross for our sins. His sacrifice - of His life - was the consequence of every wrong thing we have done or will ever do. He knew we couldn't know Him through our own efforts, so He made a way for us to know Him by covering our sins with grace, on the cross.
 Repent from your sins. Repentance is a full 180degree turn from doing sin. Sin is breaking God's law. (1 John 3:4) Repentance isn't merely being sorry or guilty for sin, but it's turning away from it...God can't be mocked. God doesn't accept hypocritical repentance, thinking you can continue sinning so long as you ask for forgiveness. You will not have your sins forgiven unless you truly don't want to live wickedly anymore. Cry out to God to grant you godly sorrow, that you may turn from your sins and desire nothing but God's righteousness. Jesus paid your sin debt, He paid the fine you could not pay. The very sins you committed are the very things that crucified your Savior... you should not want anything to do with sin anymore. God will help you in your weaknesses and help you overcome evil.
 God's Word - the Bible - is a love letter to the world. He wants to save us from sin's condemnation, but that only comes through repentance and trust in Jesus Christ and receiving the Holy Spirit . If you don't believe God is telling the truth, you will not allow Him to guide and save you, and you'll be condemned eternally to Hell because you never had your sins forgiven and weren't born-again (made a new creation in Christ.) We are "children of wrath" before we come to Christ. We must be made a child of righteousness. And only the finished work of Christ on the cross can grant us that--if we trust in Him.
 If you are truly born again, you'll have the desire to tell others about the forgiveness available in Christ and that they can be made right with God before they die. If I love Christ, I'll obey what He commissioned all Christians to do: preach the Gospel!

, Believe the promises in the Bible. Trust what God says is true -- so that: He means what He says. Then, watch Him work in your inner-being and in your daily life as He fulfills His promises to you in response to your faith and obedience. Are you growing in the fruits of the Spirit? (See Galatians 5:22-23)

, The Bible says that when someone who was lost is saved, all of heaven rejoices. Be thankful that God in His mercy, grace and loving kindness provided a way for you to be saved. Amazing grace truly becomes "amazing grace"!

, If you got questions, go to gotquestions.org! And read your Bible everyday and obey it. God will by no means cast anyone out who desires this forgiveness.... trust and repent in the Savior.

