 De-glycyrrhizinated licorice (DGL) wafers may help heal a canker sore. DGL comes in wafer form, so you will need to allow a DGL wafer to dissolve over the mouth ulcer.Ask your doctor first if you are taking any medications. Licorice interacts with some medicines, such as birth control pills, corticosteroids, ace-inhibitors, digoxin, laxatives, and insulin.De-glycyrrhizinated licorice shouldn't have these interactions but if you are taking any of these medications try to only use it for a few days at most.;
, Zinc may help boost your immune system, which can help to prevent cold sores. The recommended daily dose for zinc is 10 mg/day for adult men and women. For children, make sure that you consult a pediatrician first., Lysine is an amino acid, which essential for your body’s tissue healing and building activities. Lysine may even help prevent cold sore outbreaks because it blocks another amino acid (arginine) that tends to promote viral growth.


Make sure that you read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions for use.
The usual dosage is 500-1000 mg per day taken on an empty stomach.
The safe limit for lysine is less than 3000 mg a day, so do not take any more than the recommended amount.
 Slippery elm powder may help mouth ulcers by lubricating and coating the mouth ulcer with a thick, gel-like layer, similar to how it is used to treat sore throats.To use slippery elm, take a cotton swab and dip the tip into a cup of water and then dip it into the slippery elm powder. Use the cotton swab to apply the powder to the mouth ulcer.


Leave the slippery elm powder on for one to two minutes, then swish with some water to get the slippery elm powder out of your mouth. Spit out the water after you swish.
 The magnesium hydroxide in the milk of magnesia can dry out canker sores and speed healing. You can find milk of magnesia in the most drug stores.


To use milk of magnesia, pour about one teaspoon of milk of magnesia into a spoon. Then, take a clean cotton swab and soak it in the milk of magnesia.
Dab your mouth ulcer and let the solution sit for 5-10 seconds with your mouth open. Repeat this process seven to eight times a day (about every two hours).



To make a baking soda paste, mix together about one tablespoon of baking soda with a few drops of water until it forms a thick paste.
Then, use a cotton swab to dab the paste onto the sore and let the paste sit for 5-10 seconds while keeping your mouth open.
Repeat this process seven to eight times per day.7

, Alum is used in baking and cooking, so you can find alum powder in the baking section of your grocery store.


To use alum, pour out a small amount of alum onto a spoon.
Then, take a cotton swab and dip the tip into some water and then dip it into the alum.
Apply the alum directly onto your canker sore and leave it on for about one to two minutes.
The alum may burn a bit, so make sure that you have a glass of water nearby to rinse out your mouth.
 Gentian violet can also help to heal sores inside your mouth. Use a cotton swab to apply a small amount of gentian violet to sores. Leave the solution on the sores for a few minutes and then rinse out your mouth. Do not swallow the gentian violet solution.You do not need a prescription for gentian violet, but you should ask your doctor before using it.
Gentian violet is available online, in health food stores, and in well-stocked grocery stores.

