 Not everyone gets upset or angry over the same things. The same things don’t make everyone happy, either. Notice the patterns your emotions take. Try to be cognizant of what sets you off. You'll find a sense of self-honesty that can answer a lot of your questions.


Try keeping a journal. Don’t just write down what makes you angry or upset. Record the circumstances that led up to that feeling. What happened? What were you feeling like at the time? How did you react? Did you want to react differently later? Journaling can help you get perspective on your emotions.Clinical psychologist Beth Jacobs has several journaling exercises on her website, Writing for Emotional Balance.

If you catch yourself feeling unexpectedly strongly about something, ask yourself why. Is it really because your friend got a new iPhone? What's the crux of the issue? How do you feel you should react? Why is that preferable?

, When emotion starts to feel like it’s getting the better of you, respond with a mantra that’s meaningful to you. Repeating these affirmations can help remind you that even though you aren’t in control of a situation, you are in control of your responses.Here are a few you could try:


“This situation is only temporary.”
“I can make it through this.”
“I’ve made it through worse than this and been just fine.”
“This might suck, but it won’t kill me.”
“I can keep my cool during this.”
“I am in charge of my emotional responses.”
“This isn’t worth getting upset over.”

, Humor helps you get some distance between yourself and your emotions. It may help you feel more comfortable thinking about them or working on them. It can also help change how you think about your emotions.For example, you might feel overwhelmed with embarrassment over something, such as making a mistake in a big speech. If you allow that embarrassment to rule you, you will have a hard time getting over it. However, if you place your gaffe into the category of “hilarious slip-ups,” you may find the feeling less overwhelming.
Humor may even be more helpful in relieving distress than other types of positive thinking. Humorous incidents or objects may demand more of your brain’s attention, leaving less room for being overwhelmed by your emotions.Using humor can also help defuse anger. For example, if you find yourself enraged at your boss and calling him or her names, try to imagine what it would look like if those names were literally true. If you find yourself thinking “My boss is such a douchebag!” imagine that to yourself. Give the douchebag a briefcase and a 3-piece suit. Allow yourself to be silly, and you will find yourself feeling more in control., Social and emotional stress can boost humans’ natural need to feel in control. People who feel in control of their lives are usually healthier and live longer than people who don’t have that feeling.You can give yourself a feeling of control by setting yourself small, reasonable goals. Celebrate them when you’ve accomplished them. You’ll feel more fulfilled, confident, and in control.


These goals don’t have to be world-changing. Even small goals, such as learning to play a song on a musical instrument or eating healthfully for a week, are helpful.
We’ve all heard the phrase “Think big!” but it turns out that thinking small is likely to be more successful. Split huge goals, such as “Get more fit,” into achievable goals like “Walk 3 times a week” or “Lift weights twice a week.”, Studies have shown that actively practicing gratitude can reduce stress and help you feel more in control and able to solve your problems. Take the time to notice even small moments of delight or beauty throughout the day.Make a mental “photograph” and file that experience away for the next time you’re feeling down or stressed. Share the experience with others if you can -- this will help you remember it better.Gratitude is more than just feeling grateful. You can’t usually control how you immediately feel about something. With practice, though, your brain will get used to recognizing moments of gratitude, and it will start feeling gratitude through habit.Count your blessings. Humans are hardwired to remember bad experiences more strongly than good ones. It may sound cheesy, but taking the time to keep a gratitude journal, write thank you notes, or say a prayer of thanks can help you remember that you have good things in your life., You can overcome feelings of negativity by challenging them with positive affirmations. Studies have shown that personality traits such as optimism or pessimism can affect your health. Optimists tend to have better stress management capabilities, longer life spans, less depression and anxiety, and healthier immune systems, among many others. Start trying to see that glass as half-full!Transform negative self-talk to positive affirmation. We can often end up running a stream of negative thoughts about ourselves without even thinking about it. Check in on yourself throughout the day, and challenge any negative thoughts you discover.
For example, if you notice that you’re frequently thinking about your appearance or your weight, find something positive about those things to focus on. You can turn thoughts of “I’m so fat” or “I’m not looking good today” into positive affirmations of your own worth, such as “My body is getting me where I need to be today!” or “These new glasses really make my eyes pop.”

, The problem with judging yourself harshly for a perceived failure is that these negative thoughts easily spiral out of control. “High-judgment zones” can make you feel anxious, insecure, and unable to control your emotions. Think about how you would treat a friend who made a mistake, and show yourself the same kindness.Not judging yourself isn’t the same as not taking responsibility for your actions. You can acknowledge mistakes and choose different actions for the future without beating yourself up.
For example, imagine that you’re on a diet. You go out with a friend for coffee and have a cookie and a latte. Your immediate response might be to think, “I broke my diet. I’m a real failure.” This thought judges your behavior, but it isn’t helpful.
Once you’ve eaten that cookie, you can’t necessarily control how you feel about it. You may feel embarrassed or guilty. You can control your behavior, though. You can choose to give in to that feeling of failure and eat ten more cookies. Or, you can choose to be kind to yourself and get back on track without judging yourself: “Okay, I ate that cookie. It’s not the end of the world. I’ll have a salad for dinner to get myself back on the healthy track.”

, Perfectionism is commonly confused with striving to do better. However, perfectionism is actually a cognitive distortion. It asks you to hold yourself to an impossible standard and reject anything flawed. Perfectionists tend to be more emotionally vulnerable, because they feel as though things have to be “perfect” for to be accepted. Ditch perfectionism and you’ll probably feel more in control of your feelings, because you won’t be expecting unrealistic performance from yourself (or others).Research has demonstrated that perfectionism can actually keep you from achievement. Humans make mistakes. The ability to acknowledge those mistakes and learn from them is what creates success.
 The best way to solve something that's upsetting you is talking to someone, even if it's your dog. Talking about things helps to make things clearer and tends to help your brain sort out situations. Research has shown that feeling connected to others helps us feel supported, positive, and more able to do good things for ourselves and others.Sharing positive news and experiences with others can help you feel happier. Take a moment to text your friend about a beautiful tree on the way to work, or share the delicious aroma of a coffee with a coworker.Talking about your feelings with others can also help you get more context. Being cut off in traffic by a rude driver is upsetting, but it probably isn’t as world-shattering as it might feel in the moment. Talking about your experiences will help you contextualize them, and often you’ll realize you were magnifying small things into huge problems.
 A common myth is that you have to have huge problems to see a mental health professional, but that simply isn’t true. Counselors and therapists can help you process your feelings and learn strategies to feel more in control of them. Think of going to a therapist as a bit like going for a dental cleaning or a medical checkup; it can be a preventive measure to help you stay healthy.


Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) focuses on the connections between your thought processes and feelings. It can help you identify ways to handle your emotions more effectively, and develop coping strategies specific to your own personal needs.Society often insists that you should “tough it out” when you’re feeling upset, anxious, or sad. This is another harmful myth. It isn’t “natural” to consistently feel emotional extremes, and you may not be able to “suck it up” and “fix” it yourself. Conditions such as anxiety and depression do not usually get better with time. Seeking help is not a sign of weakness. It is a sign of courage and strength.
If your emotions feel as though they’re interfering with your relationships, job, school, or everyday life, seek professional help. A mental health professional can help you find ways to restore balance and functionality to your life.

