 Using a single pine board, you're going to make a simple shelf hanging from leather straps. The board can be as long or short as you like, though for the purposes of providing a guided example, a length of 12" (30.5 cm) is used. All said, you'll need:


Chisel (approximately ¼" (.64 cm) wide)
Clamps
Hammer & nails
Leather punch
Leather strap (x2; each 20" (50.8 cm) long)
Level
Pencil
Pine board (1-1/8″ (2.86 cm) thick, 12" (30.5 cm) long)
Ruler/tape measure
Sandpaper (optional; recommended)
Saw (optional), You'll need a flat, stable surface to work efficiently and safely. Clear any obstacles or tripping hazards, like electrical cords and unused equipment, out of the way.


You may want to work somewhere with hard floor, like your garage, where it'll be easy to clean up wood dust and shavings.
 Lay your board flat on its long, wide face. With your pencil and ruler, measure and mark a line a ¼" (.64 cm) in from one of the long edges so the line extends completely from one end of the board to the other.


This line is where you will remove some wood to create a notch in which your pictures will be held., Clamp your wood to your work surface so the wood is firmly held in place. Take your chisel and place it on your notch-line. There should be at least ¼" (.64) of wood between the edge of your notch and the edge of the board. Then:


Angle the chisel low with respect to the board, with the slanted part of the chisel facing up. Slowly and carefully tap your chisel with a hammer to remove shavings and form your notch.
Follow your notch-line with your chisel and hammer from end to end, longways, to create a shallow notch. Generally, your notch doesn't have to be very deep to effectively hold your pictures in place.
If you plan on putting unframed pictures on this shelf, you'll only need a very thin notch that's not very deep. Pictures with thick frames will require thicker notches.
If you are a little more familiar with woodworking and have the tool available, you may find it quicker and easier to use a wood router to cut your notch.
In some cases, if the frame of a picture is too large, it may not fit easily or stably on this kind of shelf., After chiseling out the notch in your board, you may have burs, splinters, or rough spots that remain in the wood. This can give your wood an unfinished look. Run a medium (60 - 100) grit sandpaper over your notch until it's smooth., If necessary, cut your strap material so you have two straps each measuring 20" (50.8 cm). Use a leather punch to create holes in both ends of both strips. A nail will fasten the ends of each strap to the wall.


Depending on your home and space restrictions, you may want a low hanging shelf, or you may want one that doesn't hang much at all., It's always safest and most reliable to hang things on studs, but this small shelf will likely hang on most sturdy walls without causing damage even without a stud. To attach your hanging shelf:


Mark and measure two points about 10" (25.4 cm) apart, where each strap will attach to the wall. Use a level to make sure the line between the marks is flat.
Slide a nail through both punched holes of each leather strap so the strap forms a closed loop. Then use your hammer to hang the strap at the first mark on your wall, then do the same with the second strap.
Slide your wooden board, notched side facing up, into the loops formed by your leather straps. Slot pictures into the notch and enjoy your handiwork.