 Down are the fluffy feather clusters that grow underneath larger feathers on fowl like geese and ducks. The more down in a comforter, the softer and more comfortable it is likely to be. Choose a comforter with a high or "pure" down content for the most luxury.Fill-power refers to the amount of down per ounce.


If you want an ultra-warm comforter, choose one with a fill-power rating of 650 or higher.A label stating 66% down means that the comforter is two-thirds down and one-third filling material, which may include another type of feather (which is usually larger and coarser than down) or a different type of material all together, such as cotton fill.;
, Thread count is an important consideration when purchasing a down comforter because the fine feathers, which compose the down, can poke through the fabric and work their way out if the thread count isn’t high enough.The higher the thread count, the tighter the fabric, and the less likely you are to lose down feathers. Therefore, be sure to choose a comforter with a thread count of at least 250 or higher.
 These two terms refer to a specific way in which a down comforter is sewn together. Baffle-boxing means that the top and bottom fabric of the comforter are sewn together in a uniform pattern supported by additional fabric strips to create “boxes." Similarly, quilt stitching is used to create specific pockets of down with stitched patterns.


These two different binding techniques help hold feathers in place and keep an even distribution of down throughout the comforter.
Comforters without baffle-boxing or quilt-stitching will likely have down that shifts over time (especially at the edges and in corners) with normal use, and this will not only decrease the comforter’s warmth, but also its comfort level.
 Alternative-down comforters won’t be as warm as true-down comforters, but they will be cheaper and they are a great option for people with allergies. Alternative-down comforters are worth looking into if you have a tight budget or have feather or animal dandruff sensitivities.


Down alternatives are typically made from cotton, polyester, rayon, or combinations of the three.Not only are alternative-down comforters easier to wash and maintain, they are also guaranteed to be cruelty-free., Before following through with a purchase, decide on how much you’d like to spend – a good quality down comforter will cost approximately $250, depending on the size of your bed. The higher the down content, fill-power, and thread-count, the more expensive the comforter will be.


The presence of baffle-boxing or quilt-stitching will also increase the price, but it is important to remember that these factors all increase the quality and durability of the comforter, and so, a higher-priced comforter may be worth the investment.You may also want to factor in the price of a down comforter cover – known as a duvet cover – into your budget. Duvet covers help protect your down comforter and reduce the amount of washing required to maintain it.
 Whether you’ve decided to purchase a real or alternative down comforter, your brand options are limitless, so take some time to research online. Many major online retailers will allow you to set your budget and your bed size to make searching and price comparison easier. You can also enter your comforter specifications as search terms.
 Before settling on a purchase, be sure to read product reviews. A particular brand may come with all the specifications you are hoping for, but reviews left by previous purchasers may reveal other considerations, like the comforter’s wash-ability, long-term durability, and overall value-for-your-money.


If you’re still having trouble making a decision on what you want in a down comforter, visit a home or lifestyle store to see and feel different types of down comforters in person.
 Whether you’ve chosen to make an online purchase or buy directly from a store, your comforter is a big investment, and many retailers will offer coupons and discounts for free shipping, free duvet covers, and/or a percentage off your purchase. Some stores will even accept competitor coupons. Using coupons might allow you to purchase a better comforter while still maintaining your budget.
 Be sure to order the right comforter size for your bed. Certain companies use different kinds of terminology when it comes to bed size and comforter fit (for example, a “standard king” is not the same as a “California king”), so it’s better to look for and confirm actual measurements rather than going by labels., Some brands and retailers offer lifetime warranties on down comforters. Warranties may feature free returns, down refills, and/or exchanges and may provide you with additional confidence and assurance as you make your big purchase.
 Your comforter will likely come with care instructions, and it is important to follow those first and foremost (as they will be brand-specific) before seeking general care advice.This is especially critical if your comforter is under warranty. If there is evidence that your comforter was damaged because you breached the brand’s care advice, you may not be eligible for a replacement.
 Although down or alternative-down comforters might require extra considerations before purchase and require extra maintenance afterwards, they are well-worth the effort! Take pride in your final purchase and enjoy the quality, comfort, and coziness of your new comforter. Investing in a good night’s sleep is well worth it!

