 Despite the common phrase “pull the trigger,” you should never pull a trigger on a rifle or pistol. Always squeeze the trigger with slow, steady pressure. Pulling a trigger can alter the direction the weapon is pointed slightly, and although the shift may be difficult to notice as you fire, it will be evident when your round fails to impact where you intended. Try counting to three or five in your head as you slowly squeeze the trigger, then leave the trigger pulled for a one count before releasing it.Pulling a trigger can cause the weapon to jerk slightly, while a controlled squeeze allows you to keep the weapon on target.
Act as though you are attempting to close your fist through the weapon’s handle to squeeze the trigger instead of pulling it.
 As you breath, your lungs fill with air and then expel it, which can also affect your ability to keep the weapon on target. To combat this, you should always fire during the natural pause between exhaling and inhaling. Time your shot so you squeeze the trigger after you exhale, then don’t breath in again until the round has been fired.You move the weapon slightly as you breath, and although it may be difficult to notice, it can have a dramatic effect on your accuracy downrange.
Maintaining calm, steady breathing is important to ensuring you fire accurately, so practice firing during the natural pause between breaths instead of holding your breath as you fire.
 When you first raise your weapon and look through the sights, it is often not quite on target. This is your natural point of aim, and it’s where your body naturally wants to point the weapon. Don’t fight this natural point of aim, and instead, shift your entire body so your body wants to point the weapon directly as the target. Fighting against the natural point of aim can tire your muscles out and make it difficult to fire accurately.If you find your natural point of aim is off to the left of the target, lower the weapon and move your feet to turn your whole body a bit to the right, then raise the weapon again.
Finding your natural point of aim, then centering it on the target will make firing accurately much easier.
 There are four common rules of firearm safety that you should exercise any time you are around firearms. These rules were established to keep you and those around you safe. These rules are taught and exercised at firearm ranges, in law enforcement and the military, and work for all weapon applications. The four rules of firearm safety are:Treat every weapon as if it were loaded.
Never point a weapon at anything you do not intend to shoot.
Keep your finger straight and off the trigger until you are ready to fire.
Keep the weapon on safe until you are ready to fire.
 Whenever you are firing a weapon, it’s important that you wear the appropriate eye and ear protection. Eye protection will prevent expelled shells from hitting you in the eyes and protect you if the weapon were to suffer a malfunction. Ear protection will prevent you from suffering hearing loss or ruptured ear drums as a result of the loud sounds of gunfire.Look for ballistic rated or shatterproof eye protection.
You can purchase ear protection that goes over the ear or inside it; either are acceptable.

