 Physical touch is an important part of relationships. It builds trust and intimacy. Remember to do things like kiss your partner, or hold their hand on a walk. Also, TV time can be great for cuddling up together.Doing something for your partner like a back massage or foot massage can be romantic and much appreciated. There are also other types of massage, such as an Indian head massage.
 Many people do not like to cuddle while they sleep. Luckily, this is optional. What you should do, however, is carve out a few minutes each night before sleep to cuddle. This has been shown to help build and maintain a healthy connection between partners and allows each person their own space to sleep afterward (if needed).This kind of intimacy is also shown to lead to a healthier sex life.
 Asking each other about the day is a great place to start. You also need to carve out time to listen to your partner’s thoughts and have a deep conversation from time to time. The other side of being open is expressing when you disagree with your partner, and this should be done respectfully. Talk to your partner as if they are someone you love and care about, even when you disagree. This really shows your partner that you love them.Note that you are using words in this step. Communicating is an important part of any relationship, but they way you communicate with your partner can show love without explicitly saying “I love you.”
For example, your partner might say something like “I had a strange dream last night.” To this, you could respond with something that shows your care and interest, like “I don’t really remember my dream from last night. What was yours about?”

, This can be especially important for long distance relationships, but makes a huge impact on all relationships. Sending your partner a text or giving them a call when you have a minute or two extra shows that you are thinking of them and that you want to talk to them. Knowing that they cross your mind throughout the day will make your partner feel loved and appreciated.


You might text or call your partner for something as simple as to say “I’m having pizza for dinner. Are you having anything good?” This shows that you are interested in sharing the minute details of your day with your partner, and also hearing about theirs.
 This can be tricky sometimes. Of course you should do things that you both enjoy together, but what about other things? It is important to do things with your partner that they enjoy, even if it isn’t your favorite pastime. Keep in mind, that your partner should do the same for you. This helps you both bond and learn more about each other.