  Think carefully about any prejudices or preconceived notions you might have related to your mentee’s background. It is almost impossible to grow up in the United States without such influences, but the more you are aware of them, the better you can set them aside in your relationship.;
,  Do research on the Internet to better understand your mentee’s racial, ethnic, and cultural background.
 Focus on things such as family history, beliefs, traditions, food, holidays, and living customs. Share the same information about your family.
  For example, both your cultures/families may like similar sports, foods, and television shows and may have similar ways of celebrating holidays.
 Try eating new foods, listening to different music, or adopting new words.


If invited, participate in cultural events, celebrations, or meals with your mentee and her family.
  Become a sounding board to help her understand the source of those prejudices, and expose her to experiences that may help her overcome those prejudices.
  They could have a cultural basis. For example, your mentee may be disinterested in school and even want to drop out despite all your efforts to help her academically. You could conclude that she just doesn’t care when, in reality, she simply does not see college as a real-life option because no one in her family or neighborhood has ever gone to college. Or perhaps her family expects her to get a job to help economically.


Socioeconomic differences can be especially challenging because they often are attended by assumptions and expectations that might be less transparent than those associated with race, ethnicity, and culture. Furthermore, poverty is so often intertwined with race and ethnicity that it may be difficult to distinguish what is at the heart of issues you are experiencing. It is best to approach socioeconomic differences with the same sensitivity and respect for your mentee’s family as you have for the other types of differences.
  Your mentee may find it harder to trust you, especially initially, if he thinks you are judgmental about his life circumstances.
  You may find that things you take for granted, such as access to books, writing materials, a phone, a computer, or transportation, are things that your mentee doesn’t have and can’t easily get.
  If you bring your mentee to your house, he may become envious of your possessions or even critical of his own family.

