 If you are a bystander to a power line falling on someone else's car, or come back to see that a power line has fallen on your car, do not approach within 50 feet (15.2) of the power line. Getting close to the scene is extremely dangerous, and there are ways that you can help without getting hurt., If you witness a power line fall on someone else's car, instead of approaching the vehicle, yell to the person in the car. Ask them if they are okay, and tell them to avoid touching the frame or interior of the car.Say something like, "Hello, are you okay?" When they respond, and if their car isn't on fire, yell over, "I know what to do in this situation. Stay in your car and try not to touch the frame of the car or any metal parts of your car, since they can be charged with electricity. I'm calling 911 right now, so help will be here soon. As long as you stay in your car, you'll be fine!"
If their car is on fire, say, "Your car is on fire, so you need to get out quickly and carefully! Turn slowly toward the door of your car without touching the frame of the car. Open the door handle without touching any other part of the door. Swing it open, then jump out so that you land on both feet. Shuffle away from the car, and keep both feet on the ground at all times. I'm calling 911 right now, so just focus on getting out of the car carefully!"
Be reassuring and let them know that you know what to do. Let them know that as long as they follow your instructions, they will be safe and unhurt.
Also let any approaching cars or pedestrians know what has happened and warn them not to get within 50 feet of the line.
 If you haven't already, yell over to the person in the car that you are calling 911. If they want you to call for them or are unresponsive, dial 911 and tell the respondents the situation and location. If you come back to your car to see that a power line has fallen on it, call 911 so that they can deactivate the line and make your car safe to drive again., Stay at the scene until the dispatchers arrive. If you have just witnessed a power line fall on someone's car, it will make the occupant of the car feel better to know that they have someone outside who is handling the situation. Once the dispatchers arrive, explain the situation to them again. If the power line fell on your car, follow their instructions until the car is safe to approach again.If the power line fell on your car, you will likely will have to call a towing company or mechanic to get your car taken away and fixed unless it is only superficially damaged.

