 Suggest some fun theme days for camp such as favorite hat day or mismatch day to get the kids involved.;
, If you are their friend they will want to come back day after day to build a relationship with you.
 You don’t have to bend over backwards to help them, but making an effort is a plus, and the kids will notice.
 Spend equal amounts of time with each one and get to know the activities they most enjoy. Don't pick favorites but consider what will work as a good compromise for each child.
 If you see that one camper is being left out of group activities, become buddies with him/her. This will show the kids that this camper is accepted socially and he/she will be more likely to be accepted into the group. If partners are needed for a game, be sure that you try to pick the kid who is normally left out as your partner and encourage the kids to make new friends.
 Games and challenges that build teamwork help the campers to feel like they belong in the group. Things as simple as all wearing an orange bandanna or the same color shirt help everyone to feel included.
 If a child is injured, it causes all sorts of problems for the camp and for you as a counselor. Make sure you enforce the rules set forth by the camp and other counselors equally. At the same time, make sure that the kids are still able to have a good time. Let them know that you can be safe and have fun.
 Young kids and even youth can be easily influenced by the example you set, so be sure it is one that you wouldn’t mind them imitating. If you don’t want them sharing with their parents how you spent last Saturday in bed with the worst hangover of your life, don’t bring it up. No one is perfect, so let them know that, but don’t share topics with them that aren't needed.
 The kids should leave exhausted everyday and telling their parents how amazing camp was that day. If you see them running around laughing and sporting a huge smile on their faces, then you have done your job. Make sure you have fun too—camp can be the most enjoyable job you’ll ever have, so embrace the time you have with your kiddos.

