

While it's important to just be yourself, if you are looking to really be like Belle from Beauty and the Beast, it is important to always be kind. She is never rude or mean to anyone, not even the Beast who kidnapped her and her father. Although it is important to be kind to everyone, make sure that you aren't mixing up being kind and being flirtatious. Don't flirt with everyone you see, but rather treat them like friends. This makes you a more genuine, down to earth person. Treat everyone with respect and care.
Always smile! Belle, from the beginning of the story right through to the end is always smiling and being positive, so try to smile whenever and wherever you can, and not only will you find yourself automatically feel better but people will gravitate towards your sunny, positive attitude.



 


Read a lot! Belle is always seen with a book, and her love of libraries is one of the factors that bring her and the Beast closer together. Belle is very intelligent, and this is mostly due to the large amount of books that she reads, which leaves her with a very large vocabulary and very vivid imagination.






Be respectful to your parents. Belle would do anything for her father and she knows how important it is to listen to your elders. Manners is definitely another point - make sure you are always thanking others and using please, and avoid arrogant, cocky tones. Make your voice sweet and lady like, enunciating every syllable.






Be strong and honest. She always states her opinions, never keeps them hidden, and she demands to be treated like an equal. Look people in the eye when you talk to them and that'll make for a much more engaging conversation, as they will feel that you are really listening and appreciating what they have to say.
And most importantly - don't judge someone by how they look. The primary theme of the story is not judging a book by their cover and only by what's inside. Belle didn't judge the Beast and instead became very close to him, developing a strong friendship that later turns to love. Try to go out there, meet new people and learn about themselves, their personality and characteristics, and you might find that you'll meet someone who is just like you and create a lifelong friendship.





;
,

Hair: Belle has long, luscious brown hair, which she usually ties back with a ribbon into a low ponytail. Regularly wash and condition your hair, every day if you have oily/thick hair or every other day if you have finer hair. Tie your hair back with any colour ribbon, particularly blue or yellow. She also has layers at the front section of her hair, as one of her trademark quips are short strands of hair falling from her ponytail and framing her face, which she is often seen brushing away when nervous.






Skin: Belle has smooth, clear and fair skin. Try to stay out of the sun or use a sunscreen with high sun protection, and wear a hat. She, as well as majority other Disney princesses, has incredibly flawless skin so it is important to maintain a clear complexion. Cleanse, tone and moisturize twice daily, using products suited for your skin type. If you have dry skin, moisturize more and if you have oily skin, blot your face frequently with blotting papers.






Makeup: Belle has an amazing, natural makeup look. In the film she doesn't wear any makeup, however on a day-to-day-basis her makeup is very suitable for all ages from 14+. - Skin: Apply a light foundation, tinted moisturizer or BB cream all over the face, making sure that it is blended in well. Then apply a small amount of concealer on any problematic areas, and a lighter shade just under the eyes to hide any bags or dark circles. Lightly powder the face with translucent powder if you have oily skin, or if your makeup leaves a dewy finish. Belle's skin isn't too matte and isn't too dewy, but rather the perfect balance in between. Make sure the application isn't too cakey. Then, finish off the face makeup with a dusting of peachy pink blush across the cheeks.- Eyes: Begin by grooming the eyebrows through with a spooly or eyebrow brush. Fill in your eyebrows using a shade that's 3 shades darker for light hair, and 3 shades lighter for dark hair. Set eyebrows using an eyebrow gel. Moving onto the eyes, apply a small touch of concealer to the lids just to cover any veins showing through the thin, delicate skin. You can then, optionally, add a very light matte brown shade into the crease to add some extra definition and a smudge of brown eyeliner (very light and very thin) to the upper lash line just to thicken the eyelash line. Finish off by curling your lashes slightly and applying a few light coats of brown mascara. - Lips: Belle's lips aren't too red or pink, but rather a very soft rosy shade. Apply a moisturizing lip balm that has a rosy tint to the lips. Do not apply lip gloss or lipstick as it is too harsh for Belle's soft makeup look.






Body: Belle is very lean and toned, and well in shape. Make sure that you are eating a good variety of fruits and vegetables, as well as keeping up with consistent exercise. Running, long walks, Pilates and aerobics are a good start.
 Obviously, she lived in a time where large, poofy dresses were all the rage, but she still has a very consistent, elegant style.

Don't wear clothes that are too revealing. Make sure that your chest is covered so no cleavage is showing at any time, and definitely don't wear any item of clothing that shows too much leg. Go for skirts that stop around mid-thigh to knee length, and shirts that have a sensible neckline.






Wear quite feminine clothing. Dresses and skirts are the obvious ones, however it's also acceptable to just wear jeans. It is very easy to imagine Belle in a modern-day world wearing a simple pair of blue jeans and a simple white button-up shirt. Find a nice, bright blue pair of skinny jeans (not too tight) and pair it with a long sleeve, white button-up shirt. Fold up the sleeves and bottom of the jeans for an even more effortless look. For shoes, go for a light pastel pair of moccasins (without tassels or bows), or a nice simple pair of brown worn-in boots. It's also a good idea to have one special, princess dress for you to wear on very special occasions, something elegant, sweet and age-appropriate that compliments your features and figure. Make sure that all the pieces co-ordinate, so it's not overtly frilly or poofy. Simple, basic yet elegant and sweet are key to Belle's look.






Go for light, muted, pastel colours. Blush pink, light sky blue, lilac/lavender, mint green, faded yellow, white, cream - all the colours that Belle would wear. For the days where it gets chillier, go for a coat with a deep, rich brown colour or a deep velvety red. 







,

Belle doesn't wear that many accessories, apart from the pair of gold/yellow pearl earrings she wore after going to the Beast's castle. Go for cute, simple and elegant accessories, such as pearls, lace and flowers in your hair make a very sweet touch. However, the main hair accessory you should use is a ribbon in your hair, as Belle wears that always.






Don't go for heavy, clunky metal pieces or spikes. It is too retro and punk for a simple sweet Disney princess look.
 Imagine there is a rope pulling your head up, so keep your shoulders back and walk like a swan, smoothly and gracefully. Don't slouch or saunter either., Belle is so classy, sweet and elegant, so just enjoy acting and looking as her and you'll find yourself becoming more and more like a natural princess every day.