 You can collaborate with people from non profit organizations, businesses, the public sector, or individuals, but research them first. Discuss openly whether the group can commit to the type of collaboration you envision.


If you are looking for a financial partner as well, don't invite a financially struggling organization, or a government organization during a period of spending cuts.
If a group or individual is notorious for poor work relations, trust issues, or backstabbing, steer clear.
 Make sure all groups involved understand why the collaboration should be formed and the exact goals it will have. Have each group commit to a level of involvement before you begin.


Determine a timeline for the collaboration. You'll quickly run into problems if one group expected a few meetings and the other assumed a year long project.
Make expectations clear. Similarly, the organizations involved should know how many people and how much time is expected of them, and to what extent leadership will be involved.
Choose a purpose members can commit to. The collaboration should focus on the overlapping goals between all members, not one organization's mission statement.
 Find people who have relevant experience and enough credibility and trust to carry weight in their home organization. Don't bring on unqualified people just because they volunteer or are your personal friend.


Don't bloat the collaboration with too many members. The more there are, the slower it will go, so only pick enough to achieve your purpose and deal with any specialized issues that may come up.
If the goal involves broad organizational changes for the member groups, you need leadership from each group involved.
Include a legal advisor if you plan on fundraising as a collaboration.
Consider bringing on additional people from outside the core organizations if necessary. A member of the school board, city government, or business sector may be able to provide insight that you wouldn't otherwise have access to.
 Does everyone have equal decision making power? Does one person provide expert advice in a specialized area, and is that person a full member as well? Let each person know how much time is expected of them in terms of meetings attended and outside work done.


Also discuss the process by which new members are accepted and existing members are removed from the collaboration.
 Don't dive into action right away; you'll save time and increase effectiveness by first establishing the nature of the collaboration in writing. Do this in discussion at your first meeting. Include the following elements:Mission and purpose. These should have already been established, but you may need to spend time discussing the details or wording. Include a timeline and milestone goals.

Leadership and decision making process. These are extremely important elements. Everyone must agree on who has the leadership role(s) and what exact powers those include. Are decisions made by consensus (discussion until total agreement) or some other system?

Values and assumptions. If a member organization has a "do not cross" line or assumes a particular path of action will be followed, now is the time to formalize these. Try to identify risky scenarios for each group and discuss what to do if one arises.

Ethics policy. If a conflict of interest arises, how should the collaboration resolve that issue? Whom can the collaboration enter into financial relationships with? Does each member organization's policies apply to the collaboration's actions, and if not, how will you resolve the discrepancies?

, Congratulations, you've got your collaboration up and running. It's still each member's job, and the facilitator's job in particular, to make sure the collaboration stays healthy.Use your charter as a guide in discussions and conflicts. Discuss possible changes to the charter if your goals or timeline changes.
Construct an atmosphere of trust. If personal issues arise, or some people aren't being heard, modify the discussion process so every person has an opportunity to contribute and to discuss conflicts openly.
Establish systems for providing feedback and holding members accountable for their role.
Communicate frequently. Record all decisions made and notify absent members. Provide opportunities for members to talk in more relaxed, informal environments as well as at meetings.

