 Fitness is for people of all ages and lifestyles, from teens to older adults. Make yourself more marketable as a fitness model by highlighting what makes you unique. If you keep fit by hiking and skiing, you’ll appeal to outdoor adventurers. If you’re a busy mom who squeezes in workouts in between your job and homework time, you’ll connect with working parents. If you lost 100 pounds by running, you’ll inspire others to take up jogging. Stay true to yourself and you’ll appeal to your audience., As a female fitness model, you need to be in shape. You also may need to share your exercise tips and workout habits with your audience. Develop a routine that you can stick to. If you enjoy exercise, you’re more likely to make it a habit. You might like working out at a gym, using fitness DVDs at home or running outside. If you’re just starting your fitness career, you’ll need time to build up your cardio endurance and strength.Exercise five to seven times a week for 30-60 minutes each day. Do cardiovascular activity such as fast walking, jogging, biking, dancing or aerobics. Also perform weight training activities such as sit-ups, push-ups, lunges, squats and working out with weights.
Meet with a personal trainer to develop an exercise plan that works for you. A personal trainer can help you develop a routine that fits your lifestyle and goals. They’ll also help you perform moves correctly.
 To get fit, you need to eat healthy. Just like with exercise, develop an eating plan that matches your lifestyle and that you enjoy. You’ll be more likely to stick with it. At least 80% of your diet should be comprised of healthy foods such as fruit, vegetables, lean protein and whole grains. You can still enjoy your favorite foods, just keep unhealthy food in moderation. Make sure high-fat and sugary food make up no more than 20% of your diet.Substitute unhealthy ingredients with healthier alternatives. For example, have sparkling water with lemon instead of soda. Use low-fat cheese, whole wheat macaroni and add peas to make a healthy mac and cheese dish. Get creative and have fun with it. Small substitutions lead to big results.
 Stay away from steroids, diet pills and weight loss supplements. They have side effects such as heart damage and insomnia. Temporary weight loss doesn’t last. Get fit the old-fashioned way through diet and exercise. It isn’t glamorous but it works., If you’re lean and petite, you probably won’t be able to model for a bodybuilding magazine. If your build is bulky, you might not become a bikini model. Unlike runway or fashion modeling, fitness modeling is more accepting of different body shapes. However, pay attention to your natural build. Be realistic about what type of body you have. That will help you focus your career goals on the right type of work., Read women’s fitness magazines such as Women’s Health, Oxygen, Self and Shape. You can also follow most of these magazines online or in social media. Be on the look out for contests asking readers to submit photos or workout advice. If you win, you could be featured in a magazine or online., Organizations such as the National Gym Association have competitions for amateurs. Contestants model and pose on stage for judges. Learn the rules for the competition before you apply. Most fitness competitions require you to perform certain poses on stage. You’ll have to increase your workout training schedule for weeks or months to prepare, If you exercise at a gym, you might as well start working there too. Become a certified group instructor or a personal trainer. It’s a good way to start working in your desired field. You never know where it could lead. For example, maybe the gym might feature you on its website or in its brochure. Viola! Your fitness modeling career has begun., Keep a blog. A blog is an online journal. Write about your tips on diet and exercise, what motivates you and how you got into fitness. Share photos of yourself working out and pictures of healthy meals you’ve made. Blog often, at least once a day. Remember that the world will see your blog. You’ll get your name out there, which may lead to paying fitness gigs., Create short exercise videos and post them online. For example, you can create a YouTube channel so you can keep all of your videos in one place. Or you could create a Facebook or Instagram page where you can share inspirational fitness tips.
 Agencies help you find professional modeling work. Models.com is a good place to start your search. Find ones that work with fitness models. Once you find an agency you’re interested in, do your research. See how long it has been in business. Check the company’s record with the Better Business Bureau (BBB). Remember that a reputable agency will never ask you for money. If they’re interested in you, they’ll take you on as a client. You should never have to pay fees. If they ask you for money, it’s a sign that it’s not a reputable agency.Take snapshots of your face and full body shots and send them into the agency. Most agencies accept email or online submissions. Natural shots work best. Wear your favorite workout outfit. Avoid heavy makeup or crazy hairstyles.
 Once you’re signed with an agency, you’ll start building your portfolio. The agency will set you up with a test shoot with a professional photographer. You’ll then have a book of photos to bring with you on auditions.
 Modeling for print, online and TV ads is competitive. Expect many rejections. Keep at it. Eventually if you’re persistent, you’ll land a job. Maybe you’ll be a model in a fitness infomercial. Or maybe your picture will be on a yoga mat package. Eventually, you’ll land your dream job as a female fitness model.