 Use a circular saw to cut two to three 4x4’s into four posts. The posts should be twice as long as the height of your bed. Plant the posts halfway into the ground. Use a measuring tape to space out the posts according to the dimensions of your bed.You can have your posts (and sideboards) pre-cut at your local hardware store. Just make sure you know what size you want your garden to be before going to the hardware store.
For example, if you want your garden to be seven inches (178 mm) high, then have four posts pre-cut to fourteen inches (355.6 mm) long.;
, Have four sideboards pre-cut to fit the frame of the bed. The sideboards should be at least six inches (152 mm) high. Use a hammer to nail the sideboards to the outsides of the posts to make your frame. The posts should be inside the frame.For example, if you want your garden to be a 5x5 foot (1.5x1.5 meter) square, then have four sideboards pre-cut to five feet (1.5 meters) long.
Make sure the nails you use are long enough to attach the sideboards to the posts.
If you do not have time to build your own raised bed, then use an existing sandbox as your frame.
 Use a spade to remove the top layer of grass inside of the frame. Removing the grass will allow your plants’ roots to grow deeply into the ground., Cut a piece of fabric that is an inch smaller than the size of your garden frame. Lay the fabric on top of the freshly dug ground. Use your hands and feet to smooth and press the fabric into the ground.For example, if you have a 5x5 foot (1.5x1.5 meter) frame, then cut a 4'10x4'10 foot (1.47x1.47 meters) piece of fabric to fit inside the frame.
 Use a shovel to place the compost on top of the landscaping fabric. Fill your bed a third of the way with the compost and rake the compost smooth., Fill the rest of the bed with nutrient rich soil. Shovel the soil on top of the compost until the bed is full. Then rake the soil until it is smooth., Staple or tape strings lengthwise and across your garden to create a grid. Space the strings five to seven inches apart. The grid will help you plant the seeds evenly and uniformly., In each square, dig a small hole or furrow with a stick or spade per the instructions on the seed packet. Place one or two seeds inside each furrow and cover it with soil. Use a gardening pail to water each seed.Only use enough water to dampen the soil around the seed.

