 At first, you'd see a picture of the Video Zone door with the show's logo hanging above it. The announcer (who you'll get to know a little later on) said "Behind this door is the Video Zone. A place between our world and the video dimension waiting to challenge you to control is one of the game wizards." The announcer then introduced the game wizards who flew out through computer animation (more on this later). The announcer generally said "Is it Merlock, Scorchia or Mongo?" These game wizards looked brutal and "ready to fight".



 


The video then switched to each of the teams. The announcer would say, "These two teams will compete for the right to enter the Video Zone and face that game wizard's challenge." The camera angle would switch to zoom out to show both teams standing on stage. The announcer would then say "Who will it be? Find out today on Nick Arcade". A splash screen affect would happen on the screen.
They'd then transition into introducing the host "And here's your host...Phil Moore." Each episode, they used a different amusing but inaccurate statement to describe the host, such as "a host with a memory bank that has it's own checking account." As the host danced in, behind him you'd see the Face-off game that would enter on an in-game stage pulley (more on this a little later).;
, Over a themed game board, teams would move Mikey around a virtual world, having to answer questions as they went, encountering the occasional puzzle, and sometimes playing a video game in the Video Challenge area (when the team revealed that square). Teams were awarded points for winning rounds. They generally played 2 rounds of the board. The team with the most points went on to the bonus round - which they called the Video Zone and played to defeat the Game Wizard of the day. Once they defeated the game wizard, they would win the game and the money and prizes on offer., Be able to explain some of the Face-Off games that were used in the Face-Off at the beginning of each of the rounds. Face-Off games included Meteoroids, Laser Surgeon, Brainstorm, Battle of the Bands, Star Defenders, Post-Haste, Jet Jocks or Crater Rangers.One of the two players of each team would face off against each other at a arcade-style video game that came out. The game lasted 30 seconds. The winner would be awarded points and control of Mikey on the video board., Teams would navigate Mikey along a given path (as described below). They could move Mikey up, down, left or right (never diagonally). Each square triggered an event such as a puzzle to solve, a point square a prize square, an enemy that would take the control away from the team that was navigating at the time or through a Video Challenge that would send the team into the Video Challenge area of the stage. They would try to get Mikey to the Goal square. There were two rounds, and during the second round point values were doubled. The game ended when the team who had the most points after the two rounds were achieved. If the game tried to end in a tie, an additional tiebreaker question was asked (100 points). The Video Zone bonus round awaited the winner of the Main round.



If the team had to end up in the Video Challenge area, both team members had to walk over to the area (and most often this would take up a few extra seconds of taped time to show the viewer). One player was chosen to write down how many of their points they'd like to wager, should their team loose in the challenge. Video games were played and teams must reach certain levels set by the production company, but each game was different. If they accomplished or beat the score, they'd keep control of Mikey and win additional points. Most of the video games lasted about 30 seconds (though some could take up to 60 seconds).
 Video Challenges included games that were used on Nintendo Entertainment Systems, Super Nintendo, Genesis, TurboGrafx-16, Neo-Geo and other custom games from Amiga computers. By watching a show, you'd see that there would be only five of these systems set up in one corner of the stage in back of the host's desk and the Mikey TV screen system. The goal generally of the Video Challenge was to beat the wizard and achieve a certain score within 30 seconds for the given game. At first the team member had three seconds to wager a score they would gamble on onto a Magna-Doodle that their partner could complete the challenge. Wagers could be any amount as long as the team had banked the point values they are wagering. Games could only be played once per episode. Although few games were well known from this area, games such as Sonic the Hedgehog 2 and Super Mario Brothers 2-3 were played, along with other lesser-known games.

What the kids and audience saw were actually two games that acted concurrently with each other. The game would act the same but the actions would be split among the two consoles that were playing the same game. Games were cued up and paused where the game was to begin. At the beginning, the producers just switched the display onto the monitor and used the stock controllers for gameplay.
 This round was a bonus round that featured some live action video game with multiple levels and multiple games. Contestants would watch themselves on a backstage stage as they climbed ladders and threw virtual snowballs and rowed in a boat in front of a blue screen/green screen effect to obtain three desired objects for each level of the game. However, they had to avoid damage by various hazards and enemies. The stage would be restarted if they lost all their power, and the level would be restarted until they were successful. Periodically, a power-up would appear and when touched would destroy all onscreen enemies and freezing enemies that might be waiting to come on for 5 seconds and restoring the team's power meter to full. If the teams got through all three levels in 60 seconds, they would win the game. A successful completion of defeating the Game Wizard would give the teams the grand prize vacation. If teams didn't finish, a sound played the screen faded to red and "Game over" appeared on the TV screen.

Over the course of both seasons, level one contained one of five choices and included Jungle Fever, Alien Moonbase, Ancient Tomb, Monsters on the Loose or the Haunted Museum.
Over the course of both seasons, level two contained one of eight choices and included Runaway Rail Car, Nile River Raft, Mine Maze, Cliffhanger, Food Fight, Sub Search, Enchanted Flight, or Snow Slingers.

Level 3 got interesting. Both teammates entered to face one of the three Game Wizards that rotated. Merlock threw lightning bolts at players, Scorchia threw fireballs at players and Mongo tossed balls of bad energy at players. Three orbs had to be activated before the time elapsed, without touching the projectiles the Wizards were throwing or the lightning, fire or energy that erupted from the ground, and also trying to avoid the ghosts that routinely flew around the room. Touching the hourglass would freeze the enemies projectiles for a period of five seconds. Defeat of the Wizard would show a virtual entertainment piece to those show-watchers (Merlock disintegrated to dust, Scorchia's body burned to ashes, and Mongo would just vanish into thin air over a flash of light, leaving his armor behind.)



, Watch the program to understand everything about Mikey and his Video Board. The Video board was used in this game to mark the Mikey's path to get from his initial spot to the goal line. This 18-box square board (it was 3x6 boxes) was filled with many milestones, including a Points square that gave 25 or 50 points to the team that landed on it and a Puzzle square that required an answer from one of several different puzzles (such as the Video Repairman, What Was That, Credit Crawl, Fast Forward, Robot Vision, HyperChannels, Video Text, Flash Frame, Hidden Camera, Instant Replay, Split Screen or Mixed Signals). Pop quiz squares required answering a question to a quiz-styled question to earn points or one of many prizes. These four would always be designated as the "Four P's". Also included was a Video Challenge and enemy squares to which had multiple results; Video Challenge would get the players into the Video Zone area to play one of the games, while enemy was a loss of your turn square.

Players who chose to move Mikey into squares he'd already have been in would result in a Time Bomb square. This didn't happen often. The team who chose to backtrack Mikey into one of these squares had to quickly spell a word (in 10 seconds) alternating back and forth between the two players. Correctly-spelled words would allow the team to regain control of Mikey and hope to move forward. Only one episode had teams moving into Time Bomb territory in the same episode..
Goal squares were the ending square the teams must aim for and reach. Rarely did it ever happen that teams reached this square on their own accord. Most often, Mikey was forwarded to this square due as time ran out on the show.

If the team reached this square on their own accord, a question was asked based on a category that the opposing team had to choose for the team that reached the square. They received 50 points (Round 1) or 100 points (Round 2) and the Goal for that round. If they answered incorrectly, the opposing team claimed half the points.
If the team ran out of time, there was a sudden death Pop Quiz question asked and the teams won the same 50 points or 100 points total.
 Mikey's world was the area of exploration on the video monitor gameboard. The computer would choose between the Pirates Cove, Cape Cosmos, Camelittle, Specific Ocean, Forgotten Desert, Slurpy Gulch, Volcano Jungle, Creepyville, Mikey's Neighborhood, WeGot'Em Mall or a Time Portal scene., Although each episode involved different enemies (and some episodes didn't feature any due to the player's path to the goal), among them Mikey could encounter characters called either Ghost, Witch Doctor, Fire-Breathing Dragon, Hammerhead Shark, Blackboard the Pirate, Silly the Kid, Game Over-the Town Bully, Giant Smooch Aliens, or Djinni. Each of these tried to stay consistent to the area Mikey was walking around in., Phil Moore hosted this show during its airing. This was his first major attempt at hosting a gameshow. Before becoming the host of this show, he had been an actor in a drama film called "After School", and he went on to star in other Nickelodeon shows, including Weinerville, All That, Figure it Out, You're On and had been on Aqua Kids. He lasted through both of the two seasons that this show was aired on. (More on this schedule later in this article)., Nick Arcade was narrated by Andrea Lively.Andrea Lively also had helped with the movie "Superboy" and, years after this, was a guest on the TV show Holy ManThis was her only major announcing role., Throughout the casting of the show, it wasn't just teams that didn't know each other facing off against each other. They had a few specials where teams from Clarissa Explains it All, Salute Your Shorts and Welcome Freshmen had played. With the exception of the Salute Your Shorts Episode, both of the two teams were able to enter the Video Zone., Nickelodeon Arcade aired on Nickelodeon between January 4 and November 6, 1992, over the course of 2 seasons for a total of 84 episodes.. It generally aired during a 5pm block of time for a running time of 30 minutes per show.

It also aired in Mexico under the title "Zona De Juegos" between 1995 and 2007., Players would generally wear two t-shirts (one over the other). One long-sleeve t-shirt designated their team color (either red or yellow) and the other t-shirt was short-sleeve, grey, had a tape-styled (yellow with a black border) name tag on the right side of the shirt and a logo on the left. However, once they entered the Video Zone, their shirts wouldn't be seen, and they'd be wearing brown with arm bands of their team's color, as well as knee pads and long-pants with team-colored gloves., Each team consisted of team players, and there were two teams: one team of red and one team of yellow., There were two to three areas where teams could be in when playing parts of the game.

The place where teams answered the questions almost always had spaceship and futuristic themes, with player podiums being grey. They were bordered by an aqua-colored filled border piece. Players at these podiums pressed a button on a one-buttoned joystick like device when they wanted to answer the question. Inside the front of the podium (below the team's desk slightly) was displayed the score which was colored to match the team colors. Also, seen on the desk were two wired microphones for contestants that were leaning at an angle in response to the player's needs.

Each podium had a light below the scoreboard, over on the right hand side were two lights: bluish-green and red. These lights designated which team had control of Mikey on the Video Board.


In back of the team was a lightboard with the color matching the team's color, breaking at the halfway point. There was a logo at the halfway point and extending on either side of the team's lightboard. The two together looked like a gigantic Illuminati symbol that split in half by a separator. When looking at it from in front, the yellow team was on the left and the red team was on the right. Also, covering areas of the wall next to these symbols and player podiums, was a leopard-printed decoration that was shown on both sides of the podiums.
In front of the player podiums, the players would notice a painted line on the floor that looked like a giant lightning bolt. This area extended from the doors that opened that brought players into the Video Zone out as far as the camera could see. Also, on this line, you couldn't tell, but down this same strip was where the videos from the Face-Off would travel down through.
In front, facing the contestants, was the host's podium, as well as the TV monitors that looked a bit like a bigger version of the video game podiums used in the Video Challenges area. Next to this was a gigantic open area where players would walk when they needed to report for a Video Challenge question.
In back of the host's podium and where the host stood and when the camera focused on this area, was the area where the Video Challenge questions were completed. Here, the theming was less towards the video games and more splash-screen like. On the floor, you'd see splashes of what looked like paint that were unique to this show, along with arrows pointing towards the games themselves. In the second season, the theming here was completely dropped in favor of a blue colored bar with numbers inside circles designating the video machine the team was playing.
Once you got back to your contestant podium and were looking to your left towards the doors that opened to the Video Zone, you'd see gigantic doors that looked like there was a crack in them where the doors opened and split when players were able to enter.
A common color along the stageline here was blue. The production company loved this color because it was so futuristic and vibrant. It was used in multiple areas of the stage; wherever you looked would be something in this bluish color.
 Most often, the host would run some impromptu lyrics behind the music when players were walking over to the Video Challenges area (and sometimes on the way back). It had no real lyrics, but sounded very techie and upbeat, and definitely matched the theme of this Nickelodeon TV game show.