 While being ignored by a person who is like family may have seemed impossible to you, it might just happen one bad day suddenly. It may come as a shock to you, leaving you with many emotions: confusion, embarrassment, anger, grief and/or denial.


Confusion: You might not be able to believe your eyes nor your thought process that this person is ignoring you for real. 'Is this a joke?' you might think to yourself. 'This can never happen! We just spent such good time last weekend or yesterday at school or work.' Give your mind time to settle and just sit back.
Embarrassment: You surely are embarrassed 'I was ignored in front of the whole class or neighbourhood.'  You might be even feel ashamed. 'I just shared my secrets with that person is that the reason he/she ignoring me?' Just sit down and relax. Think to yourself that this could be due to any reason, not necessarily being you!
Anger: While it's common to feel a surge of anger deep within you after feeling ignored, remind yourself that this person had stood with you through thick and thin, and it must have been something real big that has bothered the person who is ignoring you.
Grief: You might feel deep hurt and sorrow, since you blindly trusted this person and never imagined life without them. You might feel lost and dejected. But do remember this phase of sadness will soon pass away after you get some time for yourself.
Denial: The worst form of going through being ignored is the denial that you were not ignored!;
, Most of the times, the person is in deep thought or dialogue with self and is not aware of the environment in which s/he is present at the time you felt ignored.
 If they were any true in this relationship as you are now, they will give you their reason. Sit down and resolve the issue, do not justify your wrong act. You two will probably get back to your normal routine. If the person does not wish to communicate to you,try confronting with the help of your parent or sibling or mutual friend.
 Accept it to yourself that any relationship stops working when one side quits taking care of the other. and such kind of relationship is better over and done with. Do not brood over it.
 In losing you, that person has lost a worthy friend, you haven't lost anyone. Forgive that person because that will help you feel better and happy.
 Keeping calm is a conscious effort, it does not come naturally, you will have to focus on it. Accept that and move forward in life. There will be better areas in your life to focus on. Keep yourself busy and you will get past this stage soon

, Years later when you will look back at your life you will feel that being CALM only helped you keep your self respect and gain respect in the eyes of all those in front of whom you were ignored.

