 You don’t want to get any paint on your hands. To ensure that this does not happen, you should wear a pair of gloves. Rubber or latex gloves both work. You can find these at your local supermarket. These will keep your hands clean and safe.;
, The chemicals used to get rid of the paint can be dangerous. Protective eyewear will prevent the chemicals from splashing into your eyes. Plastic goggles should work. You can also wear work-glasses as well. You can obtain goggles or work-glasses at a hardware store. Find goggles or work glasses that fit your face, you don’t want them to fall off!

, You don’t want to get your space dirty when you clean the rollers. You may want to toss some old newspapers on the floor where you will be cleaning the paint rollers. Or, you may want to consider cleaning the rollers over paint trays. Any space that you can clean easily should work as well. For example, you might want to clean your rollers in your garage or basement.
 You will be cleaning the roller cover and its cage separately. By taking apart the roller, you will make it easier to thoroughly clean these parts. Take the roller cover from the roller cage. You can do this over the paint tray. Depending on the type of roller that you have, you will either simply pull the roller out of the cage or unscrew it from the cage.
 If you aren’t going to immediately clean your rollers, then you need to keep them in a sealed off space. To keep the roller fresh, place the roller in plastic wrap and put it in the refrigerator.








By preserving your rollers, you can avoid the hassle of cleaning. This is a good option for when you are completing a multi-day project.
 Perhaps you have a section that wasn’t completely painted. To get rid of this paint, you should run the roller over this section. You can also paint over an inconspicuous area.
 Your roller might have excess dried paint on its edges. Hold the roller over the paint bucket you used. Use the curved side of your 5-in-1 tool or putty knife to scrape the excess paint off the roller.
 Fill two containers with warm water. You’ll use one container for washing the roller and the other for rinsing. Add about one tablespoon of dishwashing liquid to the washing container.
 First, you should rinse the roller cover with warm water. Now you should place the roller cover in a container filled with cleaning solution. Rub the roller cover with both hands till you remove as much paint as you can. After you do this, dip the roller cover in and out of the water. Once you feel the cover is sufficiently clean, you should put it aside. Clear the dirty water out of the container. Fill the container with more cleaning solution. You should now put the roller cage into the container. Scrub at the cage with a brush until all paint has been removed.
 Place the washed roller cover into the rinsing container and rinse it until it is clean. Make sure to rinse until you have taken off any leftover soap or paint. You should also rinse the cage. Wrap the roller cover in a clean towel to remove excess water. You should stand the roller cover up to dry. Dry the cage with paper towels.









Alternatively, you can use a garden hose to rinse any remaining residue from the roller cover. Spray the roller with a hose until the paint starts spinning off., You can paint over surfaces with the roller. Choose an area that hasn’t been painted properly or that is fairly inconspicuous, and roll the roller on that area. You may have some dry paint that stuck is on the roller. Using a tool such as 5 in 1 or a putty knife, scrape the paint off.
 Consult the paint label. The label should state what the best solvent for this paint is. Common solvents are mineral spirits, denatured alcohol and paint thinner.
 Get rid of any excess material in your paint trays. Fill two or three trays with paint remover. You should also fill one tray with warm water.









When you fill these trays, you should pour in enough fluid to cover an entire roller cover and cage.
 Remove your paint roller cover from the roller cage and place it in the first tray of paint remover. Leave it in for about five minutes. Gently move the roller cover from side to side. Then, put the roller cover into the next tray. Let the cover sit in the tray for three to four minutes. This process should clear the roller cover of paint. If there is still paint on the roller cover, then you should put the cover in another tray of paint remover. You should follow the same procedure with the roller cage.
 In order to rinse the roller cover, you should place the roller cover in the tray full of warm water. You can use paper towels to dry off the roller cover. After you dry the roller cover, you should stand the roller cover up in a dry place. You should rinse the roller cage in the same manner. You can also dry the roller cage with paper towels.
 Put your used paint thinner through a funnel into its original container and recycle it for another use. If you don’t want to recycle your paint thinner, then you will need to dispose of it according to the regulations in your municipality. You can generally find these regulations on your municipality's website. If your municipality does not have a website, then you should contact your city's department of sanitation.








