 The supposed benefits of eating one’s own placenta include increased energy, increased quantities of breast milk, and balancing of hormones (as the placenta contains iron, vitamins B6 and B12, estrogen, oxytocin, and progesterone) which could reduce the risk for postpartum depression and insomnia.


Although most scientific studies on the practice have yet to overwhelmingly yield definite benefits for humans, positive individual accounts and experiences have brought this practice to light. An exception to this is a recent study from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, in which 76% of the new mothers studied who ate their placenta after delivering experienced positive effects (primarily increased levels of energy, lactation, and an overall better mood).
The only negative effects placentophagy presented were headaches, along with unpleasant burping, taste, and smell. There has been no study on the possibility of positive placentophagy results being due to the placebo effect.;
, Some people find this practice to be appealing, and others completely the opposite. In order to determine if it's right for you, do your own research.


Research scientific studies, newspapers articles, personal accounts
Find out how placentophagy worked (or didn’t work) for women who have tried it. Some women may have had positive experiences (increased energy, good mood) while others may have had negative experiences (nausea, feeling sick).
If you are considering placentophagy for a specific reason (such as preventing postpartum depression), research other options for the same concern, such as over-the-counter drugs, prescription medication, herbal supplements, homeopathic remedies, or hormone replacement therapy.



Talk to your doctor about your specific situation. If your pregnancy conditions are abnormal, ask your doctor about what effect it may have on your placenta. For example, preeclampsia may cause stress proteins to form in the placenta. The effects of eating “abnormal” placenta have yet to be studied and are unknown.



Arrange to keep your placenta in advance. This will ensure that it is not put into biohazardous waste or disposed of.
In the case of a practitioner or hospital whose policy is against placentophagy, you can either find a different provider or request a change of procedure.
Make sure to have these arrangements settled ahead of time to avoid any miscommunication or accidental disposal during delivery.



You can hire a professional placenta preparer to make capsules. The placenta is dehydrated, ground into powder, and filled into small, pill-shaped capsules for easy consumption. These pills are to be taken daily for several weeks.
You can also treat the placenta as any other type of meat. This means either freezing or cooking it right after birth to avoid spoiling. From then on, you can incorporate it into your regular meals as any other type of meat, such as chili and stews.
 Monitor any changes you feel in energy level, mood, appetite, and overall wellness.reaction


If the ingestion of your placenta, no matter how you decide to do it, harbors negative reactions (nausea, vomiting, feeling sick), stop ingesting it.
 If you are feeling unusual pain, exhibiting concerning mental and/or physical symptoms, or suspect you have postpartum depression, do not wait for the placenta to start working. See your practitioner immediately as these could be signs for threatening conditions; your practitioner may prescribe medication for these issues, so let them know of your placentophagy practice to avoid any harmful effects.

