 Most teens will feel as if you are intruding or are going to throw out their belongings, but it's okay. You are only helping them out. Don't be scared of them or what they have in their rooms.
 This will involve them in the cleaning of their own room and things and it may help them to learn how to continue going about this with ease. Talk them through the reasons why things are done the way they are, and emphasize convenience and speed., Grab the wash basket and toss any dirty clothes into the wash. Next grab the waste paper bin and throw all rubbish into the bin.
 Dust the empty spaces. Dust all of the light items and put them where they should go or look good.


Don't throw away anything that may be of value to your teenager. However, if there are things on the bed that they don't need, speak with them and consider throwing things out or having a car boot (trunk) sale. You may consider giving them part of the profit made and it will also help to declutter their room.
 Throw away any unnecessary papers and/or items. Make sure that every drawer and cabinet has one category. Don't stuff jewelry with sheets!

, Clear any cups or plates and put them in the dishwasher. Put all rubbish in the bin, being careful not to throw away important pieces of homework, etc. Then clear things like stationery and books off the desk, filing the books away and putting the stationery into a desk tidy.
, For example, cupboards, drawers, etc.


Get storage boxes and put things from the room in it so that the room will be more relaxing and spaced out. You can also store storage boxes under your teen's bed. If not, try bed risers. If you can see the boxes under the bed, get a matching bed skirt.
 Wash it, then take it to the room and hang it up in their wardrobe. Wash sheets, linen, pillows, stuffed animals, etc., too. Then fold them or put them where they go. Place the sheets and linen on the bed and have the teen make the bed.


Add pillows and comfy blankets for a cozy feeling.
 Consider giving them to a charity clean and not worn out or broken.
,, If there are blinds, clean them out with a duster in between.
,, Suggest that they dust, mop, and move things around every week for a cleaner, different room that your teen can enjoy.
 For example, a study area or a music area. Have them put all of their books in a bookcase. Teach them to sort their clothes by hanging pants together, long sleeve shirts together, etc., The following items are suggested as helpful, pick and choose what works for you and your teen:


A desk tidy: a desk tidy helps to keep stationary organized and a desk clear and neat. You can also get desk tidies for papers so homework can be put into the tidy and kept safe.






A bin: A small bin with a lid, to stop odors, can be a life saver. Tell your teenager to put all their rubbish into the bin and you could even give them a small reward for filling the bin with their rubbish.






A shoe rack: This can be hidden in the wardrobe, but this can encourage teenagers to keep their shoes together and organized so if they need a pair of shoes they are easy to find.






A wash basket: Tell your teenager to put all their washing into the washing basket and like the bin you could give them a small reward for filling the basket.






Noticeboard: This helps in organizing your teenager and they can write down any assignments or important dates etc.






Bag hanger: All bags will have a place and coats can even be hung up here.






A clear cupboard: Tell your teenager to store all their games or other possessions in here to keep the room clean.







