 Whether you are visiting a new location, or staying in your own backyard, you should familiarize yourself with the snakes native to your area. It is important to learn both the venomous and non-venomous snakes that live near you, and how to distinguish the two.Before you head out on an outdoor adventure in a new area, learn about the snakes that are native there.


Again, while you certainly want to avoid all snake bites, you'll want to understand the differences and urgency levels in treating both kinds of bites, venomous and non-venomous.
Some snakes, like the coral snake and the king snake, look very similar. While they both reside in similar areas, only the coral snake is venomous. It is important to be able to distinguish between similar looking snakes, especially when one is venomous.;
, Try to stay on trails or clear areas where you can see where you step. If you must go into tall grass or brush, use a long stick to probe the area before stepping into it. Snakes use natural coverage, like tall grass and weeds, to protect themselves from predators, to avoid extreme temperature and to hunt for prey. Trails have fewer hiding spots for snakes, so it is better to stay on clearly marked paths., Snakes often curl up in dark places like holes in fallen timber or in hidden spots among boulders. Look carefully before you step or place your hand anywhere. This is especially true when rock climbing or exploring in caves. If you come across a crevasse, it’s best to leave it be. If you do need to poke around, use a long stick to prod into the area to make sure it is empty.


Snakes do not dig holes, but they do use holes dug by other animals to hide. So what looks like a hole dug by a chipmunk or mole may really contain a snake., Be careful while walking under low hanging branches, or when climbing up a tree as you could easily mistake a snake for a branch. Snakes can slither up trees and can hang down to be head height. It’s best to keep your wits about you at all times, and remember that snakes can be hiding out nearly anywhere.
 Wear heavy boots and long pants.Never go barefoot or wear sandals in areas where you are unable to clearly see where you’re putting your feet.


When you are walking through grassy areas, you should wear closed toe shoes to prevent bites. Thick materials, like leather, are less likely to be punctured by a snake’s fangs than a thinner material, like canvas.Loose fitting long pants are better than tight fitting pants. This way, in the event that you are bitten, there is less of a chance that the snake’s fangs will reach your skin., Don't camp near large logs, rocky areas or tall grass. Many snakes are nocturnal so you will want to be especially careful at night. Zip your tent up tightly and sleep on a cot when possible, since you are less likely to be bitten on a raised surface. Use a flashlight to check inside shoes and the floor of the tent before you venture out at night to use the latrine or portable toilet.


Shake out clothing, shoes, and sleeping bags before use to dislodge any hidden snakes., Water snakes are venomous and you could be in dire need of help very quickly if bitten.Depending on you area, there may or may not be water snakes. After heavy rains, snakes are more likely to be in water due to flooding in their habitat. Heavy rains also drive snakes into the open since their favorite hiding spots may be flooded.Avoid swimming in muddy waters, or waters with vegetation since these are favorite hiding areas for water snakes.