 Different brands and different products within that brand will have different instructions. One type of hair removal might take only three minutes, while another might take ten. Following the directions will give you the best results and help protect your skin.If you lost the directions that came with your cream, you can find them on the bottle or tube. Otherwise, check the company's website. They should have instructions for each kind of cream.
Check the "use by" date to make sure your cream is not expired. An expired depilatory cream will not work very well and give you poor results.
 Use your fingers or a spatula, if provided. Do not rub the cream into your skin, just spread it.Wash your hands immediately if you apply with your fingers.


Uneven application means your hair could come off in patches, leaving you with spots of hair, which is probably not the look you're going for.Never apply a hair removal cream to your nostrils, ears, the skin around your eyes (including your eyebrows), genitals, anus, or nipples., This can be anywhere between three to ten minutes, though the time rarely exceeds ten minutes. Most directions recommend checking a small area about halfway through the process to see if hair comes off.The shorter the amount of time the depilatory cream is in contact with your skin, the less likely you are to develop redness or irritation.


Because you can really harm your skin if you leave the cream on too long, set an egg timer or use the timer on your phone to make sure you don't exceed the limit.
Some tingling is normal, but if you start to feel burning, see redness or irritation, remove the cream immediately. Depending on your reaction, you may want to call your doctor for advice on how to treat your skin.
You may notice a bad smell while you are using the cream. That's a normal side effect of the chemical reaction that is breaking down your hair., Wipe gently--don't rub the cream. Rinse the area with warm water to make sure the cream has been removed entirely.If you don't rinse off the residue, the chemicals could continue to react with your skin and cause a rash or chemical burn.


Pat, don't rub, your skin dry.Apply a moisturizer to the area to keep it smooth and hydrated., Wear loose clothing right after using the cream and don't scratch the area. If the redness and discomfort continues after a few hours or gets worse, call your doctor., You should also wait 24 hours to use anti-perspirant or products with fragrances.


You should not shave or use a hair removal cream in the same area for 72 hours after use.