 Starting your day with a healthy breakfast is the best way to jumpstart your metabolism and give you the energy to focus and perform throughout your day. A healthy breakfast includes sources of vitamins and protein as well as healthy fiber.For example, you might have whole-grain toast topped with a poached egg and a tomato. If you don't have time to prepare breakfast in the morning, you might go with a fruit smoothie that includes a protein boost.
You also might consider batching breakfasts such as make-ahead breakfast wraps or fruit salad and putting it in the freezer if your time is limited in the morning. Then all you have to do is heat each portion up for a few seconds in the microwave and you're ready to go.
 Fruits and vegetables are relatively low-fat food options that are packed with the vitamins and nutrients your body needs. You should aim to have at least two servings of fruit and five servings of vegetables each day., Poultry, fish, beans, nuts, and eggs are lean sources of protein that will give your body the fuel it needs to build strong muscles. The meat you eat should be broiled or grilled rather than fried., Consumption of sugars and saturated fats can cause you to gain weight, even if the rest of your diet is relatively healthy. Be careful about added sugar in packaged foods, especially frozen dinners and pasta meals that you wouldn't consider sweet.Natural sugar in fruit is better for you than refined sugar added to other foods. Try having a medium-sized apple or a cup of grapes as a snack instead of cookies or cakes.
 The amount of water you need to stay adequately hydrated depends on your size and how physically active you are. Generally speaking, however, you should be drinking at least eight or nine glasses of water a day.To determine how much water you lose through sweat when exercising, weigh yourself before and after your exercise session. For each pound of weight lost, you need to drink a pint of water.
Keep in mind that if you feel thirsty, that means you're already dehydrated. Drink water constantly, not just when you're thirsty.
 To maintain a healthy weight, it's best to establish a regular pattern of eating at the same times every day. Eating smaller meals every two or three hours may be better than eating three larger meals., Managing portion sizes is important if you want to maintain a healthy weight. This can be especially difficult when eating out, because restaurants typically serve larger portions of food than one person needs.You can control your portions while eating out by splitting a meal with a friend or ordering from the kid's menu. You also can ask the server for a to-go box and split your meal in half as soon as it comes to the table.
When eating snacks, choose single-portion containers or take only a single portion out of a larger bag rather than eating directly from the bag.
Use government health websites such as https://www.choosemyplate.gov/, provided by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, to better understand what healthy portion sizes are for various types of food.

