 To work as an actuary, you must become board certified by either the Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS) or the Society of Actuaries (SOA), first as an “associate” and eventually as a “fellow.” If you understand how this process works, you will be better able to select the right degree program for you.The Society of Actuaries (SOA) works with actuaries in life/health insurance, employee benefits, and pensions.
The Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS) works with actuaries in automobile, fire, and liability insurance and workers' compensation.
There are other actuary societies (such as the Canadian Institute of Actuaries, or CIA), but these will require either the CAS or SOA exams.
 In order to qualify for these exams, a committee must verify your college course work in applied statistics, corporate finance, and economics. When you apply to take the first exam (via the websites for CAS or SOA), a appointed committee will look over your grades, transcripts, and possibly your test scores to assess whether or not you have been appropriately trained in these areas. Strong programs in actuary science (and related fields) will outline which VEE areas they offer, and will ensure a passable level of course work and preparation.
 If you have been trained in a specific actuarial science program, you may have already had courses in “professionalism” and “the fundamentals of actuarial practice.” If you do not have these specific courses on your transcript, you will need to complete them. These classes are offered by each actuarial society, both online and in person, and can range from $45 to $120 per course., To become certified through the CAS, you must pass seven exams, whereas the SOA requires five exams. Each exam requires a great deal of preparation. It is highly recommended for you to obtain the official study manual for each exam ($75 and up), as well as additional materials like flashcards, practice tests, and study workbooks.The first four SOA Exams (P/1, FM/2, MFE/3F, and C/4) are administered alongside the CAS exams, and qualify for both the CAS and SOA organizations.
The remaining first-tier exam is different for SOA and CAS. For SOA, the final exam is the MLC exam. For the CAS, the remaining exam is exam 3L.
In order to become an associate with CAS, you must still take three more exams
In order too become an associate with SOA, you will take just one more.
 This will improve your status as an actuary and lead to higher pay.In order to become a CAS fellow, you must pass two more exams.
In order to become a SOA fellow, you must select one of five specific career tracks—advanced finance, financial theory and engineering, financial health and economics, financial reporting, or operations risk. The requirements differ for each track requires, with some requiring additional education modules, and others more exams.

