 When on any medical treatment, it is important to be consistent and take your medication when instructed to do so. Following your prescription can help you eliminate your medical problem more efficiently and effectively, and it will minimize the chance of a flare up.This is true for all IBD medications, whether you are on anti-inflammatory drugs, cortisone or steroids, immune system suppressors, antibiotics, anti-diarrheal medications, or some combination of these.
 Good overall nutrition helps give your body the nutrients it needs to control inflammation and manage symptoms as easily as possible. Drink plenty of water and eat foods high in soluble fiber, lean proteins, good fats, and foods high in calcium. With good nutrition your body's immune system and digestive system can work together to keep symptoms at bay.There are a variety of special diets that may help you control your symptoms, including gluten-free diets and elimination diets. However, do not begin a restrictive diet plan or eliminate entire food groups from your daily diet without the advice of a dietitian or nutritionist and the approval of your physician.
 While your symptoms are active, you will need to eat fewer foods to keep them under control. In general, avoid alcohol, caffeine, raw fruits and vegetables, spicy foods, high-fiber foods, or generally large meals when you are having a flare-up. Instead, you should eat bland, soft foods like:Fruit juices
Applesauce
Bananas
White rice and refined pastas
Fully cooked vegetables
Potatoes without skin
Lean meats, fish, and tofu

, A major goal of IBD treatments is to restore your quality of life, particularly when the disease is well managed during periods of remission. Because IBD flare-ups can limit physical activity, many IBD specialists encourage patients to take advantage of remission periods to enjoy physical activities that may other times be impossible.When you feel well, go dancing with your significant other, take a swim, chase your children around in the park, ride your bicycle, train for a race or sporting competition, or enjoy gardening. Taking advantage of your mobility and freedom from symptoms can help make IBD less intimidating and restrictive.
 By enjoying your symptom-free time as much as possible, you can help relieve stress and anxiety surrounding your condition. The act of minimizing stress and enjoying your life, you may itself ease some of your symptoms.Socializing with friends and family can help improve your quality of life, making flare-ups more bearable and reminding you that it is possible to live a happy, well-balanced life with IBD.
 Many dietary changes and medications may become less effective over time. It is important to regularly discuss your symptoms and treatment options with a health professional. This will allow them to keep tailoring the best possible treatment plan to manage your condition.

In many cases, treatment plans will change with time, depending on your health and symptoms, and as medications and dietary alterations lose some effectiveness over time.

