 Being a player is not about finding The One. It is about getting to know lots of people, moving quickly from one partner to the other. Neither mode of dating is "right," but you should know that being a player is a shallow, surface-level way to make connections.


If you're looking for deep emotional connections, don't be a player.
If you want to find someone to settle down with, don't be a player.
If you don't feel comfortable letting people down, don't be a player.
 The player lifestyle is constantly on the move. You're going to new parties, clubs, and events every weekend, and you are constantly making new friends. A player has a wide range of friends, though only a few of them are necessarily "close" friends.


If you'd rather sit in and watch Netflix, don't be a player.
If you'd rather meet the gang at your favorite bar each weekend, don't be a player.
If you want the comfort and ease of long-term relationships, don't be a player.
 The reality of being a player is that feelings are going to hurt. Some people are going to get attached. You might even get unexpectedly attached. If you're committed to playing the field, you're never going to have full control over the emotions of others. Every now and then things won't end as neatly as you hope. You're going to have to firmly, though politely, let people down.


If you'd rather not break up with people, don't be a player.
If you know you struggle with confrontation, don't be a player.
If you feel bad about sleeping with someone and leaving the next morning, don't be a player.
 Being a player is not about being monogamous. But handling several partners at the same time is not easy, especially if you're not telling them who else you're seeing. This isn't to say it's wrong or unethical. You just need to know what you're getting into.


If you're uncomfortable keeping multiple relationships going, don't be a player.
If you hate managing relationships, texting, and keeping secrets, don't be a player.
If you have a moral or ethical problem with polyamory, don't be a player.
 At the end of the day, you don't have to choose between being a player and avoiding the game. You can, of course, fall somewhere in the middle. If you're unsure about this, just give it a shot. Try to meet a few new partners, and keep them all low key. The following advice doesn't have to be followed to the letter if you're just interested in exploring your relationships a bit more.