 Do you ever notice how more motivated you feel when exercising with others? Oftentimes, studying with others can be a morale booster as well. Be sure to have a clear plan when working with a study group to maximize its benefits.


Ideally, keep your study group small to about three to six people. Choose academically conscientious group members who have a track of record of focusing in class, taking notes, and performing well on exams. Be sure to set some group ground rules and expectations that all group members agree on. Also, set clear goals and objectives to help your study group remain focused. As a group, determine the structure of your study session. Decide how much time you will study and how much time will be devoted to various tasks. Two to three hours should be sufficient.
Spend the first half our of your study session clearing up any confusion or misunderstandings that individual group members have about the material. This will allow for other group members to clarify any problems or misconceptions.To clarify misunderstandings of specific study questions, check to make sure group members understand what the question is asking, the concepts being addressed in the question, and the steps taken to solve the problem., Don’t forget to see the forest through the trees. Your goal for studying extends well beyond passing the exam or test. Your long-term goal is to graduate, or land that dream job, or to get the certification necessary for that promotion you’ve always wanted. Keeping the ultimate goal in mind will help you to remain focused.


Use the Pomodoro technique to assist you in breaking down your work into manageable chunks so you stay motivated. Do this by setting a timer for 25 minutes to complete a chunk of work, and then taking a break right afterwards. This way, you have a chance to frequently celebrate these mini successes., Spending an entire day of studying without engaging in some physical activity is a sure way to go stir crazy! You can avoid this dilemma by scheduling some time to exercise with some friends.


Schedule an hour in your study day to meet up with friends for some swimming, biking, or playing basketball. Not only will this get you up and moving, but it also gives you some much needed time to socialize.

