 This will launch the app.;
, Type in “Worms 3” in the search field then tap the magnifying glass to begin searching for the app.
 There are many games in the App Store with “Worms” in their titles. Find the Worms 3 app by Team17.
 Tap the “Buy” button beside the app, and iTunes will begin processing your payment. Once iTunes has validated your payment, the game will start downloading.


You will notice a progressing circle where the price button used to be on the game page. Once the circle is complete, the app will have been downloaded and installed on your iPad.
The game costs $4.99.
 Locate the game app on your iPad. It has an app logo of a worm carrying a gun and a bomb. Tap on it to launch.
 You will be brought to your team’s screen where you can personalize your own Worms team that you will use in the game.
 You’ll find this on the upper right corner of the screen. Now you can begin creating your Worms team.
 A window will appear where you can type the team name. Key it in and tap the “Accept” button. Your team’s name will now appear on the header box of your team’s screen.
 Your team is composed of four worms. All four are displayed in their own boxes. Tap on the name box of a worm you want to name. Name the worm then tap the “Done” button on your keypad.


Repeat this step for all your worms.
 You can customize how your worms will appear and sound in the games. There’s a customization menu on the right with all the items you can set for your team. Tap on the appropriate boxes to see the options and to set your preferences.


You can customize Hat, Glasses, Moustache, Speech Bank, Gravestone, and Victory Dance.
 Tap the “Local Game” button on the main menu. The different game modes will be displayed. Tap on the button for the game mode you want to play. You can choose among Campaign, Quick Game, Practice Match, Body Count, and Pass ‘n’ Play.



Campaign. This mode is a mission-type game, with 30 levels of increasing difficulty. Each level has its own objectives or mission that you need to complete in order to move to the next level.

Quick Game. Go for this mode when you just want a quick one-on-one game with the computer’s AI team. No mission here. You just drop by and play a match.

Practice Match. If you need to hone your skills, practice, and familiarize yourself with the various weapons, play this mode. You will be given an opponent team that won’t fight back.

Body Count. In this mode, you only have one worm in play in your team. You will then be given an infinite number of enemy worms to fight off. See how many enemy worms you can kill with just a single worm. Stack up your worm count, but eventually you will lose as your lone worm will be overwhelmed.

Pass ‘n’ Play. If you would like to have a multiplayer session with just one iPad, you can do so under this mode. You can play with your friends by passing around the iPad after each person’s turn.
 Maps are usually generated in random after you select a game mode. Before you begin your worms battle, it’s a good idea to familiarize yourself with the whole map. Swipe across the screen to see it.
 Your worms and your opponent’s worms are randomly scattered on the map. Find where your worms are and take a note of their locations.


It is also worth noting where the enemy worms are.
 Worms 3 is a turn-based game. Each of the players (or computers) take turns in taking their shots. On your turn, a red arrow will point to your Worm that is currently active.


Use the navigation pad with the arrows on the lower left corner of the screen to move your worm. Use the right arrow to move your Worm to the right and the left arrow to move it to the left. Take your worm to the spot where you want it to take its shot at the enemies.
You can also have your worm jump. When you’re on the jumping spot, tap the “Jump” button on the lower right corner. The button has a picture of a worm with an arrow going northeast.
You can also have your worm do a backflip. When you’re on the spot, tap the “Backflip” button on the lower right corner. The button has a picture of a worm with an arrow going northwest.
 Tap on the weapons box on the bottom of the screen to bring out your artillery. There are a lot of weapons to choose from. Tap on the one you want to use, and it will be loaded.


Each weapon has its own use. Picking the right weapon is key to winning the game.
 To do this, use the navigation pad with the arrows on the lower left corner of the screen. Use the up and down arrows to control your aim.


Your shot, depending on the weapon you chose, can be affected by the direction and intensity of the wind. Take note of these when aiming your shot.
 The button has a picture of an explosion. The moment you release your finger on the button, the shot will be taken.


If you aimed your shot properly, you should be able to hit your target. Watch the enemy worm’s life count decrease after the hit.
 It’s now your opponent’s turn. Wait for him—or it, if you’re playing against the computer—to finish. Watch the action on your screen while you wait, and plan your next move.
 The game will continue, with all the players taking turns taking their shots.


The game will end when a team has been completely wiped out. A game or match summary screen will be shown. You can also view the statistics of the match.

