 Active dogs are high energy and need lots of time, dedication, and training. They need at least half an hour of aerobic exercise each day. They also need access to spaces where they can exercise such as trails, dog parks, and a fenced-in backyard. If you choose an active breed, make sure you have enough time, energy, and space to dedicate to your new family member., Having an active dog means you will need to make sure it gets out each day for some intense exercise. Active breeds need at least 30 minutes of intense exercise each day like hiking, running, rollerblading, fly ball, or Frisbee. This is great for individuals who want someone to go with them on their morning run or evening hike.
 Before adopting, think about your age as well as the age of the dog you will bring into your family. Adopting an active puppy means dedicated training and lots of energy on your end. An older active dog will also need lots of your energy. An older dog that is already trained might be a good choice if you don’t have a lot of time for training., Before choosing an active dog, research the personalities and temperaments of specific breeds. For example, if you have children you will want to choose a breed that is calm, friendly, and good with kids. If you live in a crowded apartment building, don't choose a breed that barks frequently.
 Choosing an active dog can have immense benefits for your daily life. Not only will you have someone to take on your evening run, you will also have a trusty companion by your side each day. Adopting an active dog means you’ll have a canine partner that will add joy, love, and adventure to your life.
 There are certain dog breeds that are genetically prone to health conditions. Research breed-specific health problems before you choose a breed. Owning a dog is a lifelong commitment. Many health conditions can turn into big vet bills.
 Before you decide on an active dog, consider the grooming requirements of specific breeds. For example, an Australian Shepherd’s coat will need regular brushing and grooming. A shorthaired active dog, on the other hand, might require much less of your time and energy in the grooming arena. Make sure you consider the cost of grooming, too. Regular haircuts can be costly.