 Attach the yarn to your hook using a slipknot, then work a foundation of eight chain stitches.


Check the “Tips” section of this article if you need instructions on forming a slipknot or working a chain stitch.;
, Work ten triple crochets into the fourth stitch currently from the hook. All ten of these stitches should be worked into the same space.


Note that you should have four empty stitches to the left of the hook after completing this step.
See the “Tips” section if you need help making a triple crochet.
 Work one double crochet into the back loop of the next stitch in your foundation chain.


There should be three empty stitches left after this step.
You can find instructions for the double crochet in the “Tips” section of this article.
 Make one half double crochet into the back loop of the next stitch in the foundation chain.


There should be two empty stitches left at the end of this step.
See the “Tips” section for information on the half double crochet.
 Work one single crochet into the next stitch in your foundation chain.


There should be one empty stitch left at the end of this step.
Check the “Tips” section if you need help with the single crochet.
 Work one slip stitch into the final stitch of the foundation chain, completing one side of the leaf.


If you do not know how to make a slip stitch, please see the “Tips” section.
 Turn the piece over to the other side. Work the same type of stitch into each chain of the first four stitches, gradually moving back toward your mass of triple crochets.


Each stitch completed in this step should be made into the back half of the stitches.
Work one slip stitch into the first stitch.
Work one single crochet into the second stitch.
Work one half double crochet into the third stitch.
Work one double crochet into the fourth stitch.
 Slip stitch once into the first top loop of your triple crochet mass.


If done correctly, the outer edge of the leaf should have a smooth, connected appearance.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 2-inch (5-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your crochet hook to tie off the work.


Use a yarn needle to weave the excess tail into the back side of the leaf, hiding it from sight.
This step completes the leaf.

