 Many alternative health practitioners and DIY beauty fans believe that the following oils stimulate hair growth, but scientific research is still needed to prove that they really work:


Castor oil is one of the most commonly recommended oils for promoting thicker, fuller lashes. Try to buy a natural and hexane-free brand of castor oil.Cedarwood oil is a stimulator that promotes hair growth.Coconut oil contains lauric acid, which can help boost hair health and growth by preventing protein loss.Extra virgin olive oil has moisturizing and antibacterial properties that can help you achieve thicker, fuller lashes.Jojoba oil has long been praised as a natural hair growth remedy. It has been proven to moisturize and nourish hair, and may stimulate growth.Moroccan argan oil is full of antioxidants, and moisturizes and nourishes your hair.Rosemary oil stimulates your hair’s roots, improves hair growth, and increases circulation.Vitamin E oil can be taken as a supplement or applied externally to promote hair growth., Some oils such as coconut or olive oil, for example, can be applied directly to the lashes without being diluted. Essential oils, however, carry strong scents that can irritate the eyes if they aren’t diluted with carrier oils.









Extra virgin olive oil and jojoba oil are commonly used to dilute essential oils. How much you use will depend on your own tastes, but you might want to start with 2 to 4 drops of essential oil per tsp of carrier oil.
 A popular growth serum recipe is to combine 1/2 tsp of coconut oil with 2 to 4 drops of lavender essential oil. You can even mix these in the palm of your hand.If you want to make more, use the same ratio in larger quantities, and store the mixture in an air-tight container, away from light.
 Ensure that it is clean of makeup or any other debris/dirt. Gently wash your eye area with your hands, being careful not to rub or apply too much pressure to your eyes and eyelashes.
 Use either your finger or a cotton swab to do this. Start at the roots and work your way to the ends.
 Essential oils can irritate your eyes, so be careful that none of the oils drip into your eyes during application. If they do, rinse your eyes out with cool, clean water.


To rinse your eyes, fill your hands or a basin with cool or lukewarm water and lean down to place your eye into the water. Open and close your eye repeatedly, release the water from your hand, and repeat as needed until your eye feels flushed., Ideally, apply this serum to your eyelashes before bed so that your eyelashes can really soak up all the benefits.
 Be sure to clean your eyes well the next day so that your pores and glands don’t become clogged. Remember to be gentle while you clean your eyes — don't rub them!

, If you experience any irritation, stop using whatever oils you’re using on your lashes immediately.








