 There are many to choose from, such as Giphy GIF Makerand IMGUR Video to GIF, both of which can be used right in your web browser (no download necessary!)


If you prefer to download an app, make sure to read lots of reviews in your device’s app store. Never download and run software from a site you don’t trust.
The two apps mentioned can create GIFs from up to 15 seconds of online video. This is common.
Most converters require that your video be uploaded to an website like Youtube or Vimeo that allows you to publicly share videos. Others, like Giphy, also allow you to upload your own video.;
, Find a video online (or on your device if using a site like Giphy) that has anywhere from 0.5-15 seconds of movement to turn into a GIF. If you’re using a video on the internet, open it in your browser.
 This step will be different across different apps.


If you’re using a video on a site like Youtube, open the video in your browser. Copy the entire URL of the video file from the address bar, then paste it into appropriate the box in the video-to-GIF converter app. The box should say something like “Paste URL here.” Press ↵ Enter or click OK.
If you’re uploading video, find the button on the video-to-gif conversion tool (it should say something like “Browse Your Video Files”) and select the desired file.
 In Imgur, for example, your video will appear with a slider beneath it that allows you to set a “start” and “end” point for your image.
 Nearly every video-to-GIF maker allows you to add some text or other flair to your GIF. Look for a button that says something like “Add Text” or “Add Caption.”

, When you’re done with the creative process, click “Create GIF” or “Save GIF” in your web app to launch the Save menu. Choose a name for your GIF and save it to your computer in a folder you’ll remember later.


If your GIF is over 10MB, web app converters will create a file that ends with a “.GIFV” instead of ”.GIF”, though you will still be able to use it as you would a normal GIF.
You can test your GIF out by opening it in your web browser. Navigate to the folder where you saved the GIF and drag it right into your browser window. Or, if you’re on a mobile device, browse to the file and tap it open. The animation will play instantly.

