 If you leave your home or workplace in an angry, irritated, or otherwise upset mood, there's a good chance that a minor traffic incident could set you off. One of the easiest ways to prevent your own road rage is to wait until you're calm enough to drive without feeling emotional or agitated.Before you turn the ignition, do a quick mental and emotional check-in with yourself.
Ask yourself whether anything emotionally upsetting has happened to you in the last few hours. If you're leaving from home, that might mean an argument with your partner or neighbor. If leaving work, it could mean any number of possible events.
Assess how you are coping with whatever stressors are happening in your day. Think about any times you might have grown impatient with others, lost your temper, or had angry thoughts about another person.
Find ways to calm down before you drive. If you can safely go for a short walk to clear your head, try doing that. If not, try sitting in your car and meditate for a few minutes until you feel calmer.
 Studies show that being overly tired can lead to a loss of emotional control, which can have ramifications when you're behind the wheel. In addition to being well-rested and wakeful, it's important to always drive sober, as alcohol can lower your inhibitions and may lead you to feel angry or belligerent (to say nothing of your impaired driving ability).Try keeping snacks on hand in your car, as hunger can sometimes cause frustrated drivers to experience road rage.Driving when you're well-rested, fed, and sober is the safest way to travel.
 If you're heading someplace important, give yourself a little extra time for traffic. That way you won't be stressed if you get stuck in traffic, and you'll be less likely to end up engaging in road rage behavior.You probably know that you should leave early enough to manage your usual commute time, but figuring out traffic may be more difficult.
Check your local Department of Transportation, police reports, and news updates for any information on current traffic patterns near you. There may be an accident or construction work that you didn't know about.
Some state Department of Transportation websites offer commuters a travel time calculator. These calculators ask where you're leaving from, where you're heading, and what time you need to arrive by, then cross-check your commute with relevant traffic updates., If you live in a rural area, you are probably somewhat limited in your travel options. But if you live in or near a more urban area, you may be able to find a detour around the traffic that's waiting up ahead.


If you're traveling with at least one other passenger, you may qualify for the car pool lane. Check your local ordinances, however, as some places require a minimum of three occupants in a given car.Avoid peak traffic times. This will vary from one city to the next, but traffic is generally at its worst between 7:00 and 10:00 AM and from 3:00 to 7:00 PM.Download and use traffic apps. These can detect upcoming traffic jams and reroute you accordingly. Just be sure to set it up before you drive, as driving and fidgeting with your phone could cause an accident.
 The surefire way to prevent road rage is to avoid driving in traffic altogether. If you live in or near a big city, there's a good chance that you have access to an affordable public transit system. Even if you don't live in a major metropolitan area like New York City, your city most likely has an extensive network of bus routes, light transit rails, and/or subway lines.Taking public transportation takes the stress out of commuting. You can read, listen to music, or simply tune out while the driver deals with traffic.
Most public transit options are affordable, and when compared to the cost of gas and parking, taking a bus/subway may actually be cheaper than driving.
Even if your city's public transit lines don't run right to your block, you can walk or bike to the nearest transit stop. Your community may even have park-and-ride options so you can drive to your nearest subway/light rail stop.
Check your city's public transportation options by searching online for bus/rail systems in your area.

