 Focus on one issue that you have expertise in and personal experience with. Stay dedicated to the issue while continuously building your knowledge about it.


Talk to professionals and experts, research your issue, read news about your issue, intern in the field, talk to other citizens that are passionate about the it and join other organizations based on your issue.;
, Provide the benefits and downfalls of each side, while proving that your suggestions have the greatest positive impact for the general public.
 Once you are equipped with enough information, you can develop in-depth, meaningful and innovative proposals to present to relevant government officials. Just by presenting the information to the government, you are holding them accountable on the issue. Many government officials appreciate guidance from citizens that are knowledgeable about the issue.

]

Avoid dishonest, exaggerated or inaccurate claims. However it’s wise to point out holes in other proposed legislation that ignores the welfare of the 99 percent.
 With the rise of social networks and distrust of strangers, it helps to become a well-known and respected figure within your community. Relationships are the core to a united stance for your issue.
 Remain dedicated so that you can gain leadership positions and head significant projects. The more influence you gain the community the more distinctive your voice will become and the more people will take what you say seriously. You will also have more chances to directly communicate and interact with government officials or politicians.
 It’s important to get involved in activities that are related to your issue. For example you are attempting to promote your policy idea on education consider participating in the PTA or school board.
 Join community lobbyists and local interest groups that advocate for your cause. These organizations can sharpen your campaigning skills. They will help you gain experience writing letters, making calls, getting an answer from politicians at forums, attending conventions and community organizing.


Try to join an interest group that is in direct contact with the government officials will access to your cause.
 Politicians often believe that citizens are apathetic or not paying attention to what they are doing. Now that you have a team, you all can write opinion letters to the local newspaper or start a local political blog so that you can collectively express dissent or consent for proposed legislation by more powerful corporate lobbyists. As the saying goes, there is power in numbers.


The more informed the public becomes, the more pressure the politicians feel to consider the opinions of the citizens.
 In addition to joining local interests groups, consider forming a grassroots organization or inciting a grassroots movement -- almost in the similar manner as Occupy Wall Street. Citizens can also utilize the various forms of direct democracy through an initiative, referendum or recall. Initiatives are a method for citizens to propose legislation to be voted on by the community, referendums give citizens the opportunity to vote on legislation that has been passed by government or citizens can use recalls to remove unresponsive and unethical officials.
 Contact people who are already have a relationship with politicians you want to influence. Get their opinions on the views to see if you agree or try to persuade them with your opinions about the issue. Since these people already impact specific politicians, they have a better chances at getting the results you desire. These people, organizations and associations are listed on OpenSecrets.org. Also argue your case to the organization, associations and people that endorse the candidates that you are trying to get a response from. Call or email the politicians such as senators to express your concerns to staff members that may share the same outlook. Then slowly develop relationships with staff members and appeal to them to spread your concerns to target politicians.
 Become a priority to key officials by taking the time to get to know them.
 Attend meetings where the politician of choice will make an appearance.
 If your organization is not well-known enough or doesn’t have the capacity to organize large events, help other establishments such as colleges or national organizations host a lecture or panel. These are the perfect times to get familiar with the government processes and talk to the politicians after the meetings.
 You will have a greater chance of influencing local members who in turn can influence more powerful national members. Now that you have a team, work together to call government officials or travel to state capital or congressional offices to discuss the issue with officials such as senators. Even try to persuade officials that appear to vehemently oppose your ideas. If you are able to change just one more politician’s mind, it can have a domino effect.
 Between election seasons, research politicians to volunteer or intern for.

