 Ibuprofen or acetaminophen can be taken if the pain does not diminish on its own or if other symptoms don't develop. These medications can also help reduce your child’s fever and can make him or her feel better.


Never give children under the age of 18 aspirin as this has been linked to Reye's syndrome, which can result in brain damage and liver problems.Use child-strength formulations when giving any pain reliever to children. Follow the dosing recommendations on the package or ask your pediatrician.
Do not give ibuprofen to children under the age of 6 months.
 A warm compress will help lessen the pain of an ear infection. You can use a warm, damp washcloth.You can also fill a clean tube sock with rice or beans and tie or sew the open end of the sock shut. Microwave the sock for 30 seconds at a time until it is the desired temperature. Apply the compress to the ear.You can also use salt as a natural remedy. Heat one cup of salt and place it in a cloth. Tie it up with a rubber band and place it on the affected ear for 5-10 minutes when it’s bearably hot while lying down.
Apply the warm compress for 15-20 minutes at a time., Your body needs rest to recover from infections.Make sure that you do not push yourself too hard while you have an ear infection, particularly if you also have a fever.


Pediatricians do not recommend that you keep a child home from school for an ear infection unless s/he has a fever. However, you should probably monitor your child’s activity to make sure s/he gets the rest s/he needs.
 Particularly if a fever is present, you should drink extra fluids.The Institute of Medicine recommends that you drink at least 13 cups (3 liters) of fluids daily if you are male, and at least 9 cups (2.2 liters) of fluids daily if you are female., The Valsalva's Maneuver can be used to open up the eustachian tubes and relieve the "stuffed up" feeling that may occur with an ear infection. You should only do this maneuver if you do not currently have ear pain.Take a deep breath and close your mouth.
Pinch your nose shut. Then, while pinching the nose, "blow" your nose gently.
Do not blow too hard, or you could damage your eardrum. You should feel your ears "pop."

, Mullein and garlic are natural antibiotics and may also provide soothing relief from ear infection pain. If garlic oil is not available, you can prepare it at home. All you need is, cook 2 garlic cloves in 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of mustard or sesame oil until it turns blackish. Cool this oil and use a eyedropper to place 2-3 drops of warm (never hot) oil in each ear.You should always consult with a pediatrician before trying this with children.
 One study suggests that a naturopathic herbal remedy called Oticon Otic solution (Healthy-On) may be helpful in reducing ear pain from ear infections. Consult your doctor before using this remedy. Never give any alternative medications to your child without consulting your pediatrician first.

