 The secret to getting a great pan-seared steak is having a hot pan and by only cooking as long as is necessary. The best strip steaks have a crisp, seared exterior that can only be achieved with a piping hot pan, so your first step is to set your pan on your stove and turn the burner to high heat. While you're waiting for your pan to heat up, you can remove your steaks from their packaging and start seasoning them.


Here's an easy test to see if your pan is hot enough — wet your fingers in the sink and flick the water onto the pan. If the droplets immediately sizzle and evaporate or "dance" across the surface of the pan, it's ready!;
, As your pan starts to warm, set your steaks on a clean cutting board or platter. Season each side with salt and pepper. The precise amount you use is up to you — some guides, for instance, recommend using a mixture of about 1/4 teaspoons pepper and 1 & 1/2 teaspoons salt for every two steaks.A good rule is to err on the side of using too little salt (after all, you can always add more when the steak is done).


At this point, you can also add any additional dry seasonings you want. Pre-packaged mixes like Johnny's, etc. are a good choice, as are your own concoctions (for instance, rosemary, thyme, and minced garlic is one common combination).
After seasoning your steaks, coat each with oil. This is important for getting a crispy sear — the oil essentially "fries" the outer layer of the steak.
 Using a pair of tongs, lay your steaks onto the hot pan. To avoid getting hit by hot juices, lay the steaks away from you, rather than towards you. They should immediately begin to sizzle and crackle — this is a good thing! Move the steaks an inch or so from their original location a few seconds after you add them to the pan to prevent them from sticking, then simply let them cook.


Some cooking guides recommend letting your steaks warm to room temperature before adding them to a hot pan under the assumption that this helps them cook more evenly. Although letting your steaks warm for 20 to 30 minutes almost certainly won't hurt them, there is some evidence to suggest this claim is just a myth., The trick to getting an excellent steak from your pan is to only cook each side as long as necessary — cooking too long can make the meat tough. Let your steaks cook in the pan until they develop a dark brown crust on their bottom side flecked with black, charred portions. Depending on the heat of your pan, this usually takes about three to four minutes, though longer or shorter is possible, so keep an eye on your steaks.


For a well-done steak, you may want to cook a little longer — up to or beyond five minutes. Conversely, for a rare steak, you'll want to flip the steaks a little earlier — as early as two to two and a half minutes.
The debate about whether to only flip a steak once or whether to flip numerous times is an old one. Conventional wisdom dictates that steaks should only be flipped once to give them the best possible crust. However, many modern steak aficionados disagree, instead recommending frequent flipping., Once you've flipped your steaks over, there's not much left for you to do other than watch it cook (unless you're of the belief that constantly turning the meat makes it taste better). Wait until your steaks have developed a dark crust on the bottom similar to the one on top, then check for signs of done-ness. If your steaks aren't quite done, consider finishing them off in the oven or giving them a few extra minutes in the pan. Below are common signs of a done steak:


A firm texture at the edges that becomes softer towards the center of the meat
No red remaining in the center (pinkish to light brown is OK)
An internal temperature of about 120o to 150o F (49o to 65o C).