 If your mom doesn’t like your girlfriend, hearing you become obsessed or single-minded will only support her reservations. Your girlfriend should be just one part of a healthy, colorful life.


If your girlfriend becomes the center of your existence, you give your mom a strong argument against the relationship.
 Get your support group on board talking up your girlfriend and pointing out when your mom says something unfair or out of line. Seeing how people other than you trust and appreciate your girlfriend can slowly wear your mom’s reservations down.


Ask friends to casually mention some mom-friendly things about your girlfriend in conversation. For example, they could say, “Man, your girlfriend killed at that test today,” or, “Sorry we’re late, but your girlfriend just had to walk a bunch of carts back to the store before she’d get in the car.”
Your siblings could ask you questions when your mother is around like, “Why are you so happy today?” or “Why did you put all your clothes away so fast?” Your answers give you a chance to brag about your girl.
Don’t be too obvious, or your mother will get the idea that something is up.
 You might feel like you are caught in the middle between your parents and your girlfriend, and that’s because you are. However, taking sides by pulling away from your family or playing one against the other rarely works.Remember that the goal is to have everyone get along. You need to stay on both sides.
Avoid speaking negatively about one person when alone with the other. You want your mom and girlfriend to respect each other, not just tolerate one another.



Mention these things around your mother casually so it isn’t obvious what you’re doing.
If your mom says something that your girlfriend would agree with, try saying something like, “That’s funny. My girlfriend thinks the same thing. I’m not so sure though.” You instantly make your mom and girlfriend a team, and you can play up how your girlfriend eventually helps you see things your mom’s way.
If you are playing games together, you can play “Girls vs. Boys” to ensure that your mom and girlfriend are literally on the same team for a time.
 It might sound fake or posturing in this day and age, but the adult world can put a lot of stock in appearances and reputation.Even if you disagree with the judgmental perspectives involved, you will have an easier time convincing your mom to accept your girlfriend if your relationship is not the talk of the town.


Sometimes you have to stand up for yourself and your beliefs, but try to do so while respecting your parents’ opinions.
Small towns especially can entail intricate family politics that are hard to avoid, and you might not see things the way your parents do.

