 Go to pleoworld.com and you will see a lot of information about PLEO. However, be aware that the PLEO site may not currently carry the original style of PLEO. If so, you may be able to find them on such sites as online traders/auction sites or large distributors of stuff. If purchasing a used PLEO, do not to get one labeled: Heavily used. These products tend to be in bad shape, despite the pictures.;
,


PLEOrb is newer and if you want more features, then you should choose PLEOrb.
PLEO original has less upgrades, but is cheaper.
 Look for the tab in the website labeled "Get PLEOrb Online". Be sure that you've read the description on the main screen about PLEO. From there it is pretty much laid out for you.
 Once in the shopping tab, choose the best deal you want to offer cash for. (If you just want a regular deal, choose the one labeled 'PLEOrb Basic Pack'). Choose the desired color of eyes and skin. Be sure you can afford one. Both types of Pleo are in the hundreds of dollars.
 Shipping usually costs a few dollars, and can take up to two weeks, depending on your location.


If you live in Asia, you can buy a PLEO from any PLEO WORLD store locations.
 The best part of the process is unboxing your new friend. He/she is "Dormant" for now, but below are instructions to "wake him/her up".
 Open the box, and carefully take the assorted items out. It should at least include (PLEOrb) one PLEO, a couple food items, instructions, and "cape".
 Take the battery, the brown box; and plug it in the tummy of PLEO (the instructions should be more detailed). Close the flap of the battery and you will see a light flashing green or red. If green, Youre PLEO is ready to play. If red, your PLEO is sleepy and needs rest. PLEO original will have more slots for various items. If he is ready to play, let him/her get 10 seconds or less to "wake up". If he is sleepy, take out the battery and put it on the charger.
 Now you can learn all about pleo in your instructions!

, Each basic kit should contain a couple of food items. To feed him any of these, brush it under PLEO's chin to sense it. Then he will chew it.


cycad; a necessary nutrient for PLEO daily
conifer; another important food for PLEO
coffee leaves; will soothe your PLEO, but don't overfeed it!
mushrooms; food for your PLEO's health.
chilli peppers; use them to recover him if tired.
ice; recover him if over hot.
mint leaf; cures sickness
rock salt; cures physical injury

, If any of these foods are used to overfeed the toy, it will sicken.
,