 A baby's first bowel movement, called meconium, is usually passed within 24 hours after birth. Meconium is very dark green to black, thick, and sticky. It is made up of shed cells and debris that accumulated in the womb. Your baby should transition to more normal poops within two to four days., While a new baby's digestive system is maturing, they will produce stool that is very different from what is considered healthy in older children and adults. Because of their liquid diet, healthy infant bowel movements are not solid and should be the consistency of peanut butter or pudding. It is normal for formula-fed babies to produce thicker, bulkier poop than breastfed infants.


Diarrhea in infants is extremely watery and may leak past the diaper and onto your baby's back. Call your doctor if your baby has diarrhea and is under 3 months old, has had diarrhea for more than a day, or is exhibiting other symptoms like fever.Solid bowel movements are a sign of constipation. A sporadic pebbly diaper is no cause for alarm, but consult a doctor if it happens frequently. Severe constipation may be paired with diarrhea if the watery stool leaks past the hard blockage., Baby stools are generally lighter and can range from yellow to green to light brown. Do not be alarmed by color changes. As your baby's digestive system matures, changes to enzyme production and transit time will produce variety.


Dark brown is a sign of constipation.
Black stools after meconium is cleared can mean bleeding. Small flecks of black similar to poppy seeds are most likely caused by swallowed blood from an irritated nipple. Do not be alarmed if your baby is taking an iron supplement, as this also produces black stools.
Very pale yellow or chalky gray can be a sign of liver problems or infection., A healthy newborn baby will have anywhere from 1 to 8 bowel movements each day, with an average of 4. Like adults, each baby will have their own "normal" rhythm. However, talk to your doctor if your formula-fed baby has less than one bowel movement per day, or your breastfed baby has less than one every 10 days., Your baby's stools should smell less pungent, almost sweet. It is normal for formula-fed babies to have bowel movements that smell stronger than those of breastfed infants. Bowel movements should begin to smell more like an adult's once your baby transitions to solid food.