 Coat the back of the wallpaper with spray adhesive, then wrap it around the magazine file. Try to keep the seam at one of the corners. Trim the excess wallpaper at the top to match the top edges of the magazine file.


For a neater finish, cut the wallpaper taller than the magazine file. Cut it down to ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) of the top edge, then fold the excess inside.
Pull off any plaques of labels first. Save them, then glue them back on after you have covered the file.
You can use this method to cover boxes and lids as well!

, Cut the tracing out with a 3-inch (7.62-centimeter) wide boarder. Cut two 3-inch (7.62-centimeter) slits into the top and bottom edges; they need to be the same width as the spine. Fold the tabs down, then wrap the paper around the book. Fold then the top and bottom edges, then the side. Tape everything in place.


This is a great option for textbooks. Wallpaper is more colorful and durable than the usual brown paper bag.
 Wrap some wallpaper around a box, much like you would wrap a gift, but leave one of the narrow ends open. Tape the bottom and the seam, then pull the bag off of the box. Fold the top, raw edge inward. Punch two holes in the front and back of the bag, then add some ribbon handles., Clean and dry an empty tin can. Cut the wallpaper down so that it's the same height as your can, and long enough to wrap around it with a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) overlap. Lay down strips of double-sided tape along all four edges on the back of the wallpaper. Wrap the wallpaper tightly around the can. Run your finger across the seam to seal it., Place a frame down on the wallpaper. Trace around it, leaving a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) border on the outside and inside. Cut the tracing out, then cut 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) slits into each corner, both inside and outside. Coat the wallpaper with spray adhesive, then center it on the frame. Wrap the excess wallpaper around the outside and inside edges. Fold and leftovers onto the back., Roll a lampshade across a sheet of wallpaper, tracing it as you go. Cut the tracing out, leaving a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) border all around. Coat the wallpaper with spray adhesive, and wrap it around the lamp shade. Cut slits into the excess wallpaper on the top and bottom of the lampshade, then fold it inside.The slits will prevent the wall paper from buckling.
Add a trim to the top and bottom with ribbon, bias tape, or washi tape.
 Coat front of a 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) tile with decoupage glue. Set the tile down onto the back of your wallpaper. Let the glue dry, then cut the tile out with a craft blade; use the edges of the tile as a guide. Flip the tile over, and coat the wallpaper with waterproof decoupage glue. Allow the glue to dry before using it.


Glue cork to the back of your tile to protect your table against scratches.
You can also use thick cork squares or circles instead of tiles.

