 Try to use a calm and loving tone throughout the conversation, instead of speaking in a loud, aggressive voice. Similarly, pick language that is kind and non-threatening and gives the other person room to formulate an opinion.It’s helpful to frame things in terms of how they make you feel. Instead of telling someone “you shouldn’t have done this,” instead say “I felt really hurt when you did this.” That way, your partner doesn’t feel as if you’re simply criticizing for no reason, but knows that his or her actions had an impact on your feelings.
Also try to bring in a few positive things that the other person does that make you feel good, and then use those as a way to point out why you find the negative actions so hurtful: “It makes me so happy when you take the time out of your day to call me at lunch, and that’s why I’m so hurt that you haven’t been in contact with me for a week.”

, Take a second or two to process what has been said before responding. You want to be honest, but make sure you find a way to say something constructive, instead of overreacting to a hurtful comment. This will keep the conversation genuine and open.If somebody criticizes you during the conversation, avoid responding with “that’s not true!” or “you suck!” Instead, take a few minutes to think about what the person said and respond with something like “I appreciate your honesty.”

, Since you’ve already taken the initiative to tell the truth, say everything you want and need to say. Be honest, but do it in a kind manner. Trust your gut when it comes to saying the hard things. If you think it’ll really make a difference, force yourself to make a potentially harsh comment, but use the nicest language that you can. Keep in mind that what you’re saying will probably be really hard for someone else to hear.For example, if you need to tell a significant other that they aren’t offering you enough emotional support, you can try to phrase it gently: “I realize that you may think you’re trying to support me, but when you text me good luck instead of showing up at the game it makes me feel like you don’t actually care.”
If you’re trying to tell somebody that they’re not doing well at their job, try to add in a positive: “I notice that you’re extremely creative and I would love to see you manage your time better so that you can contribute more to the team.”
The person you’re talking to might not initially be able to process what you’ve said. If you’ve said things in a kind way, they will ultimately realize that your intentions were good the whole time.
 Even if you’re honest, you may not get a positive or expected response. No matter how much you anticipate what the other person may say, they could very well respond with anger or judgment. Go into the conversation knowing that there’s a possibility that you might walk away feeling upset. It’s still important to express how you feel, and eventually you’ll have more peace of mind knowing that you tried., What you have to say might take someone else by surprise. Give them ample time to respond to you. If you ask a hard question or make a big suggestion and the other person doesn’t respond immediately, it’s probably because they’re trying to understand what you’ve said and how to best proceed. Don’t bombard them with more goading questions if they don’t respond immediately. Leave some room for contemplation.
 You might find that when you bring up something that bothers or troubles you about someone else, they’ll retaliate with something equally as hurtful about you. The conversation won’t go anywhere if you refuse to listen to criticism as you simultaneously dish it out. Keep an open mind and be prepared to hear some truths about yourself that you might not have previously acknowledged. It’s easy to lash out and immediately get defensive and say something like “that’s not true!” or “this isn’t about me, it’s about you.” Instead, acknowledge what the other person has said: “Ok, I’ll try to work on that. Thanks for letting me know.” This way they will know that you’re receptive to change as well.

