 To treat your IBS, take acidophilus probiotic for 6 weeks. Choose a probiotic supplement, such as Proviva or Lacteol Fort, that contains viable lyophilized bacteria species including lactobacillus, bifidobacteria, and streptococcus. This can be taken in a drink or capsule form. When you are buying one, make sure the supplement contains 10 billion CFU of lactobacillus acidophilus. You should take this supplement twice per day.


Some people find it beneficial to take digestive enzymes along with probiotics to really heal the gut and provide help with digestion.
Acidophilus bacteria colonizes in the large intestine. It can help to repair damage due to IBS and help control diarrhea and constipation.
Taking acidophilus can cause additional gas or diarrhea for the first few days of treatment. The diarrhea should go away and your gas should be reduced after your body adjusts. See a doctor if you have diarrhea for more than 2 days and discontinue use of the supplement., You can use acidophilus to help prepare your body for the issues it goes through when you take an antibiotic. To counteract the side effects, take an acidophilus supplement containing lactobacillus when going on a course of antibiotics. This is necessary because antibiotics kill both harmful and friendly bacteria. You can recolonize the good bacteria through the use of at least 20 billion CFU per day, which is available in a products such as Culturelle.


Take the acidophilus 2 hours before or after you take an antibiotic pill. Antibiotics reduce the effectiveness of the active cultures, so staggering them with other pills will help., Sometimes when you go on trips, you suffer from traveler's diarrhea. To help prevent this, choose an acidophilus brand that does not break down under normal temperatures, as most acidophilus does, and one that doesn't need to be refrigerated. This will make it easier to take with you when traveling.


Take 2 billion CFU of a Lactobacillus GG supplement, such as Culturelle, for every day of travel to prevent traveler's diarrhea. Buy capsules that can easily be tucked away in your luggage., Since the vagina naturally contains acidophilus, you can use a supplement to treat some bacterial based issues that occur in that region. For vaginal yeast infections, acidophilus can be taken orally or with suppositories. Take 1 to 2 tablets of oral medicines such as Gynoflor. These tablets should contain at least 10 million CFUs per tablet and 0.3 mg estriol. Take this dose for 6 days, or according to package instructions.


You can also use a vaginal suppository, such as Vivag, that contains 100 million to 1 billion CFUs. Insert it twice daily for 6 days.
If you use vaginal suppositories, an increase in discharge most likely will occur.