 You want to make sure that you don’t use artificial lures, or smaller bait like prawns. Catfish require bait from their natural habitat, so you should choose a freshwater fish that swim in the same rivers. Using bait like chicken livers or other species of fish may work, but they are not as consistent.Two types of freshwater fish that are good at luring catfish are shad or skipjack, as they are natural to most catfish habitats.Catfish have a keen sense of smell and will be able to detect your bait from long distances. ;
, Stiff graphite rods are not suitable for catching catfish because they do not flex and bend enough, which could cause it to crack or break. Instead, choose either an e-glass or composite rod that is 7 - 12 feet long, because the added length will allow you to bare a higher load, and the flexibility of those rods will absorb some of the fight from the fish and the river's current. You’ll be struggling with the catfish who is at the bottom of the river and these properties are crucial so your rod won't break.


A longer rod will also allow you to cast out further, which may be required when boat fishing or fishing in a deeper lake or river.
 A large, round, conventional reel will do, but it must have a good drag system and large line capacity if you want to catch the biggest fish. Because you will likely be fishing in a river or other source of water that has a current, a good drag system will allow your bait to float with the current from where you cast it., and the line capacity will give you enough fishing line to accommodate it.


Use 20 to 30 pound test monofilament line so it won’t break under pressure.
Use a slip bobber ring for your hook because they are the best for catching bottom dwellers like the catfish. Slip bobber rings have three curved hooks so when the catfish takes the bait it will ensure that he won't tear away, harming the fish and losing your prize!

, You’re going to be out in muddy water, and depending on the weather conditions, it could get very cold. When you fish for giant catfish you should wear comfortable clothes for the long haul.


Because you’re shoes are likely to get wet, wear rubber boots to avoid trench foot, a dangerous condition one can contract from having their feet submerged in cold water over prolonged periods of time. 