 This app is free and will enable you to connect to your Fitbit. Make sure you are using the most recent version of your software, or else you might have difficulty linking your device and Fitbit account.


The Fitbit app can be found in the Windows Store, Google Play Store, or Apple Store.If your device supports Bluetooth, you will need to turn your Bluetooth on before attempting to use your Fitbit account.;
, Once installed, open the app, and from the initial app screen, select "Join Fitbit." This will allow you to choose the Fitbit tracker you are using, which you can then confirm you wish to set-up.
 To accurately track things like caloric burn, you will need to supply some information to Fitbit. Follow the instructions and provide the necessary information for your account.
 By providing your name, email, a valid password, and agreeing to terms and services/privacy policy, your account will be created. With that, your account and your dashboard will be set up.
 Keep your tracker close to your device (such as a tablet, phone, or computer). From your device settings, select your Fitbit tracker to pair tracker and device. Now you can return to your Fitbit app and get started.
 You will need to use the wireless sync dongle that came with your Fitbit to do this. Keeping your tracker nearby, plug your dongle into a USB slot. The pairing process should begin automatically.


In the event that your computer has unreliable or spotty Bluetooth, you may be prompted to insert the sync dongle to improve connectivity.
If your tracker does not sync, remove the dongle or restart your tracker and repeat the process.
 The majority of Fitbit trackers will, upon connecting with your computer, provide a four-digit identification code which you will need to enter on your PC when prompted.If you have a Fitbit flex, you will need to tap the device rapidly when you receive the appropriate prompt and then confirm that you felt a vibration, signaling a connection.
 Now you should be able to click "Next," and your tracker will connect through your computer to your Fitbit.com account. After this, you may be prompted to enter a greeting, and then you are ready to go.


It may take a minute or so for your tracker to connect to your account; you should wait patiently during this time.
 You can do this on your phone or PC, but be sure that you have your Bluetooth enabled, your tracker close at hand, and your wireless dongle inserted into a USB port, should you be using a computer without Bluetooth.
 Your Fitbit dashboard will be populated with tiles that help you track your activity, goals, badges, and more. Add tiles by clicking on the Menu icon on the left side of your dashboard (represented by a 9 box, square-shaped icon) and clicking the check box next to the tiles you wish to add., At the top of your dash will be a drop-down menu labeled "Log," under which you should find the "Food" option. Now you can fill out your current and desired weight. The following screen will ask you to choose a plan for weight loss.A goal of dropping 250 calories a day is a good start to ease into an exercise routine. If you are ready to burn some serious calories, 1000 calories a day will help you see results much faster.
The dashboard will also ask you to input your food intake, which is necessary for it to track your weight loss and show you your progress.
 Staying hydrated is especially important when exercising.You can record your water intake with your Fitbit by accessing the "Log" menu at the top of your screen. Scroll to the bottom of the page where there will be a field where you can input your intake, and clicking "Log it" to record the data., You can do this by hovering your mouse over the bottom portion of the tile you wish to remove, clicking the gear icon, and then selecting the trash can icon to remove the tile., You may be perfectly satisfied with the features of the free Fitbit account, but to maximize your understanding of your fitness, nutrition, and personal health, a premium account might be the way to go. The premium account includes: Fitbit Trainer, comparative benchmarking, and Excel exports for body, food, activity, and sleep data.If you'd like to give the premium account a try, there is a 14-day free trial available under the "Premium" tab of your dashboard.
 This is a feature available only to premium users. Fitbit Trainer uses your recorded data to create a tailor-made 12-week goal. The trainer will hold you to a high standard, but also takes into consideration whether your goal is too difficult or hard, allowing you to edit your goals after a week has passed., The Fitbit app on your phone does support barcode scanning, and this can make logging the food you eat in your food plan a cinch. Tap the barcode icon where you normally log your food, take a picture of the barcode, and when you see "Got it," the food has been logged.


You may be prompted to add the food you have scanned to the Fitbit food database.
If the food is not recognized, you may have to input your information manually., All kinds of Fitbit trackers are calibrated for walking, running, and general exertion you undergo throughout the day. This does not include activities like biking. For the best accuracy, manually log your activities on your dashboard under the "Log activity" icon.Fitbit Surge is the single exception to this limitation, and Surge will take cycling into account when tracking your activity.