 This approach will spare your tongue and may allow you to seal a larger number of envelopes than the tongue alone could handle. To use this method, get a small bowl and fill it with warm water. Lightly moisten your sponge, q-tip, or cotton swab in the water and swipe it across the glue of the seal. Fold the moistened flap and press down on it to seal the envelope. But be judicious with the amount of water you moisten with. Start light and re-apply if necessary—if you over-moisten, the paper may become soggy or begin to pucker.
 You can simply tape the envelope shut by folding the flap of the envelope down and running a strip of regular tape across the top. For a less DIY-look, you can use double-sided tape or glue along the inside of the flap before folding down and sealing. Many prefer to use a glue stick over traditional liquid glue because it’s less messy and dries more quickly, but both are viable options.
 If you want to add a little unconventional personality to your envelope, you can seal it with stickers—just fold the flap down and place stickers across the line where the flap and body of the envelope meet. But be aware that stickers may not leave the most professional of impressions and may be less secure than other methods.
 Nail polish, it turns out, is one of the great household multi-taskers,and one of its lesser-known qualities is its ability to save you trouble sealing envelopes—and to offer a particularly strong and secure hold while doing it. Just swipe the nail polish along the inside of the envelope flap and press it shut. You might want to opt for clear nail polish to avoid giving the envelope’s seal an odd color—unless, of course, that’s the look you’re going for.
 Dating from the Middle Ages, the use of wax to seal envelopes is perhaps the most classic and impressive of all the envelope-sealing methods. For hundreds of years the use of wax seals was almost exclusively limited to royalty and nobility (given that most everyone else was illiterate and didn’t have much use for letters), and today it carries with it an air of prestige that will likely impress your recipient. As a bonus, sealing an envelope with wax can give you a dignified reason to melt things with fire. See How to Use Sealing Wax with a Glue Gun and How to Use Sealing Wax with a Melting Pot.

