 Blood clots are life threatening, so medical action must be taken to dissolve them as quickly as possible.
 Anticoagulant medications interrupt the process of clot formation. There are several different types on the market, including:


Enoxaparin (Lovenox). Enoxaparin is a medication injected to thin the blood immediately. The typical dose for adults is 40 mg injected into a fatty area of the body, such as the arm or abdomen.
Warfarin (Coumadin). Warfarin is an anticoagulation pill, which acts as a blood thinner. The dosage depends on the particular patient. To determine the dosage and administration, your doctor may perform a test for blood clotting known as the International Normalized Ratio, or INR.
Heparin. Heparin is a traditional anticoagulant medication, given intravenously to prevent the growth of blood clots. The dose depends on your particular circumstances; your doctor should perform blood test measurements to determine dosaging.
 Thrombolytic drugs, also known as “clot busters,” dissolve the fibrin strands that hold clots together. Dosage varies depending on your particular circumstances and on hospital protocols. Talk to your doctor about the right dosage for you.
 If medication alone cannot eliminate the clot, you will need surgery. There are a few types of surgeries that might apply:


Cardiac catheterization. For blood clots in the heart, cardiac catheterization is performed to locate the clot. A balloon is inserted to open the blockage, and then a stent is placed to keep the appropriate vessel open. The pressure from the balloon and the stent breaks the blood clot into smaller pieces, restoring the flow of blood.
Catheter-directed thrombolysis. A catheter-directed thrombolysis is a surgical procedure in which a catheter is inserted directly to the blood clot, releasing medication to dissolve it.
Thrombectomy. A thrombectomy is simply the surgical removal of the blood clot itself. It is often performed with thrombolysis is ineffective, or when there is an emergency condition requiring immediate treatment.

