 As independent contractors, Uber drivers' ability to make money comes from the amount of work they're able to secure during a shift. Making your driver wait undermines their ability to earn their wage and may make them more reluctant to give you a 5-star rating. Limit the amount of time you make your driver wait by being ready to hop in the car as soon as they arrive at your location.

Try to gather your belongings before requesting the Uber.
When Uber sends you a notification that your driver is approaching, make your way to the pickup location (assuming that the location is the street outside of your address - if it's farther away than this, plan accordingly so that you can be there as soon as your driver arrives).
 Some Uber drivers work shifts of up to 19 hours at a time. Remember that any job comes with stresses that can be intense, and that your driver will appreciate you treating them with kindness and consideration even if they're working more manageable schedules than this.Practice patience with your driver by keeping in mind that they're doing their best to get you to your destination as quickly and as comfortably as possible.
If you have concerns with your driver's quality of service, try to bring them up non-confrontationally, or wait until the end of your journey to report them to Uber instead of bringing them up directly.
 Uber doesn't allow you to tip through the app, but your driver is still offering you service akin to a taxi driver or a waiter. Consider carrying cash during your Uber rides to give your driver after pleasant service, and they will likely reciprocate by giving you a high star rating. Think of it as a "five-for-five" deal., Uber drivers offer up a valuable asset of their private property to service rides to customers. Remember that an Uber driver's car is different from a train or bus in this sense, and the person who uses the vehicle the most is the same person who has to maintain it. When riding in an Uber car, adopt a "leave no trace" policy whereby you commit to leaving the car in as good of a state as it was in when you entered it.

Don't leave food wrappers or drink bottles behind in your car.
Be mindful of mess on your clothing or shoes and be conscientious about getting any dirt you track into an Uber out when you leave it.
If your Uber has leather seats, ask your driver if they are comfortable with you putting your personal belonging on it before placing them there.
 Drunk and intoxicated customers can make for a very stressful experience for your driver, who may feel anxious about their passenger's potential belligerence or sickness. Remember that your driver's car is their personal space, and exercise whatever restraint you're able to in the car after a night out.

If you fear you may fall ill in the car, let your driver know; they'll appreciate you giving them the opportunity to pull over and allow you to be sick somewhere that won't damage their car.

