


Learning to read labels if following a gluten free diet is essential. Be familiar with terms such as malt, triticale, dextrin, dinkel and edible starch; these are all names of products that are or contain gluten. Also check the label carefully. A product that claims to be gluten free may have been manufactured on equipment that also produces bread that contains gluten, which might cause cross contamination. To be truly gluten free, the bread should have no gluten ingredients and be made in a gluten free environment.;
,


The international medical community has not reached a consensus regarding the use of oats in a gluten free diet. There are breads labeled as gluten free that contain oats, and others that do not. The argument is that oats have nearly always been cross-contaminated by other grains during processing or distribution, and thereby contain trace amounts of gluten. Some research has also shown that avenin, a protein found in oats, can elicit the same result as gluten if ingested by celiac disease sufferers. Other people show no sensitivity to it at all. If in doubt, choose bread that does not contain oats.



Fresh gluten free breads are often an all natural product. They contain few, if any, preservatives and are frozen to retain freshness. Despite being frozen, frozen gluten free bread can become easily freezer burned if not wrapped tightly and kept in a deep freeze.
Frozen gluten free breads are often sold that way because they lack the preservatives required to keep the bread fresh until it is consumed. These breads can contain a dizzying number of ingredients combined to most closely mimic regular wheat flour bread.



Gluten free bread makers have risen to the challenge of mimicking wheat flour breads, and like traditional breads, the gluten free ones are available in a variety of flavors. From cinnamon and raisin to cheese bread, your supermarket should carry a selection of different flavored breads.



A natural food store may carry a larger selection of gluten free breads, even if the store is smaller than your local supermarket. Supermarkets stock products according to demand; if you want them to carry more gluten free breads, then make sure you tell the managers. Supermarkets in large urban centers typically carry a wide variety of gluten free breads, and they are usually lower in cost than those found in specialty markets.

