 Bend the edges of the flap until it forms a three-dimensional half circle.;
, You'll be dipping the paintbrush into this container.
 Stick the newspaper strips or bits over the glue and onto the cardboard. It's okay to glue over the edges.
 Add newspaper to this side too. Keep the cardboard bent in shape.
 Use the flap which has the exact same length as the first flap removed. Again, bend it until it forms a three dimensional semi-circle shape.
 Keep the cardboard bent in shape.
 Remove these from the box. Then, cover the other two shorter flaps in glue and newspaper on, both sides.
 Use the flaps on the other side of the box this time. Cover in newspaper and glue as before.
, Pick one side on the front or back of the oval. Bend it wither left or right, but do not break it off. Do this to both sides on each piece of cardboard.
 Push together until they dry and stick together. You might want to push the flaps closer to each other to make the fish fatter or wider.
 Glue the edges to the body of the fish's edges. Do the same with the other side too.
 Glue a rectangular flap to the center of the fish on the outside. Do this with both pieces. (The third remaining flap is yet to be utilized.)

, Fill with candy and sweets, perhaps some confetti or sparkly cut-outs.
 Glue the center of this to one side (front or back) of the fish.
 The fish can be all one color, multi-colored or two-toned. Use your imagination and whatever paint you have to hand.
 Put about half an inch of string on the top of the fish. Tape it in place firmly. Hang the opposite end to the ceiling or from a bungee cord.
, Inflate it as large as it will go without popping.
 Either make squares or strips, whichever you feel most comfortable working with.
 Then smooth onto the balloon, pressing out any wrinkles before they set.
 Completely cover the balloon. Let dry for 4 to 5 hours, or overnight.
 Allow to dry. Then add another layer, dry and one more layer, dry. This makes for three extra layers in total on top of the original layer.
 Draw onto thin colored card (the card should complement the colors to be used in the crepe paper.) These must be large enough to fit the balloon size. You'll need to draw:


A top fin
2 side fins
A fulsome tail
Fishy lips
Two large round eyes (or you can use large googly eyes).
 Trim as needed.
 Leave to dry.
 Push through the papier mâché layer and pop the balloon.
 Use papier mâché to attach each feature in it anatomically correct position. Use three layers to be sure the pieces are properly attached, allowing for full drying time between each layer.
 Paint it completely white, then let it dry.
 You can use one color, although two-toned colored rows (one row one color, the next row another) will ensure the best effect. Bunch up the rows as you glue them down the body space, so that they appear wavy and stand up a little way (not flat against the body).


Do not take the scale rows over any of the fish features or face.
Use PVA glue to attach the crepe paper.
 Use a different color again for these areas and simply cover them flat with crepe paper, using squares or pieces until fully covered.



Add the eyes. Either glue on large cardboard circles (you can use a marker to fill in pupils) or glue on large googly eyes.
Add the lips. Paint them any color you like.
 Cut a small slit alongside the top fin. Fill with sweets and candies, and maybe some confetti or sparkly cut-outs too.
 Attach a length of string.
 Loop the string over something solid, or hang from a bungee cord. It's now ready for play!

