 The lid switch is the part on top-loading washing machines, that sends the machine a signal indicating that the door is closed and that it is safe for the machine to run. It should be an oblong hole that is aligned so that a rod on the inside of the door will fit into it.Because this part takes a lot of wear and tear, it is prone to break. Thus, it is one of the most common reasons why washing machines stop at the spin cycle.
 You can often guess from appearance and touch whether the lid switch is broken. The switch should be level with the top panel that it is on. If it sags, it is likely broken.


Similarly, you can touch the lid switch to see if the spring underneath is functioning properly. If you press down on the lid switch and it does not give or spring back into place, then there is likely a problem with the lid switch., The process for removing a lid switch depends upon the model of washer. Review the instruction guide for directions on how to remove it or google “remove lid switch” and the model number and serial number for your washing machine. When you remove the lid switch, leave the wires attached.Be sure to unplug the washing machine before unscrewing any components.
 Put your multimeter on continuity mode. Find the connector to the lid switch. Unplug it and place the multimeter in the two outer connectors on the lid switch so that they touch the metal inside. Press down on the lid switch and test for continuity.The multimeter should recognize continuity when you press the lid switch down, as would happen if the door were closed, but should not recognize continuity if the button is not pressed down.
 Lid switches can be purchased online. They typically cost $10-20. Call your manufacturer and tell them the model number of the washing machine, so that they can direct you to lid switches that are compatible with your machine.
 You will need to consult the instructions for your specific model to determine how to replace the lid switch. However, if you have already removed the previous lid switch, it should not be too complicated. You will need to place the new lid switch where the old one had been, screw it in, and connect it to the electronic control board as the old lid switch had been.After the lid switch has been replaced, you will need to reinstall the console and plug the machine back into the wall.

