 The easiest way to protect your skin from sun damage is to use a daily moisturizer that has an SPF of 15 or higher.You can even use higher SPF, like 30 or 45, on your face. If your moisturizer does not contain SPF, then be sure to apply sunscreen to your face, arms, and other uncovered skin in the morning before leaving the house. Remember, you should wear sunscreen even on cloudy days.If your sunscreen causes skin irritation, get sunscreen that is hypoallergenic and free of fragrances and dyes.


The sun is strongest between 10am and 2pm, so avoid being out in the sunlight during this interval, if possible.When out in the sun, reapply sunscreen every two to three hours.Never use tanning beds., Synthetic fibers like rayon and spandex are more likely to irritate skin than natural material. Try to wear clothes made of cotton, silk, or other soft natural cloth.Despite being natural, wool is scratchy and is best avoided if you have sensitive skin.
 Nickel is the metal most commonly responsible for causing allergic reactions, and is present in many pieces of jewelry.If you wear nickel earrings and your earlobes get red, puffy, or itchy, that’s an allergy. Avoid nickel by ensuring you buy jewelry that is stainless steel or silver. Copper can also cause skin reactions like itching and redness, as well as turn some skin a greenish color temporarily. Unfortunately, gold is also becoming more of a common allergy.


Nickel and other metals might also be present in small amounts on clothing, such as buttons or snaps of jeans.
 Very cold air can dry out skin, as can being in very hot climates. When going outside in the winter, cover up as much skin as you can with hats, gloves, and scarves. If you’ll be out in hot, dry temperatures all day, wear sunscreen, hats, and sunglasses, and cover your skin with as much light-colored, loose clothing as possible., Sometimes your best efforts and careful attention aren’t enough to figure out what is irritating your skin, or how to avoid it. If you have a rash that won’t go away, skin irritation that causes you discomfort that interferes with daily activities or is getting worse over time, see your doctor. They can do a patch test to figure out what, if anything, you’re allergic to.There are also prescription medications available if your skin problems are severe.


Ask questions like, “Why does my skin get so itchy and flaky in the winter?” and, “What medicine is available if the problem doesn’t go away?”
If your family doctor can’t help, they can refer you to a dermatologist — a skin specialist.

