 With your back straight and head held up high, you'll look confident and you'll be more relaxed. This will work with any class, not just history.;
, Paying attention will really help you on the test. Most History teachers are great speakers and tell amazing stories that will help you remember concepts on the tests.
 If you talk during class, you will only slow it down even more. Let your teacher finish lecturing, then he/she might give you a few minutes at the end to do what you want.
 When you engage yourself in the lesson, you'll find it much more interesting than if you passively listen and take notes. Really think about what your teacher is saying, and if you disagree, don't be afraid to raise your hand and say so! Discussion is a major part of History class, and oftentimes your teacher will purposely say something controversial to spark debate.
 If you think the class will be boring, it will be. Even if you think you have the worst teacher in the world, think about how many History teachers there are. There must be a worse teacher out there!

, Science has shown that people who fidget are more likely to pay attention and show better concentration and learning. If you feel your concentration waning, try bouncing your leg up and down with your toe planted on the ground. This simple repeated movement increases blood flow to the brain and grounds the mind.
 If you enjoy English, think of History as a really good story to analyze. If you like Science, think of History as the record of all scientific discoveries. History is anything that happened in the past, from the time of the caveman to your Internet browsing history.
 Even if you really hate History, taking an advanced course has many advantages. If you take it as an AP class, you can get college credit for it and possibly not have to study it later depending on your college and major. Also, schools reserve the best teachers for the advanced classes. You'll be sure to get the most entertaining teacher in the building and that's worth the extra work right there.
 If you can, think of a way to make the boring material applicable to your life. For example, use the mindset "I have to use this to pass the AP test," or "If I take in this material, I will do well on the tests and get an A." If you think of reasons why you need to use this specific material, the class will seem a bit more interesting.

