 Unless you bought your lettuce already cut into bite-sized pieces, you will need to cut the leaves off the lettuce head. Simply lay the lettuce down on its side and cut the base off where all of the leaves are gathered.;
, Place a few leaves on top of each other and start chopping the lettuce horizontally. You can also simply tear the lettuce into smaller pieces using your fingers. If the lettuce you are using has a thick stem in the middle, be sure to cut it out and discard it.
 Fill a clean sink or bowl with cool water and place the leaves inside. Gently move the leaves about to dislodge any dirt. Once the lettuce is clean, dry it using a salad spinner, or set the leaves down on a clean towel and pat them dry with another towel.The leaves must be dry, or else the dressing will not stick to them., Place the tomato down on the cutting board with the stem facing you, and cut it in half using a serrated knife. Take one of the halves and place it cut-side-down on the cutting board. Cut it in half again, going from the top of the tomato (where the stem is) to the bottom. Cut each half into wedges. Start from the domed part of the tomato and cut down towards the middle, where the stem was. Repeat the process for the other half.You can also use whole cherry or grape tomatoes. You can use them whole, or cut them in half.
 Take ¼ of a purple onion and slice it into thin rings. Use your fingers to gently separate the rings. You can also dice the onion instead.
 You can peel the cucumber first, or you can leave the skin on. Make sure that the slices are thin. You can also chop the cucumber into cubes.
 You can chop the carrot up onto thin slices, or you can grate it. You can also use whole baby carrots as well.
 Use a pair of salad serving spoons to gently scoop up some salad and drop it back into the bowl. Pick up some more salad and drop it into the bowl. Keep tossing the salad like this until all o the vegetables are evenly dispersed throughout the salad.
 You can use a store-bought, pre-made dressing, or you can make your own from scratch. If you wish to make you own, refer to the section in this article on making basic salad dressing. Pour some dressing into the salad and toss it. You can add as much or as little dressing as you like. In general, the greens should be lightly coated with the dressing, and not drenched so much that the dressing pools at the bottom of the bowl.

