 There are lots of different varieties of shower doors, and the final steps will vary depending on the size, the style, and the particular kit that you've purchased. Doors installed for full tub-showers are very different than doors installed for single-unit stand-up showers. Likewise, sliding doors and swinging doors will vary.


If you're installing doors on a full tub, you'll need to measure out and center where you want the threshold track to be placed on the front lip. It will need to be centered, so take the width of the lip of the tub and mark the center point.
For stand-up showers, the track may just slide into place over the shower pan, or may be already locked into place, if you're using a single-unit kit. Always defer to the instructions included in the kit.
 Make sure all the surfaces on which you'll mount the metal door tracks are clean and dry. Run a bead of caulk along the bottom mounting surface, which may be the pan or the tub, according to the kit you're installing. Center the bead between the two lines you marked and run it the full length of the opening.


Firmly set the bottom track into place over the bead of caulk. Make sure the underside of the track makes contact with the caulking. If not, run a separate bead along the center of the underside of the track.
 Line them up with the mounting holes and make sure they fit properly over the ends of the bottom track. Place the rubber bumpers that come with most door kits over the screws and secure the tracks to the wall. The wall tracks will hold the bottom track into place. Do not completely tighten the screws at this point.


There may be no wall tracks for the kit on some showers. If there are none, disregard this step and move onto inserting the door itself.
 Make sure the track fits snugly and is properly aligned between the wall tracks. Many door kits will have corner brackets that are attached with screws to hold the top rail securely.


In some shower kits, the track bars are variable sizes, meaning that they're sold larger than what you may need, and you can cut them to size accordingly. If so, cut the tracks using a hacksaw and file them flush before installing.
 If you're installing sliding doors and both doors have towel bars, mount with the rollers and the towel bar facing inward. Lift the door into the top rail, then carefully fit the top and bottom rollers into the upper and lower tracks. The door should glide easily from end to end if seated properly. If not, carefully retry until properly seated. The door kit should have instructions with proper illustrations for your particular door.


Some doors need to have the rollers installed before popping the door into the place. If so, most of them will just pop right into place. Read the instructions.
 With the towel bar facing outward, mount the outer door in the same manner as the inner door. Carefully align and seat the rollers into the appropriate tracks. The outer door panel should slide freely over the inner door if seated properly.
 Run a bead of bathtub caulk along all surfaces where they come in contact with the door tracks. Do this to both inside and outside surfaces creating a neat, watertight seal. Let the caulk dry for at least 24 hours before running water in the shower to test your job.

