 Baking soda is a gentle cleaning product, doesn’t scratch surfaces, and is safe enough to brush your teeth with. Use it to clean sinks, countertops, tubs, tile, bathroom floors, or even your grill.Pour a bit of baking soda down your drain if it has a sour odor. Turn on the water and flip on the disposal to remove gunk and leave your sink smelling fresh.;
, Mix baking soda with water and a mild dishwashing liquid for a gentle germ-killer on all of your dishes. It can also remove grime and grease from your utensils just as well as what you buy in the store.

Add a tablespoon of baking soda to your washing machine to help your ordinary laundry detergent clean clothes better.
Sprinkle baking soda on your carpet or rugs, wait 15 minutes, then vacuum for a fresh and clean floor., Lemon juice is a natural bleaching agent and deodorizer. Use it to polish metal appliances, such as a toaster or stainless steel fridge. You can also add salt to the lemon juice to polish items such as metal grills and chrome appliances.Dilute lemon juice with water to clean wooden cutting boards.
Dip a toothbrush in lemon juice and use it to scrub your grout.
Spray diluted lemon juice in your microwave and wipe it out with a clean sponge.
 Vinegar is an acid that can eliminate grease and helps prevent mold. Spray it on your countertop or stovetop and wipe the surface with a clean towel.

Don’t mix baking soda and vinegar; it will bubble and expand, creating an even bigger mess!
Heat your oven to 125 degrees Fahrenheit (51 degrees Celsius) then spray vinegar on caked-on food. Pour salt on top of the vinegar, then turn the oven off and let it cool. Use a wet towel to scrub away the mess., Vinegar is a great disinfectant and can de-scale items that have mineral buildup from water. Put vinegar in a spray bottle and use it to clean your toilet, tile, sinks, glass, and mirrors.Add a drop or two of your favorite essential oil to the vinegar to make your cleaning solution smell fantastic.
Clean your mugs with vinegar to remove coffee stains, or soak your tea kettle or coffee pot to remove scale and stains.
Spray vinegar on a clean cloth and use it to wipe down your blinds.
 Rather than buying chemical-filled products to get your wood furniture to shine, rub it down with olive oil. Be sure the wood is sealed, otherwise it will absorb the oil. Use a soft cloth and circular motions to apply the oil to the wood.Try adding a drop or two of vinegar to the olive oil on your cloth if the wood is especially dirty.You can also use olive oil to get scratches out of leather. Simply apply a drop or two and rub it in.Put a splash of olive oil and a teaspoon of coarse salt in a cast iron skillet. Scrub with a stiff brush then rinse with hot water., Many surfaces, including tables and countertops, can be cleaned using soap and water. Purchasing a non-toxic soap, such as Enviro-One Natural Soap, enables you to clean many items in your house without worrying about chemicals.Look for a soap made from organic ingredients, such as vegetable oils or animal fats.
Castile soap is a favorite green product for many people.
 Tea tree oil is a natural disinfectant, and much less harsh than commonly used sprays or wipes, such as Clorox and Lysol. Use tea tree oil to clean your kitchen counter, bathroom sinks, door handles, light switches, and more.Tea tree oil is toxic when swallowed, so be sure not to ingest it and store it away from children and pets.
 Rather than spraying harsh chemicals that attract dust, use a microfiber cloth to catch and trap those pesky particles. Wipe down surfaces, photographs, paintings, decorations, and figurines with a clean microfiber cloth for a shiny, dust-free result.
 Add a bit of Borax to your wash to whiten your clothes. You can use it alone, or in conjunction with your laundry detergent.Borax is toxic when ingested, so keep it away from pets and children.

