 It will be much easier to build a brain atlas if you first reference a picture of one. Doing so will make it easier to gauge where each piece fits in and how that piece should be shaped., Each color will be used to create a different section of the brain. Using different colors will make it easier for you to separate and identify each part of the brain.

Use a different color of clay for each section of the brain.
No particular color is assigned to a specific section of the brain in the atlas. Uses whichever color meets your preference.
 Pinch of a small amount of clay and roll it between your palms to create a thick rope. This section will have a slight “s” shape or elbow. Smooth the rope with your fingers until the top of it curves upward and to the left, while the bottom should be slightly longer than the top section and sink off to the right. The bottom should also have a pointed tip, while the top should have a flat edge and look a bit wider overall.
 Pinch off roughly half the amount you used with creating the brain stem. Roll and form this into a triangle with rounded edges. Position it so that one side of the triangle sits in the upper curve of the brain stem., Pinch off a roughly the same size lump of clay you used for the brain stem. Roll this clay into an oval shape. Place the center of this oval onto the top of the brain stem, and press it gently to attach the two pieces of clay together. The bottom, left half of the oval should reach half way up the left side of the cerebellum if we consider the bottom of the triangle to be the part matched to the brain stem., Take a piece of clay roughly the same size as your temporal lobe. Roll and flatten this piece into a quadrilateral which splays out at the top making a muffin shape. Position it so that the bottom center of the lobe connects to the top, left 1/4 of the temporal lobe. The right side right side of the occipital lobe should cover the other left half of the cerebellum, with the muffin top spilling slightly over the top of the cerebellum., Pinch off slightly more clay than the amount used to create your occipital lobe. Form another rectangle just larger than a square. One bottom shorter edge of the rectangle should cover the rest of the right half of the oval made by the temporal lobe. The rectangle should lean slightly to the right., This should be your largest bit of clay, and slightly larger than your original amount used to create the brain stem. Roll it into an oval, then slightly flatten the bottom right and left sides to attach them to the rest of your brain atlas. Wedge this final piece in place on the left of your model to create the front of the brain. The flattened bottom right section will attach to the parietal lobe, while the bottom left covers the top left half of the temporal lobe oval, slightly overlapping the edge.