 If you're out of the house, stranded in a cornfield in the middle of nowhere and your friends are good-for-nothings, you may need to make a phone call to get you out of there. This is where not panicking comes into play. Breathe. Who could take you home?


Weigh your options. You may not want to call your parents, but it could be your best option. Your situation may get worse, the cops could eventually come, and all hell would break loose. Or you could just call someone to get you the heck out of there now. Your parents may be glad you called and lessen your punishment.
 The world is not over. "Sneaking out" is not a felony -- sneaking out to rob a bank, sure, but sneaking out is not. So stay calm. Panicking will just make your situation worse.


Only fabricate a story if you're positive it would work. Sometimes honesty is the best policy in a situation like this -- or at least sticking closer to the truth. If you say a friend was having a panic attack or was contemplating suicide, make sure your parents (or the cops) will not get a hold of the friend. Your story either needs to check out or not get checked out at all.
 If a policeman shows up on the scene and stops you for violating curfew, it's in your best interest to cooperate with him. If he stops you for a more egregious crime, it's still in your best interest to cooperate with him.


If you tell the police that you are on your way home and he lets you go, go home. If you are found out and about later, your punishment will be much worse. Take that stroke of luck you were just offered and use it.
 You don't necessarily have to pick up, but texting them back and telling them you are coming home is a wise idea. If they get worried, they may alert the entire town. They may blow the situation out of proportion entirely.


If you are nearby, it's possible you can come up with an alibi. However, your parents aren't stupid. If you do come up with some outrageous story, make sure you look like what you said just happened, did. If you got into a brawl with a giant squirrel, look like you got into a brawl with a giant squirrel. If you spent the night stargazing, come in with grass stains. You know the drill.

