 Before you begin writing your history, think of what things you would like to discuss in your personal history. Try discussing those ideas with a friend or family member. You can also freewrite them in order to better flesh out the ideas on paper. Just sit down and start writing about yourself. There are no limits when it comes to brainstorming and freewriting. Just be creative and explore different organizational and thematic options.A journal might be useful for freewriting. It will allow you to jot ideas down if you are on the go.
 Once you finish brainstorming, gather any materials you might need. These can include letters of reference or your grades for your personal statement, or historical documents for a larger personal history. Since you will likely have to consult them regularly, make sure that these materials are easily accessible during your writing process.Keep your documents in a digital spreadsheet for quick reference. You could also organize them in folders if that is more convenient.
 Before you begin the writing process, write down an outline or a timeline of your history. An outline may be more useful for a personal narrative and a timeline for your personal history. Be sure to highlight any important events or relevant information. Think of the activity like a brainstorming exercise where you are trying to promote creativity, except that your trying to impose more structure on the project.Consider sharing your outline or timeline with someone who you believe will give you good feedback.
 If you have a solid deadline for completing your writing, it is important that you plan for meeting that deadline. The best way to do that is to create a schedule and stick to it. Set aside a certain amount of time each day for writing. This will help you meet your deadline and stay motivated., You space significantly impacts your ability to write. Be sure to find a space where you can focus and concentrate on your work. Try finding somewhere that is quiet, secluded and inspires your creative juices.Avoid loud and busy spaces. These can be audibly and visibly distracting. Although it might be cool to work in a coffee shop, it is not an ideal place to write.

