 Open the hood of your vehicle and look to either side. The struts or shock towers will extend through the fender above each wheel and be secured with one or a series of bolts or nuts. Look the fasteners over and ensure they are not covered in rust, and are not loose or otherwise compromised.If your strut mounts or shock towers are not properly secured, they cannot function properly.
Rust can compromise the nuts and bolts holding parts in place as well as the parts themselves.
 Use a ruler or tape measure to determine the length of empty space between the top of the tire and the bottom of the fender well on the driver’s side of your vehicle. Repeat the process on the passenger side and assess if there is a difference. While a slight variation is okay (a half inch or less) the two should be fairly equal.If they are not even, the side that is lower is probably where the issue lies.
If they are even, there still may be an issue with the suspension that affects both sides equally.
 You will need to get under the vehicle to visually inspect the condition of your suspension system. Place a trolley or scissor jack beneath the vehicle at one of its designated jack points for the front end. If you are unsure of where to locate your vehicle’s jack points, refer to your vehicle’s owner’s manual for clarification. Jack up the car until it’s high enough to work beneath, then place jack stands beneath the car to support its weight before beginning your visual inspection.Never work beneath a vehicle that is supported by a jack without jack stands.
 Once you are beneath your vehicle, start at one wheel and look around at the rubber bushings separating metal components of your suspension from one another. They are usually black, though they may fade into grey over time. There may be as many as forty individual bushings between components of your suspension, though they are often round with a hole in the middle (like a doughnut). Any time you find a piece of rubber in your suspension, it is considered a bushing. If you notice cracks or tears in any bushings, they will need to be replaced.Once a rubber bushing begins to wear out, it will allow more movement between suspension components than should be permitted, resulting in altered suspension dynamics and likely making your ride rougher.
Torn or missing bushings can seriously compromise your vehicle’s ability to withstand bumps or even steer.
Common bushing failures in your suspension may include sway bar end links (at each end of the sway bar), trail arm bushings a the axle pivot point on the vehicle, or the bushings in the upper or lower control arms.
 Locate the power steering box and follow its arms toward the wheels. If you are unsure where the power steering box is located in your vehicle, refer to the service manual specific to the year, make and model of your car or truck. Tie rod ends serve as the connection points between the steering box and the wheels, so if the bushings become compromised it could result in dead spots in your steering and reduced handling ability.If you have noticed a “dead spot” in your steering wheel, it is likely the result of having too much play caused by a bad tie rod end.
A completely failed tie rod end can be extremely dangerous, as it can prevent you from being able to control the vehicle. Replace tie rod ends before they become so worn out they fail completely.

