


You need to know how much you can spend on flyers, posters or other promotional materials to be successful as a street promoter. Determine the total amount you have to spend on printing and flyers so you know how detailed you can afford to make your promotional materials and how many you can print.;
,


Be a good street promoter by creating a flyer that will catch the eyes of potential clients or attendees and get them interested in the venue or event you're promoting. Use full-color graphics or logos and print all important information about the event or your company in a bold, easy-to-read font.



Determine what target audience you want to attract before you hit the streets when you work as a street promoter. This will help you target specific areas to find the right people with your flyers. If you want a young, hip crowd, promote on college campuses. Try your city's business district at lunchtime for wealthy or accomplished professionals.



You have to get noticed to be an effective street promoter, so create some way to catch the attention of your target audience. This can be as simple as a t-shirt or costume with a logo on it or as elaborate as a song or table set up with giveaways. Be sure it matches the theme of what you're promoting and the audience you're targeting.



You'll need to be able to cover a lot of distance in a limited amount of time to effectively spread your message as a street promoter, so wear comfortable shoes to make it easier. You should look friendly and approachable, but still be dressed comfortably and nicely so people will want you to approach them and want to hear what you have to say.



Review all the important facts about the venue or event you're promoting before you hit the streets. It's important to be able to highlight details like a guest DJ or prize giveaways to attract attention, as well as be able to answer any logistical questions about location or cover charge.



Be sure all your street promoting efforts are legal to avoid fines or penalties. Only put flyers on car windows or hand them out on public property, not private, and be sure to check with business owners for permission before putting posters in their windows or on buildings.

