 Take a deep breath, and exhale it very slowly for as long as you can stretch it out. When you can't wait any longer, breathe in deeply, slowly and steadily. Repeat. It helps to stop tight, shallow breathing and sighing. Do this exercise a couple times and your heartbeat should slow down, and you may yawn! Before doing anything else, let yourself become calm so that you can forget about minor worries, or sit down and decide what to do (instead of worrying). If its worth the worry, then its worth doing something about it, soon you'll know how...


Exercise can help to relieve your worries, as it gets your heart rate up -- it, also, redirects your focus. Listen to music as you run or do fast walking around the block, ride your bike or lift weights. Don't overexercise, or you could hurt yourself, but activity can take your mind off of things for an hour.





;
, Meditation is a method used commonly by many cultures to almost clear your mind, especially of worries. Sit with your legs crossed in a comfortable place, put your hands loosely on your knees and close your eyes. It is soothing to accomplish relaxation, as it helps to remove stress. Read How to Meditate for more information.


Practice mindfulness. Think about something relaxing. Think of a color, a word or a phrase -- something simple and meaningful to you, like being thankful; this way you can choose joyfulness over a worried, bored or angry mind! Thankfulness shows life and love -- but continual worry plays into sarcasm, anger, and it can sour your very existence.






Do some yoga. If meditation is too hard for you, take a class or watch a DVD with some tips for yoga. Put on some light music as well. This helps you do something besides worry. Read How to Do Yoga for more information.
 If you don't want to solve your problem of worry, just do something to get your mind off it:


Work, practice a skill, hang out with some friends, or do something small: Go out for a walk, ride a bike, check your email, edit on wikiHow.






Read so your mind gets off worrying. A calming story is a good idea, but make sure it is not scary. Know that book you always wanted to read, but never had time? Read it!







, Consuming something hot can make your blood pressure decrease and help you to calm down. Coffee, hot chocolate or tea works for this. Slowly drink it and concentrate on the taste.


Have tiny snacks such as one vanilla wafer, three almonds, 2 small saltine crackers, half an apple or one small mint.
 Obviously, some kind of worries is good for us, it adds to safety and well being to your life, and motivates us, in the right balance. It is when the level of worry in your life causes you to put up with things that are harming or distressing you constantly that you risk sliding into being too worried. You might be too worried if: All you do and think about is work, non-stop, be it your own business, a career, a salaried position, a stay-at-home mom or -dad position, or anything else that is soaking up your time and life one hundred percent, and this over-concentration is leaving you passionless, disappointed, unhappy, and unfulfilled, while you feel like it is not enough.


If this takes a few minutes to figure out how worried you are and why -- then do something for a while, like read your book or watch an absorbing movie, until you are ready to detail the problem.
 It's easier said than done, but think of any way whatsoever to make it the least bit better. If it's a person you're worried about, go visit him or her. If it's a test or SATs you're worried for, study extra hard. Do what you can do to solve it.
 Even if you are talking to your pet, say every detail, and fifty percent of the time you'll realize you have nothing to worry about because you can solve it. You might look back and have no idea what you were worrying about. If the other efforts didn't work, talking it out can definitely calm you a bit more.
 Consider getting assistance, a mentor, a tutor or talk to a counselor. Go to a counselor/consultant to draw up a degree plan or a business plan. Of course it will take time to change some things, especially as you are learning, working on plans and making progress.Success is making progress. Success in not reaching a destination; it is being persistent in following your plans; even if, you have to change your mind and renew your purpose. Live and love -- one day at a time.
 Make short term goals, intermediate goals and longer term goals, so that all the lesser events lead toward more progress... Prepare for and do your goals as they come up.

