 After completing the “Fame or Shame” (the fourth mission you need to complete using Michael as your character), pull out your map and you’ll see an “L” icon. This points to Lester Crest‘s—one of Michael and Trevor’s partner in crime—location on the map.


Follow the L icon on the map to find and talk to Lester. He will tell you that he can manipulate the stock market if you perform some assassination missions for him. He will also tell you which stock will lose its value after you perform the hit and which one will sell like hotcakes.;
, Pull out your in-game phone and select the web browser to go online. Your game screen will change into an Internet page.


Control the mouse cursor using the arrows keys on your controller, and click the LCN or Liberty City National, web page from the screen to access the stock market.
 Click the Market tab on the upper portion of the LCN page to view all the current listings of the stock market. Scroll down the list and click on the name of the stock that Lester told you will go up after killing the target.


Click the stock’s name on the list to open it on a new page, and click on “Buy” to start purchasing. Buy as much share of this company as your current money will allow.
 After buying stocks online, press the Exit button on your controller to go back to the game screen. Get into a car and follow the target icon on your map showing the location of the person you need to assassinate. Once you get to the place, pull out your weapon and kill your target.


Assassinations are best done using a sniper rifle from a long-range distance. This will let you kill the target without acquiring a wanted star.
Once you’ve killed your target, the assassination mission will be completed.
 After the hit has been done, wait for a day or two. Visit LCN’s website once more, and go to the Market tab again. On the fourth column you’ll see how much percent each stock went up or down in market value. You’ll notice that after killing your target, the stock that Lester told you will sell like hotcakes, will go up over 100%.


When this happens, click the name of the stock to open it on a new page, and click “Sell” to start selling all the shares you have.
 After selling, go back to the Market tab and look for the stock that Lester told you will go down after the assassination. You’ll find that these stocks have gone down almost 50% in value. Buy a generous amount of this share, but do not spend all your money.
 Wait for a few days again and visit LCN’s website once more. Go to the Market tab and look for the stock you bought in Step 6. You’ll notice that it has now rebounded and regained its lost value before. You can now sell these shares for a higher price than you initially bought it.
 Lester will give you a lot of people that you need to kill. Simply repeat Steps 1 to 7 before and after you complete each of these assassination missions to make big money in the GTA V stock market.

