 Pour the milk in slowly. Use a whisk to remove any lumps. The mixture should be free of lumps., Do not use high heat, or the mixture may overcook. Stir the mixture as it heats. Boil it for two minutes, until it slightly thickens. Remove the mixture from heat.
 Use a whisk to beat them slightly.
 Use a whisk to beat constantly while you pour. Pouring hot milk into the eggs slowly will temper the eggs. This prevents them from cooking when you add them to the pot with the milk mixture.
 Whisk constantly so the eggs don't have time to sit in the hot milk and cook.
 Whisk constantly to prevent the mixture from curdling. Heat until it reaches 160ʡF (71.1ʡC) and becomes thick enough to coat the back of a spoon.


Use a candy thermometer to monitor the temperature until it reaches 160 degrees Fahrenheit.
Do not overcook the custard, or the texture will become clumpy.
 Add the cubes to the pot and keep stirring constantly. Once the cream cheese cubes have melted, remove the mixture from heat.
 This will help the custard cool quickly. Keep stirring for about two minutes to help more heat escape from the pot.
 Stir until it is thoroughly incorporated into the custard.
 Use plastic wrap and make sure it touches the surface of the custard. This prevents the custard from forming a skin on top. Refrigerate the custard until it is entirely cool. This should take three or four hours. You may also refrigerate it overnight.
 Wash the strawberries and use a paper towel to dry them. Use a paring knife to remove the leaves. Chop, slice or crush the strawberries into small pieces that will evenly distribute throughout the ice cream.If you are using frozen strawberries, thaw them completely.
Make sure the strawberry pieces are sufficiently small. Large pieces of strawberry will freeze solid in the ice cream and become difficult to chew.
 Remove the plastic wrap. If a skin has formed over any part of the custard, skim it off.
 Pour the heavy cream and strawberries into the pot and mix well.
 Follow the manufacturer's instructions to churn and freeze the ice cream to your desired consistency. If you freeze the ice cream in batches, refrigerate the extra ice cream mixture until you're ready to process it with the ice cream maker.
 The mixture is usually soft after being processed in the ice cream maker. Scoop it into a separate container and freeze for two to four hours before eating. The ice cream will keep for up to two weeks in the freezer.
 Strawberry cheesecake is often served with a sweetened strawberry puree or jam. If you prefer strawberry puree over the taste of whole or crushed strawberries, follow these steps when you're making your ice cream:Place the strawberries and 1/3 cup of the sugar in a small saucepan. Use a fork or a potato masher to mash the strawberries for one minute.
Cook the mixture it comes to a full boil, about four minutes. Use a spoon to skim any foam off the top.
Store the mixture in the refrigerator and let it chill completely. Stir it into your custard ice cream base in place of fresh strawberries.
 For some people, the crust is the best part. There's no reason to leave it out of your ice cream. cheesecake is often made with a graham cracker crust. Try adding it to your ice cream by doing the following:Preheat the oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit.
Process 1/3 cup melted unsalted butter, 12 graham crackers, and 1/4 cup sugar in a food processor until the graham crackers are finely ground.
Press the mixture into a pie tin. Bake for 10 minutes, or until it looks golden brown. Allow the crust to cool completely.
Pop the crust out of the tin and break it into bite-sized chunks. Stir the pieces into the ice cream after you process it in the ice cream maker, while it's still soft. Then freeze the ice cream in the freezer until solid.
 Why not take it over the top? After you have processed the ice cream in the ice cream maker, stir in 1 cup of chocolate chips to the mix. Do this while the ice cream is still soft. Transfer the ice cream to a freezer container and freeze until solid.


If you love the taste of fudge topping on cheesecake, try adding 1/2 cup of chilled fudge topping to the ice cream after processing it in the ice cream maker. Swirl it in while the ice cream is still soft. Freeze the mixture until solid.
Chocolate candy is also a tasty addition. Try adding 1 cup of chopped chocolate candy of your choice to the ice cream after processing it in the ice cream maker. Stir it in while the ice cream is still soft. Finish the ice cream by freezing until solid.

