 With slight inflammations and pimples, primer may be a better choice than concealer. Green primer is lightweight and more sheer than most concealers. It will be less likely to look caked on. However, with very bright, obvious pimples it's best to go with concealer as it's stronger., Many people are insecure about their concealer looking caked on. Seek out a lightweight, low oil green concealer to prevent this. You can also moisturize your skin before applying concealer to avoid a sloppy, caked on look., Get a make-up sponge from your local drug store. Concealer looks best when it's gently dabbed on with a sponge rather than spread with your fingers. Not only does concealer look messier when spread on, your fingers may contain bacteria than can worsen symptoms of acne. Only use your fingers when initially dotting the concealer on your face.
 Green concealer works primarily because of how green interacts with the color red. If your pimples are not particularly bright red, you may be better off choosing a yellow concealer to cover them., Before applying concealer, wash and moisturize your face. This can help your make-up look smoother and prevent spreading bacteria that can worsen acne symptoms.









Wash your hands first. Lather your hands with soap and wash for about 20 seconds. You can hum the "Happy Birthday" song twice to keep track of time. Then, rinse your hands off with clear running water.If you're worried about acne, try using an antibacterial soap designed to treat symptoms of acne.Use a moisturizer that works for your skin. Choose one that's oil free to avoid worsening acne., Once you've washed your face, apply the green concealer to the problem areas. Dot the concealer on with your index finger and then gently blot it evenly into your face with a make-up sponge. You can also use green concealer on your under eyes if you have any discoloration there.
 Once you've applied your green concealer, apply your regular concealer and foundation. You can apply other make-up as you would normally. Remember, it's best to dot on concealer and then even it out by gently patting int your skin with a make-up sponge.
 Once you've applied your concealer and foundation, complete your make-up routine as you would normally. Your skin should appear smoother and pimples should be less visible.







