


If they are not single, and are currently in a relationship, it's almost always not the best idea to pursue this person, unless you are certain they are unhappy in their relationship. Otherwise, it's best to just either move on, or wait it out until they split up.;
, If you have spoken before, move on to the next step.


It's important that the person you are crushing on is introduced to you, before you start to get any idea of a romantic connection.



A strong relationship has to be built on a foundation of trust, knowledge and affection you have built for them over the time you have got to know them. Far too many teenagers nowadays jump into relationships that last a week because they barely know their boyfriend/girlfriend. If you want this to work, it's worth spending a little bit of time getting to know this person.



When you are around this person, give them all of your attention, don't text but say you are listening, don't file your nails but say you find them interesting, it will send mixed messages and any romantic relationship may not be possible if they think you aren't interested in what they have to say.



Say hi in the corridors, smile at them from across the classroom, make them feel like you think they are important. Everyone likes to feel like someone wants to communicate with them.



When you are engaging in conversation, lean in, and touch their arm. Just that little signal may leave them wondering what you feel.
Another important thing is when you are talking to them, and the conversation is just getting good, it may be a good time to stop talking. Many people make a habit of continuing talking to someone until the conversation gets boring. Wouldn't you rather the last thing your crush remembers of your talk is something fun and cool, instead of an awkward silence? Leave him/her wanting more.



It's always good to get to know your crushes friends, guys/girls find it a huge relief when their crush gets along with their friends. Don't make too good friends though, you don't want your crush to think you like his/her friends, he/she will totally go off of you.



If you know he loves something, read up on it or surf the internet to get a better knowledge of it, then bring it up in conversation, people love when others make an effort for them.



This is the biggest turn on there is. Everyone likes to be around someone who is natural and down to earth. Nobody likes a fake, uptight person.

