 Instagram is all about the pictures, so taking a superb photo will attract the attention of your followers. With practice, it will get easier to take excellent shots, edit them for the best possible effect, and earn more Likes. Make sure not to post a million photos at a time, and stick to just posting a few photos each day, if you want to get the most out of each one.


Consider experimenting with filters, in particular, for a more dramatic effect.
Make sure any effects you add make your photo look better, not worse.
Avoid uploading constant selfies, or any other repetitive subject such as pictures of your food. Your audience will grow tired and your Likes will diminish.
Post photos of important events, such as engagements, graduations, trips, or other milestones.
People like photos with people in them, especially if they recognize themselves. Photos with a personal touch are likely to get more attention.;
, Instagram offers some minimal editing options: you can add blur effects, rotate or brighten your photo, or add a filter. Spending a little time editing a photo can turn a "Good" picture "Incredible"! You don't want to overdo it so the photo looks so artsy that it's unrecognizable, but a bit of editing can really help your photos get more attention.


There are a variety of Instagram editing apps that allow you to get much more creative than the built-in editing features allow. Some of the more popular apps include Photo Editor by Aviary, Afterlight, Bokehful, Camera+ and Overgram.
You can also add brightness to your photos using the "lux" effect.
You can also use apps like Diptic to post more than one photo in one shot. Many followers like these fun photos, as long as you don't overdo this type of photo.
 Once you're satisfied with how your photo looks, click the "greater than" icon inside the blue box on the top right of your screen. You'll be able to add a caption. Captions can add a lot of life to the image, and a catchy caption can significantly increase the number of Likes you receive.


Pay attention to your captions. When you create a caption for your photo, it gives your followers something to connect to. Along with taking quality pictures and using hashtags strategically, composing witty and subtle captions are a crucial tool in your quest for Instagram dominance.
 Hashtags let you mark your photo with commonly searched tags. Simply place a pound side (#) right before a tag that corresponds to your picture – you can have up to 30 hashtags! Hashtags can help your photos reach a larger audience and will make it more likely for you to get more followers and more Likes.


For example, if you uploaded a picture of your drawing, then you could add hashtags like "#art", "#drawing", "#illustration", and "#sketch".
If you're stumped, you can always search Instagram for the most popular tags and copy some of those. However, if you only use the most popular tags, your photos are likely to get lost among the masses.
You can also use additional tag apps, which are available from the App Store or Playstore. These apps will give you the active trending hashtags for a given topic so that you can copy and paste those hashtags onto your post and reach as many people as possible.
You can periodically delete your hashtags and replace them with new ones, bypassing Instagram's limit of 30 tags and reaching new people.
Make sure your profile is public! Otherwise, it will not appear on the "Tags" feed.
Just make sure not to overdo it: just a few relevant tags will be much more appealing than having such a large number of tags that people will get distracted.
 The more followers you have, the more Likes you'll receive. Like and comment on other people's pictures, and they'll be more likely to like and comment on yours. This is a great way to increase the number of followers you have, which in turn will lead to more Likes in general.


The more people you follow, the more likely you are to have them follow you. Don't be shy about following people you don't know, though you should aim to follow many people that you do know as well.
One way to increase your following is to integrate your other social networks with Instagram. When you link to your Facebook and Twitter accounts, you get to duplicate your posts and cover all your bases. Friends on those accounts can then follow you on Instagram as well.
Of course, the more people you know, the more people you can follow. Put yourself out there socially and make new friends at work or school. This can help you have more people to follow—as well as more people who are actually invested in the photos that you post.
 In the comment box, you can mention the usernames of some of your followers and ask them to like your photo.


Use this tactic with care. It can come across as annoying. In general, it's better to mention the names of people you know personally.
Remember that you can delete these comments once you've received enough Likes.
Some people even comment "like for like?" on other people's photos to get even more likes.
 Post photos with a few of your friends in them so you can tag your friends and reach out to more people and get more likes. You can tag people with many followers in your photo, making it more likely that other Instagram users will see and like it.


Again, use caution. Tagging people can be annoying, and it can be reported as inappropriate.
Remember that you can untag people once you're satisfied with the number of Likes you have received.
Ideally, you should only tag people if they are actually in your photo; if you really want to get those likes, then you can tag a few people who aren't in the photo, especially if it is relevant to those people (for example, if you're visiting your old high school, you can tag a photo of it with the names of a few of your old classmates).
 You should upload your photos at times when the most people are likely to be looking at Instagram since your photos will be the most active during the first few hours. This is usually around lunchtime as people get bored at work, or after dinner. If you post your photos too early, most people won't see them because they'll be getting ready for work or just starting their days. However, if you post too late, then people will likely be winding down and getting ready for bed.


Avoid posting images late at night, as very few people will likely see them and they will quickly get bumped off feeds in the morning.
You should also try to post your photos during the week, not the weekend, when people are more likely to be out doing stuff.
Be active after you post your photos. If you're commenting on other photos and liking them, people are more likely to notice your photos.
 There are many apps out there that can help you get more likes, such as Wow Likes, Likestagram, Like Hero, Like Rush, and Tags for Likes. Though they don't all work the same way, the idea is that you can earn some likes for your photos by liking other people's photos. However, you don't want to resort to paying for likes and should work on getting them naturally if you want.


Remember that it's not the end of the world if you don't have 100 likes on one of your photos. That doesn't make it any less meaningful!

