 He fell in love with you despite your Yankee ways, so don't try to change for him. In addition to the "be your true self" issue this presents, most Americans just really suck at being British and look ridiculous when they try.;
, Many Brits have a different sense of humour than Americans, so don't feel hurt or offended if he doesn't laugh at your jokes, and don't get confused if you don't understand his. Brits are often dry and sarcastic, and part of the national humour involves making fun of Americans, but don't take it personally. Keep in mind that he loves you and it's just the way he is. American jokes are funny anyway, because most of it is true.
 "Mysterious ways" meaning "strange British slang". A lot of words are different across the pond, and you may want to invest in a handy-dandy British-to-American dictionary to decode your boy. For example, a good one to know is "pants". In England, "pants" are your underwear, and "trousers" or "jeans" are what we call the things you wear around your legs. So if your Brit gets a new wallet or something and he doesn't know where do put it, you should not under any circumstances suggest that he clip it to his pants. This will only generate awkward silences and funny looks. Also, if he invites you to a "fancy dress party", you should not wear your little black dress or a prom gown. Go for something more like some bunny ears, or possibly a clown suit, because a "fancy dress party" is a costume party.
 For some reason, the British still have a queen and princes and they drink tea and spell "favorite" like "favourite" and call cookies "biscuits". This may seem to you like some totally strange and bonkers things to do, but remember that were it not for England, you would definitely not be American, so try to get interested in it. You may find some cool bits of culture that you wouldn't expect.
 Hey, you're from two different worlds. It's gonna be hard. But remember that despite your differences, something brought you two together and you love each other.

