 You'll be traveling through a large cave on your journey to Celadon City, and the Flash ability will make getting through the cave much easier. Route 11 lies to the east of Vermillion City.;
, This cave will take you to Route 2.
 Professor Oak's aide on Route 2 will give you the essential HM05 Flash, which you'll need for the Rock Tunnel. In order to get this ability, you'll need to have caught at least 10 different species of Pokemon.
 Head back to Vermillion City and then keep going north until you reach Cerulean City.


Stock up on Potions while you're in the City. You'll be facing 15 total trainers in the Rock Tunnel, so having Potions will be helpful. You may also want to pick up a few Escape Ropes and Repels.
 This will open up Route 9, which will allow you to get to the Rock Tunnel.
 You'll have to face off against a variety of trainers along the way. Try to avoid using any of your healing items so that you can save them for the tunnel. Once you enter Route 10, you'll find a Pokémon Center directly to the south.
 The Rock Tunnel up ahead is long and tough, so make sure your Pokémon are well-rested at the Pokémon Center before heading in.
 The Flash ability will light the screen, allowing you to see as you make your way through the tunnel.
 You'll have to go down a little bit to avoid the dead end, and then back up to find the ladder. This will take you to B1F.
 This will lead you to another ladder taking you back to 1F.
 This will take you from 1F to B1F.
 This will take you to the final ladder.
 This will pop you out back on the south side of Route 10.
 Lavender Town is dominated by the Pokémon Tower, but you can't get to the upper levels until you get the Silph Scope. The Silph Scope is located in Celadon City.
 On the far west end of Route 8, you'll come to the gates of Saffron City. Unfortunately, the gates are barred, so you'll need to find a way around.


You can catch a Growlithe by using Cut on the tree to get into the fenced area, which will come in handy against the Celadon City Gym Leader.
 This building will allow you to access the Underground Path. This tunnel will pop you out on Route 7, right out of Celadon City.
 The small patch of grass on Route 7 is a great place to do some training before you take on the Gym Leader in Celadon City.
 Head to the upper-left corner of Route 7 to enter Celadon City. This is one of the largest cities in Kanto, so you'll find a whole lot to do here., The Celadon City Department Store is one of the best places to buy items in the game. You can get a variety of TMs and stones here, as well as any recovery item. You can also buy Great Balls, which are perfect for capturing elusive Pokemon.
 Talk to the Old Lady on the first floor of the Mansion to receive some Tea. Take this to the guard outside of the Saffron City gates to gain access to the City.
 If you take a party of five or less Pokémon to the back door of the Mansion, you can get an Eevee from the Know-It-All Man. Expose it to a Water Stone, Thunderstone, or Fire Stone to get a Vaporeon, Jolteon, or Flareon.
 Erika will likely be one of the easiest Gym Leaders that you face. This is because she uses Grass-type Pokemon, which have a large number of weaknesses. Fire, Ice, Bug, and Flying will all be effective against her Pokemon.
 Walk into the arcade and examine the poster in the back. You'll find a switch here, which will reveal the entrance to the Team Rocket hideout. You'll have to make your way through several floors of Rocket goons before facing off against Giovanni. Giovanni's team are vulnerable to Grass, Water, and Fighting Pokemon. Defeating Giovanni will cause him to leave his Silph Scope behind., You can use the Silph Scope to see the ghosts in the Pokémon Tower and access the upper levels.

