 A brush with hard or rough bristles can have a negative effect on your mouth because it applies a lot of force on your gums. Your toothbrush's bristles should be soft but slightly firm so it can clean plaque and remove bacteria from your teeth. When shopping for your toothbrush, pick out toothbrushes that have a ADA Seal of Acceptance. This means that the brush has undergone a large amount of quality control testing, and has been approved for effectiveness and safety. Consider asking your dentist if they recommend a certain brand of toothbrush that would work well for your teeth. Your dentist may prefer you to either to have a toothbrush with firm bristles, soft bristles, or very soft bristles depending on your mouth and gums. ;
, If you are visually impaired, picking out a striped toothbrush will make it easier to see, and will make brushing as a whole much simpler! You may also wish to consider picking out a red, lime green, or orange toothbrush since these colors are bright and easy to see. , It can be quite difficult trying to see the areas where you brush and it can be a challenge to brush each spot. To make plaque easier to remove, you may find an electric toothbrush better to use than a manual one. Studies have shown that electric toothbrushes provide a better job at cleaning your mouth and are good at removing plaque and gingivitis. They're also easy to use, they only require you to push the button on, place the toothbrush at a 45° angle, and move the brush all around to clean your teeth. Altogether, they're much easier to use to brush your teeth than a manual brush!


As useful as an electric toothbrush is, it also has its cons. Electric toothbrushes cost more than a manual toothbrush, are easy to break, require you to charge them daily or replace the batteries, and are not quite as easy to travel with. , Consider picking out toothpastes that contain abrasive agents such as calcium carbonate to remove bacteria from your teeth. You may want to pick a toothpaste that also has added flavoring such as saccharin for better taste. You should also pick out a toothpaste that has fluoride, which is a mineral that prevents tooth decay and makes tooth enamel stronger. The most common toothpaste flavors you will see are mint, cinnamon, citrus, and bubblegum. Consider getting a toothpaste with natural flavoring if you would like to avoid artificial additives.If you have stained teeth, you might want to consider buying a whitening toothpaste. This type of toothpaste has extra abrasive ingredients and chemicals that bind into stains and remove them. , To make brushing easier, try looking for certain products that can make the process less complicated. You may want to get a small handheld dental mirror so you can see more vividly while you brush. You may also find it helpful to get a mouth rest which is a tool that helps to hold the mouth open while you brush. Instead of a regular toothbrush, you might want to consider getting a Surround® toothbrush. This brush has three rows of bristles that surround the teeth to clean the front, back, and biting surfaces at the same time.The bristles are soft and have a heart-shaped, compact head that makes brushing safe and comfortable for you. , Ask your dentist for recommendations for your dental hygiene. Your dentist should be familiar with your dental needs and may encourage you to use a specific type of toothpaste or toothbrush. They may also provide a routine or set-plan for your tooth brushing so you can know when to brush, for how long, and when tooth brushing is needed. Your dentist may also know different dental products that suit your visual disability, and may also recommend certain brands and methods to provide you with easier brushing.
 If you are visually impaired, it may help to apply toothpaste on the brush by placing it underneath a contrasting washcloth. This makes the brush easier to see since the bristles are white and your eyes will be able to visualize that. , The toothpaste cap is easy to lose, especially since it's so small and rolls around, making it harder to find. Consider leaving the toothpaste cap standing to prevent it from moving. You may also find it helpful to hold the cap in your hand while you brush, or place it in your pocket for safekeeping. It's important to leave the cap in a memorable location so you can avoid losing it.


If it helps, consider buying toothpaste with a hinged cap so you can open the toothpaste easily without taking off the cap. , If you're the only using the toothpaste, you can squirt a pea-sized amount of toothpaste straight out from the dispenser.Put the toothpaste on the end of your tongue. Use your tongue to cover your teeth with the paste before brushing. If others use the toothpaste, here are other methods to get the toothpaste.


Squeeze the toothpaste into your palm and scoop it out using the toothbrush bristles. Place the toothbrush bristles between your index finger and use your thumb to serve as a guide when adding the toothpaste. Squeeze the toothpaste onto your finger and place it in your mouth. Squeeze the toothpaste into a one-ounce medicine cup. Scoop it out using the toothbrush's bristles. , Brush your teeth using the toothbrush. It may help to have a small flashlight or handheld dental mirror so you can more easily while you brush. Ensure you brush all around to remove all the plaque and bacteria from your teeth. Most dentists recommend you brush for about 2-3 minutes. It may help to place a timer on for this amount of time so you can know when to stop brushing. When you are done brushing, spit and rinse using a spit cup.
 Talk to your child about what tooth brushing is and why it's so important. It may help to read stories or poems for children that explain the purpose of brushing their teeth. , Go out shopping so they can pick a toothbrush for themselves. They may want to pick out striped or brightly colored brushes. If you are visually impaired, picking out a striped toothbrush or brightly colored one will make it more easier to see, and will make the toothbrush show up more. You may also wish to consider picking out a red, lime green, or orange toothbrush since these colors are bright and easy to seeFind toothbrushes that glow up or make music. Children may prefer these toothbrushes as they are fun and are timed so they know exactly how long to brush for. They may also prefer them because they are easier to see from the glow-up lights. Have them choose an electric toothbrush. Children find electric brushes easier to use since it does the brushing for you. They also vibrate which some children find exciting and quite fun. , Children like added flavoring into their toothpaste so it tastes better. Most children prefer flavors such as cinnamon, citrus, strawberry, banana, and bubblegum,but allow your child to pick out the flavor they like best. It may help to buy multiple flavors and allow them to try and choose the one they prefer.
 You can encourage independent brushing by getting a toothbrush that your child can hold comfortably. It should also fit in their mouth so brushing is made easier. , Figure out ways to make brushing their teeth simple and not complicated. You may need to find specific toothbrushes and use certain methods so brushing can be a breeze. It's also important to make brushing fun. Singing songs, making up rhymes about teeth, and telling stories while they brush can encourage them to clean their teeth and enjoy the process. Address any fears your child has when brushing. If your child is worried when it comes to tooth brushing ask them what bothers them ("I see you feel worried when it's time to rinse, do you find it difficult to hold the spit cup?") and find a way to make the process less scary or a less of a hassle ("Would it help if I hold the spit cup while you turn the sink on?"). , Your child will not be able to independently brush by the end of the day. It could take weeks, months, or even a year for them to take care of their dental hygiene. It may take them them some time to fully brush on their own without facing any of the fears of challenges they have. Understand that this is okay and that one day they will eventually learn how to brush on their own. , It may help to give out small prizes to encourage your child to keep brushing daily. A sticker chart may be useful and most kids find it a honoring and fun way to earn a small and simple prize. Verbal praise and encouragement works as well, a simple "Good job brushing your teeth this morning, you did great!" will encourage your child to always keep up the habit., Contact your child's dentist or visual therapist to talk more about your child's dental needs and how they can cope with them with their visual disability. Your dentist may choose certain products or brands that will suit your child, and will help form a plan so your child will understand more about their tooth brushing routine. A visual therapist can help your child cope with any of their fears when it comes to brushing, and can provide methods and products to make brushing easier.