 If you decide to investigate your home for signs of woodworm, look up pictures of infected wood online to get a sense of what you're searching for; short of seeing adult beetles themselves, damage to wood is they best way to identify woodworm. The Common Furniture Beetle, which attacks the sapwood of hardwoods and softwoods, as well as plywood, is the most likely culprit. Evidence of Common Furniture Beetle woodworm includes exit holes in wood that are 1.5 to 2 mm (1/16 inch) in size, short tunnels than run along the grain of the wood, and lemon shaped pellets present in gritty bore dust.


Note that damage to wood done by the Powder Post Beetle, normally found in hardwood storage areas, can be confused with Furniture Beetle damage; research both.;
, Use a flashlight to examine wood, particularly in dark corners. Do not shine the light directly onto the surface of the wood; instead, lay it flat against the surface so the light shines over, revealing any bumps, holes, or undulations. These marks can often be missed by the naked eye., Small holes caused by woodworm are typically found below the floor's surface. Start your search around the floor's edges and under windows, where adult beetles tend to fly towards light. Regardless of where an infestation has started, evidence will eventually emerge in these places.Note that while woodworm thrives in damp areas, it is capable of surviving in dryer conditions as well.
 Woodworm is often found in ceiling beams in household attics, which can cause serious structural problems over time. Look for woodworm damage to the ceiling joists as well as trimmers around the access hatch. Thoroughly inspect all roof beams that you can access safely, using a step stool or ladder, as well as walls (in particular, near the edges) and wooden furniture., Spotting the Common Furniture Beetle is a good indication that woodworm is present in wood in the surrounding area. Look for insects that are small, dark, and reddish in color, approximately 3mm to 5mm in length. Beetles will typically be spotted between March and September, during flight season when they emerge to mate., Advanced damage caused by woodworm is evident when wood starts crumbling around its corners or edges. Weak and damaged floorboards are also indicative of a serious woodworm infestation that warrants the assistance of an exterminator. Extensive wood damage will compromise the strength of wood and, accordingly, the structural integrity of a home.