 Feeling like a bad mom isn’t unique to you. Unfortunately, you may never know because many moms choose to bury these feelings so others can’t judge them. Have the courage to say aloud to other moms some of the terrible thoughts you have about your parenting. In doing so, you will realize that they have similar thoughts.For instance, at your next play-date, share your concern “I have been so busy with work lately that I haven’t really had time to cook healthy meals. This makes me feel terrible.” More than likely another mom will share the feeling with “Me, too! Oh, I feel so bad!”

, When you find yourself caught up in negative thoughts about your mothering abilities, reach out to a loved one like a sister or best friend. Or, get the opinion of your own mother or mother-in-law.


Say, “Oh, Mom/Sis/Mother-in-law, I feel horrible. I’ve been so tired. I haven’t had any energy to play with the kids. They’re been bingeing on cartoons.”
You may be surprised to find that some of the women you view as mothering idols faced many of the same challenges as you do., It can bring you consolation to be in a group of mothers who have similar concerns. Hearing the stories of other women who struggle to parent on some days, or don’t follow society’s parenting rules, can help you realize that you’re not alone.


Talk to your child’s pediatrician or a local counselor to find a supportive group for mothers. Or, you can even start a Meetup in your area to join up with other women who feel like bad moms.
 If you are a new mom—or recently gave birth to another child—who is struggling to care for your child or yourself due to feelings of depression, you need to see a professional right away. Post-partum depression is a serious condition that can have a negative impact on your life, if left untreated. Treatments may include psychotherapy, medication or a combination of the two. Consult with a doctor if you are concerned that you have this disorder.


Symptoms include anxiety, mood swings, sleep disruption, problems concentrating, crying spells, isolating from loved ones, and having trouble developing a bond with your baby.