 Maybe your friend has had a similar experience with the medical condition you have, or maybe not. Either way, they may come off as being an expert on the subject, and feel the need to share their wisdom.Arguing with a know-it-all will likely lead to more arguments. Ultimately, trying to prove them wrong, or tell them they're wrong will feel like wasted energy.
Consider saying simply, "Thank you. I know that's your opinion and I respect that." Then move on to a different topic, or try to keep your cool.
 There may be a need for others to give advice because it makes them feel smarter, more interesting, and more secure with themselves. While they may not know that they're feeling insecure in some way, it may come across once you challenge their advice.They may want to feel better about themselves by giving advice.
They may feel like they already have figured out a solution, and aren't open to your opinion.
Be careful around these friends, as they may be more sensitive to anything you say or do that is different from what they think is right. For example, if you say that you're not interested in their advice, whether said politely or not, they may immediately act defensive and feel hurt by what you say. They may avoid eye contact or ignore you afterwards.
 Know-it-alls may have trouble with social cues, or how to demonstrate empathy. They may be more focused on "fixing a problem" rather than addressing your emotional needs.


Consider telling them directly that you need their emotional support, more than their advice right now. Say, "I appreciate your advice, but right now I just need your support and reassurance."
Don't assume that they know what you're thinking or feeling. While just ignoring them may work sometimes, other times it may work to be more assertive about what you're feeling. Help to teach them what you really need, rather than what they think you need.
 While it may be tough to respond to your know-it-all friends with kindness, it's important to model the type of behavior you'd like from them. Show them respect, and be patient.Understand that you may not be able to change their behavior, but you can make efforts to control yours.
If necessary, reduce your interactions with a know-it-all friend if it's becoming too difficult to be around them. For example, if meeting up with a know-it-all friend triggers anxiety and frustration, limit those interactions when necessary such as at school or work, rather than spending time after school or on weekends with them.
Instead of focusing your energy on the people that irritate you, think about the people who support you. Spend more time with the friends and family who make you feel loved and respected.

