 Black fruit cake is a popular West Indian cake that’s often made for Christmas, and dried fruit soaked in alcohol is one of the main ingredients. The fruit must be soaked for at least a couple hours, but some people prefer soaking it for months before making the cake.


Cut the prunes into quarters, and place them into a medium mixing bowl along with the raisins, currants, and mixed peel. You can substitute or add in dates (pitted and quartered), dried cherries, or any other dried fruit you like as well.Mix the cherry wine and rum in a small bowl. Pour one cup of the wine and rum mixture over the fruit. You can also add a few dashes of angostura bitters to the mix.Cover the remaining alcohol and set it aside.
Stir the fruit and alcohol, cover the bowl with a lid or plastic wrap, and let it sit overnight. You can also let the fruit soak for a few days or weeks leading up to your baking.If you let it soak for longer than overnight, give it a stir every few days.
 When it comes time to make the cake, you will need to gather your ingredients, preheat your oven to 280 F (138 C), and collect your baking supplies. You will need:Two greased eight-inch baking pans lined with parchment paper
Parchment paper
Electric beaters or a stand mixer
A spatula and mixing spoon
Food processor
Whisk
Mixing bowls: one small, one medium, and one large
Toothpicks
Ladle

, Pour the fruit and alcohol it was soaking in into the food processor or blender. Pulse the fruit for about two to three minutes, until the fruit becomes a coarse paste and there are no chunks left.Add a few extra splashes of the wine and rum mixture if necessary to loosen the fruit.
Puree the fruit in a few separate batches if your food processor isn't large enough to handle the entire quantity at once., Add the butter and sugar into the large mixing bowl or the bowl of the stand mixer. Cream them together on medium for five to 10 minutes, until the mixture becomes smooth and fluffy.One at a time, crack each egg into the small mixing bowl and give it a whisk. Then add each egg to the butter and sugar mixture and continue beating until all the eggs have been incorporated., Combine the flour and cinnamon in the medium bowl. Then, add them to the wet ingredients in three separate batches, mixing on medium speed until the flour is completely incorporated.


Add in the vanilla and almond extract, and beat the mixture until everything is combined and the batter is smooth. If necessary, scrape down the sides of the bowl with a spoon and give the batter one final stir., Once added, use a spoon to fold them into the batter until the fruit is evenly distributed. Then, add the baking powder and mix just enough to combine. Divide the batter evenly between the two cake pans and get them into the oven immediately.Browning is a burnt sugar sauce that’s often used in West Indian cooking. It has a similar consistency to molasses, and can be found in West Indian grocery stores., Bake them for 45 minutes before checking on them. Keep a close eye on the cakes after 45 minutes, because you will have to stick around and continue smelling the air to make sure they aren't burning.


The cakes may need up to 70 minutes. They are ready when a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean., Remove the cakes from the oven when they have finished baking. Set them aside and allow them to cool to a little above room temperature.


While the cakes are still warm, poke several holes into the tops with a toothpick or skewer. Ladle 3 tablespoons (44 ml) of the rum and wine mixture over the cakes.
When the cake is room temperature, cover it with plastic wrap or place it into a lidded cake tin and leave it over night.
In the morning, poke more holes into the cake and ladle another 3 tablespoons (44 ml) of the rum and wine mixture over it. Repeat again that same evening.
 After the final ladle of rum and wine, the cakes are ready to serve. Be careful that nobody plans to drive after eating a piece, as the alcohol content is much higher than with regular cakes!


Store leftover cake in a sealed container, lidded cake tin, or wrapped tightly in plastic wrap.
Add more wine and rum mixture before serving leftovers if the cake is starting to dry out.,