 Set your oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit, or 232 degrees Celsius.It’s great to do this first, so the oven is hot and ready to go when your biscuits are prepared.Depending on your oven, this can take anywhere from ten to twenty minutes.



 ;
, It’s best to use a large bowl for this, so that you have plenty of room to stir the ingredients well without any falling onto the counter. Continue to stir, scraping the sides of the bowl to make sure you get everything mixed thoroughly. You can certainly use a mixer for this step, but mixing it by hand will not be too time consuming.If you do not have Bisquick baking mix, you can use any comparable baking mix.
 Scoop your fully mixed dough from the bowl and place on a flat, floured surface. The flour will keep the dough from sticking to the surface. Using a rolling pin, flatten the dough until it’s about one inch thick.Using a cookie cutter or a biscuit cutter, cut your biscuits. If you don’t have either, you can use the rim of a glass to cut the circles.Once you’ve cut as many circles as possible into the dough, pick up the scraps, re-flatten the dough, and cut more until you’ve used all the dough.
 Spread them out over the entire pan to give them room to rise and expand during baking. Try to keep at least a half inch of space between each biscuit. Put the tray of biscuits to the side while you make the butter.
 Put your butter in a small saucepan and set your stovetop to a low heat. As it slowly heats up, stir it gently to speed up the melting process. Do not turn up your heat, or you risk burning the butter.When it comes to creating the butter spread, slow and steady works best.
 Once your spices have been added, you can turn the stovetop off. Continue stirring your melted butter so that the spices are evenly distributed throughout., Use a pastry brush for this step, which you can find at any store that sells kitchen supplies. Make sure that you apply the butter evenly and generously to each biscuit., Some people prefer their biscuits soft and gooey, while others like theirs a bit firmer, so bake yours accordingly! You can always check on your biscuits after eight minutes and decide if you want to let them bake longer or not. A good rule of thumb is to wait until they look golden brown.Don’t forget to set your timer!

, This step is optional, and perfect for those who like their Cheddar Bay Biscuits extra buttery. If you have left over butter mixture, dip your pastry brush in it again and give your baked biscuits a second coating.
 Cheddar Bay biscuits are best when they’re fresh out of the oven. They go great as a side dish for a delicious seafood entree, like lobster, salmon, or crab. If you aren't a fan of seafood, they're just as good with chicken, lasagna, or any warm comfort food. They don't have to be eaten as a side dish, though! You can eat them on their own as a snack too. This recipe makes ten biscuits, so they’re perfect for sharing – no judgment if you keep them all for yourself, though!

