 Smoking and using smokeless tobacco, including e-cigarettes, is dangerous during your pregnancy. If you are a tobacco user, you need to stop immediately when you are pregnant. Tobacco use exposes a fetus to dangerous chemicals and toxins, limits their oxygen supply and hinders the delivery of nutrients. It is also dangerous to your health.By stopping your tobacco product use, you lessen your risk of pregnancy loss, infant death, premature birth, and other complications.
 Doctors have not identified a safe level of alcohol for women to consume while pregnant. While they are unsure whether there may be a safe amount of alcohol to drink, they do know that excess alcohol consumption can lead to fetal alcohol syndrome. Fetal alcohol syndrome is entirely preventable as long as you do not drink alcohol while you are pregnant.If you have a drinking problem, contact a medical provider immediately to develop a treatment plan to help you quit drinking.
 Illegal narcotics, like cocaine, heroin, or methamphetamines are extremely dangerous for your baby. Narcotics can affect your baby’s development, your labor and delivery, and their overall health. Babies born to mothers addicted to illicit substances, or mothers who use drugs occasionally, face birth complications and increased risks for health problems during their lifetime.There is no safe amount of narcotics that your baby can be exposed to.
Talk to your medical provider about establishing a treatment plan if you are struggling with narcotic use. Be aware that in some states and countries, healthcare providers will drug test expectant mothers.
 When you are pregnant, you need to be extremely careful with any over the counter and prescription medications that you take. Consult with your doctor about any prescription medications, like cholesterol or blood pressure medication, you take during your first prenatal visit. You may or may not need to stop taking these medications, or begin taking a pregnancy-safe alternative. You should also ask about any over the counter medications you may take, like pain relievers or allergy medication.Medications that are safe for non-pregnant women may not be safe for pregnant women. Do not make any assumption about the risks associated with certain medications, and consult your doctor before taking any new medications.
 Caffeine can effect your baby’s development during pregnancy. Limit the amount of caffeine in your diet to less than 200 milligrams a day.For reference, 8 ounces of coffee contains about 91 milligrams of caffeine. Switch to decaffeinated teas, sodas, and coffees during pregnancy to limit your caffeine intake, or drink non-caffeinated fluids like water and milk.
 Household cleaners can contain powerful chemicals that are harmful to unborn children. They can also contain noxious odors that may trigger nausea or headaches.


Wear gloves when you’re using cleaning products to limit your exposure through skin contact and open a window or turn on a fan to ventilate the space., Bisphenol A (BPA) is an industrial chemical used to make hard plastics, and is also used as a liner in many canned foods. BPA is an endocrine disruptor that may disturb fetal development. You can look for canned foods that are labeled as “BPA-free”, and use BPA alternatives. For example, you can use BPA-free and glass containers.