 Nothing—not bone structure, not a haircut, not even sensible shoes—will do more for how you are perceived than exuding a sense of self-confidence. Cultivate it, work to achieve it, and follow the steps in this section to build it. Just be aware that it can't be faked—it has to come from the inside.;
, Hunching over can not only cause back problems but makes you look as if you have no self-confidence. Sit-up straight too, for the same reasons.
 Smiling will make you appear happy. confident, and outgoing. It will also keep you from looking tired and in despair.
 It's only polite when talking to someone to look them in the eye. Don't stare—look at different parts of their face occasionally, but beyond that, maintaining good eye contact will show confidence and self-assuredness on your end.
 Your clothes and how you wear them say a lot about you, and will have an effect on how people perceive you. Wearing unflattering or extremely poorly-sized clothing says you don't care about how you present yourself.

The particular style is not as much a factor as how you wear it. You can wear whatever style is comfortable for you, whether it be trendy, alternative, casual or sporty, as long as it's appropriate to who you are. For example, if you're 30, and dress like you're 15, you'll look like you're trying to recapture your youth, not like you're a trendy 15-year-old. The same is true for any style—if it doesn't accurately reflect who you are, it will be seen as either clueless or fake. Neither impression will suggest "handsome" to anybody.
 When you're at a mall or walking down the street, take note of guys who appear to be fashionable. What things do you first notice?


Women often look at shoes—a detail many guys gloss over. Because so many guys gloss over that part, taking the time to select, wear, and maintain a nice pair of shoes is a great way to boost how you're perceived.
 If you have absolutely no fashion sense and have the money, hiring a personal shopper can be a good initial step. They will help you identify your style, select clothes for you and then show you where to obtain these clothes on your own in the future.


If you don't have the money, have a stylish friend or relative go shopping with you for the day.
Listen to them, but be aware that they may have their own style sense that's not quite your style sense. If most of the choices they're suggesting don't appeal to you, don't feel like you have to go with their suggestions. Thank them for their time, and try another personal shopper more attuned to your sense of style.
 Having a signature item of clothing can help you stand out and draw attention to your style. Take Steve Jobs, for example. His signature look was a black turtleneck, blue jeans, and New Balance running shoes.


Jewelry, such as a trademark ring, necklace, or watch can be effective, and useful too.
Tinted shades. You should only wear these outdoors, but a good pair of aviators or tinted shades draws attention to your face.
Cologne. Avoid run-of-the-mill cologne and get a scent that no one else has. This can be a great conversation starter. Don't wear too much, though, or the conversation it starts will be behind your back, and it won't be complimentary.
 We all know how to talk, but being able to speak clearly and enunciate well will enhance how you are perceived.Know that voice is an impression itself.
 Wash your hands regularly. Your fingernails should be free of dirt and trimmed evenly. Do not bite your fingernails, or chew on your cuticles—you'll look nervous and neurotic.
 With extremely rare (and often accidental) exception, walking out of the house with bed head never looks good. Wash and brush your hair on a regular basis. If you have the time and inclination, consider using a paste or gel to style your hair, but follow the "less is more" rule with styling products, and don't use too much.
 Many people, perhaps unfairly, associate bad skin with bad hygiene. Wash your face thoroughly, especially after any physical activity. Avoid razor burn if at all possible. If you're prone to acne or other skin conditions, see a dermatologist to help you get your skin in shape.
 Do this every day—it's an invigorating way to start the day, and looking clean and smelling good doesn't hurt in the perception department, either!

, Eating healthy will help with many things such as keeping a good weight, avoiding cavities, having a good complexion, and being energetic.
 Getting eight hours or more of sleep every night will do wonders for your complexion, energy and overall appearance.
 Looking handsome goes beyond your style. Exercising regularly not only helps with your appearance, confidence, and energy, but releases endorphins that make you feel good, and therefore more appealing to others.

