 Hemorrhoids are enlarged veins that are found either externally or internally around the anus, the opening of the rectum.Hemorrhoids are most commonly caused by straining or pushing too hard during a bowel movement. They can also be caused by obesity, lifting heavy objects, sitting too long, and pregnancy. Hemorrhoids are also associated with age and a history of constipation.In pregnancy, hemorrhoids occur commonly and are due to the increased pressure caused by the growing fetus, which causes pressure on the veins of the lower abdomen., The most common symptom of hemorrhoids is bleeding during a bowel movement. You may notice blood on the toilet paper or drops of blood in the toilet bowl. Other symptoms of hemorrhoids, especially external ones, are itchiness and pain or tenderness. You may actually feel an external hemorrhoid when cleaning yourself. It will be a tender, puffy swelling around the anal opening.


You won’t usually feel internal hemorrhoids, but they can bulge through the anal opening.
As long as it is only a spot of blood or a few drops of blood in the toilet, there is no need to panic. , Preventing hemorrhoids can be achieved through diet. There are many different techniques you can try, which you can play with until you find what works best for you. Some of the techniques include:


Trying to soften and hydrate the stool by drinking lots of water. Drink nine to twelve eight ounce glasses of water a day. This also helps get rid of hemorrhoids. They will often go away and the swelling will be reduced if the amount of irritation caused by passing stools is minimized. Stool contains significant amounts of water, so the more water a stool contains, the softer and easier to pass it will be.
Increasing the fiber in your diet. Fiber helps keep water in the stool and bulks it up so that it passes more easily. It also helps lessen the pain of hemorrhoids. Eat whole grains, like brown rice, barley, corn, rye, and oatmeal. Fruits, such as cherries, plums, prunes, apricots, and berries, and vegetables, like leafy greens, are great sources of fiber. Also try beans and legumes.
Avoiding laxatives. Laxatives can be habit forming and can also weaken the bowels, potentially leading to chronic constipation., Most hemorrhoids resolve using home remedies and over the counter remedies within four to seven days. If you don’t see improvement (less pain, less itching, less tenderness, and less bleeding) within two to three days, call your doctor. There are medical treatments for more serious cases.


Many, if not most, hemorrhoids can safely be treated at home. If the bleeding doesn’t stop or if there is a large amount of blood, you should call your doctor for an appointment right away. Also, if you are on blood thinning medication and experience rectal bleeding, call your physician right away.
A doctor will generally diagnose internal or external hemorrhoids by visual inspection and performing a rectal exam.If you have internal hemorrhoids, your doctor may remove them using rubber band ligation, which uses a rubber band to cut off circulation to the hemorrhoid. After about a week the hemorrhoid will die and fall off, leaving scar tissue.Other treatments may include coagulation therapy or sclerotherapy.