 The most interesting people are those who do things their own way and do not conform to the demands of others. Find the things that make you the person that you are and develop them. Do not abandon hobbies or avoid certain styles because they are not cool. Instead, embrace those things. Say what you think. Stick to your convictions and do not abandon your beliefs because they are unpopular.;
, Curiosity leads to the accumulation of new experiences and viewpoints. Instead of disconnecting from “strange” or different ways of understanding the world, engage them and seek out new sources of information. Do not be afraid of something because it is not considered mainstream.Find new books, movies, television shows, and podcasts.
Ask your teachers about learning about different schools of thought and philosophies.
 Try to be empathic towards others and accepting of their differences. Often the most interesting people are the most accommodating. Do not bully others because of their differences. Instead, reach out to them and learn about what makes them unique.


Discuss different religious beliefs with your friends and family.
Make friends with those who are different than you.
 Always be on the lookout for new experiences of any sort. Trying new things will broaden your horizons and help you create new life experiences. Eat foods you have not tried before. Listen to new music or see a movie you typically would not watch. Seek out adventure whenever you can., Part of being an interesting person is being well-rounded and pursuing a number of different hobbies broadens your horizons and allows you to try new things. Try new activities that are maybe outside you comfort zone. This will lead to unique and interesting experiences.Join different school clubs or teams. This will help you find new things that you might be interested in.
 Being able to captivate others with a good story is essential to being considered interesting. Do not just ramble on about any subject, be deliberate with what you are telling others. Try to be concise and engaging while making sure that your story has a beginning, middle and an end. Hone your public speaking ability by taking speech and other communications classes.
Develop your story telling skills in your literature and creative writing courses.
 You can make a great impression on someone by simply being an attentive listener. Talking about ourselves gives the brain as much pleasure as food or money, and that good association rubs-off on a good listener. Engage others in conversation by talking about their interests. You might learn interesting new things. Make eye contact. This will help you pay attention to what others are saying.
Put away your phone when you are hanging out with other people. This will help you stay engaged in the conversation.
 Challenge fashionable trends and develop a look that is all your own. If worn with confidence, others will be drawn to your look. Do not bend your behavior to match the expectations of others.Find clothing and accessories that adhere to your sense of style and not someone else’s.
 Being well-read will open up your mind to new worlds. It will allow you to learn about different cultures and time periods. This will come in handy when you find yourself chatting with others and you have an interesting anecdote or special insight into what they are talking about. Spend some time in your school library and find books that look interesting. There is not one subject of kind of book that will make you more interesting.
Join a book club or other group that will help you read more.
Do your homework. As a teen you will be assigned interesting reading. Take advantage of it.
 One of the best ways to broaden your horizons is through travel. As a teen, this might be more difficult but it is not impossible. Take advantage of every opportunity to go somewhere new and meet new people. This will give you a whole host of new experiences that will bump you up the interesting scale.Take advantage of family vacations or other opportunities to see and learn about new places. Although Kansas City might not be as exciting a location as Paris, there are things about it that are unique and interesting.
Find out if there are any groups you can join that might afford you the opportunity to travel.
 Having a number of different talents will make you the go-to person in your circle of friends. Learn how to fix a bicycle, write code, or bake. Any skill you can share will draw others to you.Join a school or community club or take a class that will teach you a skill you want to learn.
 Find the clothes that you feel convey your unique sense of style. Your clothing is a way for you to make a statement about who you are. Try out styles and combinations of accessories you might not normally wear. You may find a look that is more uniquely and authentically you.Wear t-shirts of your favorite band and try to adopt their style.
Try to get a vintage look by shopping at your local thrift store.
Wear clothes that reflect your interests and personality. For example, if you are a vegan, don't wear leather. Or, if you are becoming a serious athlete, wear sportier clothes.
 Buy shades and colors that you might not normally wear and try them. Find styles and applications that you find appealing. Remember that they do not have to be trendy, just unique.Look through old magazines for vintage looks and try to find makeup to recreate it.
 Changing your hairdo is a quick and easy way to develop an interesting look. You can change the color, length, or texture of your hair depending on the look you want to achieve. Find something that you think is eye-catching and try to recreate it. If you are unsure what style you would like, talk with your stylist for pointers and ideas.
 Find unique accessories that will set you apart. This could include new jewelry or a different pair of glasses frames. Bring something new to your look that matches your style and sets you apart.
 Interesting people exude confidence and the best way to demonstrate your self-assurance is to develop good posture. Keep your back straight and your shoulders squared. This tells people that you are confident, friendly and interesting. Not only will you convince others that you are interesting, you will begin to believe it as well. Avoid slouching or cowering. This tells others that you are insecure and unapproachable.

