 If she has a boyfriend, then you can safely assume that she is going to the dance with him. If you're unsure of whether or not she has a date, then don't worry; ask her out anyway! You can try to ask your friends if they know, or even to ask her friends if she has a date, but be aware that this makes it likely that it will get back to her; you may be better off just winging it.


Don't ask a girl to ditch her current date if she already has one. It will be unfair to the other guy and will reflect poorly on you.
Make sure you do this early enough that you have higher chances of getting a favorable response. If we're talking about the prom, then you should ask at least a month or two in advance, at the least. If it's a more common school dance, then give it a few weeks to be safe.
 Get the conversation started by texting her something like "Hey, how's it going?" or "Hey, what are you up to?" Wait until she responds before asking her out, and let the conversation flow naturally. If she doesn't have your number, let her know who you are and how you got her number; you don't want her to be uncomfortable or to ignore the text because she doesn't know who it's coming from.
 You either do this by sending a straight-forward text saying "Would you like to go to the dance with me?" or by first asking her whether or not she has plans for the dance. If she says no, then say something like "I'd love it if you came with me," or "I think it'd be really fun if we went together."


If you want to, you can even make a crack about your dancing skills or say something about how she can show you how to rock the dance floor. There's no need to take yourself too seriously here!

, If she says yes, congratulations! Now you will have to set up a time and place to meet, coordinate outfits if applicable, and decide on transportation. Don't be nervous about it—the hard part is over and now you can just relax and enjoy the ride.


Let her know that you are excited to go with her and that you think it's going to be a great time. This will make her feel special and have her looking forward to going with you.
If she says no or already has plans, then let her know that there are no hard feelings and end the conversation. Try to play it cool and say something like "No worries, I hope you have fun anyway!"

