 You can maximize the impact of your action by joining together with others who want to preserve nature. Being a part of an activist organization will help you keep abreast of any environmental legislation, or changes in legal threats to natural environments.Be aware that there are organizations with environmental-sounding names that actually work to dismantle legal protection for natural space. Research the organization thoroughly before getting involved with action.
For example, The Center for Whale Research does research on Orca whales in the Pacific Northwest, but the Institute for Cetacean Research is a front group for Japanese whaling concerns.
 Most communities have nonprofit environmental organizations that rely on volunteer help in order to do their work. Look in your local area for organizations that are doing the kind of work to preserve nature that you expect.Internships and international opportunities are also available to those who are able to travel.
You might find that your volunteer work leads to new actions and opportunities. Even if it starts with stapling flyers or doing data entry, your actions will help support protection of the environment.
 Make sure you share news about the threats to the environment, both inside and outside your community. Follow social media campaigns, and share their posts. Write letters to local newspapers and community blogs. Consider joining in with rallies and protest marches if you’re able.Connect with other activists on social media.
Share information through videos, photographs and facts. Create online polls that are quick to share with friends to collect information.
 While research is unclear on the legislative impacts of signing a petition, petitions often serve to raise awareness of particular issues and to draw interest. There are a variety of online organizations that make it very easy to create and share your own petition.It might help to know that research shows that people who sign online petitions are actually more likely than those who sign paper petitions to follow up with other forms of activism.
Follow up your petition with real-life action, such as calls to law-makers, organize a march, and talk to your friends about doing the same.

