 Spamming e-mail inboxes, blogs, forums, newsgroups and, increasingly, mobile phones, is an industry run by criminals who make money out of it.;
, Avoid filling in questionnaires and pop-ups that appear on the screen. When you do sign up for something, check the small print at the end of the form and refuse permission to be contacted by third parties. This means you are less likely to end up on the spamming lists that are compiled and sold by criminals on the Web.
 Links and attachments in spam messages can infect your computer with hidden programs that steal your personal information, such as passwords and online banking details. Clicking on spam messages, regardless of what they say, invariably brings more spam to your e-mail address. Actually buying something advertised in a spam message is a reckless gamble that nearly always ends as a costly mistake.Since spam is designed to lure you into clicking on something that you shouldn’t, you need to fight the urge to make that click. Ignore all those too-good-to-be-true offers because they are almost guaranteed to be scams. Say no to the promised celebrity pictures and remain aloof from dubious get rich quick schemes. Be highly skeptical of e-mails from people you don’t know, even if they address you by your first name and claim to have seen a video of you on YouTube.
 It also means that you won’t be joining the millions of Internet users around the world whose computers have been turned into zombie botnets – the networks of infected computers remotely controlled by criminals, whose combined computing power is used to create the daily avalanche of spam.Online well being comes from knowing that you can enjoy the benefits and pleasures of the Internet, while your computer remains protected from the constantly evolving security threats. If you have been clicking on spam e-mails and think your computer may be infected, the best way to regain peace of mind is to install professional software like F-Secure’s Internet Security 2009. This will clean up any harmful stuff that may be lurking inside your computer and make sure you stay protected with automatic security updates.With junk mail under control, you can relax and enjoy the time that you’ve wrestled back from the spammers. Whether it’s surfing or strolling, online or offline.

