 You can do a forward fold from a standing position to increase blood flow to your head as well as ease any lower back tension. While you can do this pose standing on your chair, that isn't recommended for most office chairs as they aren't stable enough – particularly if they have wheels.From a standing position, distribute your body weight evenly and breathe deeply. On an exhale, hinge forward from the hips to fold over your legs. Only fold as far as you can without pain or discomfort.
Hold the position for 10 to 20 deep breath cycles. If you can't fold to a stable position resting your hands on the floor, you also can fold over your chair and rest your forearms and head on the seat.
 Breath of fire is a rhythmic breathing exercise that will help you revive yourself and renew your energy and sense of purpose. You may even find you no longer need that afternoon coffee to pick you up.Come to a comfortable seated position with your feet flat on the floor. Close your eyes and breathe deeply for a few seconds to connect with your breath.
Alter your breathing so that you are breathing in and out of your nose. Keep your breaths sharp and short, pumping your navel in and out in time with your breathing.
You can open your mouth and stick your tongue out, or shake your head around. If you go this far into breath of fire, you may want to make sure you have some privacy, especially if you get embarrassed easily.
 A regular meditation practice outside of work can help improve your focus and concentration. However, even if you don't have a regular practice, a few minutes of meditation during the work day can help you become more productive at work.To take a meditation break at work, find a cool, quiet place where you can sit without being interrupted. If you don't have a private office, you might try an unused conference room, break room, or even a storage room.
Sit in a comfortable position and focus on your breath. Breathe deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth, and try to clear your head of any thoughts but your breath.
You may want to set yourself an alarm so that you come out of the meditative state after five minutes or so.
 If you've got the space and more than a couple minutes to spare, flowing back and forth between the Warrior One and Warrior Two poses can greatly increase your focus at work.Step your right foot forward and walk your left foot back a little. Your right foot should be facing forward with your knee at a right angle directly over your ankle so your shin is perpendicular to the floor. Your left foot will face to the side, with your toes angled slightly in so that it looks a little pigeon-toed.
Drop your shoulders, imagining your shoulder blades melting down your back, and extend your arms over head towards the ceiling. Press your palms together over your head and breathe deeply. Then release and do the other side.
You also can open your arms out, extending them in front and behind you. Focus your eyes on the fingertips of your forward hand and breathe deeply. If you want to create a flow, move back and forth between these two poses with a breath for each movement.

