 You can buy seeds online at seed exchange sites, from your local nursery, or from other gardeners. You can also buy seeds from the garden section of a department store. If you want to collect seeds from a plant, then you will need at least one tomato from that plant. Make sure the tomato is from a plant that was grown from an heirloom or open pollinated seed. If you choose tomatoes from a hybrid, or a plant with chemically-treated seeds, the results may not be as impressive. A tomato plant may be categorized by:



Heirloom or Hybrid: Heirlooms are tomatoes that have been genetically reproduced for several generations without any cross-breeding. Essentially, they're pure-bred tomatoes. Hybrid tomatoes are a cross between two varieties.

Determinate or Indeterminate: This method of classification describes the length of time for which a plant produces fruit. Determinate plants produce for a few weeks, while indeterminate plants produce fruit throughout an entire growing season until climate conditions become too cold. Indeterminate plants also grow larger and require more care in terms of pruning and staking.

Shape: Tomatoes are also classified into four categories of shape: globe, beefsteak, paste, and cherry. Globe is the most popular shape, beefsteak is the largest, paste tomatoes are used to make sauces, and cherry tomatoes are small, bite-sized tomatoes often used in salads.;
, You will want a container with a loose-fitting lid as the tomato pulp and seeds will be sitting in the container for a few days. A layer of mold will develop on the seeds. This process can destroy many seed-borne diseases that could affect the next generation of plants.
 If you are fermenting several different types of seeds, be sure to label the container with the correct variety to avoid any mix-ups. Set the lid on top of the container but do not seal it to allow oxygen to reach the pulp.
 The fermenting process can look off-putting and smell unpleasant, so set the container somewhere out of the way. For example, you could place the container under a sink, or in your garage (as long as it is warm enough).
 It usually takes about two to three days for the mold to form. Be sure to harvest the seeds shortly after the mold forms so that the seeds do not germinate in the container.
 Wearing gloves, scoop off the moldy layer. The seeds will have sunken to the bottom of the container.
 Let the seeds settle at the bottom and continue to pour off the unwanted parts of the solution over a strainer. Be careful not to throw away the seeds. After you have collected all of the seeds in the strainer, rinse them thoroughly with water.
 A glass or ceramic flat dish, baking sheet, a piece of plywood or a window screen all work well. It can be very difficult to remove dried seeds from paper or cloth. When they are dry, you can package them in a sealed plastic bag until you are ready to plant them. Be sure to label the variety of seeds on the package.
 You can also place them in an airtight container in your refrigerator to simulate a winter climate. Do not place the seeds in the freezer, doing so will damage them.

