 Never go directly to your manager without first approaching your colleague. Part of a manager’s job is certainly to manage morale and conflict, but they should never be the first line of defense.Be kind when approaching your colleague. Don’t begin the conversation with complaints or threats. You can say something like, “I’m not sure if you realize this, but I can hear you all the way over at my desk. Would it be possible for you to be quieter?”
If your colleague won’t agree to be quieter, or if they don’t follow through, talk to the manager. You may choose to let your colleague know that you’ll be doing that, but it’s not necessary. You can say something like, “I’d really like to resolve this without bringing our manager into the conversation, if possible."

, You may want to send them an e-mail or leave them a note letting them know that you’d like to talk. Ask to schedule a short, private meeting with them. You can let them know what it’s about, but don’t mention your noisy coworker by name.Try to avoid naming your noisy coworker to your boss. This shows that you’re not trying to get them in trouble or personally attack them. However, if your boss asks who it is, be honest.
Let your boss know that you’re concerned about your own productivity, not just annoyed at your coworker. You can say something like, “I don’t usually have a difficult time focusing, but since Joe has started working in my department, I haven’t been able to concentrate because of the noise. He does a great job, it’s just hard to hear myself think.”

, It’s possible that you may be able to move your desk or work a different shift from your noisy colleague. This may end up benefiting everyone, depending on how things work out. Changing shifts may be a good strategy. For example, restaurants can be noisy places to work. If your loud colleague works the dinner shift, try switching to work breakfast, when it’s quieter.
If your noisy colleague works in one area of the office, see if you can be transferred to another space that is known to be quieter.

