 Though your desire for them may be intense, remember that no means no. If someone does not want to have sex, you should not pressure them. Even if they have given you all of the signs that they want you too by flirting or teasing you, this does not equate to consent. Consensual sex is the only kind of sex; any form of sexual contact that is unwanted or protested by one partner is assault., In addition, if you ask your potential partner if they would like to have sex, and they do not respond, that is not consent. You should not proceed until they have indicated clearly to you that they want to sleep together., When you ask if the person wants to have sex, they might say “sure.” However, this response indicates an overall lack of enthusiasm and it is likely best to table the topic and the act for now. If they change the subject when you mention sex, then take this also as a sign that they are not interested and do not try to pressure them.
 Perhaps your lover does not want to have sex, but they do want to fool around in other ways. Be open to these possibilities, knowing that sex might come in the future if you are patient. Enjoy your time exploring one another’s bodies. This will potentially lead to better sex later., If your partner does consent to having sex, be sure to be safe. If you are a man hoping to have sex with a woman or vice versa, and you or your partner are not on birth control, know that your sex could lead to a pregnancy. If the two of you are not monogamous, you should use a condom or dental dam to prevent the spread of any STIs.


If this person is not your partner, discuss birth control methods before you have sex. Perhaps you do not want to use a condom but your partner does; you should use one to ensure that they are as comfortable as possible.
Using condoms and birth control can ensure that you have worry-free sex.
 If they indicate that they do not want to sleep with you, it is not the end of the world. Do not yell at them, cause a scene, or be angry. Simply tell them that you respect their decision. Go watch a movie or listen to music to distract yourself. If you are still feeling turned on, you can masturbate to relieve your sexual frustration.

