 The most important thing you need to do before wearing hijab is to clarify yourself whether you're ready to wear it or not.;
, Many girls are confused about wearing hijab and its later-on effects on their life. Sit in front of the mirror and make it clear to yourself that Allah has commanded all Muslim girls to wear hijab and to cover themselves. This may help you to overcome your confusion.
 Once you have explained to yourself about the importance of wearing hijab, you're mentally ready to move on with you decision.
 Seek for Allah's help to stick to your decision, make your will stronger and most importantly, grant you with the confidence to fulfill His command. Allah is The Best Listener and The Best Helper. Make Dua' to Him and Inn Shaa Allah, He will make all your problems easy for you!

, When you are ready mentally to wear Hijab, strengthen your will. You might have to face certain things ahead that you won't expect, but remember that this always happens when you're doing something right.
 If your parents support you, this will definitely make you more confident. But if you're afraid that your parents might not support you, tell either of them (the one you're closer to) in the most polite way. Don't lose your will if neither of them stand with you. That's the time where you stand on your own basis to face criticism.
 Be it your sister or brother, friend, cousin or anyone else you believe will stand along your side and will become your moral support.
 Be in a gathering of hijab wearers. This will build up self-confidence, which is a very important thing. You might also learn their experiences and how they coped with initial difficulties. You are not the only one facing problems initially.
 Even if you feel like there is no one in the the entire world to help and support you, don't forget that Allah is always there for you. And He always makes easier ways for those who are willing to move on the right path.
 There is always a strong reason why Muslim girls choose to wear hijab. Make it as your source of motivation. If you're inspired by someone or have the realization that you should wear it because you're a Muslim girl, then get ready to wear it.
 Remember that the first one to stop you from wearing hijab is your inner-self.
 Once you start wearing hijab, you might have to face criticism, even if you belong to a Muslim country. See that there are girls who wear hijab in a non-Muslim state. Remain positive and look out for inspirations. Patience will surely prove fruitful for you.
 There is no better inspiration in the whole world then the Muslim women of initial period of Islam.
 Now that you've started wearing hijab, wear it with full confidence because you're not doing anything wrong. You are doing this to please Allah and to completely abide by the sermons of Islam.
 Initially, many Muslim girls find it difficult to manage with hijab. If you have someone to guide you to wear it properly, learn from them. Also there are many guidelines available on the internet. Search for them and practice regularly to get a proper and complete look.
 In the start, you'll be feeling yourself a bit irritated with it since you're not used to it. Don't worry. It takes very little time to get comfortable with hijab if you've a strong will.
 Allah says (interpretation of the meaning)“And tell the believing women to lower their gaze (from looking at forbidden things), and protect their private parts (from illegal sexual acts) and not to show off their adornment except only that which is apparent (like both eyes for necessity to see the way, or outer palms of hands or one eye or dress like veil, gloves, head-cover, apron), and to draw their veils all over Juyoobihinna (i.e. their bodies, faces, necks and bosoms) and not to reveal their adornment except to their husbands, or their fathers, or their husband’s fathers, or their sons, or their husband’s sons, or their brothers or their brother’s sons, or their sister’s sons, or their (Muslim) women (i.e. their sisters in Islam), or the (female) slaves whom their right hands possess, or old male servants who lack vigor, or small children who have no sense of feminine sex. And let them not stamp their feet so as to reveal what they hide of their adornment. And all of you beg Allah to forgive you all, O believers, that you may be successful”. With regard to the Ahadeeth: It was narrated from Safiyyah bint Shaybah that ‘Aa’ishah (may Allah be pleased with her) used to say: When these words were revealed – “and to draw their veils all over Juyoobihinna (i.e. their bodies, faces, necks and bosoms)” – they took their izaars (a kind of garment) and tore them from the edges and covered their faces with them.

