 Schnauzers are known to be friendly companions who take well to training from their owners. They are usually said to be good with children, other pets, and even enjoy time alone. They love to play and interact with their family.Their small size makes them suitable for apartment life, but their energetic personalities also make them great dogs for owners with a lot of land to roam.;
, Every breed of dog, especially purebred ones, has its own set of medical possibilities that the breed is more prone to. Spend some time reading about schnauzers and their medical history to figure out if this is the kind of dog for you.Schnauzers are typically more often affected by eye cataracts than other breeds. This can eventually lead to blindness in old age.
Schnauzers also are prone to urinary stones, pancreatitis, diabetes, and kidney disease.
Consult a veterinarian about specific problems affecting schnauzers to get all the information. Ask good questions to fully prepare yourself.
Consider if you can afford pet insurance to protect yourself from the cost of expensive veterinary treatments.
 Schnauzers aren’t the highest maintenance type of dogs, but they do have a lot of energy. A schnauzer will require some significant exercise and vigorous play time from you as their owner.If you want a lapdog, a schnauzer will be happy to accommodate this, but they will also need to be exercised regularly.
Try to give your schnauzer between 30 minutes and one hour of exercise every day.
Schnauzers will also need to be groomed regularly, which is another time consideration. Their coats get matted easily, so they need to be brushed often or taken to the groomers.
 When you decide to adopt a schnauzer, you should decide if you want an adult dog or a puppy. If you want to adopt a schnauzer, it will probably be easier to find an adult dog to adopt, but there may be some puppies available if you are willing to spend some time searching.


An adult dog will be less work than a puppy. They may already be housetrained and will have probably outgrown the puppy tendency to chew things up. They will probably have a calmer temperament and be less active.
Puppies sure are cute, but they also require a lot of time and energy. They will need more exercise than an older dog and more attention to ensure they don’t pee in the house or tear up your belongings. They’ll need to be housetrained and trained in obedience and require a lot of attention.
 There are many schnauzer rescue agencies across the country that specialize in finding homes for this particular breed of dog. Search the internet for agencies near you and look at their listings for schnauzers currently in their care that are available for adoption.Try searching on adoptapet.com, petfinder.com, or Schnauzer Love Rescue, Inc., Once you find a schnauzer that you would like to adopt, you’ll need to fill out the adoption application with a perspective rescue agency. They will ask questions about your home, what kind of dog you’re interested in, and how much time you can devote to a dog.The application process will help the agency match you with a dog that is the right fit for you.
 Most rescue agencies will require references with their application. These should come from a veterinarian or a close friend who can attest to your ability to care for a dog. If you have an existing veterinarian, ask them to write the letter so they can tell the agency about your past history as a pet owner.Some applications may require a reference from a veterinarian, so be sure to check that before you ask someone else to write your reference letter.
 If you are adopting from a rescue agency, you will likely have to pay an application/adoption fee. This fee is usually applied to any vet bills the agency had to pay for routine shots, medical treatment, or just for day-to-day care of the dog.Application fees are usually around $300, depending on the agency.
 Once you submit your application, it can take several weeks for a decision to be reached. The agency must ensure that you will be a suitable owner for the schnauzer in question. Don’t call the agency a million times. They will contact you when they have reached a decision.
 A new dog requires a lot of supplies. You’ll need to purchase them ahead of time so that your house is ready when you bring your new schnauzer friend home. Make sure you plan ahead so that you don’t find yourself missing something when your pup arrives.You will need to purchase food, food/water dishes, collar, ID tag, leash, dog bed, and several toys and treats, and possibly a crate.
 Arrange a time and place to pick up your adopted schnauzer. Make sure you agree on the time with the agency so that someone knows to be there to meet you; otherwise you might find yourself waiting around for awhile.Bring some things with you to the pick up like the dog’s collar, leash, some treats, and a comfy bed for the ride home.
 Let your new schnauzer friend explore their new surroundings, but stay close to provide comfort and a feeling of safety for the pup. Be patient while your dog learns the rules of the house and how to interact in this new environment.If you have other pets already in the house, take some time to introduce them slowly so that they can get used to each other. You may have to be diligent about keeping them mostly separated for the first few days while they adjust.

