 It's a white app with a multicolored musical note on it.;
, You can scroll down through your library, or you can click one of the following options on the top-left side of the iTunes window:



Recently Added - Shows any music you've added recently.

Artists - Sorts by artist.

Albums - Sorts by album.

Songs - Displays all songs in your library.

Genres - Sorts by genre.
You can add music by clicking and dragging the music files into your iTunes library, or--if iTunes is your default music player--simply by double-clicking a music file you wish to add.
 This can be a song, an album, or an artist. Doing so will invoke a drop-down menu.


You can also click and drag across multiple items first to select all of them for editing.
 It's about halfway down the drop-down menu.
 In order to make sure that an artist's songs appear in order, an album is correctly named, or a song is correctly categorized as "R&B", you can edit music items' attributes in the Get Info window. You won't have all of the following options available for all musical items (e.g., artists), but you will be able to change at least some of the following:



song - The song's name.

artist - The song's artist.

album - The album to which the song belongs.

album artist - The album creator (if different than the song artist).

composer - The song's composer (e.g., the producer).

grouping - Your custom category for the song.

genre - The song's musical category.

year - The year during which the song was released.

track/disc - The track or disc number.

compilation - Check this box if the music item belongs to a collaborative album by various artists.

rating - Click a star to assign a */5 rating to this music item.

bpm - The song's beats per minute.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the window. Doing so will save your changes to your music item(s).


You can also click one of the tabs at the top of the Get Info window (e.g., Artwork) to change its settings.
You'll need to repeat this process for every music item you wish to update or change before continuing.
 You'll do so by connecting the USB end of your iPod touch's charger to your computer, then connecting the charging end of the charger to the port at the bottom of your iPod touch.
 It's the iPhone-shaped button in the top-left area of the iTunes window.
 You'll see this option in the bottom-right corner of the window, just right of the Done button. Doing so will prompt your iTunes library to begin synchronizing with your iPod touch.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the window. Your updated music should now be on your iPod touch. You'll be able to view it by tapping the Music app, which resembles the iTunes icon.
 To do so, press the Home button on any screen.


If you have an app open, press Home once to minimize it and once to open the Home Screen.
If the screen you're currently on doesn't move, you're already on the Home Screen.
 Doing so will cause all of your apps to begin wiggling, meaning they are now movable.
 You can drag the app between two apps to place it between them, or you can drag an app to the right edge of the Home Screen to place it on a subsequent page.


If you only have one page on your iPod touch, dragging an app to the edge of the screen will create a new page.
Once the apps are wiggling, you can move any of them.
 This will cause your apps to stop wiggling, thereby cementing your apps' new locations.
 It will begin wiggling.
 After around a second, a grey cube will appear around the bottom app.
 This will drop your top app into a folder with the bottom app.
 The folder name is above the grey area in which your apps are seated; tapping X will remove the title of the folder and allow you to add your own.
 If your iPod's keyboard doesn't appear, first tap the folder name bar.
 It's the blue key in the bottom-right corner of your keyboard.
 This will minimize the app folder.
 Doing so will add them to your folder.


You can also tap and drag the folder to move it in the same way you'd move an app.
 This will cause your apps to stop wiggling.
 It will start wiggling.
 This should be in the top-right corner of the app. If you don't see an X here, your app can't be deleted.
 Doing so will invoke a pop-up menu.
 This will delete your app from your iPod touch.
 It's a blue app with a white "A" made of writing utensils. App Store is typically found on the Home Screen.
 This is in the bottom-right corner of the screen.
 It's at the top of the screen.
 This tab is on the top-right side of the screen.
 Apps stored here are arranged in the order in which you downloaded them, so you may need to scroll for a bit to find the app in question.
 It's the cloud-shaped icon with a downward-facing arrow that's to the right of your selected app. Doing so will immediately begin downloading the app to your iPod.


If you purchased the app in the past, you won't have to pay for it again when you re-download it.
You may first need to enter your Apple ID password to confirm this decision.

