 This is an alternative method you can use to make a simple paper ring. It doesn't take long, and it doesn't require a lot of folding!


Wrap the strip of paper around the small plastic top of a bottle, say from hair spray (about the size of your finger)., You will fasten this onto the rest of the paper strip as you wrap it around and around the plastic bottle top.


Wrap it around until you reach the other end.
Glue that end down onto the piece of paper.
 If you want to weave other colors into the ring for a fancier version, take a second strip of paper in another color.


Put glue on the end of it.
Fasten the end to the ring in a vertical direction.
 To do this, weave it in and out of the ring.



Weave it much as you would by creating a braid.
When you reach the end, glue it to the ring. It’s ready to wear!

, This can be a fun way to give someone a gift in cash or to leave a tip for someone! Maybe the tooth fairy could give a child such a ring.


Start with the bill facing with the back side up.
 This should be folded back to the place where it meets the green part of the bill., Fold the bottom edge of the bill until it meets the top. Tuck it under the little flap you created by folding over the white edge.,


Now turn the bill over so the side that says “The United States of America” is along the top.
 It should be folded to the left of the “1” or other dollar amount to the point where it meets the bill’s green part.


Fold the bill back on the right of the “1.”
The “1” should appear to be in a square box.
 Fold the right hand part of the bill so that the left edge goes right between the O and the F of the word “OF” in the “United States of America.”


Curve the bill around. Keep going until the “1 square” is lined up on top of the vertical bit that is poking up underneath.
Open up the “1 square” to the right, and then fold down the vertical bit.
Finally, fold back the “1 square” back on top.
 You should tuck the flap under the vertical bit you just folded down.Turn the ring over. Fold the poking up bit down and through the center of the ring.
Turn the ring over again. Fold down the little flap.
Tuck it under the “1 square.” Using your fingernails or a pencil might help with this part. Finally fold over the edge of the ring band so it’s narrower.
