 You can’t sue the debtor in just any court. However, you have options, depending on the circumstances. Consider the following:

Consider small claims court if you're suing for a small amount. Each state has a small claims court that hears cases up to a certain dollar amount. Small claims court is ideal if you don’t have an attorney.You can generally sue in the county or district where you made the contract or where the debtor lives or works.
If you live in a different state than the debtor, you might file in federal court. However, federal court lawsuits are complicated and you’re better off if you have a lawyer.
 You kick off a lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. In this document, you identify the parties to the lawsuit, how much you are suing for, and why you are suing. You should also attach a copy of your promissory note. File your complaint with the court clerk and pay a filing fee.Most small claims courts have “fill in the blank” forms you can use.
If no form is available, look online for sample complaints or consult with an attorney who can help you.
 Typically, you’ll send a copy of the complaint and a summons, which you can get from the court clerk. You’ll need to follow your state’s rules regarding service. Generally, you can use the following methods:Have someone hand deliver the papers to the debtor. You can’t deliver them yourself, but you can ask a friend or hire a process server. If the debtor is a business, you will serve their registered agent.
Pay the sheriff to make service, which is an option in some counties.
Mail the papers to the debtor using first-class mail.
 The debtor has a chance to respond by filing an answer and sending you a copy. Read it closely because it will contain the debtor’s defenses. For example, the debtor might argue the promissory note isn’t valid or that you’ve verbally agreed to let them stop making payment.

The debtor might also counter-sue you. For example, if you called the debtor in the evenings or threatened them physically, they can sue you for illegal debt collection practices., The trial will revolve around whether the promissory note is valid and whether the defendant is justified in not paying back the debt. Unless you’re in small claims court, you’ll need to do quite a bit of work before your trial date approaches.


You’ll swap documents in a process called “discovery.”
You may need to have a settlement conference.Courts hope parties can settle their disputes so a trial becomes unnecessary.
You can file a motion for summary judgment. In this motion, you argue you should win without going to trial because no set of facts exists that will allow the debtor to prevail.
 Each side can call witnesses and introduce documents. You’ll want to introduce the promissory note and testify about the debtor’s history of payment.


Most small claims courts don’t have juries, so a judge will likely decide who wins.
 If you win, you get a piece of paper from the court. Now you need to enforce it. The debtor can voluntarily pay you, or you might need to take other action. Consider your options:You can garnish the debtor’s wages or bank accounts.
You might be able to have the sheriff seize and sell personal property such as boats, cars, jewelry, etc. You will get some of the proceeds from the sale.
You can also put a lien on real estate, such as the debtor’s home. Depending on where you live, you might be able to force a sale of the property. At a minimum, you can receive payment if the debtor sells the house or refinances.

