 Avoid sticking to only one flavor and/or one method to eat ice cream or what's the point of trying to be an ice cream princess? To be an excellent ice cream princess, don't be afraid of trying different methods to eat ice cream and become familiar with every single flavor. However, just because you're an ice cream princess doesn't mean you need to love all the flavors - there may be some you may dislike, but don't let that stop you from having fun.


Don't feel inclined to try the peanut butter flavored ice cream if you know you're allergic to peanut butter. Check with your parents and familiarize yourself with any allergies you have before trying different ice cream flavors to avoid any allergic reactions that may come as minor or major.;
, You could also just eat it from a bowl or a cone instead of fancying it up. However, know your limits and have self-control to avoid getting sick or hurting your stomach. Remember that you also mustn't neglect your healthy diet and that ice cream should come as the last thing you eat after consuming all the nutrients necessary to maintain a good health.
 However, this doesn't mean your entire freezer needs to be stuffed with only ice cream! Have at least one or two small tubs of ice cream at hand so that you won't open the freezer to find that you've completely run out. Also, make sure you don't eat all of it at once or you'll be simply wasting your money.


If your parents refuse to buy you ice cream frequently, either buy it yourself or make a fair deal with them (ex: "I'll wash the dinner dishes for every tub of ice cream you need to buy me).

However, do not make them feel forced to buy you ice cream in order to get you to obey. You may get in trouble, and your parents might refuse to purchase you any ice cream in the future.


To prevent the ice cream from running out quickly, limit the amount of ice cream you eat and consume it less frequently. This will save you time, and it helps you avoid stomachaches.
 Always have plenty of toppings on your ice cream, but make sure you have self-control, remembering the quote, "Less is more." However, check with your parents to see if you have any allergies to toppings that might cause allergic reactions to occur, such as nuts (including peanuts). Suggested toppings are:


Sprinkles
Small chunks of chocolate
Fudge
Cookie dough
Caramel
Brownies
M&Ms
Nuts

Avoid using any type of nuts if you're allergic to them, for some ice cream toppings mix a variety of chopped nuts together.


Ice cream syrup

This does not include maple syrup, although you may try it on your ice cream if you wish.



