 Lutein is a nutrient sometimes known as the eye vitamin. Consuming up to 12 mg per day of lutein can help slow the advance of age-related macular degeneration and other eye-related ailments. Foods rich in lutein include:Green leafy vegetables. Kale, broccoli, and spinach will all give you a good dose of lutein.
Fruits, especially kiwis, oranges, and grapes.
Squash and zucchini.
Alternatively, you can take dietary supplements for lutein. Make sure you take specialized lutein supplements rather than multivitamins- these only contain a very small amount of the nutrient. Keep in mind, however, that the body usually absorbs lutein more efficiently when it's from a meal rather than supplements.;
, These essential nutrients can slow macular degeneration, help prevent cataracts, and improve dry eye symptoms. The best source for omega-3's is oily fish, especially salmon and sardines. They are also found in tuna, mackerel, and oysters.If you don't like or don't have access to seafood, you could also take a fish oil supplement to increase your intake of omega-3's.
 This vitamin helps improve your vision in the dark and prevent night blindness. Several foods are rich in vitamin A.Carrots. For decades carrots have been hailed as the food for good vision. They're packed with vitamin A and are a great food for maintaining eyesight.
Sweet potato.
Eggs. These also contain lutein, so include them in your diet for an all-around good food for your vision., Get your vitamin c from a whole orange rather than orange juice. That way, you can avoid the added sugar that comes from orange juice.
Yellow peppers. Just one large pepper will give you 500% the necessary daily intake of vitamin c.
Dark green vegetables. Kale and broccoli especially are high in vitamin c. With a cup of either, you can get an entire day's worth of vitamin c.
Berries. Blueberries, strawberries, blackberries, and raspberries are all great choices for vitamin c.
 Zinc aids in the production of melanin, a pigment which helps protect the eyes. This can help the eye resist damage and slow the onset of macular degeneration. You have several choices to add more zinc to your diet.Shellfish. Lobster, crab, and oysters all provide high doses of zinc.
Green leafy vegetables. Along with lutein, these vegetables will give your body a good dose of zinc.
Nuts. Cashews, peanuts, almonds, and walnuts are all high in zinc. They are easy to snack on throughout the day.
Lean red meat. In small quantities, low-fat red meat is a great source of zinc.