 You can contact any stock broker and request that they sell your stock certificate for you. However, if you do not already have an account with that broker, they will likely charge you a hefty fee.


In the past, brokerage firms have offered to sell paper stock certificates for free or at low cost in the hopes that customers would then open an account and use their other services. However, most customers did not go on to open accounts with the brokers, so most brokerage firms stopped offering this service., Use this process if you already have an account with a brokerage firm or are willing to open a new one. The brokerage firm registers your stock in its name and lists you as the “real” or “beneficial” owner. On the stock issuer’s books, however, the brokerage firm is listed as the owner. This will replace your paper stock certificate. The brokerage firm will send you quarterly statements that list your securities, dividends and interest statements.If you are acting as the executor or administrator of an estate, you will have to submit additional forms and court documents certifying that you are the administrator., You must do this before sending it to them in order to allow the brokerage to transfer the stock to street name registration. This process must be done at a bank or financial institution who can guarantee your signature.First, fill out the back of the stock certificate with the name of the brokerage firm. Find the spot that says, “Constitute and appoint ________ attorney to transfer.” Write the name of the brokerage firm on the line.
Then, sign the back of the certificate and get a medallion signature guarantee. This is a stamp that guarantees your signature so the brokerage firm knows that it was actually you who signed the certificate over to them. The witness at the bank will stamp the back of your certificate with the medallion signature guarantee.
Write your social security number and account number on the front of the certificate.
 Mail the certificate by certified mail. Insure it and get tracking information. It will take approximately five days for the stock to appear in your brokerage account. You can now sell it at any time. Once you sell the stock, the broker will either send you a check or deposit funds into a bank account that is linked to your brokerage account., Once the stock shows up in your brokerage account, you can sell it at any time. Contact your broker and place an order to sell the stock. When you place the order to sell, you can set conditions on how the order is executed, as well as price restrictions and time limitation on the execution of the order.A market order tells your broker to sell the stock for the next available price. No restrictions can be placed on a market order. Your stock will sell at any time during the day no matter what the price.A limit order sets the minimum price for which your stock can be sold.A sell stop order sets a maximum amount you are willing to lose on the sale of a stock. If the stock drops below a certain value, it is sold right away to prevent further losses.