 This is the first and most obvious rule. You will need to use smaller frames for guns such as regular plasma shooters and machine guns. You will use much larger handles once you’re making guns that shoot saw blades from the bottom and grenades from the top however!;
, These dictate what kind of projectiles your gun uses. Always make sure you’re using combos that make sense. You need to find your own balance between those powerful tools that rip necromorphs to pieces, and the smaller less powerful tools that will keep them at bay.


For example, it may seem like a great idea to pack two powerhouses on one gun, but that is not always the case. Two powerhouses also will mean slow shots.
 Use the tips to adjust exactly how your tool fires. There are hundreds of different ways you can make different tips and tools work together. The best way to figure it out is to experiment!


For example, you really love that pneumatic torch but wish there was a way you could make the fire come out in a smaller area with more power. Easy peasy: you would need to attach a compressor.
 You can have up to two attachments on your weapon at all times, and they alter the way your gun fires in general. You can connect a safety guard if you’re using a grenade launcher. This will prevent you from taking any splash damage if you should happen to get trigger-happy in a narrow hallway.
 It’s the last way that you can edit your gun. Most tools can hold up to 4, so 8 total for each of your guns. These have a variety of effects that alter the damage you do, your reload speed, ammo capacity and more.


The more you begin to think about it the more you realize that in Dead Space 3 your guns really are all your own. You can make them, experiment, change a few things, and try again. Before you know it you will have your ultimate weapon combo!

, This is used for one-handed weapons which prove to be most efficient. At a crafting station, simply go to "Frame," and select it from the list of available frames.
 For this custom weapon a good combination of tools would be the plasma core as the top tool and the pneumatic torch as the bottom tool. They can be added at a crafting station by going to the tool section of the crafting table, scrolling through your list of tools and selecting them.
 If you choose the plasma core, go with a compact-directed ejection field. This tip will spread out your plasma shots further so that you can hit more enemies per shot. Keep the torch as is, this way if enemies get close you can burn them to a crisp over a large area. These can be added by going to the tips section on the crafting table and selecting the appropriate tip.
 The best ones for this weapon would be a damage support for your torch. This way the fire can inflict even more damage if you get into a bad situation. Also, for your plasma core you’re going to want to stick with a stasis coating. This will make it so that every time you shoot something it slows it down with stasis, allowing you to get even more shots off. These can be added and crafted from any crafting bench.
 This is used for one-handed weapons which prove to be most efficient. At a crafting station, simply go to "Frame," and select it from the list of available frames.
 To make the Shootbanger, you need to set the upper tool to the military engine, and then set your lower tool to the survey charge. This can be done by going to the crafting station, and selecting the tool tips on the weapon-part crafting menu.
 You should set your top tool tip to the rail accelerator. The bottom tip is set to default in the blueprint; however, you can add your own custom tip. These can be added by going to the tips section on the weapon-crafting table and selecting the appropriate tip.
 The weapon attachments for these weapons are set to attach one as being the ammo sweeper. The second attachment would be the safety guard. These can be added and crafted from any crafting bench by going to the weapon attachments on the weapon-crafting table and selecting it.
 This is used for one-handed weapons which prove to be most efficient. At a crafting station, simply go to "Frame," and select it from the list of available frames.
 To make The Shocker, you need to make the upper tool the survey charge, and then make the lower tip the electrocution module. This can be done by going to the crafting station and selecting the appropriate tool tips on the weapon-part crafting menu.
 Set your upper tool tip to the compressor. The bottom tip is default in the blueprint; however, you can add your own custom tip. These can be added by going to the tips section on the weapon-crafting table, and selecting the appropriate tip.
 Finally, you must set the first attachment to the safety guard, and then set the second attachment to the flame glaze. These can be added and crafted from any crafting bench by going to the weapon attachments on the weapon-crafting table and selecting it.