 This is a point that may need to be reiterated to your children, as it is vital that they understand they are not the reason you and your spouse are separating. Help them express themselves by encouraging them to talk about how they’re feeling with you.Understand that you may need to specifically remind them that the divorce is not their fault, by saying things like, “We decided to get a divorce so we won’t fight as often, but we’re still your parents and we will still both always be here for you.”

, Your children will experience several different strong emotions in response to the news of your separation. However, they may internalize their feelings, or struggle to express them. Help them find words for how they’re feeling by asking if they’re sad or frustrated when you notice they’re mood change.Know that your children’s feelings may fluctuate. They may seem to be okay with everything one day, but become very upset the next.
Let them know that whatever they’re feeling is entirely okay, and that they should feel free to be entirely honest with you.
 Show them that you trust them, and that they can trust you, by verbally acknowledging the legitimacy of the feelings they share with you. Don’t ever say they shouldn’t feel a certain way, or ignore any emotions they’re experiencing. Say things like “I understand why you feel that way, and I’m sorry that this is so hard for all of us.”, If you provide consistent love and support for your children, they will be able to deal with the reality of your divorce. Do not hesitate to express your love and reassurance; remind them often that you love them and that you will always be there for them.Most importantly, be there for them. This means spending time with your kids and allowing them the space and opportunity to speak with you about how they’re feeling when they feel comfortable doing so.
 Watch out for signs that your child is having trouble handling the emotions they're feeling after your divorce. This includes children of all ages, from infancy to adulthood. Aside from counselors and therapists, some of whom specialize with working with children, there are support groups online and in-person for children going through their parents' divorce.


Recognize that even your adults children may suffer from troubling emotions following your divorce, and watch out for signs that they may need additional support.