 Many doctors, when they don't know the prognosis for a condition, will act like it's more severe than it really is. Even parents of kids with very mild chromosome disorders have been told their child will never walk or talk and/or will die in infancy. If your child has a rare syndrome, take dire prognoses with a grain of salt.;
, Most people have 46 chromosomes, arranged in 23 pairs. One pair is the sex chromosomes, which in males is usually XY and in females XX. The other 22 pairs, known as autosomes, are numbered by size, with chromosome 1 being the biggest. Each chromosome has a longer arm, called the q arm, and a shorter arm, called the p arm. Each arm has bands that are numbered, with the band closest to the middle (centromere) being numbered 11.1.


The terminus, which is shortened to 'ter', is the tip of the chromosome. When a chromosome disorder is described as 'terminal', this does not mean it causes death, it means it involves the terminus of the chromosome. Deletion or monosomy means they have only one copy of a chromosome or chromosome segment, while trisomy or duplication means they have three copies. Nullisomy means no copies, tetrasomy or pentasomy means four or five copies.
A translocation is when two chromosomes swap material. If it is balanced, this means the same number of copies of material is present, but they are arranged differently - for example they have part of 3q on 2q and part of 2q on 3q, but it all adds up to the same thing. If it is unbalanced, the child has trisomy and/or monosomy for some part of the involved chromosomes. For example, they may have part of 2q missing and part of 3q in it's place, causing partial monosomy of 2q and partial trisomy of 3q. In an unbalanced translocation, the abnormal chromosome is called the derivative chromosome, or der for short. So they may write t(2;3)der(2) to indicate the child has the 2 with chromosome 3 material instead of the 3 with chromosome 2 material. Very often, an unbalanced translocation is inherited from a parent with a balanced translocation, but it can also occur as a new mutation, which is called 'de novo'.
 There may not be much out there, but find what you can, because it can give you an idea what to expect for your child. Be careful to pay attention to what specific chromosome region is affected, including what bands are involved - even though they both have 22q deletion, kids with 22q11 deletion have a totally different syndrome from 22q13 deletion. Also keep in mind duplication/trisomy versus deletion/monosomy, because these are genetic opposites.


When reading medical case studies, remember that they focus on the negative. You're probably not going to hear the doctor talk about how sweet and caring the child is, or how much their parents feel lucky for knowing him/her, because it's not medically relevant. You will learn about some of the health problems your kid could face.
 Infancy is the worst time. For the vast majority of chromosome disorders, the most serious associated health problems show up in infancy. There are many kids with chromosome disorders who die before their first birthday, but the longer your kid lives, the longer their expected life expectancy is. If they've made it past about 2 or 3 years old, plan for them to live to adulthood, if not have a completely normal life expectancy.
 If you can find other parents of kids with the same or overlapping chromosome disorders, great, but even parents of kids with completely different conditions can be a great source of support. At the bottom of this page, I've listed several support organizations for parents of kids with rare chromosome organizations. Especially check out UNIQUE, because they have written up leaflets on many rare chromosome disorders. If your child has one of the conditions they have a leaflet for, that can be a great source of information.
 Early intervention is important. As soon as your child is medically stable, sign them up for physical, occupational and speech therapy - even if they are still a tiny baby. This will help them reach their full potential. Although very few kids with chromosome disorders are so affected that they can't walk or talk, most have some degree of cognitive or learning disability. The more they can do for themselves, the less support they will need from others in adulthood. Make sure, when your child is in therapy, to ask the therapists to show you activities you can do at home.
 A child with a chromosome disorder can take up a lot of parents' time and effort, but if you don't take care of yourself, you can't give the best to your child. Also take care of your marriage - many couples with disabled children end up divorced, but those who support each other often say their marriage became stronger as a result. And if you have other children, remember that growing up with a sibling with a disability can be tough, but it can also help your children become better people.


The important thing is to make sure that, with all your responsibilities for the child with the disability, you don't overlook the other kids. Make sure they have some time with you that is only for them.
 Remember, the chromosome region that is affected is only one small part of the child's total genetic makeup. Your child is a unique individual, with the same mix of good or bad qualities as any other child. There are even some chromosome disorders, such as Williams Syndrome (7q11 deletion), which cause talents as part of the condition. Don't think too much about the non-disabled child you wished you'd had, and focus on enjoying the special child you have.

