 This will be the length of your glove. The finished glove will extend from the top of your palm/knuckles, down past your wrist, and onto your forearm. If you want a shorter glove, cast on fewer stitches. If you want a longer glove, cast on more stitches.Leave a long tail on you yarn. You'll be using it to stitch the glove together in the end.
Use medium worsted weight yarn (size 4) and size 8 knitting needles.;
, This will create a bumpy, purl pattern on both sides of you work. How many rows you knit depends on how wide your palm/forearm is. For most people, however, this will be about 48 rows.Do not alternate between knitting and purling. You want to knit on every row. This will allow the glove to stretch both ways

, Cast off your work first. Cut the yarn, and pull the tail end through the last loop. Gently tug on the tail end to tighten the loop. Do not cut the tail end off.
 The cast on and cast off stitches should run up the side of your arm and palm. The side edges of the piece are now the top and bottom of your glove. Place your hand over the folded piece, with the top of your palm against the top edge. Take note where you thumb starts.
 Thread the tail end onto a yarn needle. Keeping your work folded in half, whipstitch down the long, side edge until you reach your thumb.Pass the needle through both of the edges of the piece.
 Once the top part of your glove is long enough to reach your thumb, tie the yarn to itself. Weave the tail end back up the seam, then trim the excess off.
 Place your hand against the glove, and note where your wrist is/the base of your thumb is. This will be about 5 inches (12 centimeters). Thread the bottom tail end of your work, and sew up the side of your glove using a whipstitch. Stop when you reach the wrist area/base of your thumb., When the glove is sewn together, you'll have a hole in the side seam for your thumb. If you are happy with the size of the hole, tie the yarn to itself. Weave the tail end back down a few inches/centimeters, then cut the excess off.
 These gloves are reversible. There is no left or right glove, so you can measure the second glove against the same hand.

