 Essential oils are distilled from leaves, stems, flowers, bark, roots, or other elements of plants or herbs. They're often added to neutral, or "carrier" oils such as jojoba, grapeseed, almond or olive oil. Essential oils can help circulation, cleanse the scalp to encourage follicle growth.


Unlike water-based treatments, oil is easily absorbed by the skin.
Herbal oil treatments for hair loss can be found in many natural food stores or pharmacies.
Massaging essential oils into scalp also increases relaxation. One of the causes of hair loss is stress, which releases cortisol around the hair follicles and causes them to deteriorate.Thus, using an herbal essential oil to help care for hair loss will be effective on two fronts!

, Simply add 3 to 4 drops of essential oil (or a blend) to a tablespoon of a light-textured carrier oil, such as jojoba, grapeseed, almond or olive oil.


Peppermint oil stimulates the scalp, improving hair growth and treating the scalp. It will also help the overall health of the scalp, and increase the ability of the hair follicles to bind to the hair.Mustard oil, combined with a tincture of henna, is an ancient remedy for balding hair. Boil henna leaves together with a few drops of mustard oil, then strain into a clean glass jar. Massage into scalp daily for best results.Other essential oils that have been shown to be effective for treating hair loss include clary sage, lavender, lemongrass, rosemary and white thyme., Gently move your fingers over the scalp. This serves to stimulate circulation, and relax the tension of the scalp.


Be careful not to pull or tug at the hair.
Work the oil into the hair by gently rubbing oil onto the length of the shaft.
 The longer you leave the oil on your scalp and hair, the more benefits you'll be likely to see. For best results, allow oil to remain on your scalp overnight.


You may wish to wrap your hair in a warm, dry towel as the oil soaks into the skin and hair. This will prevent oil from getting on your sheets and pillow.
During the day, wearing a shower cap will help prevent the hair oil from staining furniture or clothing.
 Oil that's been used to treat your hair and scalp will have been absorbed by this point. What's left on your hair is excess.


Depending on your hair type and consistency. It may be easy to rinse out, or it might take several repetitions with your regular shampoo.
If your hair continues to feel oily, wash again using a clarifying shampoo. Clarifying shampoos have been specially formulated to help restore hair to a healthy balance.
Follow any shampooing with gentle conditioner.

