 Even if you enjoy ironing, ironing hundreds of clothes in a week is a lot different than just ironing your own. Think carefully about whether you'll be able to keep up, and be sure you have enough time to meet the demand of a work from home ironing service.;
, If customers will be coming to your home for pickup, there may be zoning issues with parking and traffic. Unless you are doing a very high volume, this shouldn't be a problem.
 Find out how to start an ironing service, and decide whether you need to apply for a Federal Tax ID. They can also show you how to handle taxes and set up your business.
 Get the best iron you can, as well as a backup in case it breaks. Get a clean, wide, sturdy ironing board. You'll need a clothing rack and tags to keep clothes sorted and organized. A steamer and a dryer with a wrinkle removing setting can help to remove heavy wrinkles from clothing before you iron it. Invest in starch, wire hangers and plastic clothes bags to cover the finished clothes. Look into having hanger covers or bags printed with your business name.
 This is a job that can be done as a home business, but you could also consider ironing at your clients' homes, or renting a space at a dry cleaner or laundromat. Find a space in your home or office where you can keep the ironing board and supplies set up and ready to avoid taking extra time for preparation.
 If you choose this option, you'll need a clean car that has enough space to transport ironed clothes without wrinkling them. Allow time in your schedule for dropping off clothes. It might be helpful to drop off several clients' clothes at once on a predetermined route.
 This will cover the cost to replace customers' clothing if they get lost or damaged. There's always a chance that clothes will get damaged or that customers will blame you for damage they didn't see. In addition, it will cover loss that could occur from fire, theft or other damage while the clothes are in your home.
 You'll have to take care of billing, accounting, customer service and marketing.
 Decide how much you want to make per hour. Then think about how much time it will take to iron each piece. You can offer quantity discounts, and add charges for heavily wrinkled or special clothing and delivery. Make sure the charge is attractive to customers while providing you enough profit to keep your business going.
 You can advertise online at Craigslist and local online classifieds. Put advertisements in your local paper. Hang brochures at laundromats, dry cleaners, grocery stores and other businesses in your area.

