 Select "Kind" in the drop-down list of parameters and then type in Protected AAC Audio File. Name this list something that you'll remember, like "DRM smart list".
 Name something like "DRM Workflow." You can do this by clicking File, New Playlist. Alternately, click the Plus button at the bottom-left corner of the window.
 Select all of the files found by the smart playlist, and drag them into the new playlist. This will allow you to accurately track your progress while converting the files.
 You can create as many playlists as you like. However, you may find that four is plenty.
 Click on your pre-conversion playlist and select about an hour of music. Starting at the top, select music, while keeping track of how long the selection is at the bottom. Drag and drop this selection to the first playlist labeled "Disc 1".


The playlist should be about 18-21 songs for most music. Certain styles of music (e.g. classical, metal, psychedelic, ambient) that are known for long songs may fit fewer songs to each CD. You may need to handle books on tape differently.
 Set the gap between songs to be "none" so that there is no extra time taking up storage space between your files. Also include the CD text, which will retain much of the information (but not all) about the songs on the CD.
 When you burn the disk, iTunes may inform you that you are limited to burning 7 discs.Depending on when you purchased the songs, you may not even get this warning. If you do, simply click "OK". Allow iTunes to completely burn the CD. This will usually take less than 10 minutes. iTunes will usually indicate that it's finished with a chime.
 For best interoperability, select the WAV file format. However, the WAV format produces very large files since it does not compress any information. Most commercial music players today will also accept the MP3 file format. If you are not sure, select MP3 encoding. To ensure you have the highest quality, select the highest bit rate available. For spoken speech, a lower quality is usually better.
 Importing usually takes 10 minutes. While this is working, you can continue to the next step.
 Make sure that you can tell the difference between your newly imported songs and your existing DRM songs. Go back to your "Disc 1" playlist and select all the songs. Right-mouse-click the selection and click "Get Info". Most, if not all, of the fields should be blank. Type in "DRM" or "M4P" in the "Comments" section, and then hit OK.
 Once iTunes has finished importing the CD, go to your music collection. Click File, Display Duplicates. Add the "Comments" column by right-mouse-clicking the table headers and selecting "Comments". Examine the duplicate songs, making note of both the artist and song title. Select the song with "DRM" in the comments. Hold down the control button to select more than one DRM song. Scroll down until all the songs you want to delete are selected.


Hit the delete button on your keyboard or right-mouse-click and click Delete. When iTunes asks, choose to have the files moved to your Trash/Recycle Bin.
 If you wish to keep your DRM files, select them from your Trash/Recycle bin and copy them to a new folder. Repeat the steps until you've converted all of the files in question.

