 Trying to paint ceiling corners with a bunch of furniture in the way will only make a hard job even harder. Plus, you risk dripping paint on your furniture by accident. Pull furniture away from the walls and move it to the center of the room before you get started. If you’re painting the whole ceiling and not just the ceiling corners, remove your furniture to another room entirely., Lay blue painter’s tape along the entire perimeter of the wall where it meets the ceiling. This will prevent the paint you’re applying to the ceiling from accidentally getting on the wall., Lay down a drop cloth before you start working. If you don’t have a dropcloth, use an old set of sheets.If you’re only painting ceiling corners, you can probably get away with just laying down some thick cardboard or a layer of newspapers beneath the corner in question.
 Painting ceiling corners can be messy. Wear heavy overalls or old clothes when painting. Do not wear new clothes or anything that you might be concerned about if it got paint on it.Disposable rubber gloves might also be useful.
Wear a hat, too, to protect your head.
 To start the process, dip a five or six-centimeter-wide (three-inch-wide) paintbrush into your paint of choice. Move the brush along the ceiling in one continuous direction, painting a six-centimeter (three-inch) margin of the ceiling.Use a ladder to reach the ceiling. Place your bucket of paint on top of it. If the ceiling corners you wish to paint are too tall to reach with a ladder, erect scaffolding.
Paint the edge of the ceiling as thickly as possible without the paint dripping., When you reach the corner of the wall, begin painting another continuous margin along the adjoining wall, heading away from the corner. Use your paintbrush to paint this strip, too. This second margin along the ceiling should be just as wide as the first strip you painted., After painting a strip of paint across the entire perimeter of the ceiling, dip your loaded roller into the paint of your choice. Roll it towards the ceiling corner you’re interested in painting in such a way that it overlaps a bit with the area you just painted with the paintbrush. Roll in one direction toward the opposite side of the room.Do not place the roller directly overhead or you risk dripping paint on yourself.
Use a roller with a nap of more than ½ inch (one centimeter)., You’ll be able to tell that you need more paint on your loaded roller when you notice that it is no longer applying paint to the ceiling. When this happens, dip – but do not submerge – your roller in paint., After your first corner has been painted, paint the ceiling in strips that touch each other, and that run parallel to the direction in which you painted the first corner. For instance, if you painted the ceiling corner by pushing the loaded roller from the front to the back of your room, continue applying paint by moving the loaded roller along a front-to-back axis.In this way, you’ll paint two corners, then the rest of the ceiling, then the final two corners.
 As you paint the ceiling, step back and examine your progress. Look for areas where the paint has been applied unevenly (that is, areas where the paint is too light). Roll the loaded roller across these areas when you detect them., If you decide to apply a second coat, use the same method you did the first time – use the loaded roller to apply the paint in parallel strips – but move in a direction perpendicular to the strips you applied the first time.