 You want to cause discussion, to keep people thinking about your business. An added benefit is the frequently lower capital investment needed to get your message to the public. Go direct to your customers with a few different options to maximize your results.


Segway advertising would be an odd way to draw attention. It’s just a matter of putting the ads on segways, and having a blast by driving them around downtown or at a mall. Wave at people, use the novelty of the segways to draw them into a discussion about your lawn care service.
Urinals and bathroom stalls are perfect for captive audiences. Their attention is guaranteed! For urinals, place them on the wall at about eye-level. For stalls just use the back of the door where you’d usually read the graffiti or nothing at all. Finding a way to tie-in the activity to your lawn care could be an unusual way to amuse and be memorable.
Wrap your car!Car billboards are mobile marketing that goes beyond the typical bumper stickers. Supplement the typical car or truck signage with an eye-catching car wrap.
 Many have become famous and successful because of e-popularity, and viral marketing can extend beyond the internet. After something takes off, word of mouth and texts often propagate the message further. A great example of such a phenomenon is the Subservient Chicken campaign.Make a ridiculous video and post it to Youtube or Vine. Shares and forwards will flood the market, making you a brand name.
Create a meme that combines a funny or clever phrase with your company's logo or image.Meme generators are a great way to produce something funny in a minimal amount of time.
Stage a flash mob! The flash mob itself will create a buzz, get recorded and posted online, be talked about. All you have to do is get your advertising in the same area to gain attention.Getting a bunch of people to sing or dance has been successful numerous times.Freeze mobs are pretty clever and attention-getting. Stage one near a large, public area with poorly manicured grass to draw attention.Use a professional organization to book a flash mob for your grand opening.Make a bang and get your company name known.
 Conventional flyer locations reaches a specific market, but being sure to get your advertisements in other hands is difficult. Putting your flyers inside another product is a surprise for the reader, and a possible new set of eyes on your business.


Check out magazines at grocery stores are a great spot to slip in an ad. While waiting in line, grab a handful of flyers and put one each in several magazines.
Doctor and dentist offices are very target-rich environments. They usually have a variety of books, magazines, journals, and assorted periodicals that would be perfect locations to stash your flyers.
Newspapers work perfectly for this technique. Sunday newspapers with their tons of ads works even better. Simply slide the flyers in amongst the coupons and assorted extras.
Library books related to your business are an unconventional target, but they might be a great location. Find books about seeding, watering, mulching, anything related to lawn care, and put in a flyer. The creativity could be appreciated by a potential customer.

