 A great name will help grab attention and encourage attendance. Go with a cute, clever, or seasonal name and theme to spark the interest of your community.For example, the Jacksonville Humane Shelter has held “Pitter Patter of Little Paws Kitten Shower” and “Purrs and Paws Kitten Shower.”

, Tap the graphic design talents of a volunteer or see if someone on the shelter staff can design invitations, flyers, and other promotional materials. Include the date, time, and location of the event, as well as a list of needed supplies that guests can donate.It’s always a good idea to include lots of kitten pictures on your invitations and flyers.
If the shelter or humane society office can’t print a high volume of flyers, ask a local print shop for a donation. Post printed flyers in locations like restaurants, coffee shops, pet stores, groomers.
 In the weeks leading up to the shower, have your volunteers promote the event regularly via their Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram accounts. If the shelter has an email list, send an invitation and one or two reminder emails. Post information about the event on the shelter website and social media accounts. If your troop, group, or organization has a web presence, be sure to promote the shower there as well., Let people know exactly what the shelter or humane society needs, from food and water bowls to cat nail clippers. Include the list on the flyers and invitations. Consider using an online registry to help ensure a broader range of items.You can create an Amazon.com registry and share it via email and social media. You can find instructions on how to make a registry in Amazon’s help section., Three weeks before the event, send a press release that describes the event to your local newspapers and news channels. Send another press release three days before the event.At the top, title the press release with a concise headline, such as, "Local Animal Shelter Hosts Kitten Shower and Supply Drive."
Include the event's location, date, time, and a brief description of the shower. Be sure to list suggested donations.
Include contact information for the shelter and shower organizer in case a media outlet has questions or wants an interview.

