 Unlike most games of chance, the winner is determined not just by who gets dealt the best cards, but by who can best outplay the others with bluffs, reads and careful betting. If you develop good poker skills, and get seated at a table with poor players, you could have a significant advantage.


Learn the habits of your opponents. Poker involves as much personality as strategy. Some people will always call a bluff, while others can be easily pushed out of a pot by aggressive betting. It takes time to learn these habits, however, so don't get carried away psychoanalyzing players you just sat down with.






Play to your outs. As in all these games, learning to calculate the odds that you will turn over the card you need is the best way to win consistently and avoid long-shot bets.






Draw in suckers. While bluffing is definitely flashier, a more consistent way to increase your winnings is to wait until you get a good hand and then use strategic betting to draw the other players into betting more than they should.
 Blackjack has enough strategy that you can get ahead if you know what you are doing.
Know when to split. If you get two different suits of the same card, you can split them into two hands, but this only favors you with certain numbers.
Never split fives—together they add up to 10, which gives you good odds.
Don't split face cards or 10s—they already add up to 20, a great score.
Don’t play using the Martingale betting system. According to the theory, players should double after each loss, and keep on doubling until they win. But, there are too many risks involved, as a lot of blackjack tables have maximum bet sizes.
Always split As and 8s unless rules like no-peek or hit 17 are in effect.
Splitting aces is usually good, but casinos often have house rules limiting this.
Double down when advantageous. Doubling down allows you to double your bet after receiving your first two cards, but requires you to stand after receiving exactly one more card. This lets you make more money when you have a favorable hand compared to the dealer. Computer simulations have been run to determine the best situations to double down, so find the correct chart and memorize it.
Count cards. Blackjack is famously a game in which it is sometimes possible to count cards. It requires very difficult mental gymnastics, but can confer an advantage when done right. Card counters don't just play each hand as separate and random. Instead they keep track of each card turned over by the dealer, and then calculate by implication which cards are left in the deck. Thus you can know to place a large bet when the remaining cards offer you a mathematical advantage.
Card counting is technically legal, but casinos often do not allow it. If they suspect you are counting cards, you will be asked to stop playing or leave the casino.
Cheating and stealing money is illegal, but there are ways to get around it (like having someone or something incapable of committing a crime do it, bribe them , or having someone capable of doing so because of position do so.

