 You need to confirm which prison the inmate is housed at. Most states have “inmate lookup” services that you can use online. For example, you can find an inmate in Illinois prisons by visiting the Illinois Department of Corrections website. You can search by last name, date of birth, or prisoner identification number.In the United States, you can find a prisoner in the federal system by visiting the Federal Bureau of Prisons and entering the prisoner’s Inmate Register Number.In England and Wales, you can find a prisoner by visiting https://www.gov.uk/find-prisoner. There is an email and fax number provided for you to contact.;
, Many prisons now have websites. On the website, you can find important information for planning your trip. Look for the website so that you can find out how to schedule a visit. You will also want information about what you can bring.
 If the prison does not have a website, then you need to call and ask about restrictions. To find the prison’s phone number, do an Internet search. Prisons set their own rules for visitation, so you need to speak to someone at the prison directly. Find out the following:


how to get put on the prisoner’s visitation list
what identification you need
what items are prohibited from being brought into the prison
any dress code

, You probably need the inmate to put you on his or her visiting list in order to visit. Once you are put on the list, prison officials will have to clear you to visit.


Most prisons ask prisoners to create a visiting list. The inmate then lists family members, friends, and professionals (like attorneys or parole advisors) on the list.You need to be added to the list before you can visit. In order to ask the inmate to put you on, you will probably need to write a letter and ask to be put on. You should also include relevant information that the inmate might need, such as your full name, address, and phone number., Some (but not all) prisons will require you to complete a visitor application. You should complete all information accurately and completely. You may be denied entrance if you do not.Sometimes these applications will be sent to you before you arrive at the prison, and in some prisons you will fill them out as you wait to be admitted.
 Sometimes prisons go into “lockdown.” In these situations, no one can enter. Similarly, inmates can lose visitation privileges if they are put in solitary confinement. So that you don’t waste a trip to the prison, you should call and ask if visitation hours are being kept as usual., Prison authorities might deny you entrance if you are dressed too provocatively. You should aim for a conservative style of dress, although you do not need to “dress up.” Be sure to avoid wearing the following:revealing shorts or miniskirts
halter tops, see-through garments, and belly shirts
low cut blouses, sleeveless shirts, or dresses with slits up the side, front, or back
baseball hats
military fatigues or other clothing that looks like inmate clothing

, You should give yourself plenty of time to find the prison and locate parking. Plan on arriving 15-20 minutes early so that you can fill out any necessary paperwork., Prisons strictly limit what you can bring into the prison. Many prisons will have lockers that you can rent for a quarter. You may store items in the lockers that you do not want to leave in your car. Generally, visitors may only bring in the following:your identification
single car key
eyeglasses
bills or change to use with the vending machine
a bottle and diaper for a baby

, You will need valid identification that proves who you are. Generally, a valid driver’s license or passport should be sufficient. If you don’t have either, then a valid government-issued identification card should also work.


Check with the prison before showing up for visitation. You want to make sure that you have an acceptable form of identification.
 You will have to go through a metal detector. Also, drug-sniffing dogs may be present, to try and find people who are transporting drugs., During the visit itself, you should behave in a respectable manner: no shouting or inappropriate gestures. Security is watching to make sure that the visitation area remains orderly.You should always remain respectful of those around you and not cause too much noise or distraction.


You may be limited in the amount of touching allowed. Prisons may allow hugs, handshakes, and kisses at the beginning and end of the visit. Otherwise, the guards stationed during visitation may limit touching so that visitors aren’t smuggling contraband to prisoners.
If a guard tells you to stop touching, then you should comply with the order. You may be removed from the visitation if you fail to comply.

