 Fiber helps absorb fluid in your intestines and make your stool bulkier, which in turn helps the bowels contract and push the stool out. It is important, however, that you try to incorporate more fiber into your diet before trying a supplement as this is truly the best way to get more fiber. Most bulk-forming agents can be taken in capsule or powder form and mixed with 8 oz of water or fruit juice. Follow any directions on the label and only take the recommended dosage. Potential side effects include increased flatulence, cramping, and bloating. Most people see results within 12 hours to 3 daysCommon bulk-forming laxatives include:



Psyllium - Psyllium is a soluble fiber used to increase bulk and stimulate the bowels to contract and release stool with ease. A significant amount of research has suggested that psyllium can relieve constipation. You can find psyllium in the widely available product Metamucil. You must drink at least 8 oz of liquid when you take psyllium.Polycarbophil - Polycarbophil calcium has been shown in several studies to help treat chronic constipation., With the main ingredient being mineral oil, lubricants work by coating the surface of stool, which helps the stool keep fluid and pass more easily. Most people see results within hours of consumption. Popular brand names available in most pharmacies include Fleet and Zymenol. Lubricants are simple and inexpensive laxatives, but should only be used as a short-term prescription. The mineral oil in lubricants can decrease the effectiveness of certain prescription drugs and can also inhibit the absorption of fat-soluble vitamin and minerals in your body.Lubricant laxatives are generally taken at bedtime and may be taken orally on an empty stomach and in an upright position. Be sure to drink at least 8 oz of water or juice after you take this laxative.Physicians do not recommend mineral oil for persistent treatment of constipation., Better known as stool softeners, emollient laxatives, such as Colace and Docusate, work to increase the amount of water in the stool and to thereby soften it. These laxatives take longer to work (usually 1-3 days) but are commonly used by those who are recovery from surgery, women who have just given birth, and individuals suffering from hemorrhoids.Stool softeners come in capsule, tablet, and liquid form, and are generally taken at bedtime. Follow any directions on the label and take only the recommended dosage. Make sure to take capsules and tablets with a full glass of water.
For liquid stool softeners, there should be a marked dropper that helps you measure the exact dose. Ask the pharmacist for help if you're not sure how to use it. Mix the liquid 4 oz of juice or milk to mask its bitter taste and to make it easier to get down.
 Osmotic agents help your stool retain fluid and increase the number of bowel movements. Osmotic laxatives include Fleet Phospho-Soda, Milk of Magnesia, and Miralax, all of which work to draw fluid into the intestines from surrounding tissue. Potential side effects include dehydration, gas, cramps, and a mineral imbalance in your system. Older adults and people with existing heart or kidney problems should be careful when taking osmotic agents because of their dehydrating properties.Osmotic agents come in pill or powder form. Miralax, for example, is a powder that should be dissolved in 4-8 oz of water or fruit juice. The bottle comes with a measure device so that you can take the appropriate dosage (17 g). You can also buy single-dose packets. Follow any other directions on the bottle and only take the recommended dosage., Stimulant laxatives cause the intestines to contract, which moves stool quickly and pushes it out. You should only use stimulants if your constipation is severe and you feel like you require immediate relief. Stimulant laxatives should not be used on a continuing basis to treat chronic constipation. You should see results within 6-10 hours. Popular brands include Ex-Lax, Dulcolax, and Correctol. These laxatives can cause cramping and diarrhea.Stimulant laxatives can be taken orally (in pill, powder, or liquid form) or as a rectal suppository. Always take stimulant laxatives as directed and take only the recommended dosage. This type of laxative is generally taken at bedtime. Stimulant laxatives are the harshest laxatives on the body.They should not be used regularly or daily because they can weaken the body's ability to have a bowel movement on its own. They can also limit your body's ability to absorb vitamin D and calcium. Consult your physician if you're using these laxatives for more than one week., There are also a number of remedies to relieve constipation that involve household ingredients and/or herbs. However, you should note that many of these are not supported by strong scientific research. Consult with your pediatrician before giving any of these remedies to your child. Some of the most popular natural or herbal remedies for constipation include:



Aloe vera - Aloe juice or aloe latex, a yellow, bitter liquid derived from the skin of the aloe leaf, is a powerful laxative and can stimulate bowel movements. However, it can cause painful cramping and physicians do not recommend its use as a laxative. Baking soda - As a bicarbonate solution when mixed with water, baking soda helps relieve constipation and can also provide relief from stomach aches. Mix 1 teaspoon of baking soda in a 1/4 cup of warm water and drink the mixture.You could also try taking a bath with baking soda, by adding 2 tablespoons of baking soda to the bathwater and then soaking in the water for 5-10 minutes. This may help loosen the stool.Blackstrap molasses - Mix 2 teaspoons of blackstrap molasses in a cup of warm water. Then drink up. Blackstrap molasses is rich in magnesium, which helps ease bowel movements.Lemon juice - Lemon juice helps to cleanse the intestine and induce bowel movements. Add 1 teaspoon of lemon juice to a glass of warm water and add a pinch of salt. Drink the solution on an empty stomach., If you find yourself using a laxative for more than 1 week, you should consult your physician. Laxative abuse can actually worsen constipation, as your body may come to rely on the laxative in order to pass a stool.YNever use laxatives to be "regular". Always try to incorporate more fiber into your diet first.