
"Chips" are crisps.
A "cookie" is a biscuit.
A "biscuit" is a small piece of soft bread.;
,
The "second floor" is the first floor.
An "elevator" is a lift.
"Apartment" is the general word for a flat.

The "hood" is the bonnet.
A "traffic circle" is a roundabout. Some Americans may use "roundabout" as well. In the Northeast it's sometimes called a "rotary".
The colours of traffic lights are red, green and yellow (not amber).
An "Amber alert" is an announcement over radio, TV, and electronic highway signs that inform the public that a child has just been reported missing (along with any relevant details, such as a physical description of the child and the make and color of the car they were last seen in).
A "truck" is a lorry.
A "sidewalk" is the pavement. "Pavement" commonly refers to the street.
"Gasoline" or "gas" is petrol.
"Airplane" is used instead of aeroplane.
 One doesn't talk about going to the toilet or going to use the toilet. That is considered a little strange or "TMI" (too much information). "Bathroom" is most common; "restroom" is reserved for polite company, people you don't know that well, when out at a restaurant, etc. 'Going to the bathroom' is the most common. Children are asked if they need to "use the potty" or if they need to "go potty" (not common after age eight or so).
"Restroom" is always used in public places. A "bathroom" usually means there's also a tub, but it can refer to a public toilet. "Washroom" can refer to either.
An "eraser" is a rubber. Most Americans think of a rubber as a condom, so this is an important one. Most Americans say "condom," so if someone says "rubber," it may be a reference to a condom. Sometimes it can refer to rubber footwear worn over shoes as protection in wet weather. It may simply be best to confine your use of the word to the elastic substance grown on trees.
 "Garbage" often means kitchen waste, while "trash" may refer to paper or other general waste.
"Garbage" goes in the "trash can" or "garbage can." In either case, it is acceptable to omit the "can" (just put it "in the trash").
Occasionally the trash can is referred to as a/the "circular file," especially in a humorous sense.
People sometimes refer to throwing something out as having "eighty-sixed" it. What did Jim do with the old Smith file? He 86'ed it. What should I do with this form? Eighty-six it.
A "garbage bag" or "trash bag" is a bin liner.
A "dumpster" is the colloquial term for a large trash container or a dust bin.
A "dump" is a tip.
 American "trousers" commonly refers to men's nice or formal pants. Women's dress pants are usually called "slacks", though slacks may also refer to men's dress pants.
"Panties" are women's undergarments, and "underwear" refers to either women's or men's undergarments. Loose fitting underwear are called "boxers". The more form-fitting, knit underwear are called "briefs" if they do not extend below the upper thigh. They are "boxer briefs" if they end at mid-thigh.
"Long underwear" can be worn by either men or women and are worn over regular underwear for added warmth. Long underwear provides coverage like that of a long-sleeve shirt and pants.
"Sneakers" or "tennis shoes" are trainers. "Trainers" or "personal trainers" are generally personal fitness coaches or athletic trainers (healthcare professionals associated with sports that focus on injury/ illness prevention/ assessment and first-aid emergency care).

A "vacation" is a holiday or a trip to get away from ordinary life. This is quite important, because an American "holiday" only means a special day, such as Christmas or Thanksgiving. Americans say that they are "going on (a) vacation" if they are actually going away somewhere. They never say they are "going on holiday". One might say they have a specific holiday off of work. For example, " Do you have the holiday off? Thanksgiving? Yes, I do have it off". If you have a week of vacation off from work but you are not going anywhere but instead are staying home and relaxing around the house, you are nevertheless "on vacation".
A "flashlight" is a torch.
"Dish detergent" is washing-up liquid or liquid or powder to wash dishes.
"Next ___day" is ___day next (for example, we are going "on vacation next Thursday").
When Americans speak of "football," they are of course referring to American football. "Soccer" is used to describe what most people in the world know as football.

