 Since it’s part of their job, many police dogs will be aggressive. Be prepared for an aggressive dog and make allowances for this.


Consider dogs with varying temperaments. When you adopt, the adoption agency will try to match a dog with the right temperament to you. Be honest about what you’re comfortable and uncomfortable with.
Take care of your adopted dog like you would any other dog, but make sure that you make allowances for its quirks. Retired police or military dogs have to adjust to civilian life. It will take time for them to feel comfortable in a home.Keep your family safe. Most organizations will typically not allow a family with cats or children under five to adopt a retired police dog. Know that your police dog can be aggressive towards pets or children., Taking care of a retired police dog requires a combination of firmness and understanding. If you’re not used to being around dogs or have never trained dogs, a retired police dog may not be for you.


Read about the problems of a retired police dog. It may also be useful to talk to the dog’s former handlers as well.
Talk to dog trainers about how to handle trained dogs. They may be able to offer some useful tips for you when you welcome the dog into a new home.
Be prepared to deal with aggression. Know the ways to handle an aggressive dog and the best ways to calm them down.If you are an inexperienced dog handler, you might want to reconsider getting a police dog. Don’t try to handle a retired police dog if you are uncertain of what you’re doing.
Get the police dog a new home if you cannot handle it. It’s important to give the dog a good home even if that’s not with you.
 Your retired police dog is trained as an officer of the law. Be prepared to deal with situations where this training might come out.


Police dogs are trained to protect. This may be property or a person, but know that retired police dogs will attack if they think the thing they are protecting is in danger.
Police dogs are trained to pursue. They will go in pursuit of things that appear to be a threat. Keep your retired police dog away from anything that they may be encouraged to chase down.
Be wary of strangers around your dog. They may try to protect you if they think any strangers are a threat. Show your dog that any strangers are friendly to you and to your dog.
If threatened, police dogs will attack. Be prepared to control your dog in the case of attempted attack. Do not let your dog attack someone, since that may lead to the dog being put down.
Be prepared to be flexible. A retired police dog is going to have some quirks.

