 Go for a uniform look with candles that are all the same size and shape or vary the size, shape, and color of candles in a centerpiece to create a unique look for the table.


If you’re looking to save on candles, head to your local craft store and buy in bulk.
Determine if you want the candles to sit high on the tables, as you will likely purchase tall, thin candles. If you prefer the candles to sit low on the tables, go for wide and short candles.When choosing colored candles, keep in mind the overall color scheme (if there is one) for the wedding, and treat the candles almost like flowers. Think about which colors will work well together and complement each other.
Be wary when choosing colored candles if they are also scented, as certain scents do not mix well and you do not want to create an unpleasant smell at the tables during the wedding reception.
 You may prefer simple glass holders or you may be looking for something a bit more bold like sleek tapers or twisted metal holders. Consider which holders best complement the candles you have chosen, as well as the overall look of the wedding.


One interesting idea for a rustic look might be to hollow out logs of white birch and use them to hold the candles on the table.You may also want to customize the holders by wrapping them in fabrics like lace or tulle., Combining candlelight with other details like water, mirrors, or flowers creates an intimate setting for the reception and won’t break your budget.


Place mirrors underneath the candles to accentuate the glow of candlelight.
Decorate tree branches with hanging candles and use them as an eyecatching center piece.Create an arrangement of several different sizes and heights of candles and then add in cut flowers in small glass jars or simply lay them around the candles on the table.
 This type of arrangement is a great way to showcase both candles and flowers in water. If you use fresh flowers for this arrangement, assemble them on one day before the wedding or the day of the wedding to ensure the flowers stay fresh.Use any container of your choice. If you are only using one container, look for one that is wide and short so it can fit a few candles and flowers. If you are using several containers, try using ones at different heights or widths.






Fill the container or containers up with water. Leave an inch or two of space. If you’d like to add in more color, add a few drops of food coloring to the water. Add the food coloring prior to pouring the water in the containers so the colors do not leave dye marks on the flowers.






Cut the stems off of the flowers. You really want to showcase the buds of the flowers so remove the stems so there is only about an inch of stem under the buds. Flowers with shapely buds like orchids, roses, and lilies are great options.






Alternatively, you can glue the stems onto the bottom of the container with a glue gun to keep them in place. If you decide to use this method, glue the flowers down before you fill the container with water.






Place the floating candles on the surface of the water, around the flowers. Floating candles are specially made for use near or in water and can burn for several hours to ensure you have beautiful centerpieces throughout the entire reception.