 Ballet slippers, jazz shoes, turning shoes, are best for practicing pirouettes. You need something with good range of motion and support. Modern shoes, such as Capezio Foot Undeez or Dance Paws are also appropriate, which cover and support the ball of your foot. They're easy to slip on and great for quick practices.


You also need to practice pirouettes in a safe place, clear of any sharp objects or obstacles. It's always preferable to practice in a dance studio under supervision.;
, Your retire position should be perfect before you begin to turn, making it important that you learn to place your toe correctly and bend your knee appropriately.









Place your toe into the notch at the top of the front of your knee, staying careful not to over-cross the foot on the leg. You should feel support under your thigh, when you're positioned properly.
 Your shoulders should be directly over your hips. Straighten your supporting leg to keep your releve should be as high as possible, imagine yourself stretching up to the sky, and into the ground.
 Make sure your hips are not tilted to the back, or otherwise off-kilter. Imagine your hips were a fruit bowl. Would your fruit spill? A tilted pelvis can often lead to incorrect turns and eventually knee and back problems.


Make sure you have a strong plie prep but don't stay in your preparation (plie) too long, because then you will lose the momentum, making it difficult to pirouette.
 If you are turning to the right, your left foot will be in front, with your weight evenly distributed between both feet so that you can push off the back foot.
 Hold your right arm curved in front of you. Your palm should be facing your body with the elbow gently curved to the side, your arms rounded and out from your body as if holding a beach ball. Your fingers should be about level with the bottom of your rib cage. Keep your shoulder back.









Hold the other arm out to the side, palm forward and slightly below the shoulder. Keep the elbow in front of your body.

