 You can buy wheatgrass shots at most juice bars or coffee shops. These are small, concentrated amounts of fresh wheatgrass. Since they're usually only around 2 to 4 ounces, you can easily add them to smoothies or just drink them straight.Wheatgrass juice is pretty bitter, which is why it's often added to sweeter fruit drinks.;
, If you're planning on drinking wheatgrass every day, consider making your own fresh wheatgrass juice. You can buy the tender wheatgrass shoots or grow it. You'll need to blend it in a blender designed just for wheatgrass, so the shoots don't clog the blender. Strain the wheatgrass through a mesh strainer and refrigerate it until you're ready to drink it.Try mixing the wheatgrass with carrot juice, pineapple juice, apple juice, or mint.
To make wheatgrass juice, you will need two ounces of fresh wheatgrass, two stalks of celery, two cucumbers, and half a cup parsley. Cut all of the vegetables into small chunks. Put wheatgrass into the juicer first, and add the vegetables in after it. Add water as needed.
 Purchase wheatgrass powder from a natural food store. Look for a powder that's made with wheatgrass juice instead of dried and ground wheatgrass. Your body will absorb the wheatgrass better if it's been processed already. Put the powder into a blender along with your liquids and sweeteners of choice. Blend the mixture until it's smooth. For a sweet wheatgrass drink, blend together:1/2 scoop of wheat grass powder
2 cups (450 g) of fresh or frozen pineapple
1 frozen banana
1 to 2 cups (240 to 480 ml) of coconut water
1 teaspoon of spirulina (optional)

, If you don't have the time to mix up wheatgrass or you don't like drinking it, you can buy wheatgrass supplements. These usually come in tablet form and should just contain wheatgrass powder. Some supplements might also have rice powder to bind the wheatgrass powder into tablet form. Follow the manufacturer's instructions about dosing.


For example, you may need to take several wheatgrass tablets with water or juice.
 Try adding fresh wheatgrass shoots to your salad greens. Keep in mind that these may be harder to digest than the juice or powder. If you prefer, mix the wheatgrass juice into a salad dressing or sprinkle wheatgrass powder onto your salad.You can also combine the wheatgrass juice with fruit juice and oils to make a unique salad dressing.
 You can stir wheatgrass powder into your favorite baked good recipes. Just be aware that the baked goods will probably turn a little green in color. Try to use it in recipes where they won't conflict with another flavor. You could make wheatgrass pancakes, biscuits, or waffles.For example, try wheatgrass cupcakes and top it with a brightly colored frosting to contrast with the green of the cupcakes.

