 Before committing to an overseas project, find out exactly what your living arrangements will be, and decide whether this will work for you. Will you be staying in communal barracks, with hot running water and basic home comforts? Or will you be living in a tent, without the modern conveniences you are accustomed to?


It's okay if you don't think you'd do well living in extremely rough conditions. Just keep looking until you find the right program, where you can be useful and thrive.
 Once you have been admitted to a program and know what your living conditions will be, purchase any supplies you may need.


You'll need clothing appropriate to the work and the weather
You may want to bring camping or survival products
If you will be working outdoors, stock up on insect repellant

, Be sure the expiration date is good for the entire length of time you'll be out of the country plus 6 months. If you don't have a passport, you'll need to get one.Apply early if you need to get a passport or have your old one renewed. It will take at least 6 weeks to get your passport, unless you pay a hefty fee to expedite handling times.
 Once you know your destination, you'll need some local currency for the trip. Your local bank can usually arrange to exchange your US dollars for foreign money.American Express travelers cheques are a good way to carry money while traveling. If they're lost or stolen, you can have them replaced.
 If you're planning to volunteer abroad, it's a good idea to notify your bank and your credit card companies – otherwise, they may stop payment on your cards when they see international charges.You'll also want extra cards, if possible, in case you lose one.
 Once you know where you'll be going, check online for travel advisories so you'll have a better idea of the area. The government issues warnings describing risks you may face.Plan ahead – many vaccines need to be administered weeks or even months ahead of time.
 You'll probably need to have a physical exam before you volunteer overseas. Most programs require a doctor's note saying you are fit to travel and work.
 You'll need inoculations to prevent against common diseases that you may encounter on your travels. The type of shots you need depend on which area of the world you will be visiting.Some countries won't let you enter without evidence of specific vaccines, such as yellow fever.
 To encourage humility while volunteering, think about the people you will work with and ask yourself:


What knowledge and skills do the people from this community possess that I do not?
What life experiences do they have which are different from mine?
What are some of the obstacles they have had to overcome in their lives?
What challenges do they face daily that I do not?
What are some of their personal and professional strengths?
What can I learn from them?

