 Classic nachos highlight the two most essential nachos ingredients: chips and cheese. Build on this foundation by adding whatever toppings you desire. Pick up the following items:


Tortilla Chips: flour or corn, the fresher the better. The perfect chip is thick enough to hold serious toppings but light enough to let the other ingredients shine.
Cheese: cheddar is the classic, but mozzarella, monterey jack, cotija; if it can shred, it’ll taste good. Mix them for color.
Salsa: your choice. The classic is chunky pico de gallo.
Sour cream: Try not to choose low fat. Sour cream gives Nachos part of their umami and balances the spice.
Pickled jalapenos: available in most supermarkets. Leave these out if you can’t handle the spice.
Beans: black beans or refried beans are the most popular choices. This optional ingredient adds some heft to your nachos.
Meat: seasoned ground beef or shredded chicken. Adding some well-cooked and seasoned meat, while optional, can make your nachos much more satisfying.
;
, You can also use a pie dish or a casserole dish for this purpose. If you’re microwaving the nachos instead of heating them up in the oven, use a microwave-safe dish., Sprinkle a liberal amount of cheese over the nachos. Try to get some cheese on every chip.
 Nachos taste just as good whether they’re cooked in the oven or the microwave. Choose one of these cooking methods:


Broil them. Set the oven rack 6 inches (15.2 cm) from the heat source and broil until the cheese melts. This will usually happen in 5 minutes. Be careful not to burn the cheese. Remove and let cool for a few minutes.
Microwave them. Microwave on high for 2 minutes. Remove and let cool for a few minutes.
 Place dollops of sour cream in a ring around the top of the nachos. Sprinkle the jalapenos and salsa on top.
 Napkins are a must; forks are scandalous. Select a nacho, dip it in some sour cream, use it to scoop a jalapeno, and eat up.


Classic nachos taste great with the addition of any of your favorite meats or vegetables. Favorites include ground beef, grilled steak or chicken, sliced sauteed mushrooms, raw minced onion, black olives, and shredded lettuce.Individual portions can be served on small plates or in bowls; just divide the chips and melted cheese up before adding other toppings.

