 To get the tortillas crispy and ready for the pizza, it’s important to get your oven to the right temperature. Preheat it to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately 190 degrees Celsius). Get your baking sheets ready by lightly greasing them with non-stick cooking spray.Pay close attention to your oven to be sure that it’s at the right temperature. An indicator light should come on or the oven should beep when it’s ready.
Make sure to grease two baking sheets because all of the tortillas won’t fit on one.;
, Take 6 medium size tortillas, which are usually 8-inches (203 mm) in diameter, and set them on the greased baking sheets. Put the tray in the oven, and allow them to bake for approximately five minutes.Depending on the size of your baking sheets, you’ll probably need 2 pans for the 6 tortillas.
You’ll know that the tortillas are done when they have a slight golden color and the edges are crispy.
 When the first side of the tortillas are done, use a pair of tongs to carefully flip them over. Cook the second side for another five minutes to get it crispy too. When both sides are done, remove the tortillas from the oven and set them aside.It’s easy to burn yourself when you’re flipping the tortillas so work slowly to avoid coming into contact with the hot baking sheet.
 In a large skillet, crumble 1 pound (approximately 454 g) of lean ground beef and over medium-high heat. Use a heat-safe spatula or wooden spoon to break the beef into equal size pieces and cook until brown, which should take approximately 7 to 10 minutes. Be sure to drain the skillet of any fat or grease.It’s best to use a non-stick skillet when you’re browning ground beef.
The meat should be completely brown. Stir through it to ensure that there are no pink spots.
To drain the beef of grease, tip the pan to the side, using a large spoon or spatula to hold the meat to the other side. Pour the grease into a glass jar or metal can so it can solidify and be disposed of later.
If you want to make a vegetarian Mexican pizza, you can omit the ground beef.
 With the ground beef still in the skillet, add ¾ cup (180 mL) of water and 1 packet of taco seasoning. Stir the ingredients together, and bring the skillet to a boil on high heat.If you prefer to make your own taco seasoning, you can use approximately 2 tablespoons (28.3 g) of your homemade mix instead of the store-bought packet.
 Once the beef, seasoning, and water mixture has come to a boil, reduce the heat to medium-low. Allow the mixture to simmer for 5 to 10 minutes, until most of the water has evaporated. Remove the skillet from the heat.Be sure to stir the mixture as it simmers to keep the beef from sticking to the pan.
 Open a 16 ounce (approximately 454 g) can of refried beans, and transfer the contents to a microwave-safe bowl. Heat the beans until warm in the microwave. The setting will depend on your microwave, but usually 2 minutes at 50% power is enough.Cover the refried beans with microwave-safe plastic wrap, with a corner turned back for venting. That will help keep your microwave clean.
 Once the refried beans are warm, spread a thin layer on one of the tortilla with the butter knife or the back of a spoon. Top the beans with approximately ⅓ of the ground beef mixture, making sure that it’s spread evenly., Cover the beef and bean mixture with a second tortilla. Next, open a can of enchilada sauce, and spoon approximately 3 tablespoons (approximately 44 mL) of it over the tortilla. Spread it evenly, making sure that it doesn’t drip over the edge of the tortilla.If you aren’t a fan of red enchilada sauce, you can replace it with your favorite salsa, taco sauce, or green tomatillo sauce.
 Take approximately ⅓ cup (approximately 113 g) of the cheddar cheese and ⅓ cup (approximately 113 g) of the pepper jack cheese, and sprinkle it over the enchilada sauce. Next, place some of the diced tomato, diced green onion, and sliced black olive on the cheese.You can add any other toppings, such as finely chopped jalapenos or bell peppers, that you want to the pizza.
 Repeat the same process of spreading the refried beans and meat on the first tortilla, covering them with a second tortilla, and spreading enchilada sauce, cheese, and toppings over it with the other 4 tortillas. In the end you’ll have 3 Mexican pizzas.If you’re making the pizzas for a family dinner or a party, it may be fun to let each person assemble their own. That way, they can customize it with the toppings that they prefer.
 When the pizzas are fully assembled, place them on the greased baking sheet(s). Depending on the size of your baking sheets, you may need to use 2 to fit all 3 pizzas. If you have a large baking sheet, you may be able to fit all 3., Place the baking sheet(s) in the 375 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately 190 degrees Celsius) oven, and allow them to bake for 5 to 10 minutes. You want to heat the pizza through and melt the cheese on top.Be careful not to overcook the pizzas. You only want to bake them until the cheese is just melted.
 Once the pizzas are done, take them out of the oven. Allow them to sit for approximately 5 minutes before slicing them into wedges with a pizza cutter.When you serve the pizzas, you may want to add a dollop of sour cream, guacamole, and/or salsa to the plate.
If you don’t have a pizza cutter, you can cut the pizza with a knife.
