 Different substances vary drastically in their withdrawal severity and symptoms.However, it is important to research and understand the effects of withdrawal associated with the substance that your loved one is trying to quit.


For example, alcohol withdrawal symptoms can include: sweating, rapid heartbeat, hand tremors, problems sleeping, nausea and vomiting, hallucinations, restlessness and agitation, anxiety, and occasionally seizures., Increases in stress can lead to relapse in drug users.Encourage your loved one to engage in relaxing activities prior to going to rehab. Some examples include: getting adequate sleep, taking bubble baths, meditating, and watching funny movies.
 Social support is especially crucial during the moments and days before being admitted into rehab; the person may show signs of second thoughts or resistance toward treatment. Make sure you or someone else helps the individual get himself ready for treatment and is there for him as he is admitted.Otherwise, you may have to repeat the whole process again, which can become more difficult if the first attempt has failed.


When times get hard, remind your loved one why he wants to attend rehab. Reasons may vary, but some examples include to: regain a sense of control, be able to be a productive member of society, reduce the negative health effects of substance us, increase positive choices, etc. You could say something like, "Remember why you decided to go to rehab? You wanted to get your life back. I know it seems like it will be so hard, and I know it will be a challenge, but it will be worth it in the end."
Explain that you will be supportive of the person while he is in treatment. You could say, "If you need anything while you are here please let me know. I believe in you and I know you can do this if you put your mind to it."

, Since social support is crucial to maintaining treatment and sobriety, you may want to continue to be supportive of your loved one while he is in treatment.Being there for your friend or family member can help him remain in treatment and be successful.


Visit the admitted individual frequently if allowed and show your love and support throughout the process. One way to show your support is by attending group or family treatments that are suggested by the treatment facility.
Try to motivate the person going through recovery by promising a gift that will be presented after the therapy is complete. This may give hope to the person and a positive attitude towards returning to normal life. You could say, "Once you complete treatment we can go on a trip together. It will be great to experience a new place sober."
Encourage your loved one to call you if he is having a difficult time in rehab. You can say, "I am here for you so please don't hesitate to contact me if you want to talk or need help." Some programs don't allow contact with family members for a length of time, check and see first if contact will be allowed and when.

