 Ask colleagues in the industry what skills, specialties and competencies are most valued. You might find that employers place a high value on communication skills, physical stamina and timely decision-making.You may also hear the qualities of discretion or charm mentioned.Make a skills inventory. On one piece of paper, write down all of the skills that you have. On another piece of paper, write down all of the skills that you would like to improve.Determine which of your skills to underline in applying for this position. Corporate flight attendant positions commonly require communication skills, customer service, decision making, and physical stamina.They also require food preparation skills and first aid abilities. Also, they require soft skills like the ability to be discreet.Reviewing your skills inventory, circle the skills and abilities you think are applicable to this position.
 Make sure your resume highlights the skills you possess that align with the industry and job advertisement.


Choose an appropriate resume format. Typically, corporate flight attendant resumes have a career objective at the top, followed by a summary of skills such as food and wine knowledge, communication and customer service skills. They will also include a section on work experience and a section on education at the bottom of the resume., There are a variety of places to work as a corporate flight attendant.Do your research on where you would like to work.


Work for a specific corporation. In this type of job, you will work as an employee for a specific company on its private jet or fleet of jets.
Work for a private airline company. In this type of job, you will work for a company that flies private jets for corporations. Your clients will change on every flight, but you will always work on the same plane or fleet of planes.
Work for a corporate airline jobs contractor placement service.In some situations, companies hire contractors to work for a single flight or series of flights. You might be filling in for a corporate flight attendant who is on vacation or out sick, or perhaps the employer needs a flight attendant who needs specific skills. In this sort of job, you will frequently have different clients and fly on many different kinds of aircraft.
 With your revised resume and an idea of where you would like to work, you are ready to apply for jobs. Remember that marital status does not matter in the hiring process. Many companies have affirmative action plans to ensure hiring of minorities, women, differently abled people, and veterans.You can find corporate flight attendant jobs on Linkedin. Remember to update your Linkedin profile regularly and connect to other aviation professionals. You can search directly for jobs on the Linkedin site.Use Indeed to search for corporate flight attendant jobs. The Indeed website will gather postings from across the internet. Simply type “corporate flight attendant” in the search field and your home city under “where.”
Attend aviation conferences and events. You may also hear about corporate flight attendant jobs by attending aviation events and conferences.Declutter your social media. Potential employers will search for your history online, so you may want to delete compromising text and images from your accounts., When you apply for corporate airline jobs, you need to highlight your skills that are unique to flying on a private jet. Think about your unique skills and abilities. For instance, perhaps you speak a second language or have experience as a chef. You might also want to highlight your soft skills, such as discretion and knowledge of the corporate culture and CEO. Above all, a corporate flight attendant knows how to be sensitive to the personal space and environment of the passengers while attending to their needs. The ability to speak a second language may also be very important.Dress like a corporate flight attendant. If you are a female attendant, wear a nice blue or black suit, with a conservative skirt length (i.e., an inch above the knee at most). Keep your jewelry to a minimum.If you are a male attendant, wear a nice looking blue or black suit and make sure you have a recent haircut.
Stay positive. Offer positive answers to interview questions and avoid saying anything bad about a previous employer.Communicate your knowledge of the business. You have worked hard at training and in the aviation industry. Now is the time to communicate that knowledge and experience to your prospective employer.