 Make sure that you brush your teeth twice a day, for two minutes. Shower every day, making sure you wash everywhere.(Yes, everywhere!) Wash your hair and face every other day, using shampoo and conditioner for your hair and spot scrub and moisturizer for your face.;
, If you wear a uniform, roll up your sleeves or something to make yourself stand out. If you're allowed to wear your own clothes to school, dress in what you feel. If you want to reign the school's catwalk, then check out what the popular girls are wearing and dress similar to them. Don't dress the exact same, or you'll be looked down as a copycat.
 If you chat with the popular girls, be confident. Go up to them with a cute smile on your face and say "Hi! I've never really got to know you guys, but I have heard that you're all really nice!". Make sure to compliment them and, with a chance, they might invite you to eat with them at lunch.
 If a boy is not one of the popular girl's boyfriend, you're all set. Try to look nice and walk over to where the boys might be. Chances are they will be on the football pitch or basketball court. Talk to one of your friends for advice before you make your move. Talk to the boy and after a while confess you have a crush on him and ask him if he loves you. If he doesn't just say "Oh, okay, never mind then." and start a new subject. If yes be like, "Cool." If any rumors spread make sure one of your friends is there to help fight the rumors. It isn't a need to have a boyfriend, but if you do have one, chances are you'll be better known.
 Learn how to do a plait or a fishtail, or maybe curl your hair. Ask your friend, mom or sister to help you out with your hair. Make sure your hair looks nice, if you're going for a messy plait, because if it doesn't look good, you may get told off by a teacher.
 If you are nice to everyone, good things will be heard about you. Try to make a good first impression and when around the school, give everyone a cute smile and a "Hey!". If you look after the young ones and they are positive about this; they may hug you around everyone, which will make you look like a nice girl. Keep on smiling and enjoy school. You've one year of it left, so make the most of it!

