 If you're cooking with a grill or an oven, you can wrap meat, vegetables, and other dishes in aluminum foil to retain moisture and flavor. The added bonus of cooking with aluminum foil is that you can simply throw away the foil afterward – no pots or pans to scrub.



Grill fish or vegetables. Add seasonings to raw fish or vegetables, and then wrap securely. Place on the hot grill. When the dish is done cooking: open the foil, put the fish or vegetables on a platter, and throw away the foil. The convenience of this method is that there is nothing else to clean up.

Roast a turkey. Place the raw turkey on a baking pan, and tent it with aluminum foil. This will retain the juices in the turkey while baking, so as to cook completely through without burning. Remove the tent for the last hour of roasting, so that the turkey skin gets browned and crisp.
Line a baking pan with heavy-duty aluminum foil. Then, add the meat and/or veggies, along with the sauce of your choosing. Secure the foil so that it is tightly folded over the stew. Put in the oven and cook. When dinner is ready, remove the roast, and then toss away the foil without having any pots to wash or scrub.;
, Aluminum deflects the electromagnetic waves that cook food so efficiently in a microwave oven. This might cause your food to cook unevenly, and it might even damage the appliance. Remember: metal and microwaves do not mix!, Aluminum foil is a great insulator, meaning that it is great for keeping hot foods hot and cold foods cold. Use it to wrap leftovers or pack your lunch. Individually wrap each food item into a sheet of heavy-duty aluminum foil. Bend the foil into a "tent" shape, and fold the ends down tightly to trap heat. If you wrap your meal well, it should hold the same temperature for hours.
 Aluminum foil has the lowest moisture-vapor transfer rate of almost any wrapping material. This means that it is extraordinarily good at keeping food from drying out. Foil is also great for retaining the odor of smelly foods.Wrap leftovers in an airtight seal of aluminum foil, then store in the freezer or refrigerator until you are ready to eat again.


If you don't have access to a freezer or refrigerator, you can still use aluminum foil to keep food fresh. Store the wrapped-up food items in a cool, dark, dry place.
Aluminum foil is even better than plastic wrap at retaining odor and moisture. Just make sure that you carefully seal each item so that it's as airtight as possible! This will make the food less prone to freezer burn.
 Wrap a clump of hardened brown sugar in aluminum foil. Then, bake it in a 300-degree oven for five to 10 minutes to melt down the clumps.