 Blow drying, straightening, and curling your hair too often can cause it to become brittle and dry. Using too high of a temperature can also cause damage. If it is not too cold outside, consider letting your hair dry naturally. If you must heat style your hair, use a heat protection spray first.


Consider using ionic hairdryers. They infuse your hair with negatively-charged ions, which help seal moisture into your hair.Use a lower heat setting or temperature on your hairdryer, straightener, or curling iron. It will take longer to get the style you want, but it will be kinder to your hair.
Don't blow dry, straighten, or curl your hair every day. Even with a heat protection spray, too much heat can be damaging. Experiment with different hairstyles, such as natural curls, braids, ponytails, etc.;
, Choose shampoo and conditioner intended for your hair type. In most cases, this will be dry or curly hair; if you have fine, dry hair, however, use shampoo and conditioner meant for fine hair. Look for products that contain aloe vera or apricot kernel oil for extra moisture and hydration.Avoid washing your hair with hot water. Hot water can strip your hair (and skin) of its natural oils and moisture, leaving it feeling dry and dull.Silicones may help make your hair look shiny and smooth, but they can only be removed with sulfates. If you don't remove them properly, they will lead to build-up, which can cause your hair to look limp and dull. Sulfates are harsh, cleaning agents found in many household cleaners. They are great at removing silicones, but they also leave hair feeling brittle and dry., It may sound gross, but washing your hair only twice or thrice a week is actually better for your hair. The more often you wash your hair, the drier it will become. If you must wash your hair every day, consider co-washing. This is where you wash your hair using just conditioner. You wash your hair with shampoo only 2 or 3 times a week.


Take care of how you wash your hair. Use shampoo mostly on your scalp, and conditioner mostly on the ends of your hair.
If you have thick, coarse hair, consider using a regular, rinse-out conditioner first, and then applying a leave-in conditioner after you step out of the shower.If you have mature hair, leave a deep conditioner in your hair (under a plastic shower cap_ overnight. Wash your hair with shampoo and conditioner in the morning as usual., All of these styling techniques use chemicals, which can cause your hair to become brittle and dry over time. While there is little you can do when it comes to doing perms safely, there are a few things you can do to dye, highlight, or relax your hair in a less-damaging way:Consider an ammonia-free hair color. You will likely have to go to a salon to get it professionally done, but it will be much kinder and gentler on your hair. If you have mature hair, use a hydrating/moisturizing hair dye.
Consider getting a balayage done instead of regular highlighting. Balayage highlights your hair only from midway down. Because the roots are left natural, you don't have to do touchups as often. It also looks more natural.
Consider a chemical-free relaxer. It will still be harsh on your hair, so it is best not to do it too often, but it will be gentler than the usual chemical method.
 Both of these can cause your hair to become brittle and dry. If it is a hot, sunny day, spray your hair with a UV protection spray or wear a hat; you can also wear a hat or hood during the winter to keep your hair from drying out. Here are some other things you should keep in mind:Apply a rich, conditioning cream and a swim cap before going swimming. This will keep your hair from drying out in chlorinated water.
Use a rich, moisturizing conditioner during the winter. Add a deep-conditioning treatment once a week to your hair care regime for extra hydration.
 Always brush your hair starting from the ends, and never straight down from the roots. Also, never brush your hair while it is wet, as this can easily rip or tear it. Instead, gently comb your hair out using your fingers or a wide toothed comb. Once your hair is dry, you can brush it out using a wide-toothed comb (recommended for curly hair types) or a natural, boar bristle brush (this will help redistribute your hair's natural oils).If you need to, use a detangling spray or cream to make brushing easier.

