 Evaluating your memory requires you to test it. These can be visual based, recall centered, or spatial related. Each of these will help you focus on different parts of your memory to help determine how it is. You can make these tests at home for yourself, such as:


Memorize a tray of 10 to 20 items for one minute then write down as many of the items as you can remember.
Look over a collection of items, have a friend remove an object or two while you aren’t looking, then determine what is missing.
Learn flashcards with certain words or phrases and then try to remember them without looking., A great way to evaluate your memory is to take a free memory test online. There are many free memory tests online that can help you evaluate how good your memory is. Often these will ask you a series of questions that are meant to help test both your short term and long term memory.


You can also take tests specifically to evaluate either part of your memory.
Be careful of the tests you trust online. There are many tests online that are not appropriate or backed up by any medical expertise. Instead, look for tests given out by hospitals, universities, or other respected organizations.For example, you can take the SAGE test given by Ohio State University, which combines simple questions, spatial reasoning, and other baseline questions to determine the current state of your memory. Once you take it, you can take it to your doctor for help with interpreting how to read your results., You can train your brain to increase or strengthen your memory. This may help your brain with its natural ability to compensate for memory loss or issues. These methods include brain strengthening:


Computer games or software
Brain teaser games
Cognitive behavior therapy aimed at memory, In order to determine if your memory is changing or getting worse, you should create a baseline for your memory the way it is now and evaluate if it changes over time. This will help you determine how your memory is changing and in which ways.You can use a memory test and take it a month or two apart, then compare the results. If the your results vary greatly, you may have a memory problem.
 If you notice any change in your memory, you should see your doctor as soon as you can. Early detection is the best way to reverse or slow down any memory problems as soon as you can. Your doctor will be able to do a more in depth analysis of your memory and help you decide the best course of action to take.


Make sure you make note of the types of changes your memory has undergone and how it has impacted your life. This includes keeping track of how often your memory fails, how much it has impacted your life, and any other changes you’ve noticed in your health.