 Though you might feel the need to be tough, realize that the true sign of strength is being able to be vulnerable. You cannot heal if you stifle your emotions. When you feel the urge to cry, do so. If you are at work or in public, step away to the restroom for a few moments.Avoid constantly ruminating over the loss, however. Schedule time each day to think about it, cry, and mourn your relationship. Once that time is over, move on to something else.;
, If your friendship ended abruptly or in anger, you may not have had the chance to say goodbye. You do not need to send this letter nor do you need to bash your friend in it. Consider reflecting on the positive memories that you had with them, acknowledging the value the friendship added to your life, but then end the letter with a goodbye.Acknowledge what you did wrong in the letter or what you could have done differently, but don’t fixate on it. What’s done is done.
 Beyond a letter, you can also benefit from some daily reflections surrounding the loss. Each day, perhaps when you come home from work or school or when you are feeling overwhelmed with sadness, take a few moments to write down your thoughts and how you are feeling., Meditation can be a great tool in helping you stay present, focused and relaxed rather than constantly thinking about your lost friendship. Meditation helps to clear the mind so that you can think more logically and calmly about issues you are facing. Take ten minutes each day, either in the morning or when you get home, to meditate in a quiet space where you will be uninterrupted.There are several meditation apps available for download including “Calm” and “Headspace.”

, Social media will only trigger you to think about your friend more, thus making it more difficult for you to cope and move on. For the next few weeks, stay off of social media as much as possible. Deactivate your accounts or simply delete the apps from your phone.If you must still use social media, then you can at least unfollow or unfriend your old friend so that you don’t see the things they post. You might even consider blocking them.
 It can take six weeks to fully grieve from the loss of a deep friendship, and maybe even more. Don’t expect to wake up a few days later and feel completely normal and fine. Know the timeline and give yourself space to heal., You might have some anxiety surrounding how you will deal the next time you see them, especially if you two work together or are in the same friend group. Or you might see them out and about in the city one day, as well. Plan a script in your head so that you feel prepared at all times.It can be very simple like “Hello, Janine. I hope you’re doing well.” And then you can walk away.
You don’t have to approach them, but if you are in close proximity, at least you have a few words that you can speak that are both polite and short.
 Many people often only consider the breakup of a romantic relationship as being tough, but a longtime friendship dissolving can be equally as heartbreaking. If you feel that you cannot get out of bed, don’t enjoy life any longer, or can’t keep up with your basic responsibilities, consider getting outside help. Look for therapists in your area.