 Buy as little as possible and avoid items that come in lots of packaging. Start good habits on Earth Day and carry them through all year long. Here are a few ways you can reduce, reuse and recycle:



Support local growers and producers of food and products. These don't have to travel as far and so reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Take your drink container with you, and don't use any disposable plates or cutlery. Recycle all the things you do use for the day or find other uses for things that you no longer use.
Carry a cloth bag for carrying things in and recycle your plastic bags.
 Try making up a simple vinegar-and-water counter cleaner, or swapping out your bleach cleaner for a less-toxic orange-based one. Making your own cleaning products saves money and packaging. Homemade cleaning products also often work just as well as industrial-strength chemicals.


A solution of half vinegar, half water can be used to clean floors, bathrooms, cabinets, counters, and just about anything else in your home.
To remove stains from carpeting, clothing or other fabrics, make a paste with baking soda and water. Let it sit on the stain for a few minutes, then scrub it away with a toothbrush.
 Instead of using store-bought toys, help kids appreciate the beauty of reusing something old to make it fun and new. Tell kids to get creative and come up with their own ideas for how to make something around the house into a toy. Here are a few ideas:



Build a birdhouse or make a bird feeder to encourage the local bird population, which plays an important role in every ecosystem.

Turn used guitar strings into a centerpiece.

Make a basket from an old orange juice carton.

Convert an old floppy disk into a Starship Enterprise.

Wear a skirt made out of old umbrellas.
 Hold a garage sale, donate, or reuse household items. Many of us take up a lot of natural resources with stuff we don't really need, want or use. Ironically, there's a still lot of people who don't have basic necessities. Plus, a lot of your unwanted clutter can be used by local charities to resell for much-needed cash.


Another idea is to hold a clothing swap. This can be a fun, free way for friends, relatives, co-workers, neighbors, and the like to find new wardrobe finds. (You can combine with an Earth Day lunch or dinner, too!)
Learn about product exchange communities like Freecycle and other alternatives.
 This process is called composting. Banana peels, egg shells, carrot tops and avocado skins don't belong in the trash, where they'll just end up in a landfill. To start composting,


Collect all of your food scraps (except for meat and dairy products) in a closed bin.
Add leaves, sticks, grass clippings and other organic items to the mix.
Turn the mixture every few days using a pitchfork.
The compost will break down into a rich, brown soil after several months of turning.

