 To resist peer pressure, your child will need to be able to recognize when it is happening to them. Some children will not be able to recognize peer pressure. Explain to your child that it is okay for kids to share their toys, games, and ideas with you, but it is not okay if they tease the things you like, causing you to change your opinion.For example, explain that "if your friend shows you their new Superman pencil case that is fine, but if they tell you that they will only be your friend if you get a Superman pencil case too, that is peer pressure.";
, If you want your child to be able to resist negative peer pressure, then they need to have a clear set of values and be able to identify what is right and wrong. Explain your values to your child and teach them why you hold these values. If they can understand your values they will be more willing to follow them.For instance, if honesty is a value you would like your child to hold, you should model honest behaviour and never allow your child to see you use deception.
Avoid saying things like "Don't tell your mom we had McDonalds for dinner twice this week." This teaches dishonesty.
 Being accepting of other people’s differences is an important trait for your child to possess because it may make your child less likely to engage in or condone peer pressure. Peer pressure works by making one person feel wrong, weird, or like an outsider for doing or not doing something. If your child is accepting other people and himself, then your child might also find it easier to recognize when they are not being accepted.

You can teach acceptance using teachable moments and by having conversations about them. For example, if your child visits a friend’s house and then remarks that the food was weird, then you might say something like, "I know this is not the type of food we cook at home, but that doesn't make it weird or wrong - it's just different."
Or, if your child is confused after seeing someone with lots of tattoos and piercings, then you might say, "Some people choose to do that and that's ok for them. We don't all have to be the same or do the same things."

, Brainstorm potential peer pressure scenarios and have your child explore what might happen if they respond a certain way. They should consider whether or not they are breaking the law, or placing themselves or others in danger. Explain to them that if they have a bad feeling about something or they think they might regret it, it is probably not a good idea.For example, a popular kid may ask your child to join in and bully another classmate. Although this may make your child feel popular and accepted in the moment, they will feel bad about it later because they have hurt another child in their class.
Alternatively, your child may be pressured to break the law by using alcohol or drugs. They should be aware of the legal consequences of their actions. For example, possessing drugs can result in severe punishments including incarceration.
 If your child is confident it is more likely that they will be able to resist peer pressure. They will have an easier time saying “no” to their peers if they are confident with their choices. Allow your child to freely talk about their likes and dislikes at home and don’t pass any judgement. This will enable your child to be able to communicate their interests to their friends without being swayed by peer pressure.Teach your child, from a young age, to make their own decisions. This will help them build confidence in their own judgement.For example, you could give your child three options for lunch and they can decide what to have. This will allow you to maintain control, but gives your child an opportunity to learn how to make choices.
Older kids and teenagers should also have the freedom to make their own decisions surrounding certain issues. For example, they should be able to choose what clothing they want to wear. This can allow them to communicate their individuality and help to build confidence.
 Self-esteem will help to build a child's confidence, and contrary to popular belief it is not developed by praising everything your child does. Instead, your child will develop self-esteem by feeling capable, effective, and accepted. For instance, when kids learn to do things for themselves they will feel capable and when they are able to reach a goal or see progress they will feel effective. To make them feel accepted, allow them to be an individual and accept them for who they are.If a parent accepts their child, then the child will likely accept themselves.
High self-esteem will help your child resist negative peer pressure because they will not be afraid to be themselves.

