 First of all, trying figuring out if what you feel for your friend is romantic or more of an intense friendship. As unsatisfying as it may sound, you may not be able to separate the two.



Why do you like this person so much? Is it because you can picture yourself together, as a romantic couple, or because you get along with him/her really well? Is it anything in between?

Do you genuinely think it could go anywhere? Do you think you two would be compatible romantically, or would the spark fizzle as soon as the expectation of love is there?

Will it ruin your friendship? This one is a little harder to figure out, because if the relationship lasts, you technically won't need to worry about the friendship being ruined. Either way, could you see the other person staying in touch if you did have a relationship and it ended?
The goal of these questions is to try to get you to think about the other person in a semi-romantic way. Once you do this, you should begin to experience emotions. What are these emotions like? Excitement, anticipation, butterflies, longing? Or indifference, nervousness, dread? Often, your emotions will tell you more about what you think than your thoughts will.;
, When it comes to the other person, do you often find yourself jealous when you know you really shouldn't be? This is a sure sign that the emotions you feel for your friend is a little more than just friendship.


Does the sight of him/her with another girl/guy drive you insane? Do you get a sinking feeling in your stomach when you see him/her with another person, and automatically suspect that they're dating? Chances are you like them romantically.
Do you get jealous when he/she spends a lot of time with his/her friends, and less time with you? Do you find yourself resenting their friends because it means you get to spend less time with them? Chances are you like them romantically.
 A sure sign that you're infatuated is if you're thinking of them often. Does every little thing remind you of him/her? Do your friends get annoyed because you constantly talk about and/or reference the person in their company? Do you constantly wonder what they're doing at that moment?

, Is your goal, at the end of each weekend, to have spent the most time with him/her? Is he/she the first person you call when you get back from a long vacation? Is it somehow weird when you two don't sit together at lunch?

, Often, another person will notice what's right beneath your eyes. Ask your friend if she/he thinks you like anyone, and see what their response is. You may be surprised.

