 Your high school’s website will provide a lot of great information about what the school looks like, what the school is best at, and what types of programs the school has to offer. You can look for clubs you might be interested in joining, and you can check out photos of the school itself.

Some schools have staff sites, so you can check out your teachers once you receive your schedule.
See if you can find an events calendar. Try to get yourself excited about the new experiences you’ll have.;
, If your school has a freshman orientation, be sure to attend. You’ll get to see your school before classes are in session and without the crowds of upperclassman. You’ll likely meet some of your teachers and fellow students, as well as a few upperclassmen who volunteered to help new students adjust to the campus.Try to make a few new friends at orientation.
Ask the upperclassmen volunteers how you can ask questions if you need more information.
See if your school has a school store or a booster club that is selling school apparel.
Practice opening your locker.
Visit the library, gym, and cafeteria.
 If you can’t go to an orientation, call the school to ask if you can visit and look around before school starts. Most schools are happy to accommodate incoming students who want a quick tour of their new school. Remember, your school’s staff wants you to be happy and comfortable, so don’t hesitate to call and ask.Say, “Hi, I’m going to be a freshman this year, and I’m nervous because I’ve never been inside the high school. I was wondering if I could come tour the school sometime this week.”
Get a map of the school and familiarize yourself with it.
 You may have older friends and siblings who are already in high school. Ask them about their first year, what they like about high school, and what you can expect. Most of them will be able to offer you tips for a successful freshman year.

Ask for advice on the topics that scare you most. Say, “I’m nervous about lunch. How did you find a table to sit at?”
See if they will show you around or introduce you to their other friends.
Ask them about clubs you can join or events you should attend.
 Many high schools have social media accounts that they use to promote the activities on campus, especially extracurriculars. Visit your school’s accounts on sites like Twitter and Facebook to get familiar with the school’s popular events and see photos of your future classmates.