 Listen carefully to the new contact's name. If you don't focus on the other person, it is likely you won't remember his or her name. Pay attention, listen for the name, blank out other distractions and concentrate on the person to whom you are being introduced.


Avoid planning or thinking about what you are going to say next during introductions. Often times, people don't remember names because they are too distracted by their own role in the conversation, rather than focusing on the person with whom they are conversing.;
, After hearing the new contact's name, confirm that you have heard it correctly. Verify the name by saying it back to the person. If it is an unusual name, ask the contact to spell it for you or inquire about the name's history or significance.


Ask for the contact to repeat his or her name if you didn't catch it the first time. This shows a new contact that you are truly interested in learning her name and desire to address her correctly.
Ask the person what name he prefers to be called. Only ask this of contacts who did not introduce themselves directly to you. For example, you may meet someone at a networking event who is wearing a name tag. If so, read the name tag and inquire about what name he prefers to be called. A name tag may say "Matthew Smith," but the contact may actually prefer to be called Matt.
 Repeating a name helps you to remember it. Cement the name into your memory by using it 3 to 5 times during the conversation. Repeat the name to yourself as soon as you have been introduced. Repeat the name back to the new contact using a phrase like "So nice to meet you, Scott." Be sure to repeat the name again when you depart from the conversation with a phrase like "Scott, it was great talking with you. Look forward to seeing you again."

, Convert the name into an image that helps you remember it.


Connect the person's name with a famous person. If a contact's name is Fred, think of Fred Flintstone or Fred Astaire. If the contact's name is Barbara, picture Barbara Walters conducting an interview.
Connect the person's name to a visual object that helps you remember it. For example, the name Jack might conjure up images of a Jack in a Box. Images like this are not only entertaining, but they help you to remember names.
 Associate the name with a physical feature, preferably on their face. For example, a woman named Lisa may be wearing a dark shade of lipstick. Associate Lisa with lips, and exaggerate the image in your mind to help you remember it.
 As you talk to the new contact, listen for triggers about work, interests or hobbies that will help you remember the name. Perhaps a man named Frank sells flashlights or a woman named Sarah enjoys soccer.


Connect the name to feelings or character observations made during the conversation. If the contact has a loud voice, associate the name with the word loud. If the contact is pushy or insistent about a topic, associate the name with the word pushy. If the contact has a hard time making eye contact, associate the name with the word shy. For example, the shy girl named Penny is now cemented as Shy Penny in your memory.
 Mnemonic devices and alliteration are effective tools used to remember names during networking events.


Associate a rhyme with the new contact. For example, you might remember Bill, who works in the pharmaceutical industry, with a mnemonic device like Bill sells pills. Or perhaps you meet a woman named Trish who enjoys fishing, so you remember her name with the phrase Trish likes to fish.
Use alliteration to help remember a new contact's name. Create alliteration cues like Mary from Mississippi or Ingrid who sells insurance to help you recall and remember names.
 By imaging the name written on the contact's forehead, you see the name in your mind, which helps you to remember it. Take the memory exercise one step further and imagine the name written in a colored marker on the forehead.
 It is not always practical to write down someone's name immediately after meeting them. If you can't write the name on a piece of paper, mimic the writing movement by moving your fingers as if you are writing the name. In this way, you can "write" the name on the inside of your hand or along the outside of your leg as you are speaking to a new contact to help you memorize the name.
 The ability to remember names is a conscious decision. If you think you can remember names, you will. If you don't think you can, you won't. Think positively about your ability to remember names and don't allow yourself to make excuses for forgetting names.

