";
, Note the following:



Colouration: Salers come in a deep mahogany-red. Some cattle may be a deeper red than others, and other cattle may also be black. Black colouration, just like in Simmentals, Charolais, Gelbvieh and Maine Anjou cattle, is from the infusion of Angus genetics in this breed to take advantage of flexibility in a producer's breeding program.

Body type and characteristics: Salers are an average-sized breed, but a lot of animals today are quite large-framed, and very blocky. Salers tend to be quite tall, in leg-to-body ratio, and long in body like Limousins. The breed also tends to be very deep from the rump to the shoulders, in both cows and bulls. Cows are relatively good milkers, though not as much as the Holstein, but generally may have a larger udder than other breeds like the Herefords. Salers also tend to have a lighter tail switch, and may have a curly hair coat throughout. Bulls typically have a curly forehead, much like Charolais do.

Head characteristics:Traditional Salers are horned, since the males are primarily used as oxen in France. Their horns tend to curve out and up, like a longhorn's, but are not nearly as long as a longhorn's nor a highlander's. Polled Salers can be confused with Red Polls and Red Angus, however the best way to tell Salers and Red Polls and RA's apart is by noticing how much more rugged and coarse a Saler's head is than an RA's or RP's. RA cows are much more feminine-looking than Salers are, and RA bulls always have either a black face with black on the front of each leg and a black line down the back and tail, or have lighter points on either side of the poll. RP's also have the more refined look than Salers, and come in a deep cherry red, not a mahogany red. Both breeds are naturally polled, unlike most Salers.

Other characteristics: Unfortunately, Salers, like Limousins, are notorious for being very nervous and flighty. Though most European Salers are less wild, not much has been done for the North American Salers that exist today. But this is only a general rule, as you may come across one or two Salers breeding operations that have quite calm and docile cattle. Salers are known for their great carcass characteristics and ability to survive on rugged mountainous terrain and range-lands with little supplementation. They are good mothers, have great milking ability, and are relatively more free from diseases than other breeds.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Salers cattle, and compare them with pictures of Salers on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

