 Choose a good profile pic and a banner and make your bio relevant to what you will tweet about. Make your username something that you tweet about, or that interests many people (ex. @SportsNewsForYou). ALWAYS make your name your in real life name. This will help you in 2 ways: 1 people you know can look you up and find you. 2 Other tweeters prefer to follow people that are honest, even to a Social Network.;
, Search for people you admire. An author, an athlete or even an actor are great people to follow if your interested in them. Then, when your following at least 50 people, go on "Discover" and look at people who post there. Are their tweets interesting? If yes, follow them! After your following a lot of people start Tweeting (yes, tweet AFTER you follow).
 Tweet about your life, or someone else's life, or just tweet about anything that comes to mind (ex. TGIF on Fridays)! If you get more than 50 followers in 2 weeks, your awesome! Try to tweet regularly (set yourself a time(s) of day when your going to tweet) and in tweets, use Hashtags! Hashtags are like a Title to your tweet (but it goes at the end): for example, if its Friday and your tweeting something a long the lines of "I love Friday's :D", add at the end #TGIF. People will understand at one glance what your tweet is about and people can search for your tweet by your hashtag. Also, sometimes look at "Trends" and try to tweet something with a hashtag found in trends, this will make your tweet a bit more popular.
 If someone tweets about something you can relate to, or that you find amusing and could interest your followers, retweet it! Retweeting is basically showing that tweet on your profile so that all your followers can see it.
 If you don't reach that goal, don't worry: not many Twitter accounts grow that much that quickly. That's why so many people have created FollowBackTrains; their basically a tweet that says something like "Retweet this and follow everyone who retweeted for many followers!". If a big account tweets this (big=over 10k followers), it WILL get many retweets and you gotta be in the first 30 to retweet it, because many people will then follow you. If your like 100th, no one will bother to follow all those people and you'll get no advantage. Search #TeamFollowBack and find a user that often tweets these kind of FollowBackTrains. Follow him and try to retweet these tweets as quickly as possible. Yes, your account will have no good tweets, but you'll get like 400 followers in no time! (took me like 3 days :D). Set yourself a certain amount of followers (500), and when you reach that you will have to STOP doing the follow trains and start tweeting meaningful stuff. Since your account has hundreds of followers, more people will be interested in what you tweet and if your tweets are good, you'll get many more followers!

, This is a very negative side of participating to FollowBackTrains: you don't know who your following and you find your Homepage full of tweets that have no meaning to you. How to fix this? Set yourself another goal (like 700 followers), and when you reach that with GENUINE tweets, it means that people like what you tweet about and they won't unfollow you if you keep your tweeting-style the same. Go on www.manageflitter.com and sign in with your Twitter (it's safe, it won't be able to do anything on Direct Messages and it will never post tweets for you without your approving). Go to: Unfollow->Not following back and unfollow everyone that isn't following you back (unless you chose to follow them before the FollowBackTrains). Then unfollow some other people (ManageFlitter) free has categories like "Not following back", "No profile pic" or "Non-English" and you can choose who to unfollow, even if their following you. After this transaction your followers WILL drop a bit, but those left will be people who actually want to follow you.
 This method works pretty well and will get you around 500-1000 followers in no time! Happy Tweeting!

