 If your company does not have an IT department or a VPN, you can still securely access and share information between computers. Chrome Remote Desktop is a free app that can be used by both Windows and Mac users. If you are not already using Google Chrome, you will need to download Google Chrome web browser before you can use this application., Go to the Chrome Web Store to download the app. Click the blue " + Add to Chrome " button that is in the upper right corner of the window. Click "Add" when prompted., The first time you open the app, you will be required to authorize it. Authorization allows the app to see your email address, your Chrome Remote Desktop computers, and to send and receive chat messages which will allow the computers to talk to each other.You should not be asked to authorize the app every time you use it.
 Create a Google Account if you do not already have one. Open a new tab in Google Chrome, click "Apps" under the Chrome search bar, and open the Chrome Remote Desktop app. In the "My Computers" box, click "Get Started," and then click "enable remote connections." You will then need to Install the Chrome Remote Host Service.If you are using Windows, enter a PIN (that you choose) and then click "Yes" to install the host service. The host service will download and install automatically. After it has been installed, confirm your Google Account and enter your PIN again. The computer that you enabled should now be listed under "My Computers." You will need administrative privileges to install the host service on the computer.If you are using a Mac, Chrome will begin the downloading an installation .dmg. Click "Save," and then click "chrome remote desktop.dmg" in the download bar. Use your Finder to locate and then double click the "Chrome Remote Desktop.mpkg." Follow all of the prompts to complete the installation, and then return to Chrome and click "OK." Enter and confirm your PIN and click "OK." A systems preference dialog will appear, and you will need to confirm your account and PIN. When you are finished, "Remote connections for this computer have been enabled" should appear. Click "OK" and the computer you enabled should be under "My Computers" now., The computer you are accessing needs to be turned on and connected to the internet. Open a new tab in Google Chrome, click "Apps," and open the Chrome Remote Desktop app. Click "Get Started" in the "My Computers" box and choose the computer you want to access. Enter the PIN you set up for the computer and click "Connect."To end the remote session, place your mouse in the top center of the page, click the drop down bar, and click "Disconnect."

, You can share your computer with a coworker or friend if the Chrome Remote Desktop app is installed on his or her computer. Open the app on your computer, click the "Remote Assistance" box, and click the "Share" button. You will receive a unique access code that you can share with the other person. Once the other person enters the code, he or she is able to see your computer screed.The access code can only be used for one sharing session.
Click "Stop sharing" or press "Ctrl+Alt+Esc" (Mac: Opt+Ctrl+Esc) to end the session.
Be careful if you are sharing with another person. He or she will have access to all of your files, email, and applications on your computer.

