 Animal Crossing is a game designed to be played throughout the whole year in small bursts, and you can burn yourself out if you spend too much time worrying about earning more Bells. You'll get the most out of the game if you keep coming back to it throughout the year, so don't worry about taking it slow. As you start upgrading your tools and town buildings, you'll find that Bells start flowing in much quicker.
 Every day, one of the rocks in your town will contain a gemstone, and one will contain up to 16,100 Bells. When you hit the rock containing the Bells, a few will pop out and you'll be pushed back a little. You'll need to quickly re-approach the rock and continue to hit it if you want to earn the full amount of Bells.

An advanced technique for not getting pushed back is to dig a hole behind you first, but you'll need to do this before you strike the rock and start the counter. This means digging a hole every time you encounter a rock. You can also plant bushes next to each rock as a more permanent blocker.
When you collect a gemstone, you will immediately earn between 2,000 - 4,000 gems, depending on the stone.
If you're lucky, the money rock, instead of Bells, will produce seven various ores.
 Shaking trees without fruit can result in an immediate 100 Bells. You can do this on up to 20 trees without fruit. Not all trees will contain a prize.

Sometimes shaking a tree will result in you disturbing a beehive. If you can catch the bees with your net, you can sell them for 2,500 Bells. You can also pick up the fallen beehive and sell it for an additional 500 Bells.
Leave some non-fruit trees in your forest so that you can collect these free items. If you replace all of your non-fruit trees with fruit trees, you won't be able to get these free Bells anymore.
 Talk to everyone in town. After getting to know you, characters may offer you small jobs and tasks. Completing these tasks will typically earn you a piece of furniture or clothing. You can take these rewards to the Re-Tail store and sell them for Bells., You can find fossils buried beneath starfish-shaped cracks in the ground. Up to five fossils will appear each day at 6 AM.

Take the fossils to Blathers at the Museum to be identified. If you haven't turned in a fossil of that type before, you'll be asked if you want to donate it. This can unlock new models in the Museum. You can decline the donation if you wish.
You can sell identified fossils to Re-Tail for anywhere from 2,000 to 6,000 Bells, depending on the fossil. You can get a much better price by putting the item for sale on the Flea Market, which you can do at Re-Tail as well. When selling to other villagers, you can usually put the fossil on sale for one Bell less than four times it's resell value, as long as the total is lower than 10,000 Bells.
 Every month, you will earn 0.5% interest on the Bells that you have stored in the Bank of Nintendo. To maximize the interest that you earn, only pull Bells out of your account when you absolutely need them., Before you can fish, you'll need to get a Fishing Rod. At the start of the game, your only chance of getting a Fishing Rod is by hoping that Nookling Junction has one in stock. Nookling Junction can have two different tools out of twelve total in stock at once, of which the Fishing Rod is one. If the Fishing Rod is in stock, it will cost 500 Bells.

Upgrading Nookling Junction will increase the amount of items it can stock. In order to get the first upgrade, you'll need to pay 10,000 on your home loan, spend 12,000 Bells at Nookling Junction, and have lived in the town for ten days.
If you can't seem to get the Fishing Rod from Nookling Junction, talk to Isabelle at the Mayor's Office and select "Advice for Living Here". As you follow her instructions, she will eventually offer to sell you a Fishing Rod if you haven't gotten one yet.
 You can fish at any of the bodies of water in New Leaf, including the River, the Small Ponds, and the Ocean. There are 72 different fish and aquatic life that can be caught, and you can sell them for anywhere from 100 - 15,000 Bells. The availability of certain fish depends on the time of day, location, weather, and time of year., You can see shadows of fish underneath the water, indicating where you should cast your line. Casting closer to shadows will make it easier to catch fish., You'll see your bobber appear on the water's surface. It shouldn't take long for the fish to approach your line., In order to determine when to reel your line in, you'll need to watch your bobber. Fish will nibble at your line, which will move the bobber a little. Reeling in during a nibble will cause you to lose the fish., As soon as the bobber is completely submerged, immediately press "A".

Fish will never nibble more than four times. If a fish nibbles four times, it will always bite on the next nibble.
Many expert players recommend listening for the bobber splash instead of watching the screen. This can help improve reaction times, especially for the rare fish which require precise timing.
 You can donate fish to the museum or sell the fish to Re-Tail. Trash items such as empty cans, boots, and tires are not worth any money, but Re-Tail will take them off of your hands so that they aren't cluttering up your inventory., To get the Silver Rod, you'll need to donate 30 fish to the Museum. To get the Gold Rod, you'll need to catch all 72 different fish at least once., When you start a new village, it will be randomly assigned a native fruit. These are the only fruits that will be found in your village when you start the game. Native fruits are common, and sell for the least amount of Bells in your own village. Selling fruit in villages where it is not native will earn you much more. You can plant non-native fruits, which allow you to grow and harvest these fruits to sell in your own town for profit.

Sometimes trees will produce Perfect Fruit, which sells for much more than standard fruit. You can only grow Perfect Fruit from native fruit trees.
 The key to making big money from your fruit trees is to plant non-native fruit so that new fruit trees grow. You can sell fruit from these trees for lots of Bells in your own village with minimal effort. There are a couple different ways you can obtain non-native fruit to plant:

Proceeding through Isabelle's tutorial will eventually grant you three non-native fruits. It's tempting to sell these, but make sure you plant them instead so that you can continue making Bells from them.
You can get coconuts and other tropical fruit from Tortimer Island. Click here for details on accessing the island.
Sending a villager a single-line note along with a piece of fruit will generally cause them to send a different fruit back.
During the Harvest Festival, catching the requested fish will reward you with a piece of non-native fruit.
 Each square around the fruit tree will need to be empty in order for it to bear fruit. A planted fruit tree will grow three pieces of fruit every three days. There are a couple of things to keep in mind when planting fruit trees:

Coconut trees must be planted within one acre of the ocean.
Banana trees must be planted on the beach itself.
A native Perfect Fruit will produce a Perfect Fruit tree. A Perfect Fruit tree will give three Perfect Fruit every three days, and you can harvest a Perfect Fruit tree 5-7 times before it runs out of fruit and dies.
 Once your trees are full and the fruit is ready, shake the tree to drop the fruit. The fruit tree will be ready to shake after another three days. You can increase the chances of creating Perfect Fruit by burying fertilizer next to the tree., The best way to make money from your native fruit is to sell it in a friend's village if you are able to play online. Visit your friend's town using the Train Station. You can visit anyone in your vicinity, or enter your friend's Friend Code to visit them over the internet. Your friend will have to have set the Town Gate to allow visitors. You can then sell your native fruits at your friend's Re-Tail for 500 Bells, and sell your native Perfect Fruit for 3,000 Bells (as long as the fruit isn't native there as well)., When you harvest a Perfect Fruit, you can sell it for 600 (native) or 3,000 (non-native). While it will be tempting to sell all of your Perfect Fruit, plant one from each harvest so that you can keep getting more. Planting a non-native perfect fruit will result in a regular tree, so always sell all of your non-native Perfect Fruit., Tortimer Island is one of the best places to earn Bells anywhere in the game. you can catch the rarest fish and bugs on the island, and can compete in mini-games to earn prizes., When you start the game, you will owe 39,800 Bells on your home. You will need to pay this off completely before Tortimer Island is unlocked. Use the methods above to make money every day and pay down the loan., Once you've paid off your loan, the town's previous mayor Tortimer will appear on your dock. Talking to him will allow you to visit Tortimer Island starting on the next day., Kapp'n will appear at the docks on the day after you talk to Tortimer. Taking the boat will cost 1,000 Bells, but the rewards on the island will far outweigh the cost., Some of the most valuable fish are found in the waters around Tortimer Island. In fact, so many of the fish are valuable that you're probably better off throwing back everything that's worth less than 1,000 Bells. On Tortimer Island, the time of day does not affect which fish can appear., Like fishing, hunting for bugs is very lucrative on Tortimer Island. The rare Golden Stag bug, for example, can be sold for 12,000 Bells. you can find different bugs around the island depending on the location and the time of day., The box near the font counter on the island can hold up to 40 items. Everything that isn't in the box when you leave the island will be converted into 10% of the resell value in Bells. Your most valuable items should be put in the box so that they're transferred safely back to your town. This will allow you to sell the items for full price at Re-Tail., The Dream Suite is a way for you to visit dream versions of other towns, as well as update the dream version of your own. You will earn 5,000 Bells every time you update your dream, which you can do once a day. Building the Dream Suite requires being the mayor for seven days, and costs 234,000 Bells.Talk to Isabelle while she's napping to get the prompt to build the Dream Suite.
 Luna will guide you through the dream update process., Once you've updated your dream, you will receive 5,000 Bells. You can do this every day once a day, and you'll start making a profit on the Dream Suite after 47 uploads., Joan is a brown boar, and can be found wandering around the town from 6 AM to noon on Sundays. You can buy Turnips from her for between 90 - 110 Bells. You can then sell these Turnips at some point during the week to make a profit. The Turnips will spoil at 6 AM on the next Sunday.

It is possible that you won't be able to get a price for the Turnips that makes up the cost of you buying the,.
 Storing your Turnips will allow you to easily access them in other players' towns, which is the best way to make a big profit on them. Just make sure you don't forget about them., Talk to Reese at Re-Tail to find out what the Turnip buying price is. This price will change every morning and at noon, so make sure to check twice daily., The best way to make money on Turnips is to try selling them in your friends' towns. This is because every town has a locked price pattern for the week, and access to other towns increases your chances of finding a good pattern., You want to sell your Turnips when the prices are at the highest, netting the greatest return on your investment. There are four different patterns that the pricing of Turnips in your town may take for the week:Decreasing - The price will start between 50 - 99 Bells, and will slowly decrease throughout the week. If the price hasn't increased at all by Thursday, sell your Turnips for whatever you can get.
Small or Big Spikes - The price will start by decreasing, but will then spike up several times throughout the week. A Big Spike will have three spikes of increasing value, with the third spike being the most money you will get. Small Spikes have four spikes that increase in value, with the fourth spike being the maximum amount.
Random - Sometimes prices will jump back and forth between 50 and 200 Bells. This is a random pattern, and can't really be predicted. There are always a couple of times that the price will be 110, which will make you your money back.

