 Erect a trellis, or other structure suitable for climbing, near the rose. The trellis must be large enough and sturdy enough to hold the climbing rose when it reaches its mature height. A smaller climbing rose will do fine with a 2- to 5-foot tall trellis.


A larger climber like the Banksian rose will require a large arbor, pergola or other sturdy structure.
Once a climbing rose is established you won't be able to replace the trellis without severely damaging the plant, so try to purchase or build a trellis that will last for several decades.;
, Set up the climbing structure 1 ½ feet away from the rose, if the rose is already planted. If the support structure is a fence with the first rail raised a few feet off the ground, push 2- to 3-foot tall stakes into the ground just in front of the fence.


If the rose is not yet planted, put the trellis wherever you would like your roses to grow.
 For an all-around perfect rose, choose the Meiviolin, or Eden rose. These roses climb quickly, and their large traditional blooms will add elegance to any garden.


If you live in a tricky climate or you are new to growing roses, consider growing the New Dawn variety. It may be hard to find in your local area but it is resistant to nearly everything.
If you have a few roses under your belt and want something different, the Madame Alfred Carrière is an excellent climber that produces large stunning blooms that remain until very late in the season. These are ideal for a large-scale project like a large arbor.
 To begin, secure your trellis or fence and prepare a large hole twice the size of the rose plant.


The hole should be slightly more than a foot away from the support or trellis to allow for air circulation.
 Plant the rose, paying close attention to where the roots meet the topsoil. If you live in warm climate leave about two inches of topsoil over the top of the root. If you live in colder climates, or can experience harsh winters, plant the root four to six inches below the topsoil.


These depths are important to allow the roots to grow without exposure. The topsoil also helps drain water away, reducing the chances that your rose roots will rot.
 Water your rose thoroughly without wetting the leaves of the plant. Introduce fertilizer to the plant as well as bone meal to encourage healthy growth. Roses like well-drained, rich soil so apply organic material such as compost or peat to the area.


Remember to keep the stem clear from too much material to deter disease.

