 To begin, teach your child the parts of the zipper and what each piece does. Show your child how each piece works using a jacket that isn’t being worn. Have them handle the pieces and understand how they fit inside their hands. An understanding of the pieces will not only pique your child’s interesting in zippers, but also help him or her understand how it all fits together.


The zipper pull is the long piece that hangs down and is the piece you hold to zip and unzip the zipper.
The zipper tongue is the part that fits into the zipper pull.
Zipper teeth are the bumpy pieces that run the length of the zipper.;
, Help your child understand the zipper by singing a fun song about it. When repeated frequently, the song can stick with the child and help them remember the zipping process. This simple song can be sung with or without zippers to help children understand how they work. You can say this poem, or sing it, depending on your preference:


1-2-3 zip with me (hold the zipper up)
It's so easy as you can see
Zip it up (move it up)
And zip it down (move it down)
It's as easy as 1-2-3
Come on everybody and zip with me (hold it up)
You can zip your coat
You can zip your pants
It's as easy as the hula dance

, This will help your child to feel more comfortable about zippers and to teach them in a less stressful environment. Popular picture books about zippers include “All By Myself” and “Mrs. Toggle’s Zipper”.
 Busy books that feature zippers are also a great teaching resource. You can make a zipper book on your own by sewing plain zippers found at the fabric store onto large sheets of fabric or felt and then sewing them together into a book.


You can also find busy books with zippers at most toy and baby stores. Busy books not only keep children quiet and entertained, but also provide an opportunity to solidify the zipping process. As a bonus, many pre-made busy books feature zippers that are a little easier for children to zip, which can help your child learn the process of zipping and help translate the steps when they try to zip a more difficult jacket or pair of pants.
 If your child needs extra practice, consider investing in a toy that involves zippers. Toys like the Melissa and Doug Basic Skills Zipper Board or the Children’s Factory Learn to Dress Doll can help children master their zipping skills in a colorful and low-key environment with zippers that are meant for their little hands.


Once a child learns to zip and unzip on their toy, they should be able to transition to actual clothing fairly easily.
 Learning about zippers can be frustrating, especially for children whose small fingers make it even more difficult to zip. Most children need help zipping until they are at least 5 or 6 years old, so don’t expect them to become an expert overnight.


If you notice your child getting particularly frustrated and angry, take a break from zippers. The break can be as short as doing another activity before coming back to try again, or as long as wearing zipper free clothing for a few days to give your child a rest.

