 You come off as doubting yourself when you undermine your accomplishments or speak negatively about yourself. When you speak well of yourself you seem prideful, but you have to navigate this part carefully to prevent coming off as conceited. Be humble but genuine, and others will take note.


Rather than self-deprecate yourself to make others like you, be willing to show your human side. Share stories about struggles or mistakes to let others know that you are a work in progress, just like they are.
For example, a coworker tells you “You can’t relate to my situation. You’ve never had a negative performance review.” Respond with “That’s not true. When I first started here, it took me several months to get the hang of things. Our supervisor was actually thinking about letting me go. I guess I just never shared that with anyone.”, Cocky people often behave like the world revolves around them. They may show up late and shove their responsibilities onto the laps of others because they think the work is beneath them. Exhibit pride in yourself by being the opposite—show up early (or on time) to commitments and be consistent in your efforts., If you’re ever running late or default on a promise, apologize and try to rectify the situation. Cocky people just go on with their lives, with little to no concern for other’s feelings. Apologizing shows empathy and lets people see your flawed, human side.If you’re late for a meeting, you might say, “Hey, everyone, I just wanted to apologize for my tardiness. I know each of you have things to do, so I’m sorry to keep you waiting. I’ll make sure that doesn’t happen again.”

, Gossiping makes you look insecure and jealous. To show pride in yourself, never engage in belittling others or sharing their secrets and scandals. Conduct yourself with integrity by keeping most of your language positive about others, particularly if they are not present to defend themselves.If you find yourself in the midst of gossip, leave the environment or try to change the subject.

