 Each player will have a partner. Their partner will sit across from them at the table. Designate one player that will keep score on a pad of paper.;
, Sort it out into a Euchre deck. A Euchre deck contains 24 cards and consists of 9's, 10's, jacks, queens, kings, and aces.
 This person will deal 6 cards to each player beginning with the player on their left and moving clockwise.


It is wise to deal 2 cards at a time to each player to ensure that the cards are shuffled properly. This also leaves less room for cheating.



Bidding in a suit. If you decide to bid in a suit, than that suit would be trump for this hand.

For trump, the order of importance is J in the trump suit (right bower), J in the same color that is not trump (left bower), ace trump suit, king trump suit, queen trump suit, jack trump suit, 10 trump suit, and 9 trump suit. This is just like Euchre.


Bidding high. If you decide to bid high, than aces are the highest card for whatever suit is led. This is followed by king, queen, jack, 10 and 9.
Bidding low. If you decide to bid low, than nines are the highest card for whatever suit is led. This is followed by 10, jack, queen, king, and ace.
 This process follows clockwise until everyone has bid once. You can start the bid in any of the three categories, suit, high, or low.


If you decide to bid in a suit, you must state what suit you are choosing.
For example, you announce that you were bidding 4 spades. In order to beat 4 spades you must bid higher or pass. It is not an option to bid 4 of another category after 4 spades has already been bid.
The bidding starts with one through six, piggit or hoggit.
The highest bid that someone can make is a hoggit. Once a hoggit is bid at any point there is no bid higher.
 You can only look at the card after both teammates that won the bid have passed. That card now becomes a part of your hand. After bidding a piggit and passing and receiving a card you must win all six tricks without your partner.


Note: There are many different piggot hands that you can get. The ones listed below are just one example.
 You are not allowed to pass a card. This is equivalent to a loner in Euchre.


Note: There are many different hoggit hands that you can get. The ones listed below are just one example.
, You have to follow suit. If you do not have the suit that was lead, than you can play any other card.


Whoever wins the trick gets to lead for the following trick.
If a suit is called, the gameplay remains just like Euchre.
 The first team to get 50 points of more will win the game. There are 6 tricks per hand. Each hand you and your partner will get one point for each trick taken, regardless if you won the bid or not.


If you successfully get a piggit, it is worth 12 points.
If you successfully get a hoggit, it is worth 24 points.
If at any time the team that wins the bid does not get as many tricks as they bid, they will get subtracted what they bid. The other team will still receive points for the number of tricks they got.
 There are many different strategies for this game.



Example 1: If Player 1 has the hand on the left and they bid first, they would bid one heart. The reason for this is because they do not have a good hand and they are bidding to give information to their partner. Therefore Player 2, which is the partner of Player 1 knows that their partner has the Jack of Hearts. Player 2's hand is on the right and knowing that their partner has the Jack of Hearts they can use that information and they now know they can piggot.

Example 2: If you had the below hand, you would hoggit high. There are only 6 cards per suit. Knowing that you have three of one suit, you know that there are only three left. Therefore, everyone must follow suit and because you have the top two cards for that suit then you can lead them and hopefully pull out all the cards in your suit making the rest of the cards in your hand for that suit good. The probability that another player also has three cards of the same suit as you is slim, but possible. That means that you are taking a chance by doing this.

