 Make sure they are loyal, nice, pleasant enough to be around, and decent at keeping secrets, staying quiet, and spying.;
, Tell them to meet you in a secret place, and give them to the time and the location. Sign your name, but don't sign something like "Emily Shrender, Grade 8". Sign something secretive, like "E" or "ES" instead of "Emily".
 See if they have some information and if you think it's good, then they can join.
 You always need a team, these are spy members you really need:


Head Spy - Is in charge of everything.
Vice Spy - Helps the Head Spy and replaces him when he's/she's sick or hasn't showed up.
Radio Spy - Should have a radio and know where all members are and talks to them.
Tech Spy - In charge of phones, walkie-talkies, and so on. (Not Computers or Cameras.)
Computer Spy - Looks stuff on a computer. (Maps, phone numbers, information, etc.)
Regular Spies - Do most of the spying. (Should be two or more.)
Conclusion Spy - Uses clues and information to solve missions.



Planner Spy - Plans maps, Plans A, B, and C for missions.
The Sneak - Sneaks around the mission field before the spies come to spy to make sure it's safe.
Disguise Spy - Makes or gets the disguises for missions.



Mole - Acts friendly to enemy agents to get secret information.
Escape Artist - Should have all kinds of stuff for escapes. (Scooters, bikes, etc.)
Ninja Spy - Knows or has his/her own ninja moves, perfect to get enemy agents to chase him.
Camera Spy - Takes photos and videos for information.
Bystander Spy - Seems to be focusing on a book or game, but catches someone doing something.
 Create a training area where you can practice spying. This can be your base too if you would like.
 These are simple gadgets:


Rope
Something to see better with, such as a binocular and a periscope.
, Look online and do some research. Be creative! Make more than one so that if one breaks, or you lose one, you have one handy at all times.


An idea: Get an old DVD and a stick. Put sticky tape on the stick, then stick it to the shiny side of the DVD. Get someone to poke a long hole through the stick then get a piece of string. Put it through the hole and put sticky tape around the string and stick it on the stick.
 Here are some examples:


Push-ups. (Might not need them, but helps you.)
Running. (Never know when you might need to escape with your feet.)
Lift arms. (Might not need them, but helps you.)
Jumping. (Might not need it, but helps you.)

, (Don't use it to harm, use it to break down doors.)
Stand on one leg. (Won't need it, but it helps.)

, Maybe it's to find out who stole your phone. Can't find one? Just keep your ears open. You'll likely to hear about a mission.
 (Your room, outside, kitchen, living room, etc.)

, Your leader knows more than you.
 Remember to send invitations so you won't be alone.

