 Make sure your place is ready for an inspection by your mother-in-law. Even if you get along great with her, you still want to make sure she is comfortable with her visit.Change your sheets and linens. If your mother-in-law is staying in a guest room or in your bedroom, make sure she has clean and fresh linens.
Scrub bathroom and kitchen tiles. Make sure all surfaces are spotless and have no stains.
Get rid of carpet stains. Clean any blemishes out of your carpet, especially in any communal areas. Consider renting a carpet cleaner if necessary.Take out the garbage and recycling. Keep it segregated in your kitchen. Make sure all disposables are taken care of and out of the main rooms of the house.;
, Your mother-in-law may expect home cooked meals while she is visiting. Plan out your meals and buy all the necessary groceries before she arrives. If you’re especially busy, think about making meals beforehand and freezing them.


Plot the weekly the meals for her visit. You want to have a clear idea what you’re making every day, especially for dinner.
Buy the major components for meals at the store. Be prepared to have food for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. Don’t run out of food while she’s there.
Make meals beforehand. While you likely want to make a few meals fresh, it may be useful to prepare food beforehand for your mother-in-law. This is a good idea if you’ll be busy working while your mother-in-law is visiting.
Consider her diet and meal preferences. Your meals should take into consideration any special dietary restrictions she may have. Also, if she has a favorite food that you feel comfortable making, try to make that meal one of the days she is visiting.
 Your mother-in-law should feel welcome at your place, since she is visiting a family member. Try to do little things that make her feel at home and comfortable while visiting. Find things that she likes to do or give her things to do to make her feel at home.


Think about things she likes to do. Try to initiate events while she visits that you know she’ll enjoy.Involve her in your daily life. Mothers-in-law often just want to help. Let her help you out with errands, the kids, or making dinner.Ask her about her life. Some mother-in-laws, especially if they are widows, may be lonely. Talk to her about what she’s doing, which will make her feel closer to you. Ask her questions like, "How are your friends?" or "What have you been up to lately?"Don’t make her feel like a burden. Your mother-in-law should feel like her visit is welcome, even if it inconveniences your week.

