 Follow the box's directions. Use a sheet cake (9x11) baking pan. This is an ideal size as it allows the cake to cook evenly. If you want to get really creative, use different flavors of cake mix too. Some people prefer the taste of angel food cake. Experiment with other flavors to find what you like.
Every cake's instructions are different, but most can be made in under 30 minutes.
You can also use a cupcake pan and make individual sized Jello cakes. These are great for kids' parties.Let the cake cool for at least 15 minutes. To avoid burning yourself and to help the Jello to congeal on your cake, it should be at room temperature.;
, This can be done with a fork, chopsticks, or any other pointed cooking utensil. Holes should not go all the way through the cake to the bottom of the pan. Holes should be made every 1/2 - 3/4 inch (1-2 centimeters)., Stir until completely dissolved. If you do not dissolve the Jello mix entirely, it will clump and not congeal properly.If you decide to make a layered Jello cake, use 1 box of gelatin for each layer. You could coordinate for holidays such as red and blue gelatin for the 4th of July. This is also a good idea, if you are trying to accommodate a lot of people who prefer different flavors.For a vegan option, use Weikfield jelly based on agar-agar (a seaweed). It is available in India and in Indian stores worldwide. It works just like Jello for this recipe.Jello is not a vegan dessert. Gelatin is a protein produced by partial hydrolysis of collagen extracted from the various animal parts., The holes you made in the cake allow Jello to seep into the cake.Most people prefer that the Jello be evenly spread throughout the cake, giving each bite an equal portion of cake and Jello. Feel free to get creative. Maybe spell out a person’s name if it is their birthday. Make elaborate Jello designs. You might even consider combining several flavors of Jello to give your cake a pop of color.
 Let sit for about 1 hour or until the gelatin solidifies., Decorate with colorful candy sprinkles (optional), fruits, candles, and anything else that helps make the cake more festive. You might consider mixing in some fun food coloring into your whipped topping to give it a splash of color. ,