 When on your ACC (Aerial Command Center), open up your iDroid and go to your Mission tab. You can then opt to deploy for a main story mission, a side-op, or just free-roam.#Infiltrate a base or outpost. Once you’ve deployed yourself to the mission area (or when you’re free-roaming), look for the nearest base or outpost. If you’re new to the game, start with smaller outposts first to get a feel of how to best infiltrate.
 Use your tranquilizer pistol to headshot the guards and drag him to an area just outside of outpost/base. Once there, wake the guard by kicking him while at the same time pointing your weapon at his back. Hold on to the LB (XBox) or L1 (PS4) button on your controller to bring up the Interrogation menu and navigate to the “Spit it out” option.

Do the same for all guards until you have the location of all the diamonds/resources in the base or outpost.
Make sure to kick or tranquilize the guard/soldier again after interrogating him so that you can Fulton him.
You can also opt to get behind a guard with your gun trained on his back and hold him up. After interrogating the guard, you can proceed to incapacitate him with your tranquilizing pistol or with CQC.
Soldiers will sometimes give you the location of their base’s specialist. Make sure to extract these special soldiers using the Fulton Recovery System so that you can add them to your staff at Mother Base. They will be helpful later for developing new weapons and equipment.
 After interrogating all of the soldiers in a base or outpost, your iDroid should now show the locations of diamonds and other resources in that area. Now place a marker on these locations using the RT (XBox) or R2 (PS4) button and proceed to their location., With the markers you placed earlier as a guide, go over to the locations of the diamonds and other resources and extract them using the B (XBox) or O (PS4) button. Unlike the resources found in materials containers, the diamonds and resources you’ll find in bases and outposts can be extracted without using the Fulton Recovery system.If you didn’t Fulton extract the soldiers you incapacitated earlier, make sure you go about extracting the diamonds and other resources before they wake up.
The locations of most materials resources will permanently show on your iDroid for future missions. You can return to these locations in later playthroughs of the game and still find the diamonds and other resources there (or in close proximity to where you first found them).
The GMP value of a diamond is determined by its size and is automatically added to your Mother Base GMP. A small diamond (S) will give you 10000 GMP while a large one (L) is worth 100000 GMP. On the other hand, raw and processed materials are important for Mother Base’s development as well as for Venom Snake’s weapons and equipment. You can sell the surplus processed materials to further augment your base’s GMP.
Extracting animals will also result in a reward ranging from 500 GMP to 200000 GMP (depending on the animal’s rarity).
You can also find diamonds in Mother Base hidden in the most unlikely of places (air ducts, railings, and catwalks).

