 Consider in what ways you might be contributing to the negativity you perceive around you by your thoughts and actions. Some examples to consider include:


You think everyone else is negative because your ideas are never well received. Perhaps your ideas need more thinking through first and people are being constructive in their feedback, not negative.
You think everyone else is negative because you don't like their advice. Yet, maybe their advice is telling you the very things you need in order to improve yourself, your project, your work, your creations, etc.
You think everyone else is negative because they're always telling you what to do. In this case, you've slipped into a generalization––are people really always telling you what to do? Or is this perhaps an exaggeration of a few times this has happened and you're making more of it than is real? And what are they telling you to do exactly? Think this one through carefully.;
, If you do consider that maybe some of your impression that others have been overly negative around you is partly how you view their actions toward you, then you're on the right track to resolving those aspects of negativity.
 Be a source of positive vibes, comments, and morale. However, the trick to this is to be more thoughtful and caring about what lies at the heart of their negativity rather than trying to be an unrealistic ray of sunshine. In particular, there is a fine balance involved of being positive without being a preacher or a dismissive sort, as the latter two attitudes simply confirm to those feeling negative that nobody's listening anyway. Some ways to go about this include:


Acknowledge complaints but don't commiserate or agree with them. Instead, suggest a solution, a change, a new direction or a source of help.

For example, if someone is complaining that they can't manage the workload, you could say something like: "I can see you're swamped. How about delegating some of that to Jenny, who has been asking for weeks for a new direction in what she works on?" .


Acknowledge the sadness, exhaustion or confusion of another but offer a way forward.

For example, someone may lament that they are just feeling too overwhelmed to participate in doing something about climate change. You could reply: "I know it's a huge and scary issue. But it's an important one that affects our lifestyle and happiness. I'm heading down to the climate rally this weekend and I have room in the hybrid for you."


Acknowledge the insecurities but don't buy into them. Instead, offer a compliment and ask for more of the good.

For example, someone might be whining that they're never any good at doing X and they never get picked because of that. In turn, you could say something like: "It must seem hard to feel that your liberal arts degree isn't taken seriously among all the economists here. But you have amazing insights into how to keep all of the workers here happy and creative, which isn't something I see the economists managing to do at all. Don't give up. I'll remind everyone at the meeting this week that you had a great idea about the water cooler jamboree and we'll go from there."



, Realize that in the majority of cases, life has dealt "negative" people raw deals, harsh outcomes and nasty bites. And some people nurse these wounds longer than others. And while those experiences are not an excuse to remain in the doldrums eternally, and it's a fair thing to say that practically every person has such experiences in life, it's not appropriate to presume that the person should just be "over it" or capable of finding the sunshine with a bit of prodding. Some things to bear in mind when interacting with others include:


We take people as they come to us. We don't know what stage they're in as they work through their issues and they might be delicate, they might be on the cusp of resolving it, they might be so fragile they're about to explode. The best thing is to not probe but to be a source of support, understanding and reasoned acceptance.
Realize and respect your own limitations. If you are feeling fragile, vulnerable, down, etc. yourself, then you are more likely to find another person's negativity bruising. It becomes an equation of two bruised people rubbing each other up the wrong way when you don't feel that functional yourself. So be absolutely aware of your own state before blaming others for your feeling negative or forming "let's backstab" gossip cabals; both approaches may feel cathartic but are actually digging your own negativity well even deeper.
 For yourself, then for the other. It isn't something you can buy off the shelf. It has to be learned, experienced and be generated from a place of personal understanding. Standing in another person's shoes takes courage and is often something that doesn't come to us until we've had a hard knock and lived through a similar experience. You'll know you can be compassionate when it ceases to be all about nurturing just you but spreads outward to help nurture others too.


Remind yourself, no matter how difficult it seems at times, that the "negative" human being confronting you is experiencing the same things you are, living in your part of the world, earning a living as you are, striving to make life better just as you are.
Get sufficient sleep for your body's needs. Lack of it is a major source of feeling negative and lacking in compassion. Test yourself––do you tend to feel more negative on days after less sleep? Most likely you will, so use that knowledge wisely.
 If you don't prepare yourself to stay positive amid the negativity, then you really can't deal with the negative ones. Prepare your mind that there will be lots of people around you who will throw out negative comments to you. It's you who need to stand out and deal with them. Don't let them dominate you. It's you who will bring the change to their minds.
 This may go contrary to much advice about cutting out people who bug you. That's easy initially but it's not very different from sweeping dust under the rug––it's still there and it still needs to be dealt with eventually. Dealing with negativity is similar––push it away from you and it may seem as if it has disappeared from your life. The trouble is, that's all you've done, pushed it away. You haven't taught yourself how to handle it, how to cope when it arises again (and it will definitely do so, possibly from the people you least expect or want it from). The thing with negativity is that, everyone expresses some at different points in life (see the discussion earlier). And sometimes you do too. It's a coping mechanism and you are going to encounter it again and again and again. Thus, it is better to learn to deal with it in ways that don't involve pushing it away. Namely, learn to stand up for yourself so that negativity bounces off but the person doesn't.


Avoiding a negative person will not resolve their negativity in relation to you. Indeed, they're most likely to say even more negative comments about you. It may get to the point where they forget why they got to the stage of hating you but they know they do and that's enough for them.
Don't care what they think? Good for you but that still hasn't resolved the fact that you do care about being swamped in negativity. And if you reach out and be kind, you might not change their opinion of you personally but they will know that there is kindness in the world, there is a chance for them to find their own courage to balance the negativity with some positive action and brighter emotions.
 Be a role model of not spreading negativity. While it's true you don't need to explain anything to negative people, sometimes you have to. If you explain or start to show them the reasoning behind your positive statements and actions, day by day they will decrease the level of negativity, at least around you, in an effort to match your likely upbeat, reasoned or practical response. Because whenever they try to make you negative, it will pop up in their mind that it's going to be useless to spend the time carping about life around you. At that point, you've warded off at least one negative soul and obliged them to keep their negative attitude away from your sphere.
 Whenever the negative people start complaining around you, why don't you play a patience game with yourself? You can just keep quiet and count down numbers and see how long you can be patient. You can also try to divert your mind toward thinking about funny things. Make up different characters of these people in mind (funny ones) and when they will appear in front of you, you won't be able to stop laughing or smiling and thus they will get a little tiny bit embarrassed or wonder why you can't take the barrage of negativity seriously. They may think twice before they come and disturb you.
 Don't let yourself stoop to that though; instead, go on and show them the greatness of being positive, practical, reasoned and solutions oriented.

