 Use all-purpose flour for this.






;
, Pour this into the mixing bowl with the flour.
 Add this to the bowl with flour and salt. This ingredient gives it the elastic consistency that makes playdough stretchy and malleable.









If you don’t have cream of tartar available, you can use this recipe without it, but your playdough may be less malleable.
 Stir the flour, salt, and cream of tartar together with a whisk or wooden spoon.
 Add the oil to the dry ingredients and mix with a whisk or spoon.
 Use the microwave or stove to bring water to a boil, with parental supervision.
 Use traditional liquid or gel food coloring or a natural alternative, in whatever colors you like.









Remember that a couple drops go a long way. You can add more later if needed.
If you want playdough in several different colors, split your dough into however many containers as colors you want, and do the same with the water after it has boiled before adding color to each one.
You can make your own dyes with fruits and vegetables by juicing them or boiling them in water. Raspberries, pure pomegranate juice, or roasted beets can be used to make red. For yellow, try raw carrots or mangoes. For blue, use radicchio or red cabbage., Add the water in slowly while mixing well with your other ingredients. You may reach a good consistency before using the full 1 ½ cups.
 Let your playdough sit in the bowl to cool from the boiling water.
 Once it has cooled, take your playdough out of the bowl and knead it with your hands for a couple of minutes.









Kneading the dough thoroughly is what makes it the right consistency, so keep at it until the dough is no longer sticky., If the dough is still too sticky after kneading, add a sprinkle of flour and knead again. Do the same but with oil if the dough is too dry, or with food coloring if you want more vibrant color or streaks of color.
 A few drops of glycerin makes the playdough shiny.Add glitter to make the playdough sparkle!







, The playdough will do best if it is not left out for too long and stored in an airtight container kept in room temperature.









If you live in a hot or humid climate, keep the playdough out of sunlight or store it in the refrigerator.If you made your playdough with natural food coloring from fruits or veggies, you may want to store it in the refrigerator to preserve freshness.

