 This website has been set up by the Louisiana secretary of state to assist business owners in setting up their business, establishing its name, and registering it with the secretary of state, Department of Revenue, and Louisiana Workforce Commission.;
, To use the site, you'll need to create an account by entering your email, address, and phone number. You will then be sent an email through which you can confirm your email address.
 The site will ask whether you are an individual or organization. Choose and fill out the necessary information, then click "save information." Once it is saved, you can click "go to dashboard." You will file the necessary documents to form your LLC from the dashboard.
 If this is a new business, you will need to reserve a unique business name containing the words "limited liability company" or the abbreviation "LLC" with the Louisiana secretary of state before obtaining a Federal Employer Identification Number. You can check to see if your name is taken online at https://coraweb.sos.la.gov, by phone at 225-925-9704, by fax at 225-932-5314, or by mail at P.O. Box 94125, Baton Rouge, LA 70804.You can reserve the name for 60 days. You can extend this reservation for 30 days free of charge.


Click "Getting Started", then the "reserve a business name" bubble and "next."
Click "Start Name Reservation."
Click the "LLC" bubble, then the "Domestic" or "Foreign" bubble depending on the location of your business, followed by "Next."
Enter the name you have chosen and your contact information.
Pay the $25 fee.
 If your LLC has more than one member or any employees, you will need to obtain a FEIN from the IRS before filing articles of organization. If you are a one-person LLC, you may use your Social Security Number instead. To get a FEIN:


Apply online at https://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Small-Businesses-&-Self-Employed/Apply-for-an-Employer-Identification-Number-(EIN)-Online (receive FEIN that same day).
Call 1-800-829-4933 (receive FEIN that same day).
Send Form SS-4 by fax (takes 4 days).
Mail Form SS-4 to Internal Revenue Service, Attn: EIN Operation, Cincinnati, OH 45999 (takes 4 weeks).
 This filing will officially establish your business in Louisiana. You will need to provide your LLC's name and address, FEIN, it's purpose and duration, and a list of the LLC's members' and managers' names and addresses. You will also need to appoint a registered an agent – a person, attorney or partnership, or corporation with an address in Louisiana that agrees to accept legal papers on your LLC's behalf if it is sued.There is also a $100 fee. To file, click "Getting Started", then the appropriate bubble depending on whether you are:


Converting a name reservation to a business reservation (i.e. you have reserved a business name as in the previous step)
Just starting the business
Registering a business that already exists outside Louisiana
Registering a business created or doing business in Louisiana as a result of an acquisition
Registering an existing business for the first time.
 If you are selling goods and collecting sales tax, or if you have employees, you will need to register with the DOR. If you have employees, you will also need to send an application to the LWC to determine if you are liable or not under the Louisiana Employment Security Law. The geauxBiz site will automatically direct you to submit your DOR and LWC registrations at the same time as your articles of incorporation.
 You can complete any stage of the filing process, whether reserving a name or filing articles of organization, in 24-48 hours if you ask for expedited processing. It costs an additional $30.