 The SBA website provides a wide variety of information necessary for small businesses to succeed. Among other things, the SBA assists with licensing. You can find the information about federal licensing at https://www.sba.gov/starting-business/business-licenses-permits/federal-licenses-permits.
 The SBA federal licensing page lists the business areas that are subject to federal licensing. Many of these fall under federal jurisdiction because of interstate commerce or for other special reasons. The business areas that require federal licensing are:Agriculture.
Alcoholic Beverages.
Aviation.
Firearms, Ammunition and Explosives.
Fish and Wildlife or Commercial Fisheries.
Maritime Transportation.
Mining and Drilling.
Nuclear Energy.
Radio and Television Broadcasting.
Transportation and Logistics.
 For each federally regulated business field, you will need to determine whether the license requirements apply to wholesalers or only to manufacturers, retailers or some other business types. Select your business area from the list on the SBA website, and you will find links to licensing regulations.For example, under Alcoholic Beverages, the description clarifies that a license is required “if you manufacture, wholesale, import or sell alcoholic beverages.” Therefore, you will need to read further and apply for a federal license if you are engaged in alcohol wholesaling.
Other businesses are not as immediately evident but are based on the actions of the business. For example, under “Maritime Transportation,” there is no direct reference to wholesale businesses. However, investigating the link further leads to the requirement that any company in the U.S. that arranges cargo movement to international destinations or dispatches shipments from the U.S. via common carriers needs a license as an Ocean Freight Forwarder from the Federal Maritime Commission., Each license, from each licensing agency, will have its own application procedures. You need to read the website closely and complete all steps.For example, if you are involved in overseas shipping, you can find the application form for an Ocean Freight Forwarder on the website of the Federal Maritime Commission, at http://www.fmc.gov/resources/forms_and_applications.aspx. Selecting the link to the form will open an online application page. Complete the application and submit the form electronically for your application to be considered.