 The adrenal gland is located directly above the kidney. There are two adrenal glands each is located on top of each kidney. The adrenal gland has very important roles in maintaining homeostasis inside the body. This is manifested by the number of hormones that it secretes into the blood circulation. Histologically speaking each adrenal gland is composed of a cortex and a medulla. The cortex of each gland secretes three types of hormones from specialized cells that are located at different sites within the cortex.;
, The hormones of the adrenal cortex include aldosterone and cortisol in addition to androgens which are sexual hormones precursors of testosterone and estrogen. These androgens are mainly important in females due to their clinical symptoms in cases of adrenal cortex tumors. In the case of adrenal cortex tumor these androgens can be excessively secreted. This can cause in turn male pattern sexual characteristics in females such as hair growth and deepening of the voice.
 In males these disorders are less important clinically. This is so due to the fact that the main source of androgens in males is not the adrenal cortex but the testes of the male genitalia. Specialized cells in the testes which are called Leydig cells usually secrete the hormone testosterone abundantly into the blood circulation. This hormone is responsible for male pattern characteristics in males such as hair growth. Also this hormone is responsible for the production of sperm through the process of spermatogenesis.
 In females the production of androgens is clinically more important than in males. The other important hormone that is secreted by the adrenal gland is called cortisol. This is a steroid hormone that is water insoluble. This chemical characteristic allows it to penetrate the phospholipid bilayer of the cellular membrane of target cells. For this reason signaling of this hormone is different than water soluble hormones such as the polypeptide vasopressin.
 Cortisol concentration in the blood is tightly regulated by negative feedback mechanism from the pituitary gland at the base of the brain. Cortisol is experimentally known as a suppressor of the immune system. It is therefore used in transplant surgery to deactivate the immune system in order to prevent rejection of the implanted organ in the body. Also cortisol is known to induce high blood pressure in high concentrations in the blood. In addition cortisol has effect on the level of glucose in the blood.
 The excess of cortisol in the blood such as occurs in Cushing syndrome can cause excessive amount of glucose in the blood. This can in turn cause diabetes in the affected individuals. This hormone is regulated by a hormone from the anterior pituitary gland which is called corticotropin releasing hormone. Disorders of cortisol level in the blood are manifested either as excess or deficiency of this hormone in the blood. These two disorders have different clinical symptoms. Cortisol also has effect on the blood pressure in humans.
 Its excess can induce states of hypertension and vice versa. Cortisol is synthesized in specialized cells of the adrenal cortex through a genetic code from the DNA of these cells. Also androgens and aldosterone are similarly synthesized using genetic codes of the DNA of the specialized cells of the adrenal cortex. Aldosterone is the third type of hormones that is secreted by the adrenal cortex. This is a steroid hormone that is important clinically in maintaining normal blood pressure in humans.
 The main effect of this hormone is on the reabsorption of sodium ions in the kidney tubules. The effect of this hormone on water is secondary to changes in sodium level in the blood and extracellular space. Aldosterone disorders are mainly of two types. One is excess aldosterone in the blood and the other is deficient amount of this hormone in the blood. All hormones of the adrenal gland are steroids that are not water soluble.
 The adrenal medulla secretes two important hormones that are epinephrine and norepinephrine. These two organic compounds are usually secreted by neurons of the autonomic nervous system. They induce stressful conditions in high concentrations in the blood such as increased sweating and high heart beat. The most important clinical symptom that involves the medulla of the adrenal gland is called pheochromocytoma. This syndrome is typified by excessive secretion of epinephrine into the blood. The main symptom of this disorder is high blood pressure. These two hormones stimulate the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system in humans.

