 Most service businesses have a clear set of rules for their workers. However, there's almost always a second, more flexible set of “rules” that govern the lengths to which you can bend or break the posted rules in order to keep a customer satisfied. Knowing these will help you go above and beyond the call of duty (which more often than not, calms customers down regardless of the eventual outcome) without getting in trouble.


Most often, only management is allowed to make these exceptions, but ask and learn all you can to find any customer situation where you're also allowed to bend the rules. Sometimes, mollifying an irate customer is just a matter of showing them you'll make an exception in their case. Learn how to do it safely.
 Sometimes, customers drop all pretense of politeness and say something rude or mean. Nine times out of ten, if you let it slide without even acknowledging that it was said, the customer will immediately feel guilty about crossing that line and become much more peaceful for the rest of the conversation.


If you can directly respond to an insult as though you didn't even realize it was meant as an insult, that's even better. The customer will be on his or her best behavior for the rest of the transaction in most cases, because he or she has been given a free do-over on a needless insult and would like you to not figure out what the original intent of it was.
 This doesn't mean being passive-aggressive; it means responding to irate customers the same way you'd respond to your favorite customers. Many customers who heckle you are only trying to get a rise out of you so they have even more to complain about. Don't give them the satisfaction. Just keep providing service with a smile and a can-do attitude, at least until the customer crosses the line and begins to actually abuse you verbally. (At that point, more drastic measures may be required.)


It's perfectly fine to gripe about customers, but do it well away from where other customers can hear you, and do it after they've left. If you don't have a good place to commiserate with your coworkers about a bad customer, you're better off just keeping it to yourself and venting at home.
 When there's a recurring problem customer, it's up to your store's management team to set a policy for dealing with him or her. Let them know there's a customer who's become a real problem for you and your fellow workers, and ask for advice on what to do about it. In some cases, the problem customer will be removed from the store; in many, the manager will assume the responsibility of catering to the customer.
 “The customer is always right” is a guideline for service, not a decree allowing customers to walk all over you. Doing everything you can reasonably do to make your customers happy is very different from enduring humiliation and abuse in the name of your job. While it's important to have a thick skin and not let most things upset you, once in a while, a customer will blatantly cross the line. At such times, you have the right to calmly ask them to stop, and explain how it makes you feel.


Sadly, your freedom to put the kibosh on customer abuse varies somewhat from company to company. However, generally speaking, you're allowed to draw the line at being personally attacked, shamed or ridiculed in front of an audience, or physically assaulted.
If the customer still won't stop attacking you, get help from your fellow employees. You always have the right to handle the customer with the assistance of a manager or coworker who's willing to assume the burden.
 Very, very rarely, a customer may decide to spend his or her day ruining your day for no good reason, and you'll find yourself without a manager or helpful coworker in sight. At these times, you need to look out for yourself first. Don't tempt the customer to lash out at you by showing your emotions, but don't stand for abuse, either. Tell the customer to wait while you get a manager; if they don't want a manager, tell them there's nothing more you can do for them, and that they need to leave. Look them in the eye and don't back down from what you're saying.


Again, staying calm and collected is the most important thing in this situation. Don't raise your voice or say anything rude, and don't sob or cry. Don't even let yourself smile or frown. Any sign of uncontrolled emotion will either make the customer even angrier, or spur them to continue abusing you.
Don't ask them to leave, tell them they need to leave. You can explain yourself, but don't waver. If you're suffering an extraordinary amount of customer abuse and there's nobody around to help you deal with it, it's better to get written up than it is to let your spirit be crushed. A decent employer won't fire you for acting in your own best interests in such an extreme situation.

