 Since Tourette Syndrome is genetic, ask yourself, "Have any relatives experienced symptoms?" Sometimes, Tourette Syndrome appears to arise spontaneously without any family history of the condition. Therefore, someone might have the genes, but not experience any symptoms. This is called 'Shadow Tourette Syndrome'. Whether or not relatives have experienced symptoms does not influence the outcome of a diagnosis, but is helpful information for the doctor to have.;
, There are six types of tics (listed from the most common to the most rare):Simple Motor Tics - eye blinking, throat clearing, head shaking, facial grimaces
Simple Phonic Tics - repeating certain sounds, grunting, barking, squeaking, sniffing
Complex Motor Tics - moving whole ligaments, slapping one's head, twisting one's body
Complex Phonic Tics - repeating entire words or sentences
Copropraxia - inappropriate gestures
Coprolalia - saying socially inappropriate phrases, swearing, death threats

,, This is because many Tourette's patients will show the least amount of symptoms when in the doctor's office.
 In this case, a diagnosis of Tourette Syndrome Plus might be made. Perhaps the patient might not fit the criteria for a diagnosis, but still experiences some symptoms. This is called a 'Shadow Syndrome'. Also consider other possibilities, such as:


Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) - involves obsessions (distressing thoughts) and compulsions (behaviors to neutralize the thoughts)
Attention Deficit/ Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) - involves lack of attention
Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) - another term for depression
Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) - difficulties in social situations

Autism Spectrum Disorder - difficulty communicating, sensory issues, disorganization, and more
Learning disabilities - include dyslexia, dyscalculia, or dysgraphia.
 These are circumstances which worsen the frequency and severity of tic symptoms. Here are examples of tic triggers:


Certain emotions or mental states (hyper, anxious, embarrassed)
Hearing certain 'triggering words'
Intrusive thoughts (if OCD is present)
Being in crowded places
Being alone with one's thoughts.
 This is a feeling of tension or discomfort in the area of the tic. Some people describe it as the urge to sneeze or scratch an itch.
 If so, set an appointment with the doctor.
 The first step is 'acceptance', acknowledging that you have a lifelong condition. Don't allow the Tourette Syndrome label to define you as an individual.
, Meet with others with Tourette Syndrome

, In severe cases, you may want to consider medication.
 This is a scientifically supported method for helping some cases of Tourette Syndrome,

,