 It does not matter if the fabric is 44 inches (111.76 centimeters) or 60 inches (152.4 centimeters) wide. A mermaid skirt is a type of skirt, so you can use any color or print you want; it does not have to look like a mermaid's tail.
 When you buy fabric off the bolt, it will be folded in half. Cut along this top fold so that you have two panels of fabric that are 2 yards (1.8 meters) wide., Measure from your hips down to your ankles, or wherever you want the skirt to end. Add 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) to that measurement for the top and bottom hem allowances. Measure your fabric and cut it down, if needed. Make sure that it's still 2 yards (1.8 meters) wide.
 Your fabric should now only be 1 yard (0.9 meters) wide and four layers thick., Align the folded edge of your skirt with the folded edge of the fabric. The top edge of the skirt should be about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) below the top edge of the fabric.If you don't have a pencil skirt, do the following:


Measure around your hips and knees, then divide both measurements by 4.
Use your new hip and knee measurements to make points x-inches/centimeters away from the folded edge of your fabric. Make sure that the distance between your hips and knees matches up.
Connect the lines using a dress maker's chalk or pen.
 Use a 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) seam allowance. Stop when you reach where the knees are on your pencil skirt.If you don't have a pencil skirt, cut 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) outside the line that you drew.
 This will make the flared part of your skirt. Is you need to, use a straight edge and a dress maker's chalk or pen to draw a guideline first., Unfold your fabric so that you have two trumpet shapes. Stack them together with the right sides facing in.Make sure that all of the edges are aligned. You can put your pencil skirt away now.
 Start sewing along the top corner of your skirt all the way down to the bottom. When you reach the corner between the knees and the flare, pause, turn your fabric, and continue sewing. Do not sew across the top and bottom hems.Remember to backstitch at the start and end of you sewing.
Do not turn your skirt right side out just yet.
 Cut the elastic 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) longer than your hip measurement. Pin it around the top edge of your skirt, then overlap the two ends by ½-inch (1.27-centimeter). Sew the elastic to the fabric using a zigzag stitch and a matching thread color. Remove the pins as you sew., Fold the top edge down by ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) so that you can't see the elastic anymore. Sew the hem down using another zigzag stitch. Remember to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing., Fold the bottom edge by ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) and press it flat with an iron. Fold it by another ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) and press it flat once more. Sew along the inside folded edge using a ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) seam allowance. Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing., It is now ready to wear!

