 The 1970s had several style movements, with the most remembered being a continuation of the 1960s bohemian look, the glittery androgyny of glam rock and the decadent disco fashion. The most popular silhouette of the decade was that of a tight-fitting top and loose-fitting bottom.


To get an easy but instantly recognizable 1970s teen look, wear a tight-fitting concert t-shirt and hip hugger jeans with canvas sneakers or tennis shoes. Teenagers adopted this very casual look in the 70s.
Match a flowing, gauzy top in earthy tones like warm brown, burgundy, rust, mustard, and avocado green with a long skirt in an ethnic print.Add a headband and delicate scarf for an instant 70s hippie look.
 Hip huggers and high-waisted jeans were also popular in the 70s. These styles sometimes come back into current fashion, so it’s entirely possible that you can find a new pair. You can also look for more authentic versions at thrift shops, probably with much cheaper price tags.


Jeans in the 70s often came decorated with embroidery, embellishments, and studs, so keep an eye out for those details.
 Thrift shops will be gold mines for these items. Look for jewelry made of wood, shells, stones, feathers, Indian beads and leather. Mix and match the pieces.Add a big, floppy hat and large sunglasses as final touches.


Moccasin boots and Birkenstocks were the most popular shoes for the bohemian look. You could probably wear any type of brown sandal or clog that you already own and get the same effect, especially if the other elements of your outfit are on point.
Fringe adorned everything – incorporate it in any way that you can.
 Glam rock clothing was flamboyant, brightly colored and made of fabrics like satin, velvet and spandex. Androgynous looks for both sexes were embraced and shiny fabrics in bright colors defined the era.


Go for anything sequined, bedazzled, gemmed, tight-fitting and outrageously accentuated. Glittery items and otherworldly costumes are also ways to look glam.
Accessorize with feather boas, giant sunglasses and anything that featured leather and studs. Leather jackets, ascots, velvet coats and silk scarves are also perfect for the glam look.Wear shiny, glittery, sequined or neon-colored tights with your ensemble.
 Disco fashion was defined by glamour, eccentricity and decadence. Sequins and tight-fitting clothing could be found in every discotheque. Disco fashions were created with ease of movement in mind and included wrap-around skirts, leotards, tube tops, and dancewear-inspired dresses made of form-fitting fabrics like spandex.


Wear a sequined tube top with tight pants or short shorts. Spandex pieces in neon colors and anything that would glitter under dancefloor lights work perfectly. Search in thrift shops and costume shops for more over-the-top styles.
Pair a colorful leotard with a wrap-around skirt from a dancewear shop. Add anything else that is eye-catching and sparkly.
Accessorize with huge, glittery costume jewelry pieces and knee high boots or very high heeled shoes (platforms if you can find them).
 The main hairstyles of the 70s were feathered, shaggy or long with a center part. Try creating the wispy feathered hairstyle and spraying it with golden spray-on hair color (like the ones you see around Halloween) to get the frosted look so popular in the 70s.


If you have layers in your hair, work with those to get the shaggy look. Spray dry shampoo in it to get the right volume and texture, then add a texturizing pomade to define your layers. Keep it a little messy.
For those with long hair, simply part it down the middle and let it hang loose and free. Add a little product to make it shine.
 Shimmer eye shadows were popular in every style and glitter trends in makeup were worn by both men and women. For glam or disco looks you can’t go wrong with brightly colored, highly glossed lips and “cat” eyeliner.Apply eyeshadow that is heavy, frosted, shimmery or glittery. Use plenty of black eyeliner and black mascara. If you want to go all-out, wear long false lashes.
For the bohemian look, wear pale peach or pink lipstick, as they preferred a natural look.
For real life 70s hair and makeup references, look up pictures of icons like Farrah Fawcett, Debbie Harry, Cher, Stevie Nicks, Bebe Buell, Shelley Duvall, David Bowie and Joni Mitchell.

