 For a large wormery, you can use a plastic bin or garbage can with drainage holes drilled in, covered by recycled wood from old pallets. You can use many different types of containers to house worms and even layers of containers separated by wire mesh, as long as the top of your wormery has holes for ventilation. Large wormeries should also have preparations made for drainage.Another option for a large wormery is to use three old tires, weld mesh, and plywood or hardwood. Create a flat base with bricks or paving slabs, topped with a thick layer of newspaper. Cut the wire mesh into three circles with wire cutters, so that each circle fits over a tire rim. You can secure it to the tire with garden ties. Cover the top with a board weighed down with bricks.Keep stones or gravel in a layer at the bottom of the container. Put a sheet of cardboard over the gravel and a layer of shredded newspaper over that to prevent the worms from falling through. Add drainage holes in the bottom of your container.Check the drainage holes occasionally to make sure they are clear., Fill the bottom of the container with eight to ten centimeters of gravel or coarse sand. On top of that, put a circle of polythene or wood with drainage holes. Add seven to eight centimeters of damp material like compost manure or leaf litter. Add worms to the bedding. Put a layer of moist newspaper on the top or side. Add kitchen waste to the top layer.


Prepare a moist, degradable blanket for the top layer of old newspapers. Worms also like moist, torn cardboard.If your wormery has stacked containers, stuff each layer with shredded paper. Put about five centimeters of compost in the bottom layer, along with the worms. Add kitchen waste to the top layer to attract the worms up from below.
 You can look for or purchase earthworms or tiger worms (redworms) for your wormery. Places you can find worms include compost heaps, gardens, or underneath rocks or leaf litter. Try checking the grass or driveway after a heavy rain. If you can’t find worms, you can buy them at a fishing tackle shop.Keep your hands wet when handling the worms. They breathe through their skin and need to remain moist.
There are various tricks for catching worms. You can dig in the ground, or pour a water and soap solution on the grass.
 Store the container in a cool, dark place such as a shed or garage during cold months. In warmer months, the container can stay in the shed or garage, or be moved to an area with partial shade. Your worms will be the most active if you keep them in an environment between 64 and 77 degrees Fahrenheit (18 to 25 degrees Celsius). Their activity will lessen noticeably if their environment is below 10ºC (50ºF) or above 30ºC (86ºF).If your wormery isn’t staying warm enough in the shed or garage in cold months, you have a couple of options. You can bury your wormery in the ground or snow to protect it from harsh temperatures. Or, you can surround the container with insulating material like polystyrene, thick carpeting, or a clear plastic tarp.Add a thick layer of hay, straw, grass or dry leaves to the top layer of your wormery during cold weather.
 Composting worms like the pH level of their environment to be between 6.5 and 7.0. You can check soil acidity with a soil test from a garden store if your worm aren’t producing as expected.Add coffee grounds or a small amount of peat moss to increase the acidity.To decrease acidity, add egg shells and/or turn the bedding weekly.