 Make the more sustainable choice, where cost allows. You may not be able to switch out all of your household goods at once, but you can certainly begin to move in a greener direction. Set your intention and move gradually toward your goal.Switch out incandescent light bulbs for energy-saving bulbs. Try using dim lights at night. Install solar-powered lamps in your yard or garden to replace any traditional grid- or battery-powered lights.
Buy low-energy appliances. Replace your dishwasher, your clothes washer, your drying machine, your refrigerator, etc. Find a version of each appliance that allows for a low electricity flow, or features a low-heat option, or even runs off the grid.
 Consider putting solar panels on your roof. Some areas offer financial incentives for switching to solar, and you may find that the long-term savings are well worth the immediate cost of a switch. Consider going off-grid. Alternately, you can feed the extra power that you produce back into the wider power grid.
 If you live in an area that is not naturally lush and wet, then you are probably using a lot of water to keep that lawn looking fresh in your yard. The world is wracked with water shortages, particularly in dry regions and many developing nations. Try replanting the area with native vegetation that is not so water-intensive.


Consider filling your yard with gravel, sand, or tanbark. Make a rock garden or build a patio!

, Explore passive heating and cooling systems that utilize good airflow and thermal retention to keep your home at a comfortable temperature. Install programmable thermostats that switch off once your home temperature reaches a preset standard level. In the winter, wear layers and trap heat. In the summer, strip down and open the windows!


Install insulation and double-glazed windows to minimize heat loss from your house. Detect heating loss using a thermal imager. Try to optimize the heat retention and airflow of your house so that the space requires as little electrical climate support as possible.
Make sure that all of your windows open, and install openable windows to replace those that don't. Use fans to keep the air moving throughout your home.
Install tankless water heaters. Depending on where you live, it may make sense to use geothermal or solar energy to heat your water.
 Build a compost heap or invest in a commercial composter. If your area doesn't have any sort of municipal composting infrastructure in place, then you can take the initiative to turn your organic food waste back into rich, healthy soil.

