 You'll need about 3 medium zucchini in order to get 2 cups (450 g) of shredded zucchini. Wash the whole zucchini and trim away the ends. Shred the zucchini against the large side of a box grater. Put the shredded zucchini into a clean kitchen towel. Squeeze the towel over the sink so the excess liquid drains out into the sink.Removing the extra liquid will prevent the pancakes from becoming soggy.
 Get out a large mixing bowl and measure out the dry ingredients. Put them in the bowl and whisk them together for 30 seconds. This will help them absorb the wet ingredients evenly and ensure that the baking powder is evenly distributed. You'll need to whisk:1¼ cups(160 g) of white whole-wheat flour or all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons of baking powder
1 teaspoon of pumpkin pie spice blend
¼ teaspoon of salt

, Get out a medium-sized mixing bowl and melt 2 tablespoons of butter in it. Add 2 large eggs, 1 cup (240 ml) plus 2 tablespoons of milk, 2 tablespoons of light brown sugar, and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract. Whisk the wet ingredients until the eggs are combined with the milk and sugars.You could substitute almond extract for the vanilla extract.
 Make a little well in the middle of the dry ingredients and pour the wet ingredients into it. Use the whisk to combine the wet and dry ingredients completely. Use a rubber spatula to carefully fold in the grated zucchini and ½ cup (62 g) of toasted, chopped pecans.To fold the zucchini, gently use a twisting motion with your wrist as you incorporate the zucchini into the batter. The goal is to keep the volume, so don't over mix the batter.
 Spray a large skillet or griddle with cooking spray and turn the heat on to medium. Once the griddle is hot, place 1/3 cup (about 115 g) of the batter on the griddle. Spread the batter so the pancake is 4 inches (10 cm) wide. Drop more batter to fill the skillet and let the pancakes cook for 1 to 3 minutes, so the pancakes begin to bubble. Flip them and finish cooking them for 1 or 2 more minutes.You might need to adjust the heat as the zucchini pancakes cook. If they're getting too brown too quickly, turn the heat down to medium-low.

