 Try Pepsi bottles. Clean them out and bring them to your work space.;
, Be careful of sharp edges!

, It will look smokey and will fill a bit rough. If you don't follow this step the paint won't stick to the plastic. Continue this on the three bottom pieces, 1 of the top pieces and 2 of the middle pieces.
 Try an All Purpose Acrylic: Morning Silver paint.  If you apply it in horizontal strokes, it gives a more scarred metallic look as if it's been through battles.
 You'll need a total 14 for each gauntlet if you make it like Mordred's. If you don't want spikes on the gauntlet, only cut out 5 for the hand.


Be aware that the plastic at the bottom is much thicker and harder to cut, then it is anywhere else on the bottle.
Once cut out, you can put this to the side.
 Cut it vertically before carefully wrapping the plastic lose around your arm with enough space to take it off. Seal the two parts together by taping them with a few strips of duck tape

, Make one larger then the other. With the large piece, follow the same steps you did in step 6, using the arm piece from 6  as a base for it.


Leave a small gap in between as shown in the second picture. This is for the spikes and to give more stability to the plastic. Using a hot glue gun, glue the strips together along with any flaps that aren't secure.
, Bend 9 of them in two places at the bottom to make a place for the to be glued later. The other 5 need to be cut into shape for the hand. the second image is a zoomed up of that.


Note that the finger joints need 3 pieces, while the thumb need 2, the bottom is longer then the rest.

Also note the joints are folded in the second picture to show what the pattern looks like.
 Then, carefully cut two small holes in both sides of the plastic  at the top, and then again on the bottom of the arm piece. Attach the pieces together by use of the 2 twist ties. this allows to bottom guard to move slightly when you move you hand.
, If you don't do this, you can easily burn yourself as the hot glue burns at a temperature of 170 °C (338 °F) { 338 Fahrenheit.} This step is a bit dangerous so you must be very careful.
 Finally attach the hand guard and glue it in place as well.
 This is a good project if you like making costumes, working on a low budget school film or if you just enjoy making things.

