 You want to provide a potential employer with the names of people who can speak highly of you. However, your references need to have relevant information to share. Don’t put down the head of your department as a reference simply because they have an impressive title.Former bosses and colleagues make good references. However, if you’re fresh out of school, you can ask volunteer directors, faith leaders, or even professors.You also might not want to use former supervisors. Be prepared to explain to the hiring manager why. For example, your older supervisor might not have really managed you, or you didn’t get along. Instead, provide the name of another senior-level person you worked closely with.;
, Call them up or stop in and tell them you’d like to put them down as a reference. Also check if they can give you a strong reference. Some people are afraid to say “no,” so they might hesitate. Cross them off your list.


Remember to ask ahead of time, especially if you need a written reference. Give at least two weeks’ notice.
 For example, you should probably give them an updated resume as well as information about the job you are applying for. If you have a copy of the job description, share that as well.


Ask if the reference needs any other information. If you haven’t worked for them in a while, then they might need to be reminded of important projects you worked on.
 You should type up your reference list. Open a blank word processing document and set the font to something comfortable. It should be the same font that you used on your cover letter and resume.


You should have the same letterhead information at the top of the page. Include your name, address, and contact information. You can take your cover letter and delete everything but the header information., You should have at least three references, preferably from your most recent job. However, you might want to include more, in case the hiring manager cannot reach all of your references.Include the following information for each:name
title
company name
business address
email address
phone number
a short description of your relationship

, Use the same paper you print your resume on. Ideally, use ivory or white paper and make several copies for an interview. More than one person might be looking at the list., Unless requested, you don’t need to mail in your reference list with your CV or resume. Also, you shouldn’t write “References upon request” on your resume.Instead, hold onto your references and give them to your interviewer.


Some fields (such as education) require that you submit references ahead of time. Check the job advertisement to see if references must be submitted before the interview.
 Go to your profile page and click on the “More” icon. Select “Request a recommendation.” You can request recommendations from three connections at once. You can receive an unlimited number of recommendations in total.