 Being a nude model doesn't require you to look like you're ready for the runway or to meet some unrealistic standard of beauty.Nude models help artists learn to draw the human body and understand its nuances and structure.
Artists don't necessarily look for models who fit a stereotype and are open to models of all sizes, shapes, and ethnicities. People with unique body types and asymmetrical bodies are actually sought after. An important requirement for being a nude model is being comfortable with your body.Before you model nude, you should be comfortable enough to pose nude without blushing, covering yourself up, or trying to only show off the most flattering parts of your body.;
, Not every artist or art teacher will ask for a resume, but you should be prepared with one anyway.


You can still fill your resume even if you haven't been a nude model before.
Providing a resume will give the artist or art teacher an idea of who you are. This is important for getting to know you as modeling for an art class is an intimate setting for both the artist and model that requires trust. Include any previous modeling experience, performances, art schooling, acting, dance, yoga, or other activity you have done which would benefit an artist model.
 If you're committed to being a nude art model, then you need to start looking for work.


Contact your local art school or college to see if they are hiring art models. You can start with the art department, but ask if there is someone in particular assigned to hire models for all classes. Sometimes each instructor hires his or her own models.
If you want to pose for a photographer, also look on any one of a number of websites that link models to photographers.
Free online classified advertising websites also often post ads for nude models.
You should first find work modeling for a class and only consider doing some private modeling once you have a better understanding of the nude art modeling world and know that you're working with a legitimate artist.
 When you are hired, it is best to iron out payment, time commitment, and schedule.


Typical nude art modeling sessions run about three hours, including a number of breaks and a variety of poses held for 5, 10, or 20 minutes.
Discuss average length and number of poses, the types of poses, and the amount of breaks you'll be given.
Discuss payment or hourly sitting rates, which can vary greatly but generally are between $15 and $25 for drawing -- though fees for a photographer will generally be higher.

