 While you may be eager to help the injured person, you will be of no help if you, too, become injured. Before approaching the person, make sure there are no hazards, such as traffic, unstable structures, downed electrical lines, swift-moving water, violence, explosions or toxic gas exposure.If the hazards are still present and it is too dangerous for you to reach the person, call for help and keep yourself out of harm's way.If the hazard is not a threat to your safety, then you should approach the injured person.


Another way you need to protect yourself is to wear any personal protective equipment you may have access to, such as gloves to protect you from bloodborne disease if the person is bleeding.;
, You must attempt to get the injured person's consent before you can begin first aid. The person must give verbal consent or consent with a gesture. You should identify yourself, indicate your level of training, and ask the person if you may provide first aid.If the person is unconscious, confused, mentally impaired, seriously injured or seriously ill, then consent is implied and you may assist the person.If the injured person is a minor, you must obtain consent from his parent or guardian. If this person is not available and the situation is life-threatening then consent is implied and you may assist the child.If the person refuses aid, you must respect this. Even if the person is seriously injured and the situation is life-threatening, if he refuses care you cannot attempt first aid., These include assessing the victim's ABCs: Airway, Breathing and Circulation. Lie the person on his back and put yourself close to his head and neck so you can better evaluate his vital functions.If the person is conscious, begin working but also talk with him to keep him calm and help slow his heart rate. If possible, try to keep the victim's eyes averted so he cannot see the wound.
 If the person is unconscious and there is no possibility of neck or spine injury, place one hand on the person's forehead and another underneath his chin. Put gentle pressure on the forehead with one hand and gently tilt his chin up toward the sky with the other hand to open the airway. Make sure the person's airway remains open;check inside the mouth for obstructions.


If the person is conscious, he may be able to indicate to you whether their airway is blocked.
If you suspect a neck or spine injury, use the jaw-thrust method, in which you grab the patient's jaw on either side and pull it forward, opening the airway without compromising the neck or spine.
 Look for a rise in the chest area; listen for the sound of air coming in and out of the lungs; feel for air by hovering the side of your face just above the person's mouth.If your casualty is unconscious but breathing normally, he should be placed in the recovery position, on his side with the head tilted back and the hand further away from the ground under the head and the arm closet to the ground either bent or straight out. The leg further away from the ground (the top leg) should be bent for stability and to keep the victim from rolling forward. Do not put someone in the recovery position if you suspect he has a spinal injury. Monitor the person's breathing.Check for signs of a pulse. You do not need to measure the pulse, only detect it. You can quickly feel for a pulse by placing two fingers on the person's throat, in the hollow area just beside the windpipe.Apply gentle pressure.
If the victim is not breathing, do CPR, or cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Note that the recommended method for performing CPR has changed in recent years; research suggests that compression-only CPR (no mouth-to-mouth breathing) is as effective as the traditional approach (which had included mouth-to-mouth breathing).To prepare for an emergency, it is strongly recommended you attend a CPR training class to learn the proper procedure to administer CPR and get some practice.
Be aware that CPR is not pretty. The chest compressions often break ribs. Prepare yourself for this possibility.
 Look for signs of severe bleeding once the other vitals have been evaluated. Once you know the person is breathing, you can then move onto treating any open wounds by applying pressure and raising the affected area above heart level. See Part 3 on this.Watch for signs of shock. Keep the victim warm and comfortable. Both shock and loss of blood can cause the victim to suffer from lowered body temperature. Throw a blanket, coat, or some other warm item over the victim to keep him warm.Keep the victim as still as possible. Whether lying or sitting down, the person should be kept still and calm.
 Once the person is stabilized, call for emergency help immediately. If the person is bleeding out , get someone else to call emergency services while you help the victim.For this to be effective, you must ask one person specifically to call emergency services. Do not shout this at a crowd of people — select one person and say, "You! Man in the Hawaiian shirt! Call 911!"


If you are the only person around, use your phone to call for assistance. If you don't have a phone with you, look for a passersby or a place that may have a phone.

