 It can be found at www.ssa.gov. Click on the “Numbers & Cards” tab on the top of the page and select “Social Security Number & Card.”, Print the Application for a Social Security Card.This is the same form you fill out to apply for a Social Security card the first time. Use 8.5”x11” (or A4) paper to print the form.You can also get the necessary form from your local Social Security office. You can locate your local office at their website.
 Read all of the instructions on page 3 of the application before completing the form.A parent (natural or adoptive) or legal guardian should sign the form for persons under 18.
If you can, provide the Social Security numbers for both parents on the form. If the number is not known, or a number was never assigned, check the “unknown” box on the form.
Check the appropriate box in section 18 of the form (i.e., Natural or Adoptive Parent, Legal Guardian, Other). If you check “other” you must specify the nature of your relationship to the applicant.
 Documents that are accepted as proof of your identity are the same as those mentioned in the previous section. Documents that are accepted as proof of your child’s identity include one of the following originals:U.S. passport (preferred)
Adoption decree
Doctor, clinic, or hospital record
Religious record (e.g., baptismal record)
Daycare or school record
School identification card.
You cannot use a birth certificate to prove identity. You must use a document that shows the child’s name, identifying information, and, preferably, a recent photograph. Non-photo identity documents should have at least the child’s name, age, date of birth, and parents’ names., If your child is not a citizen of the United States, or is a U.S. citizen but was born in another country, you will need to show proof of your child’s citizenship or immigration status. U.S. citizens who were born in the United States do not require additional documentation.


If your child is a foreign-born U.S. citizen, you must provide one of the following documents as proof of the child’s citizenship:

Consular report of birth (FS-240, CRBA)
Certification of Report of Birth (DS-1350)
U.S. passport
Certificate of Citizenship (N-560/N-561)


For a child who is not a U.S. citizen, you must provide your child’s current immigration document. These include:Form I-551 (Lawful Permanent Resident Card)
I-94 (Arrival/Departure Record)
I-766 (Employment Authorization Document)
Admission stamp in an unexpired foreign passport


If your child is an exchange visitor (J-1 or J-2), show the child’s DS-2019 (Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor Status).Foreign students (F-1 or M-1) should show the I-20 (Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status)., You can apply for your replacement card one of two ways. You can apply in person at a local Social Security office. You can find your local office online at the Social Security website. Bring the completed application and required documents with you.You can also mail your original documents and your completed application to your local Social Security office. They will return the documents to you when they have completed the application process.
You may also call Social Security toll-free at 1-800-772-1213 to locate your nearest office.
 In most cases, you will receive your replacement card by mail within 7-14 days. If you applied in a Social Security office, they will tell you how long you can expect to wait to receive your card.

