 She gets hungry, just like you do, so make sure she has her favorite foods. If you don't know her favorite foods, you can check out her Profile on the website, or make basic foods. The foods you will need are: Bread, Milk, Eggs, Common Fruits (like Apples, Bananas, Grapes, and oranges), Common Vegetables (Carrots, Tomatoes, Corn, Lettuce), and sweet treats (like Ice Cream, Candies, and Cakes).
 She gets dirty too! You may want to wash her with plain water, as some shampoo's may hurt the hair or make the color funny. Wash her a few times a month., She needs to be pampered, because after all, doesn't everyone? Have a hot tub (this can be your sink or a dish of water), Jars of Beauty Cream (beads with craft foam on top), and "Special" foods such as truffles and caviar. (Note: if you have a Ghouls Alive, which is electric, build a hot tub out of an old shoe box or tissue box and fill it with clear plastic scraps or blue paper.)

, Sure, they may stop her from going to a party or ground her, but they can also comfort her when she is sad, talk to her, be her friend (if she has none), and give her healthy limits and rules on what she can and cannot do., Well, school's not fun, but she may love a certain class or have a special friend whom she meets at school! Make a few classrooms, a bathroom (one for guys and one for girls), and a Casketball Court/Outdoors space. Some basic classes to have are Math, Science, English, and Gym. And you will also need books and pencils (the My Froggy Stuff Channel on Youtube.com has many video tutorials on how to make these)., This can be a common one like a cat or dog, or a bizarre one like a Snake or a Lion! Just make sure you pick a practical pet, for example, a Vampire shouldn't have a Wolf for a pet, and a Fire Elemental shouldn't have a Fish!, This is the most important thing, aside from food! Make sure her house is (mostly) color coordinated, and that she has a bed, a couch, a Television, and a few chairs (maybe a book shelf or computer). For friends you can read her profile and find out who are her best friends. But remember: Frankie Stein's BFF's are Draculaura and Clawdeen Wolf, and Cleo de Nile is friends with Ghoulia Yelps, Deuce Gorgon, and Draculaura. Also, optional: Find her a boyfriend, crush, or other Love Interest., She'll want a special day just for her, and make the party as special as she is! Have streamers, party foods, and a Birthday cake in her favorite color. To pick a Birthday, you can use a day that's meaningful to her. For example: for a Werewolf who is fifteen, you might look back 15 years and find out when there was a solar eclipse, or for a Vampire who is 160, look back 160 years ago and find when a Blood Moon or a Witch Trial occurred. For gifts, remember what each girl likes. For example: Clawdeen Wolf would enjoy a new pair of shoes or a jacket, Frankie Stein may like a sewing kit or a mannequin, and Draculaura may want a New Coffin or a car. (Note: Try not to make your character get too old, after she is 18 or 19 make her stay ageless forever.), Such sources of happiness are often hobbies.For hobbies, sewing, drawing, computer games, a scrapbook, guitar/clarinet/violin, outdoor sports games, and fashion design. Pick a hobby that relates to what Monster she is, for example Sewing is Good for Frankie Stein, and Fashion Designing is perfect for Clawdeen Wolf.,