 If you have bacne, Neutrogena Body Clear Body Scrub is amazing! Once you get your skin cleared up, use a self tanner and bronzer to give yourself and island glow (even if you’re dark skinned, it makes you glow). Make sure you also use a facial and body moisturizer with SPF to keep you moisturized and safe from the sun. But only use self tanner if you need it (you live in a cold climate, there isn't much sun, etc.)Real island girls have a natural tan.;
, This is arguably the most important aspect of the island girl look. Grow your hair out long, and wear it in beachy waves. If your hair isn’t naturally wavy, use hot rollers and a heat protecting spray. Hot rollers are less damaging than a curling iron. Highlights are a good idea, as long as they’re natural looking. Also, wearing flower clips and boho-style headbands helps the look.
 Island girls don’t wear lots of make-up, and when they do, it’s natural looking. Wearing bronzer, brown/black eyeliner, brown/black mascara (depending on your skin tone and hair color) and clear lip gloss should be enough. You can also can a French manicure or paint your nails earthy colors, like brown or gold or tropical colors like teal.
 For tops, by lots of tank tops and camis (for wearing alone or layering), bright tees, sundresses, and neutral colored cardigans and jackets. For bottoms, buy lots of shorts, bright miniskirts, and bf jeans (the looser fit ties the look together). Don’t be afraid to show some serious skin, but dress in your comfort zone. If anything feels too long or short, don't wear it. Make sure all your jewelry is wooden or beaded and all your belts are neutral colored leather. When it comes to shoes, wear leathery flip flops as much as possible. When it gets cold, wear boots.
 Make sure your eyebrows are well groomed, your legs armpits and upper lips are stubble-free, and your teeth are bright and white!

,, Be friendly to everyone and always smile.
 Island girls usually live on the beach, so they’re always playing volleyball or running around. This has nothing to do with being skinny, just make sure you are fit and athletic.

