 Whether you are suffering from anything from post-traumatic stress disorder to depression, you are not the only one. Though, at night, when you worry or cry yourself to sleep it feels like you are the only soul that feels this way, it's not true. Millions of people have gone through what you have, and many of them channeled the courage to get help.


One in 4 adults will suffer from a mental illness in a given year. One in 17 among them are suffering from more serious conditions, such as depression, bipolar disorder, or schizophrenia.
Oftentimes, mental illness is under diagnosed because of people like you suffering in silence. It may not seem like those around you are suffering, but, there's a 1 in 4 chance of someone else you know having a mental illness, too.;
, You might have the belief that this dark cloud will never disappear from over your head, but it can. Mental illness can arise from a variety of reasons — genetic, biological, environmental, etc. Most cannot be completely cured, per se.However, when you seek treatment early on, the chance of recovery is higher.


Despite what many believe, mental illnesses — including depression, bipolar disorder, and ADHD — have research-backed, effective treatment approaches that allow sufferers to someday lead promising lives., One common misconception of people who suffer in silence with psychiatric disorders is the belief that they are weak. "If I cannot handle my own mind, I am weak". This is not true, and persisting in this belief can actually worsen your suffering over time.Mental illness is a treatable condition much like hypertension or diabetes. If you had to go to a doctor for either of these conditions, you probably would not call yourself weak-willed or weak-minded. In the same way, mental health conditions do not translate to weakness.
In reality, a person who accepts her inability to cope with life circumstances, and, as a result, turns to a professional for help, is actually strong.
 You think to yourself that all you have to do is keep it together: Stay busy. Put one foot in front of the other. Ignore the symptoms. Act like nothing is wrong. This endless desire to stay in control is built out of fear that if you stop and really notice your suffering, you might lose your mind. Ask yourself these questions to help you surrender control:What are you afraid of about your mental illness?
What do you think will happen if you give up control?
Is there a possibility that letting go and getting help could free you?

