 This may be one of the most important things that you can do to prioritize your loved ones when you have lots of other responsibilities and obligations.Consciously reminding yourself to make time for your family and friends and making decisions based on them will keep it on your mind and make it important to you.


When possible, schedule activities around your time with your loved ones.For example, if your daughter generally has track meets on Thursday afternoons, try not to schedule any meetings for that time.
Place a picture of your loved ones somewhere that you can see it frequently to remind you that they’re a priority to you.
Start each day by thinking about why your loved ones are important to you. For example, you might say to yourself, “My mom’s a priority because of all she’s done for me.”
Keep a journal or list and write about how grateful you are to have your family and friends. You can write a ‘gratefulness statement’ about one special person each day.
 It can be all too easy to allow work, school, and other obligations to spread over into your personal time. However, if you’re making your loved ones a priority then you’ll need to leave work at work and school at school, so to speak. Make sure that your time with your friends and family is spent enjoying their company and not focused on other aspects of your life.


Put a time limit on the hours you will work each day or each week. Once you reach that limit then stop and give your attention to your loved ones.
Other than important updates, avoid talking about work, school or other responsibilities with the people close to you. Instead, find out what’s going on in their life.
 Instead of thinking that you need to spend hours with your loved ones to let them know they’re a priority to you, think about the small things you can do. This will help make spending time with friends and family seem less like another obligation. At the same time, try to view large tasks as smaller action steps. Breaking your responsibilities down into smaller chunks can help you feel less busy and see free time where you didn’t see it before.


For example, you could plan to catch a quick coffee with your friend instead of trying to fit in lunch.
Or, for instance, instead of thinking of your final report as one big project, think of it as three smaller projects: the introduction, body, and conclusion. You could work on the introduction and then take a break to check on your partner.
 You may want to do everything and you may even be able to, but asking for help meeting your obligations and responsibilities may give you extra time to spend with loved ones.It’s okay to ask family members to help with chores on a regular basis or ask friends for a favor every now and then.


You might say to your friend, “I’d like to spend a bit of time with my daughter. Would you mind picking up my order when you pick up yours?”
Or, you might tell your partner, “If you wash the car while I pressure wash the house, we’ll have time to relax and watch the movie together later.”

, It might surprise you how much time you spend on your electronic devices. From checking email, to playing games, to texting, commenting, and posting – it all adds up. Logging off can give you back some of your time, which you can use to show your loved ones that they’re a priority.For example, spending 10 minutes playing with your dog is a much better way to spend your time than playing a game on your phone.
As an experiment one day, try to track how much time you spend on your electronic devices doing non-essential tasks like commenting on posts. The next day, try to spend that amount of time (or more) with your loved ones.

