 One of the most critical parts to a good sleepover is the environment, so you should get decorating right away. Members can own more than one kind of den, so if you're a member, the Enchanted Hollow den, Cosmo's den and even the Restaurant den are good ideas.


Also, the most important decoration you can ever have for a sleepover are the beds! Your guests will need something to sleep on, after all. For members, plaid couches work well as beds, but if you're a non member, striped couches can work too. If you planned on sleeping bags, just use beach towels. Don't forget pillows and plushies!;
, Your sleepover will be very boring if you don't give your guests things to do. Decorations can help here, too. Don't add any arcade machines, as your guests might disappear into the games in the middle of the sleepover. Instead, try to recreate on Animal Jam what you would do at a sleepover in real life.


For example, eat! If you're a member, set out a feast table and\or a dessert table. If you're a non member, you can use the fruit bowl or an AJ birthday cake.
Do makeovers! Set out some things that remind you of makeovers. Non members can set out red or green painted pots, while members can use the fancy vanity, as well.
 Think about what you would wear to a sleepover. Pajamas, right? But, how can you wear pajamas on Animal Jam?


For members, get a sports jersey. On most animals, it looks like it's too big on you so it will give the comfy look of pajamas. Unfortunately, for non members, there is nothing that looks like pajamas, but whether you are a member or non member, you might also try wearing a broken heart necklace or a friendship bracelet and giving one of these to another person at your sleepover so you look like matches.
 A sleepover is nothing without people! Dance in Jamaa Township, or another well populated area, and say "sleepover at my den!" after you've been advertising for a few minutes, say "sleepover at my den, last call!" (or "last calls" if you have dictionary chat) and go to your den.
 You might try to encourage conversation between everyone at the party, or maybe you can even play truth or dare! Just remember to follow the site's rules and be friendly to your guests.


No inappropriate dares should be used. It usually doesn't happen that way, but remember you can back down from any dare that you think might get you in trouble or hurt someone's feelings. Above all, have fun!

