 Starting a yoga routine with the child can really benefit them in the long run. It can also make them more comfortable with doing yoga and over time, gain more confidence. You may begin by setting aside time in the child’s schedule to do deep breathing once a day. Deep breathing sessions can be a good way to help your child focus and relax. They can then use deep breathing when they are doing yoga poses.You can sit with the child in a quiet, darkened room in a comfortable position to do deep breathing. Try to do at least ten to fifteen slow deep inhales and exhales. You may have the child place one hand on their stomach and one hand on their chest to help them get used to inhaling and exhaling deeply.
 You may also encourage the child do to a few relaxing yoga poses before they go to bed. You may do them together as part of the child’s bedtime routine. Doing relaxing poses before bed can help the child settle down and get in rest mode.For example, you may do Mountain Pose, Drawbridge Pose, and Child’s Pose together before bed. Make sure you synchronize your movements with your inhales and exhales.
 You should try to have weekly yoga sessions with the child so they get used to doing the yoga poses and more confident doing them. You may enroll the child in a weekly yoga class for children with ADHD or arrange for a private yoga session.You may also have your own sessions at home with the child so they get used to doing yoga at least once a week.
 If you find the child is having difficulties focusing on the yoga poses, you may try moving the session outside. Studies have shown that children with ADHD have better concentration when they are outdoors in natural, green environments.You may move the yoga sessions to your backyard or to a green space by your home. You may also try to have some of the yoga sessions indoors and some sessions outdoors so the child feels they have variety.
 Children with ADHD do well with active, varied learning. They tend to get bored easily and become distracted once they have lost interest in an activity. You can keep the child focused by doing different yoga poses or the same yoga poses in a different order during the yoga sessions.You may also try to incorporate other physical activities with yoga so the child feels challenged and stimulated.
If you take the child to a yoga class, make sure the instructor varies the yoga poses done in the class week to week so the child stays engaged.

