 You can do a Google search Good examples include:


99 from Get Smart

Mata Hari
Josephine Baker
Nancy Drew
Charlie's Angels
Emma Peel of The Avengers

Violette Szabo
Virginia Hall;
, A girl spy deserves to look good and be comfortable at the same time. Consider borrowing or reshaping the style of one of the role models you have chosen, to create your own spy look. Suitable items include sunglasses for hiding behind, a head scarf or hat, a wig, comfortable shoes, etc. Also opt for a sophisticated look so people will take you more seriously, matching clothing (especially a skirt) will make you look like you only mean business.
 Find a lovely bag in your favorite color and assemble all the items listed below in "Things You'll Need". Don't forget to add feminine hygiene items as needed.
, People may try to befriend or use you just so they can get your secrets, so beware and always take caution of others around you.
, This is so you don't get caught out. Make a cover story so you seem innocent and people won't suspect you.
 Be aware and watch people, they could be trying to say something through body language , facial expressions, or movement (eg: running down corridors/streets screaming or scared.
 This could make people think and wonder what is matter with you, which could lead people to follow you. You don't want anyone following you home and discover any gadgets or spy gear laying around.
 Getting a partner or a teammate is always for the best, as it doesn't look suspicious at all. (Just make sure you can trust them.)

, You want to wear comfortable, stretchy, light weight clothing, as you don't know what assignment you will be given, you want to be able to move freely instead of been weighed down from wearing heavy jeans and a leather jacket. For footwear wear something comfortable, you don't want to be running around in high heels or dolly flats, go for footwear that have ankle support, as you don't want to be running away and falling over your own feet or losing your shoes.
