;
, This fancy feature didn't exist back then!

, Learn how to make use of whatever light that's available.
 Once set, leave it alone. With film cameras, you can't change ISO speeds without changing the roll of film you are using. Higher ISO speeds are more sensitive to light, but produce grainier images.
 If you're shooting in color, be sure to set the White Balance to the appropriate setting. Film is available in different types (Daylight, Indoor, etc.). If you're using a DSLR camera, you may also use colored filters. Your camera may also provide different color settings (Vivid, Neutral, etc.).
 Film cameras don't provide the "instant feedback" that's possible with digital cameras.
 Evaluative/Matrix metering didn't exist back then!

, If you're using a DSLR camera, this should be easy - set the switch on your lens to "MF" (Manual Focus). Turn the focus ring on your lens until the image appears sharp. Point-and-shoot cameras may also provide a manual focus mode, but it can be more difficult to use due to the lack of an optical viewfinder.



The aperture (also referred to as an "F-stop") is the opening in your lens. Larger apertures (or smaller F-stops) let in more light, but provide a narrower depth-of-field (less of the image will be in focus). Smaller apertures (or larger F-stops) let in less light and provide a larger depth-of-field (more of the image will be in focus).
Shutter speed refers to the amount of time the film (or the sensor of a digital camera) is exposed to light. Faster shutter speeds provide less light and can "freeze" action. Slower shutter speeds provide more light, but any movement of the subject (or the camera itself) will cause blur in the image.
As you adjust these settings, watch your camera's exposure meter. It will indicate whether your image is properly exposed, underexposed (too dark), or overexposed (too light).
 If you're using autofocus, press and hold the shutter button halfway down - your camera will indicate whether or not the image is in focus. Press the shutter button all the way down to take the picture.

