 The focus in this marketing is often about trying to push products onto people who really don't want the products at all. Technology is making these marketing techniques less effective and more expensive.

Inbound Marketers: Flip outbound marketing on its head. Instead of buying display ads in print publications, they create content that potential customers want to see, create blogs that people subscribe to and look forward to reading, and the focus is on getting found by customers, instead of driving the message into a crowd over and over again like a sledgehammer.;
, When your content is distributed across, and discussed on, networks of personal relationships, it becomes more authentic and nuanced, and it is more likely to draw qualified customers to your site. Social media like Facebook is a successful inbound marketing campaign. Using Facebook can offer you a more targeted advertising approach.
 While Google knows you're in the market for a new home, Facebook knows what causes are important to you, which videos you like to share and how often you make recommendations to your friends. Social media advertising opportunities are yielding better-qualified, return on investment results compared to the Google ad network. Facebook is now able to gather data that it can leverage immeasurably in the world of advertising: the way people think, what they care about and how this leads them to buying decisions.
 Should you use groups or regular pages? While this is a more complicated question than it seems on the surface, it's important to know what you can and can't do with each:



Standard Facebook fan page: A Facebook Page is a public profile that enables you to share your business and products with Facebook users. Not only can you connect with your favorite artists and businesses, but now you also can show your friends what you care about and recommend by adding Pages to your personal profile because "Jane became a fan of…" pops up on each person's wall when they become a fan of your business. Pages can be viewed by unregistered users, though you will need to set your security preferences for this.

A viewer does not need to be a Facebook member to view your fan page. You can add extra applications to make your page more personal and send messages to all members using the updates feature. Pages also allow you to see statistics. You can create a corporate "person" page.
Log out and see what you can and can't view while not logged in as a registered user. Fan pages can be useful in helping the viral aspect of social media marketing.



Groups: Facebook Groups are set up for more personal interaction. Groups are also directly connected to the people who administer them, meaning that activities that go on there could reflect on you personally. For example, to help people find an online freelancer called "Freelance Marketplace Community" where members share experiences, project tips and who's hiring. Pages, on the other hand, don’t list the names of administrators, and are thought of as a person, almost like a corporate entity is considered a ‘person’ under the law.

Groups allow you to send out bulk invitations (for instance, you can ask all of your friends to join the group) and any of your group members can also invite their friends. If you have "friends" on your Facebook page who are acquaintances or just share common interests, this is a good way to market. Due to their security features, and size limitations (only groups under 5,000 members can send email blasts).
Another key difference is that Pages are indexed by external search engines such as Google, just like a public profile while Groups are not.

Create related Events, which show up under the users’ Request.
Have a wall for people to write on.
Share videos and pictures. Both require you to manually remove posts as an administrator if something does not meet your standards or purpose for the page.
 Groups are great for organizing on a personal level and for smaller scale interaction around a cause.
 Pages are better for brands, businesses, bands, movies, or celebrities who want to interact with their fans or customers without having them connected to a personal account, and have a need to exceed Facebook’s 5,000 friend cap.
 Because even if members have no intention of buying anything on Facebook, the relationships you establish, and community you build there, can benefit your business in countless ways.

