 Before starting prayer, you should perform Ablution to ensure you’re cleansed. Center your thoughts and quiet yourself, then wash and rinse these areas three times: your hands, mouth, face, nose, and lower forearms. Wash your head and ears once, then wash your feet three times (starting with the right foot).You can then point your right index finger to the sky and recite a prayer of witness: "Ash-hadu anlaa ilaaha illALLAHu wahdahuu laa shariikalahu, wa ash-hadu anna Muhammadan 'abduhuu wa rasuuluhu."
The English translation is, "I bear witness that there is no deity other than Allah alone; He is One; He has no partner and I bear witness that (Hadrat) Muhammad (Peace be upon Him) is His (chosen) servant and (true) Messenger."
Perform Ablution after it’s been canceled by urination, defecation, discharges from the penis or vagina, excessive bleeding, and deep sleep.;
, Make sure your space is clean enough to be suitable for prayer. Place a mat onto the floor to ensure cleanliness. Position the mat so it (and you) face the Qibla, or Mecca.
 Start by centering yourself on your intention. Raise your hands to your ears while standing and say, “Allah Akbar,” which translates to “Allah is the Greatest,” to open your prayers. Then recite the Isteftah Dua, or opening prayer, followed by the Ta’awwuz and Tasmiah.


The Isteftah Dua is: “Subhana Kal-lah hum-ma wabi hamdika wata-bara kasmuka wata'ala jad-duka wala ilaha ghyruka.” This translates to, “Glory be to you, O Allah, and all praises are due unto you, and blessed is your name and high is your majesty and none is worthy of worship but you.”
The transliteration of the Ta’awwuz is, “A'uzu bil-lahi minash Shayta-nir-rajeem,” which translates in English to, “I seek Allah's protection from Satan who is accursed.” You only need to recite Ta’awwuz once.
The transliteration of the Tasmiah is, “Bismillah hir-Rahma nir-Raheem,” which translates to, “In the name of Allah, the most Kind and the most Merciful.” You should recite Tasmiah before each Surah, or chapter of the Quran, that you recite.
 Before offering the Salat-al-Istikhara, recite two rak’ah (prayer cycles), starting with the Surah Fatiha. Remember to start each Surah by saying, “Bismillah hir-Rahma nir-Raheem.” The Surah Fatiha is recited in each rak’ah. Its transliteration is:
Alhamdul lil-lahi rab-bil 'alameen
Ar rahma nir-raheem
Maliki yawmid-deen
Iyyaka na'budu wa iyyaka nasta'een
Ihdinas siratal mustaqeem
Siratal Lazeena an'amta 'alayhim
Ghai-ril maghdubi 'alayhim
Walad dal-leen. Ameen.
In English, this translates to:
Praise is only for Allah, Lord of the Universe.
The most Kind, the most Merciful.
The master of the Day of Judgement.
You alone we worship and to you alone we pray for help.
Show us the straight way,
The way of those whom you have blessed.
Who have not deserved your anger,
Nor gone astray., After the Surah Fatiha, continue your two rak’ah recitations with the Surah al-Kafirun, or chapter 109 of the Quran. Be sure to start each Surah by saying, “Bismillah hir-Rahma nir-Raheem.”


The transliteration of the Surah al-Kafirun is:
Qul yaa-ai yuhal kaafiroon
Laa a'budu ma t'abudoon
Wa laa antum 'aabidoona maa a'bud
Wa laa ana 'abidum maa 'abattum
Wa laa antum 'aabidoona ma a'bud
Lakum deenukum wa liya deen.
This translates to:
Say : O ye that reject Faith!
I worship not that which ye worship,
Nor will ye worship that which I worship.
Nor will I worship those whom you have worshipped;
Nor will ye worship that which I worship.
To you be your Way, and to me mine., Say the Surah Fatiha once again, then recite the Surah al-Ikhlas. Start with Tasmiah, or “Bismillah hir-Rahma nir-Raheem.”


The transliteration of Surah al-Ikhlas is:
Qul huwal laahu ahad
Allah hus-samad
Lam yalid wa lam yoolad
Wa lam yakul-lahu kufuwan ahad
The English translation is:
Say: He is Allah, the One and Only;
Allah, the Eternal, Absolute;
He begetteth not, nor is He begotten;
And there is none like unto Him., After offering two rak’ah, you are ready to recite the Istikhara supplication.The Salat-al-Istikhara transliteration is:
Allahumma innee astakheeruka bi ilmika wa-astaqdiruka biqudratika wa-as'aluka min fadhlika al-adheem. Fa innaka taqdiru walaa aqdiru. Wa ta'lamu walaa a'alamu wa anta allaamul ghuyoob.
Allahumma in kunta ta'lamu anna haadhal-amr khayrun liy fiy deeniy wa-ma'aashiy wa-'aaqibat amriy, faqdur hu liy wa- liy thumma baarik liy feehi. Wa in-kunta ta'lamu anna haadhal amr sharrun liy fiy deeniy wa-ma'aashiy wa-'aaqibat amriy. Fa asrifhu 'annee wa-srifni 'anhu. Wa aqdur lial khayra haythu kaana thumma a-rdhiniy bihee.
The English translation is:
O Allah! Behold I ask You the good through Your Knowledge, and ability through Your Power, and beg (Your favour) out of Your infinite Bounty. For surely You have Power; I have none. You know all; I know not. You are the Great Knower of all things.
O Allah! If in Your Knowledge this matter be good for my faith, for my livelihood, and for the consequences of my affairs, then ordain it for me, and make it easy for me, and bless me therein. But if in Your Knowledge, this matter be bad for my faith, for my livelihood, and for the consequences of my affairs, then turn it away from me, and turn me away therefrom, and ordain for me the good wherever it be, and cause me to please with it.
Where "haadhal amr" (this matter) appears, mention the affair for which you seek guidance.
 You may choose to repeat the Istikhara supplication or continue reciting as many rak’ah as you desire. Continue to incorporate Istikhara into your daily prayers until you have found resolution. Try performing it for seven days, but stop if you feel you have been given an answer.