 If you plan to visit Spain for longer than 90 days, there are several different classifications of visa that might apply to your situation. Go over these classifications on the Spanish consulate website, or visit your nearest Spanish consulate and ask for assistance.For example, if you want to spend a portion of your retirement in Spain, you would want to apply for a "Residency Visa to Retire." This visa allows you to stay in the country for longer than 90 days, but does not permit you to work or do any other lucrative activities.
If you are a digital nomad who is slow traveling through Europe and plans to spend more than 90 days in Spain, you need the "Residence Visa for Investors and Self-Employment." This visa allows you to reside in Spain and work, provided you have contracts that originate elsewhere. You cannot work for Spanish employers while you are in Spain on this visa.
 You can get a copy of the appropriate visa application by visiting the Spanish consulate's office or embassy nearest you, or you can download the form from the Spanish consulate website and print it out.The national visa application requires personal and citizenship information such as your name, address, birthplace, and country of citizenship.
Additional information will depend on the type of visa for which you're applying, but typically includes financial and employment information, as well as information about your health and health insurance.
 Generally, you will need documentation to back up all of the information you provided on your visa application. The types of documents required will vary depending on the classification of the visa for which you applied.You can find a list of required documents on the application as well as on the Spanish consulate's website.
For all visas, you will have to provide proof of medical insurance coverage that lasts the duration of your stay in Spain, as well as a certificate from your doctor that you do not have any mental illnesses or contagious diseases, and are not addicted to drugs. This certificate must be translated into Spanish.
You also must submit your passport along with two passport-sized photographs. Your passport must be valid for at least six months from the date on your application.
 If you want to apply for a visa to stay in Spain for longer than 90 days, you must apply in person at the Spanish consulate or embassy nearest you. To find the nearest embassy or consulate, you can visit the website of the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation.Take all your documents with you, along with your original application and one copy. You also should bring photo identification and proof of residency.
Wear clean, conservative clothing as you may be interviewed by a member of the consulate office staff when you arrive.
 You must give your application and all documents to a staff member at the consulate or embassy, along with cash or a money order for the required application fee. The amount of the required fee varies depending on your country of citizenship.If you are a U.S. citizen, you must pay $160. The fee for citizens of all other countries is $64, unless you are a national of Russia, Ukraine, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, or Moldavia, in which case you'll pay $38.
This fee is non-refundable regardless of whether your application is approved or denied.
 It typically takes between three and four weeks for the Spanish consulate to approve a visa for a longer stay, and if they need additional information it may take longer. Keep this in mind when you're planning your trip and don't wait too long to apply.Once your application is resolved, your visa will be issued. You will receive a temporary residency card once you arrive in Spain.

