 Windshield wipers are made with three basic parts: the lower wiper arm that extends from the base of the windshield, the metal or plastic blade attached to the lower arm, and the rubber blade that actually wipes the windshield. When your windshield wiper blades are changed, you're really only changing the rubber blades that get worn down by water and inclement weather.;
, To find out what size replacement blades you need, measure the old rubber blades using a ruler or measuring tape. Write down the exact measurements, then go to an auto parts store and buy rubber blades in those exact sizes.









Don't assume that the left and right wiper take the same size blade. One side is often an inch or two shorter than the other.
Wiper blades usually run about $15.00 a piece. You'll save the cost of labor by installing them yourself.
 It should be able to hold steady in a position perpendicular to the windshield. Be careful with the positioning; the metal wiper arm is spring-loaded, and it could snap back and crack your windshield.
 Look at the joint where the rubber wiper blade meets the metal arm. There should be a small plastic stopper holding the blade in place. Press the stopper and unhook the old wiper blade to separate it from the metal arm.









Some wiper blades have pins to hold the rubber wiper blade in place, rather than a hook.
Make sure one hand is holding the wiper away from the windshield during this entire process.
You may want to protect your windshield with a folded towel, just in case you the arm snaps back while you're trying to change the wiper.
 Slide the refill wiper into the same end of the arm where you pulled the old wiper out. Gently pivot the new wiper until the hook snaps into place to secure it. Lay the wiper back against the windshield.
 The procedure is exactly the same for replacing the second wiper. Just make sure you use the correct size for each side.
 Old windshield wipers become hard and cracked over time, especially in hot, dry climates. If your wiper seems to have lost it's rubbery spring, it's probably time to replace it.
 If your wipers leave streaks of water across your windshield that aren't much easier to see through than pounding rain, their rubber has probably lost its grip.








