 The hole should be dug approximately 9 to 12 inches (23 to 31 cm) deeper than you want the depth of your pool, to allow room for surfacing the bottom of the basin. A lip is also left around the perimeter of the hole to accommodate sufficient working room for placing forms.;
, Your plumbing should include a drain at the bottom of the pool as well as the necessary structure to ensure safe water flow throughout the pool. Before moving to the next step, have the system hydrostatically pressure tested by a professional plumbing company to ensure there are no leaks.
 Cover the sides and bottom of the basin with steel rebar.


The rebar serves as a frame for the concrete and ensures the pool will maintain its shape and strength for a long time. Place the steel in grid form for greatest durability. Each area has its own building codes in regards to how the rebar should be installed, so learn the rules for concrete pool construction in your specific community. Framing may also be added at this time to create stairs or other interior features.



Gunite is either applied by professional pool installers or purchased through a gunite or concrete supplier for do-it-yourself use. Machines to apply the gunite can also be purchased or rented through these companies. Gunite is applied using a dry mix method, so no water is needed.
Once the gunite is installed, it will need to be sprayed down with a hose every day for 5 days to assist the curing process.
 The finish offers a smooth, decorative surface for the inside of your swimming pool and can be tile, marble or paint.
 Coping is the border that creates the pool's decorative edge. Then choose a coordinating decking material that offers walking room around the swimming pool. Both the coping and decking are designed to complement the interior pool finish and may be concrete, marble, tile or stone. The installation process will vary based on the material used.
 Your choice depends on the cost of water in your area and the size of your swimming pool construction.


After the pool is filled, it will be ready for use after the proper chemicals are applied and the water is tested for safety. You can learn about how to treat your water through your pool supply store or the professionals that handle your concrete pool construction.

