;
, No one wants to reek and no one likes to be next to someone who does (obviously). A warm shower will assist in awakening your pores and get your skin ready for makeup. While in the shower, use a face scrub to help get rid of dead skin cells and dirt that have formed overnight.
 Tone: Put toner on a cotton wool puff and wipe once around your face. Moisturize: (Make sure it is oil free!) Wait for at least 5 minutes after you apply your toner (to make sure it's dry) and then apply a thin layer of moisturizer to your face. Wait 2 more minutes to make sure it has been fully absorbed into the skin. Remember to wash your hands with soap and warm water to keep your fingers clean, because you will be using them next!

, This is important because it's the foundation that makes you have a fresh and even canvas to apply your makeup on. You don't have to spend a lot of money for a good foundation. There are many drugstore brands that make department store quality foundations for £8-£14, like Boots or Super-drug. These places have brands like Max-factor and Number 17. If you have dry skin, you may want to use a liquid foundation and if you have oily skin you should try a powder foundation. Apply your foundation on the nose, forehead, cheeks and chin. Blend outward to the hairline and jaw line using a foundation brush, powder brush or sponge. Make sure you apply on your neck to help avoid foundation lines.
 If applying a gel eye mask before bed didn't help, you may need to apply concealer underneath your eyes with a yellow color-based concealer to help hide the dark eye circles. For acne and blackheads or any other red marks. You can either use a skin-toned concealer or a green concealer. You can blend your concealer with a cosmetic sponge or your finger, but never tug at your under-eye skin because it causes premature wrinkles; Pat your concealer gently instead.
 Apply bronzer with a powder brush across the forehead, down the nose, on the chin and on the jaw line to contour. Apply a blush on the apples of your cheeks. Make sure the bronzer and blush suits your skin tone.
 Apply a natural eye shadow on your lid and use a darker neutral shade on your crease.
 I recommend liquid eyeliner for the top and pencil for the bottom of the eyes. REMEMBER to use the same tone (brown, black or aubergine work well). Sweep well over the lip of the eye while holding your skin to prevent kinks later.
 Curl your eyelashes for 5 seconds, while this step is optional, it really helps open your eyes. Be careful when using an eyelash curler as eyelashes could be pulled out if used incorrectly.
 Using a brown or black mascara, apply lightly to your lashes, starting at the root of your eyelashes to the tips. You may wish to apply mascara to the lower lash line as well. For a more flirty look: first apply to the back of the lashes (looking down) and zig zag to prevent and clumps. Do the other side by sweeping in an upwards direction. Leave to dry for a few moments.
 Dust a translucent powder lightly over your face to set the makeup.
