 There are several types of electrician licenses in Maine: master electrician, limited electrician, journeyman electrician, apprentice electrician, helper electrician and journeyman-in-training. The requirements for each type of license are different, so research the license you are pursuing before you apply. The documents required for all electrician license applications are available online at the Maine Office of Licensing and Registration website.
 A master electrician installs electrical wire, apparatus, fixtures, conduits and other electrical equipment. In Maine, you must be licensed as a master electrician or limited electrician to obtain electrical permits.


Pass the master electrician exam. In order to apply for a master electrician license in the state of Maine, you must pass a 100-question exam with a score of at least 70%. You must pass the exam issued through the Electrician's Examining Board before applying for a license.
Show proof of 12,000 hours work experience or 4,000 hours working as a journeyman. You also must complete 576 hours of classroom training from an accredited institution, including at least 45 hours of National Electrical Code training.
Pay the required fees. A master electrician license requires a $25 application fee, $50 exam fee, $150 licensure fee and $21 criminal background check fee.
 In Maine, a limited electrician installs and repairs electrical systems related to a specific equipment or installation type as authorized by the license. Limited electrician licenses are available for low energy, house wiring, gas dispense, outdoor signs, traffic signals, refrigeration, crane technicians and water pumps. A limited electrician is licensed to obtain electrical permits.


Pass the limited electrician exam. In order to apply for a limited electrician license in the state of Maine, you must pass a 50-question exam with a score of at least 70%. You must pass the exam issued through the Electrician's Examining Board before applying for a license.
Show proof of work experience as designated by each category of limited electrician licensure. For example, to obtain a limited electrician water pumps license, you must complete 135 hours of approved coursework and log 2,000 hours of field work.
Pay the required fees. A limited electrician license requires a $25 application fee, $50 exam fee, $150 licensure fee and $21 criminal background check fee.
 A journeyman electrician works on electrical installations as an employee of a master electrician, limited electrician or an electrical company.


Pass the journeyman electrician exam. In order to apply for a journeyman electrician license in the state of Maine, you must pass an 80-question exam with a score of at least 70%. You must pass the exam issued through the Electrician's Examining Board before applying for a license.
Show proof of either 8,000 hours of work experience, graduation from an accredited technical school combined with 8,000 hours of work experience, graduation from a Maine community college electrical program combined with 4,000 hours of work experience, or completion of an apprenticeship program combined with 8,000 hours of work experience. You also must complete 576 hours of classroom training from an accredited institution, including at least 45 hours of National Electrical Code training.
Pay the required fees. A journeyman electrician license requires a $25 application fee, $50 exam fee, $150 licensure fee and $21 criminal background check fee.
 An apprentice electrician works on electrical installations under the direct supervision of a master electrician, journeyman electrician or limited electrician. No testing is required for apprentice electrician licensees, but applicants must be registered with the Apprenticeship Council of Maine through the Department of Labor.


Pay the required fees. An apprentice electrician license requires a $25 application fee, $50 licensure fee and $21 criminal background check fee.
 A helper electrician is employed by a master electrician, limited electrician or electrical company, and works on electrical installations under the direct supervision of a master electrician, journeyman electrician or limited electrician. No testing is required for helper electrician licensees.


Pay the required fees. An apprentice electrician license requires a $25 application fee, $50 licensure fee and $21 criminal background check fee.
 A journeyman-in-training is employed by a master electrician, limited electrician or electrical company, and works on electrical installations under the direct supervision of a master electrician, journeyman electrician or limited electrician.


Pass the journeyman-in-training electrician exam. In order to apply for a journeyman-in-training electrician license in the state of Maine, you must pass an exam with a score of at least 70%. You must pass the exam issued through the Electrician's Examining Board before applying for a license.
Show proof of graduation from an accredited Maine technical or vocational college and 2,000 hours of work experience.
Pay the required fees. A journeyman-in-training electrician license requires a $25 application fee, $50 exam fee, $150 licensure fee and $21 criminal background check fee.

