 Ask your mom if you can invite your friend over for dinner or to just hang out at your house for a bit. This way, your mom can monitor the situation and, hopefully, realize that she misjudged your friend's character.


It might help if your friend’s mom or parents came over, too. Moms often like to meet the parents of their children’s friends., This is a good option if your mom lets you hang out with your friend even though she doesn’t approve of them. Your mom will probably be more lenient and feel more comfortable when she knows that you’re in the company of a friend she approves of. There are lots of fun things you can do in a group with your friends, including:Try cooking something new with your friends. Talk with your friends about something tasty they might want to make. Go to the store, get your ingredients, then divide up the cooking process (one person can chop veggies, one person can boil the pasta, etc.).
Go shopping with your friends. If you don’t have money, try window browsing, or ask your mom for some money.
Have a movie night with your friends.
 Invite your friend to the library or to another friend’s house and do homework, work on a group project, or review for a test together. This way, the approval you get from your mom for being studious will negate (or at least diminish) her disapproval of your friend.


Be sure to actually study with your friend if that’s your intention. If you goof off watching cat videos online, your plan will backfire and your mom will not be happy.
You don’t necessarily need to tell your mom that you’re studying with a friend she doesn’t approve of. Just tell her that you’re studying after school. However, if she asks directly who you’re studying with, don’t lie.
Studying or doing homework with a friend is a great way to learn. Studying with one or more friends can improve rates of retention over the material, increase motivation, and can provide greater access to information., Talk with your friend about sports you both like. Many schools or community education agencies organize volleyball, swimming, baseball, and other sports teams for people of all ages.


Sports aren’t the only extracurricular activity you could engage in. Some schools offer chess clubs, video game clubs, and photography clubs.
If you can’t find a club you like, talk to your school administrator about starting a club of your own where you and your friend can hang out together and meet new friends.

