 Psychics may have strong natural interests in the paranormal. Evaluate your interests throughout the course of your life. Have you always been curious about things like ghosts, reincarnation, and premonitions? If so, this could potentially point to psychic powers., Those who believe in psychic power believe psychics can feel energy around them. You may experience sudden anxiety in response to the world around you. This is especially common in places where people may have had traumatic experiences, such as cemeteries and hospitals. You may also feel anxiety suddenly during the day without cause. This could be because, without knowing it, you passed by a place where someone suffered trauma. You may also feel anxious when alone sometimes. You may, for example, be frightened when alone at night or in the dark.
 People who believe in psychic powers feel psychics are prone to very vivid dreams. This may be because physics are able to feel the energy of the world around them and this may manifest in very intense dreams. If your dreams are usually vivid, you may have psychic powers.On occasion, aspects of your dreams may appear in real life. For example, you may dream you lose an object only to really lose it the next day., Deja-vu is the sense of experiencing something before it occurs. Those who believe in psychic powers believe deju-vu is a result of unconsciously experiencing things before they occur. If you have psychic powers, you may very frequently experience deja-vu. It may occur multiple times a week instead of just once in awhile, for example., Synesthesia is a mixing of the senses. You may get a sense of taste when you hear a sound or associate a color with a particular person. Those who believe in psychic powers feels psychics are more prone to synesthesia.You may eventually find your synesthesia helps you make accurate predictions. Someone who gives off a yellow vibe, for example, may be very friendly, while darker colors like deep blues may indicate a mean or brooding personality.
 While many people believe psychic powers are real, there is no scientific evidence to back this up. Many signs of psychic powers, like acute anxiety, can be signs of underlying mental health conditions or physical problems. Before assuming signs indicate psychic powers, see a doctor and therapist to rule out medically-proven conditions.

