 Pet dander is a common source of indoor pollution. Even people who don’t have pets can have pet dander in their homes or offices. People can leave behind pet dander, including hairs.Pet dander includes particles from pet hair and fur, skin, and even feathers.;
, Indoor pollution can be caused by any pests inside your home or building, like insects. Cockroaches are one common cause of indoor pollution, as are dust mites. Rats or other vermin can also cause indoor pollution as well as transmit infectious diseases.Dust mites are microscopic pests that can cause allergic reactions. Dust mites can be found in furniture upholstery, carpeting, bedding, and even fabric wallpaper, open shelving, and venetian blinds. You can wash bedding in hot water of at least 130 degrees Fahrenheit (54.4 degrees Celsius) to kill dust mites., Pollen can get on every surface during the spring. You can end up with a thin yellow coating in your home, office, or even car. Pollen can cause allergic reactions and respiratory problems for people with asthma.Pollen may come in through open doors or windows. You may also track it in on your shoes or clothes.
 Mold can cause a lot of problems for people who inhale it every day. Mold can trigger asthma attacks as well as allergic reactions. Rooms with a lot of moisture, such as basements and bathrooms, often have mold problems.Leaky plumbing can be a source of mold, as can a dish drainer or other kinds of drip pans., Carbon monoxide (CO) is a colorless, odorless gas that can cause sudden illness and even death. Install carbon monoxide detectors throughout your home or workplace to alert you of dangerous carbon monoxide buildup., Inhaling ozone can create respiratory issues and damage the lungs. Most indoor ozone comes from outdoors or is created by the exposure of air pollution to sunlight or ultraviolet light. Use a B1-C ozone detection card to test your home or office.Avoid buying ion generators that claim to reduce indoor air pollutants, as these products actually create harmful ozone.
 Radon is a colorless, odorless gas that naturally occurs in soil and rocks. It can get into air and water and causes lung cancer. Place a radon measurement device in the lowest level of your home or building., Pesticides include toxic chemicals used to eliminate pests, insects, rodents, fungi, and microbes. Exposure to pesticides can cause irritation to the eyes, nose, and throat as well as more severe issues with the kidneys and the central nervous system.Bathrooms and kitchen areas are most likely to house pesticides., Anything that causes smoke or smoke by-products can cause air pollution. Common sources of smoke pollution include stoves, furnaces, or space heaters. Smoke pollution can also occur due to products from combustible sources, like oil, gas, kerosene, coal, or wood.Tobacco smoke is a common and dangerous indoor pollutant. Even second-hand smoke can cause cancer., Some household cleaning products contain volatile organic compounds (VOCs) which cause indoor air pollution. The fumes can be toxic and cause side effects immediately, or they can build up over time.Make sure to ventilate whatever room you use cleaning products in. Keep all windows and doors open, or use a fan when cleaning. Refrain from cleaning in poorly ventilated rooms.
Mixing chemicals can produce toxic fumes, so refrain from mixing the chemicals.
 Asbestos is a naturally occurring mineral fiber that was used in insulation and other building products until the 1970s. Asbestos is very damaging to the lungs. Contact a trained professional to check your home or building for asbestos., Lead can be found in paint, soil, food, and water. Exposure, inhalation, or ingestion leads to lead poisoning of the blood. A certified inspector can test your home, building, or grounds for lead., Arsenic is a toxic heavy metal that was used in pesticides, applied to orchards, and used in the wood industry prior to 1988. It accumulates in the soil and can leach into wells, and causes several forms of cancer. Contact a professional to test your wood, soil, and water for dangerous arsenic levels.Older decks and playsets can contain wood treated with arsenic.
 Finding sources of indoor air pollution can be a difficult task. You should walk through your home or the building to check for any signs of pollution. You should look for any signs and use your nose to smell around for odd odors. You are searching for:Dust and pollen
Construction materials, including insulation
Appliances that release moisture, smoke, or gases into the air
Moisture on surfaces or water stains
Musty odors
Evidence of pests (such as rat droppings)

, You should contact a professional to test for lead, arsenic, and asbestos. They will be able to safely remove or seal these materials, should they be found. Don’t attempt to clean or remove them yourself, as this could lead to dangerous exposure., Pollutants can remain inside buildings if the building is not ventilated. You can use natural ventilation to help circulate outdoor air in and indoor air out. There are also air cleaning ventilation devices can help remove pollution in a building.You can provide ventilation to your business or home by opening windows and doors so that air can circulate through. You can also use window fans, or fans in the attic.
Use exhaust fans in bathrooms or kitchens to remove any gases or other pollution from the rooms.
In larger buildings, you can install mechanical ventilation systems.
 Air cleaning devices can help remove pollutants in your home or building. This can help reduce the indoor air pollution you breathe. Air cleaners can be placed throughout the rooms in your home or office to help remove air pollution.You can buy multiple kinds of air cleaners, like HEPA filter mechanical air cleaners.
You should also frequently change the air filter in your home or building’s air conditioning or heating system.
 Once you figure out what the sources of the indoor pollution are, you should eliminate those sources. You can either remove the sources, block them off, or update the sources.Gas stoves and other out-of-date appliances can be updated or adjusted to reduce the amount of pollution.
 To help reduce air pollution due to cleaners, try using non-chemical cleaners. You can purchase natural cleaning products or even make your own.Try using baking soda or vinegar, which are good natural cleaners.
You should also consider fragrance-free products, including detergents and other cosmetics.Avoid using aerosol spray, including those for cosmetics and cleaning products.
 You can buy vacuum cleaners that are specifically made to clean dust and other pollutants from the carpet. For places you can’t vacuum, use a mop to grab all the dust from the floor, ceiling, walls, or fans.You can use vacuum cleaners that have HEPA filters.
Remember to vacuum furniture, walls, and the edges of the carpet. If you don’t want to vacuum curtains or rugs, wash them regularly.
Vacuum and mop often to remove dust and pollen particles.
 Moisture can cause mold and even dust mites in your home. You should try to reduce the amount of humidity in your home. Aim to keep your humidity levels around 30-50%.Use a dehumidifier to help eliminate moisture in the air.
Exhaust fans in the bathroom help reduce humidity.
 If you find surfaces in your home or building that have signs of air pollution, like mold, pollen, dust, or pest remnants, clean these surfaces with a mild, non-chemical cleanser and hot water.If the mold in your home or building is too bad, you may have to get a professional to remove it.
Wash bedding often to remove dust mites, dust, or other contaminants.
If you have pests, like cockroaches or rats, call an exterminator who uses an integrated pest management (IPM) system which decreases the use of toxic chemicals to remove pests., The symptoms associated with indoor air pollution are often confused with a cold or allergies. One way to determine if they are connected to air pollution is if they symptoms abate when you leave a room or building. Symptoms include:Coughing
Sneezing
Watery eyes
Headaches
Dizziness
Fatigue

, Indoor air pollution can cause a lot of upper respiratory problems. This may be due to asthma, allergies, pre-existing lung problems, or just irritation of the respiratory tract. Watch for:Nasal congestion
Nose bleeds
Difficult or painful breathing
Sore throat and cough
Wheezing

, Exposure to many indoor pollutants, particularly from chemical or toxic materials, can create long-term effects. Watch for:Asthma
Headache
Nausea
Loss of coordination
Chest pain
Nerve or brain damage
Kidney or liver damage
Cardiovascular disease
Mesothelioma
Emphysema
Cancer

, If you believe you or your family have been exposed to indoor air pollution, you should go see a doctor. Before you go see the doctor, you should gather some information about your exposure to indoor pollution to share with your doctor.Have you or your family members been experiencing symptoms? Do these symptoms include respiratory problems?
Have you recently moved to a new home? Have you recently started a new job?
Do the symptoms disappear when you leave certain buildings or rooms?
Have you recently done any remodeling to your home?
Has your home been tested for asbestos, radon, arsenic, lead, ozone, and carbon monoxide?
Is your home more humid than normal?
Are there signs of mold or mildew in your home?
Do you own any pets?
Do you have evidence of pests inside your home?
Does anyone in your home smoke?

