 Office furniture typically makes up the bulk of the decor budget. Do your best to reuse pieces from other areas in your home in order to increase savings. Look for customizable items that can offer both design solutions and a personal touch.For example, you can use a sturdy coffee table to provide a seating area that doubles as storage space. Find inexpensive cushions or even a pet bed large enough to cover the tabletop in the clearance section of a home decor store. Place woven baskets or other storage bins you might have on hand under the coffee table to store files, books, or other necessities.If you have an extra dresser on hand, put it in the office to store supplies and paperwork. Consider downsizing your wardrobe to free up a storage piece in your bedroom.;
, Create your own shelving with affordable wood panels and brackets from the hardware store if you have basic woodworking skills. Alternatively, you can look for deals at department stores or online. Inexpensive shelving can not only offer storage solutions, it can also provide you with desk space, which can be among the costliest office furniture pieces.Run shelving horizontally along an entire wall for multiple workstations. Use the area underneath for storage containers, a trash bin, and office equipment like a printer or shredder.  

, If you do need to purchase a desk, file storage, or other office furniture look around for good secondhand pieces. Search online for estate sales in your area, and look for local organizations that host estate sales. Check websites for options to sign up for email lists so you won’t have to drive around your city looking for sales.Look around consignment shops, thrift stores, and furniture surplus stores in your area for deals on items that fit your taste and needs.
Make sure you have your space’s measurements on hand, and bring a tape measure with you to be sure you purchase items that fit your office.
 If there’s one office furniture item to spend a bit of money on, it’s the chair. Sitting for long periods of time is tough on your back, legs, and overall health, so look for an ergonomic office chair that fits your budget.Look for a form-fitting chair that offers both sturdiness and flexibility. Go for height adjustable options that offer lumbar, neck, and head support.
A new ergonomic chair can cost thousands of dollars, but with some patience, you can find a secondhand option for a fraction of that price.
Using a kitchen chair or other uncomfortable option might be a decent solution while you look for a good budget-friendly piece, but it’ll compromise your productivity and health in the long run., Purchasing a matching office furniture suite might offer a quick decor fix, but will drastically increase your cost. Be patient as you furnish your office using a mix of repurposed and secondhand items. It might take a matter of months, but you’ll end up saving hundreds, if not thousands, of dollars.In addition to drastically reducing your budget, avoiding a matching suite will also give your workspace a more personal feel.

