 Press the Apps button the lower-right corner of the home screen (the squares icon) to open the app screen.;
, On the app screen, tap on “E-mail” to launch Note 3’s e-mail application.


If you don’t find the app icon on the first page, swipe either left or right across the screen to go through the different pages on the app screen.
 Inside the E-mail app, tap “Others” to manually set up your e-mail. This will open the “Set up e-mail” screen.
 On the “Set up e-mail” screen, type in the address of the e-mail account you want to use (for example, johndoe@email.com) and the password for the account. Once you’ve entered these details, tap on “Next” to proceed.


The app will establish a connection with the e-mail server using the details you provided.
Note that if you’re going to add a company e-mail account, you need to ask your company’s IT department for the account information you need to set it up on your Note 3.
 The next screen will be “Account options.” Here you can set different settings for the e-mail account you’ve added:


Sync Schedule—This sets the time frequency for the E-mail app to check new e-mail messages on the server.
Peak Schedule—This sets the E-mail app to check the server during the time of the day you mostly get more e-mail messages.
Sync e-mail—This sets whether or not you want the E-mail app to automatically sync with the server once your Note 3 gets connected to the Internet.
Notify me when e-mail arrives—You’ll receive a notification on your phone whenever you receive a new mail.
Automatically download attachments when connected to Wi-Fi—The E-mail app will only download attachments when you’re connected to a Wi-Fi, not while you’re on mobile data to avoid additional charges.
 Once you’re done setting the account options, tap on “Next” to proceed.
 On the next screen, give the account you added any name you (e.g., My Business Account) by typing it on the text field provided.


Below this is another text field where you can also add your own name so that every time you create an outgoing message, your name will appear on the message body.
 Once you’re done, tap on the “Next” button to finalize the options and add the e-mail account to the app.

