 For practice purposes, cut a piece of thread about 2 feet (0.6 m) long. Thread one side through the eye of the needle. Pull the thread through the needle until both ends are beside each other. Put 1-2 knots in the end of the thread, about 1” up from the end.For visualization purposes, you should be able to hold up the entire length of thread, with one end in each of your hands, and the needle should dangle in the very middle of the piece of thread. You can then bring the two ends together to tie the knot. The knot will be at the opposite end of where the needle will dangle.
 In order to practice hand sewing, get two pieces of scrap fabric and put them together. Your child will use these pieces to practice stitching. This fabric doesn’t have to be fancy, but it should probably be a type of fabric you’ll use often, such as cotton.One type of practice stitching could be to sew along the edge of the fabric, so make sure that at least one side of your scrap pieces line up to each other. If necessary, cut the fabric along one edge so it lines up.
You may want to select fabric and thread that are two very different colours. This way your child can easily see the stitches made on the fabric.
 Start by having your child practice stitching a straight line along the edge of the fabric. Encourage them to keep each stitch the same size, and keep all the stitches in a straight line without going off the end of the fabric. Continue having your child practice stitches until they’re able to get a good straight line with even-sized stitches.The end result may be one or more sets of scrap fabric with all sorts of crazy and uneven stitches in them. But the point is to allow your child to get the hang of hand sewing with practice. Using this method will also allow your child to see improvement between each attempt.
 Another potential way to practice hand sewing is to use styrofoam plates and colourful embroidery thread. This form of practice may be better for very young children (less than 6 years old). They can also sew neat patterns onto the plates with different colours and put them on display.The styrofoam plates stay stiff while kids are sewing, helping them get the hang of the stitches without getting frustrated with fabric. The styrofoam is also easy to poke a dull-ended needle through.
For this type of practice you can use tapestry needles as they have large eyes and dull ends. This will help your child get use to threading a needle without accidentally poking themselves with the needle.
You can start by having your child get use to pulling the needle in and out of the plate to make stitches. Then work from there and have them stitch straight lines or objects (e.g. stars, letters, flowers, etc.). You can even draw the shape onto the plate with a pen first so your child has something to follow.

