
Preparing in advance will significantly make tasks and time more organized. Much of this article is about good advance preparation that will ensure you have what you need in front of you and you're not left wondering what to cook or where the ingredients to cook it are.

Keep a well-stocked fridge and pantry. Keep a shopping list for items that are needed each shopping trip. Having ingredients available always speeds things up instead of having to find substitutions, change recipe ideas or even head off to the store.
Use quality kitchen tools and cooking equipment. While they may cost more initially, they work better and therefore speed up your cooking time while ensuring safety and good outcomes.
Be organized in your food storage, using labels and ensuring that food is used up while fresh. A little bit of initial effort to organize a pantry and fridge so that they allow for easy and fast food finding will speed up your daily cooking routine.;
,
The worst (and slowest) start to making a meal is by standing in front of an open pantry wondering what to make. By using a calendar, you can jot down what each person in the family likes, and even set aside some days for meals outside of the kitchen. Preparing meals for one might be easier or harder to plan in advance, depending on the ingredients you have; follow whatever works best for you when cooking for one but don't skimp on healthy choices!

Read How to cook just for yourself, How to plan dinner menus for the family and How to plan a meal using only what's in your pantry for more ideas.

In those situations where you do open the pantry door and wonder what to cook, choose several ingredients and type them into your search engine of choice along with the word "recipe". Exact matches incorporating those ingredients will return, enabling you to quickly choose a recipe that you like and can get on with preparing. Doing this is a lot faster than both wondering what to do or hunting for recipes in cookbooks while hungry!,
Before you go to bed or leave the house in the morning, place any pots, pans, measuring utensils, different bowl sizes, spice containers, and appliances that are tucked away on the countertops. When you're ready to start, everything is all set for you and this not only cuts the preparation time but provides you with the motivation to start preparing the meal.


Setting the table in advance is also an advantage. Ask older kids to help you set up a placement for each person. In fact, it's never too early to teach kids how to set the table, so encourage them to do so from a young age.

Whether you're having tacos, stir fry, casseroles, or salads, using Tupperware or similar containers to store pre-cut ingredients will save on preparation time. With the ingredients already prepared, this can also be a motivation to eat healthier for breakfast and lunch, such as quick fix salads or vegetable omelets.

Do tedious, non-cutting preparations elsewhere. When you're in front of the computer or watching television, you can easily snap beans at the same time.

If you have a favorite recipe that uses spice mixes and seasonings, measure out the ingredients in separate snack or sandwich plastic bags. Secure them tightly and stash them away for future uses.,
Thick meats, such as pot roasts, are excellent for beef stew. Add vegetable chunks, such as onions, carrots, and potatoes with the sauce or cooking wine of your choice. Leave it up to the slow cooker to do the rest for at least 8 hours.

Read How to use a slow cooker for more details.

Recipes such as lasagna, pies and casseroles can be prepared in advanced and divided. Cook one portion for that night and freeze the rest for future meals.

Read How to do once a month cooking and How to start or create a freezer group for more ideas.

Even before preparing anything, start filling up the sink with a mixture of dish soap and hot water. Wash cutting boards in between cutting vegetables, meat, and fish and place them upright to dry. Wash any bowls, knives, and measuring utensils that won't be used again and leave them to air dry. While the meal is being cooked, utilize this time to continue any cleaning or putting away dishes in the dishwasher. By following the clean-as-you-go method, at the end of the meal the only things you need to worry about are the dishes on the table!