 CrossFit gyms are in many ways small communities unto themselves. By fostering a spirit of camaraderie, each gym builds a supportive network that can help you achieve new heights in strength and endurance.During your early Foundations or Elements clinics, the coach will likely include a series of icebreaker exercises that are designed to allow the participants in the class to get to know each other. Be open and try to avoid making any judgements or assumptions about anyone based on their appearance.
Ask questions, both of your coach and of other participants. If you have an opportunity to hang out with any of the participants socially, such as a trip to get smoothies after the clinic, take advantage of it.
If you have a sports background, think of how you got to know your teammates and approach CrossFit the same way. These people may not necessarily become your best friends, but you'll be more supportive of people with whom you're familiar. The first step to encouragement is understanding someone's struggles.
 CrossFit has its own lingo, and part of getting acclimated and feeling less intimidating is learning the correct terminology and using it naturally and appropriately. If you don't understand something, ask rather than assuming.One of the first things you'll learn is "WOD," which stands for "workout of the day." Some workouts have unique names that you'll also learn with time. For example, there are a series of WODs that have each been given a girl's name. After awhile, when you see one of these names you'll immediately know what your daily training regimen will be.
Another acronym you'll encounter frequently is "AMRAP," which stands for "as many reps as possible." Many WODs include exercises done this way. Rather than race the clock, you'll be focused on doing as many reps of the given exercise as you can within a specified amount of time.
Many CrossFit athletes also follow the Paleo diet, which consists essentially of eating as cavemen from the Paleolithic period did – primarily meat and vegetables. Followers of the Paleo diet have their own lingo as well, which may overlap with CrossFit lingo.
 Even though CrossFit is by its very nature competitive, the CrossFit community is very supportive and encouraging. Foster a healthy spirit of competition by congratulating your fellow CrossFitters for achieving personal bests or meeting their own goals.Part of this culture of support includes being willing to check your ego. Getting cocky about your performance is a sure way to slack on your form and end up injured.
Keep everything in perspective and realize that one athlete who bests you in one skill may struggle in another. Be willing to help out and avoid negative feelings and resentment that can turn healthy competition into a bitter rivalry.
 At first blush, CrossFit athletes may seem intense and overwhelming, and you may find it difficult to imagine that they could be warm and welcoming to a beginner like you. But most CrossFitters are encouraging to new members and happy to welcome you into their fold.CrossFit gyms often have community events. Many also have a presence on social media. Use these to seek out and ask advice from coaches and experienced athletes, especially when you're just getting started.
When you enter a CrossFit box for the first time, there no doubt will be particular individuals who you find the most intimidating – maybe because they look particularly strong, because they are overwhelmingly intense, or they seem to know everybody. Start with the most intimidating person in the gym and ask them a question. The more you get to know them, the less intimidating they will be.

