 Think about the people that seem to deflate your confidence. Again, understand that their words are more a reflection of their own inadequacies, and not yours. Realize that negative thoughts about yourself are coming from someone else’s opinion of you.Remember that you control your opinion of yourself, not others.
 Challenge the accuracy of negative thoughts and feelings. When you are experiencing a wave of negative thoughts, write them down in a personal diary so you can observe them and challenge them. Cognitive behavioral therapy can also be a helpful way to change negative thoughts, so you might look into a self-help book such as Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Dummies by Rhena Branch and Rob Willson. Negative thoughts can be:All or nothing thinking, for example, “If I do not succeed, then I am a total failure.”
Jumping to negative conclusions, for example, “I made a mistake today and now everyone will think I am not qualified for this job,” or “My boss (or friend) hasn’t replied so I must have done something to make them angry.”
Mistaking feelings for facts, for example, “I feel like a failure so I must be one.”
Not giving yourself the credit you deserve, for example, “I only did well because it was easy.”

, Challenge negative ways of thinking with positive ways of thinking. Get outside of your head by responding to your thoughts as if you are a helpful friend or family member. Then, imagine what they would tell you, and tell yourself those things. Adjust your thoughts by:Using hopeful statements, like, “Even though it is tough, I can handle it.”
Forgiving yourself, for example, “I made a mistake, but everyone makes mistakes. That is how you learn and grow.”
Avoiding "should" and "must" statements, for example, “I should have done better,” “I must be a failure.” Replace them with more realistic expectations, like, “I should be proud because I did my best,” or “My presentation might not have been perfect, but my audience remained engaged and asked questions.”

, To help you get perspective on the issue, speak with a friend or family member that is removed from the situation. This way, they can give you an unbiased opinion. Make sure it is someone that you trust and that you know will listen and support you.You can say, "My confidence has been really low lately, and this person in my life is not helping. The way they react makes me feel worse than I did before. What should I do?"

, If you are taking things that people say about you seriously, then this may indicate that you have adopted some negative beliefs about yourself. It is important to deal with these right away to avoid letting them take hold. If you can’t seem to shake negative thoughts or people, then speak to a professional therapist. Talking with someone is beneficial because it will help you redirect the negative energy instead of bottling it up, or letting it out on others or yourself.A professional will be able to help you uproot self-confidence issues.

