 You can establish good relations with your landlord by paying your rent on time, following any housing rules, and keeping your apartment in good condition. These good relations can help you convince your landlord to agree to renovations.Remind your landlord that you’ve been a good tenant when asking about renovations.
 Make sure you understand what kinds of renovations are allowed by your lease agreement. In most cases, landlords are not required by the terms of a lease to make cosmetic (non-necessary) renovations. If you want these done, you will have to negotiate. Cosmetic renovations include things like:


Painting walls simply to change the color (and not because of damage or age)
Replacing functioning lighting fixtures with new ones
Removing or adding walls to change the apartment layout
Replacing non-damaged countertops for stylistic reasons

, If you know before moving in or signing a new lease that you would like renovations done, try to have your landlord agree to these before you sign the lease. Have the renovation requests be written into the lease or as an addendum to it.


Make sure that the lease includes all the information, including when the renovations will be completed, and how they will be paid for (“XYZ renovations will be completed at the landlord’s expense by …”)., Many landlords might be convinced to do reasonable renovations. Perhaps you can’t expect them to approve a complete kitchen makeover, but you might get them to agree to new cabinets or a fresh coat of paint.Try to convince your landlord that the upgrades would make the apartment attractive not only to you, but to future renters.For instance, a landlord might not want to replace carpeted floors with hardwood, because a future tenant might not like them. You might be more successful asking for a new or better stove, however, because this is a standard feature that could benefit from an upgrade.
Remember that landlords may simply not agree to certain renovations., You can offer to find a suitable contractor to do the renovations, and to get an estimate of the renovation costs from the contractor. Your landlord might appreciate not having to take the time to do this research, and therefore be more willing to agree to the renovations., In some cases, landlords may be able to get a tax benefit from renovating their properties. Likewise, renovations might help the value of their properties rise. Remind your landlord of these incentives, as they might help convince your landlord to agree to the renovations., If you are capable of doing some renovations yourself, offer to do so. Your landlord might be convinced if you offer to pay for the materials and provide the labor.Even if you plan to pay for the renovations yourself, however, you should always ask your landlord before making any major renovations, including painting walls, replacing appliances, etc. If you do not have permission from your landlord to make these changes you might be violating your lease.
 Asking your landlord to pay for renovations might take some negotiating. You can give them something in return if you offer to sign a longer lease.By committing to staying in the apartment longer, you let your landlord know that the renovations will be worth it.
 Whether you are doing the renovations yourself, or hiring a contractor, you and your landlord need to agree on how the work will be paid for.If you are doing the renovations yourself, know whether or not the landlord will pay you for the cost of materials. If they will pay for them, specify when and how.
If a contractor is hired to do the renovations, know if the landlord will pay the contractor directly, or if will you pay and then be reimbursed by your landlord. It will be easiest on you if your landlord can pay the contractor directly.
 In some cases, a landlord will agree to cosmetic renovations, but only if the apartment’s rent goes up.This ensures that the apartment continues to be profitable. If you are happy with your apartment, and really want to have specific renovations done, then you may need to accept a reasonable increase in rent.


In many cases, you can negotiate rent increases with your landlord.
 Make sure that there is a written version of the final agreement concerning the renovations.This written agreement should include information such as:


Exactly what renovations will be completed
When the renovations will begin, and when they are expected to end
Who will pay for the renovations, and how

