 This will vary depending on what type of feeder you have, but regardless, always follow the recommended cleaning schedule for that type. Be aware that failure to do so will allow mold and other contaminants to develop. Keep your birds healthy by washing:Ground feeders every other day.
Hanging feeders every other week.
Hummingbird feeders every week.;
, Remember that minimum requirements mean just that. Expect to have to wash them more frequently depending on weather and bird activity. Wash them at least twice as often if:You live in a damp climate.You’ve experienced heavy precipitation lately.
Your feeder attracts lots and lots of birds.
 Keep in mind that birds carry diseases that can infect the food and spread to others. Wash your feeders immediately if you see any birds that appear sick near them.Look out for birds that:Appear slow to respond to their surroundings.
Seem lethargic and unwilling to fly or eat.
Have unhealthy-looking feathers.
Have visible sores in and around their beaks.
Consistently drop food and/or water without swallowing.
 Remember that bird diseases can be transmitted to humans. Protect yourself with a pair of rubber gloves (or even a thicker pair of leather gloves if you don’t mind getting them wet). Avoid touching your mouth, eyes, and exposed skin while wearing them., Some feeders are designed as one piece, so if that’s the case, skip this step. Otherwise, refer to its directions regarding disassembly. Clean each piece individually to ensure a thorough wash., Give your feeder or each of its parts a vigorous shake to dislodge any food or other clumps that may have stuck its sides. If there’s still stuff lodged in there, grab a tool, like a screwdriver, paint stick, or spatula. Pick or scrape the garbage out.Make sure to discard of anything you clean out into the trash, as opposed to the open ground. Don’t leave possibly molded or infected food in the open for birds to feed on., For hanging and bird feeders, mix one part bleach with nine parts water in a bucket, sink, or similar container. For hummingbird feeders, mix one part vinegar with four parts water. Then let the feeder or each of its parts soak in it for at least three minutes to disinfect.If necessary, use a bottle brush to scrub any crud that you couldn’t scrape off out of your feeder when it was dry, then soak again.Some people use a dishwasher for their bird feeders, but this is unadvisable unless the manufacturer specifically states that your feeder is machine-washable.
When using bleach, be sure to wear gloves to protect your hands.
 After you’ve soaked the feeder, towel it off with a clean cloth. Then let it air-dry. Wait until it has totally dried, then reassemble and/or refill it with food.If you cleaned your feeder because the birds outside seemed sick, wait a week or more before refilling it. Doing so immediately will only result in new food becoming contaminated right away., Keep in mind that sick birds often have trouble swallowing, and so they drop their food a lot. If you have a birdbath or any other water source that birds drink from regularly, set your feeders as far from it as possible. This won’t eliminate the risk of infected food being dropped in the water (and thus contaminating it), but it will lower the risk substantially. Also:Even if all of your birds are healthy, wet food will develop mold, which can then lead to disease.
 If you only have one feeder, purchase a second or even more. Give your birds multiple food sources so that healthy birds aren’t necessarily feeding from the same one as infected birds. Hang them far apart so that any dropped food isn’t ending up in the same, limited area.Again, this won’t prevent an outbreak of disease entirely, but placing multiple feeders in different areas can help limit its scope.
 Whether your birds are healthy or not, don’t let any dropped food just sit there on the ground. Rake or sweep it up and throw it into the trash. Leaving food to rot on the ground can:Cause health problems for birds and pets that may eat it.
Draw other animals that you may not want in the area.
 Expect mold to have a better chance of growing if you overfill your feeder. In dry conditions, only add enough to last a couple of days at most.In wet weather, only put in enough to last a few hours.