 Although this is not a serious step, it is recommended you know where to go so that you can tell the other mourners. The location can be as simple as your backyard or as showy as a chapel or real graveyard. Make sure there will be no trouble with your digging a hole; you don't want to get yourself arrested1;
, You can simply mark a section of dirt or make a styrofoam gravestone and dig a hole. This is a required step in the process; if you don't have a place to bury your burdens, where will you put them? The whole point of the ceremony is to leave them behind, after all. The hole doesn't have to be very deep; you'll only need to dig down a foot or so. Make it wide enough to receive and hold all the burdens you'll be throwing into it.
 Suggest they bring a change of clothing so they can leave in less mournful attire. You can ask friends, family, and neighbors to attend the funeral.
 After a few minutes of quiet contemplation, give each person a pen and a set of note cards. There should only be one burden per note card, and you should only use one side of the notecard for your burden.
 Explain the reason for which you are here. For example, you might say, "We are here today to bury our burdens and the things that drag us down."

, Explain that it symbolizes faith, trust, surrender, and hope. (This can apply in either a religious or more general sense.) Explain the ceremony.
 Read it out loud to the group, light the edge of the paper with the candle, and let the ashes fall into the grave. When burning, say, "Ashes to ashes. Dust to dust. I relinquish my burden because I must." (Have all the mourners repeat the phrase together after each burden is read.) Then either pass the candle to the next mourner or hold the candle throughout the ceremony and instruct the next person to read theirs. Keep going around until all the burdens are gone.
 The longer I hold on to you, the harder it is to stand. I don't need a crutch, I can walk on my own. I don't need burdens in my life, so just leave me alone." Join hands with one another. "So, hand in hand we walk away and turn our backs to your grave. We're free from all our burdens now; we are not your slaves. No more burden, anxiety, or guilt. Finally we are free. There's nothing weighing me down now. I'm happy just being me!"

,, Ask for happiness, prosperity, and fortune to light your way. Laugh and have fun with your fellow mourners.
 Although it may be necessary to repeat the ceremony as time goes on and new burdens appear, don't forget to let go of worries and burdens whenever it becomes necessary, ceremony or not. Enjoy living free.

