 This will unlock Michael’s mansion and, more importantly, open up a variety of activities including tennis and golf.;
, There are eight tennis courts in Los Santos for you to choose from:


West Eclipse Boulevard – Michael’s Mansion
Dorset Drive – Weazel Courts
West Eclipse Boulevard – Richman Hotel Courts
Great Ocean Highway – Chumash Hotel courts
Palomino Avenue – Vespucci Apartment Courts
Vespucci Beach – Vespucci Courts
Elgin Avenue – Vinewood Apartment Courts.
Picture Perfect Drive – USLA Campus Courts

, You have the option of picking one game, one set, three sets and five sets. Picking a game is the shortest option, where you only need to score six points against your opponent to complete the match. You’ll need to score seven points if your opponent manages to get at least five points on you. One set means winning at least six games, three sets involves winning at least 18 games and five sets means you need to win at least 30 games.
 Start off with easy to familiarize yourself with the controls, then move on to normal or difficult for greater challenges. You’ll be able to duke it out with one of four AI opponents when playing in single-player mode:


Donato
Norman
Rae
Amanda De Santa – she’ll be your opponent in Michael’s mansion or when she’s accompanying her husband Michael.
 Aim for the middle section of the bar for a nice balance between speed and control. If you want a fast shot with the most force behind it, aim to serve when the bar hits the red area. Use your analog stick or mouse to aim where the ball will go.
 Circular markers on your side of the court will indicate where the ball will land. Get near or behind these circles in order to intercept the ball, and strike it in a way that your opponent will have difficulty returning it back to you.


Base Swing – This is the default return that is useful for returning most shots. It is the easiest to consistently hit for the beginning tennis player.
Lob Shot – Launch your ball high in the air to catch opponents unawares. This can force them toward a particular side of their court and give yourself time to re-position yourself accordingly.
Top Spin – A fast, high-bounce ball to take advantage of opponents that are far away from the side of the court opposite yours. Available when the marker turns red.
Back Spin – A slow, low-bounce shot that has a tendency to make it difficult for your opponents to return balls the way they want to – sometimes resulting in them hitting them the net with the ball instead of returning it to your side of the court. Available when the marker turns yellow.
 Switch up your shots, return the ball so it hits the opposite sides of the court, and you will eventually score a point as you force your opponent to fumble. Harder opponents will do this to you in turn though, so keep your eye on the ball and note where your opponent will most likely aim his or her shot.

