 Wash the strawberries, and gently pat them dry. Chop off the stems, then the strawberries into thin slices. Save some of the better looking strawberries to use on top of your cake.

If you don't like strawberries, you can use other types of soft fruit, such as bananas, blueberries, or mango., You can do this using an electric mixer, a handheld mixer, or even a food processor fitted with whisks., Beat the ingredients again until everything is evenly combined. If the whipped cream is still too wet, beat in some more powdered sugar; if the whipped cream is too dry, beat in some more cream., You won't need a lot; about a spoonful will do. This thin layer of cream will help hold your first layer of graham crackers in place.Consider using a glass dish. You won't be taking this cake out of the dish, so a glass dish will allow you to see all the different layers.
 If you are using a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02 centimeters baking dish, you will need about 6 graham crackers.Make sure that you use enough graham crackers so that you can't see the bottom of the baking dish.

You can split some of the graham crackers into smaller pieces if you need to, but don't crumble them up.
If you plan to serve this at home, consider building this cake on top of a fancy serving platter., This will make it easier to measure the whipped cream out when you start making your layers. Simply divide the whipped cream between four cups or four small bowls., Don't worry about making the whipped cream layer perfectly smooth on top. Make sure, however, that it goes from edge to edge of the baking dish, and that it covers all of the graham crackers evenly.If you are building this on top of a platter, consider piping the whipped cream around the edges of the cake using a star-shaped decorating tip. This will make the cake look nicer.
 Take your strawberries, and start layering them across the top of the whipped cream. Place the strawberries close enough so that they touch, but not so close that they overlap., Use one-fourth of the whipped cream for each layer. You will have one last cup/bowl of whipped cream left over by the time you are done., You can smooth the whipped cream down using a rubber spatula, or swirl it around using the back of a spoon. For a fancier touch, put the whipped cream into a piping bag fitted with a star-shaped tip, and pipe little "stars" around the edges of the cake., You can leave the strawberries whole, your you can slice them for a different look., You will be drizzling the ganache over the top of the cake for that final touch. It is not completely necessary, but it will make your cake look and taste great. If you'd like to add a ganache drizzle, do the following:In a small saucepan, heat ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of heavy cream until small bubbles form.
Put the chopped chocolate into a small bowl, then pour the cream on top.
Wait a few minutes, then stir the mixture with a whisk.
Keep stirring until the ganache is thick and smooth.
 The easiest way to do this is with a spoon. You can also pour the ganache into a plastic squeeze bottle, and then drizzle it over the cake that way., The cake is ready when a knife poked into the center comes out with a few, soft crumbs; the knife should pass through the graham crackers easily.