 Stick the bent end into the bottom of the lock, keeping it as low as possible while still getting the lever as deep into the barrel as possible.
 Use your lever as if it was a key, turning the lock as if you were about to open the door. It won't move very far, but this pressure is important. You need to hold the lock throughout the entire process. It should not, however, be heavy pressure. You just want enough to slightly move it, but you shouldn't be straining against the lock at all. Remember, you still need the pins trapped in the barrel to be loose enough that they can move up and down.









If you're not sure which way the lock turns, try both directions. The wrong direction will make clicking sounds, and you'll feel it slightly grinding.
 Get a feel for the pins by moving them up and down with your pick. They will be on the top half of the keyhole. Push a few of them up, feeling them move and drop back down as you work. You'll have to jiggle your pick up and down to get around to them all, and some of them might not want to move, yet, but that's fine. For now, get a mental count of the pins and note which ones move freely and which seem stuck.









The bent end should be pointing upwards. You'll be pushing up specific pins with the end.
If the pins aren't moving at all, you likely have too much tension on your lever. Lighten up and try again., As you test all the pins, find the one that doesn't want to move. Keeping consistent pressure on the lever, gently push up the pin until it makes an audible "CLICK." This means you've matched up the split in the center of the pin with the barrel, and the pin will now be out of the way of the lock.









You may notice that the lever turns a little bit more once you've gotten the pin in place. This is because it has one less pin of resistance.
 Once you've gotten one of the pins out of the way, previously free pins may seize up. This is actually a good thing, as it just instructs you which pins to get next. Repeat this process until the lever can turn the lock completely and the door is opened:









Find the seized pin, the one that doesn't want to move as much.
Keep constant pressure on the lever, turning the lock as if you were opening it.
Gently push it up until it clicks in the lock.
Move on to the next pin., This is the most common stumbling block for new lock-pickers, as it is as much about feel as anything else. If you put too much tension on the lock, the pins will be too seized to move and you won't be able to get them out of the way. Too little pressure, or letting up pressure accidentally as you work, and the pins will slide back down into place and you'll have to start over. The best tip is to start with a little too much pressure, loosening it slowly as you work until the pins can move. This prevents you from losing pins and allows you to find the right tension gradually.







