 Even if your teacher doesn’t allow much chatter, your odds of talking to him are increased if you’re in his vicinity. You will be able to interact with him more often than if you were on opposite sides of the room (you may need to borrow a pencil, or pass handouts to each other). If you don’t have class with him, make an effort to say “hi” when you see him in the hallway. The more he is around you, the more likely he is to eventually develop feelings.If your teacher doesn’t allow you to choose your own seats, just try to sit near him in the cafeteria or hang out with him during breaks.
By sitting near him, you will also be able to use body language to attract him, which will be explained later.;
, It can be intimidating to just start chatting up someone you have a crush on, but it will definitely get his attention. To minimize your nerves and help ensure a smooth interaction, it’s helpful to plan a few things you want to say to him. Whether it’s a question about the homework assignment, a comment about an upcoming project, or something completely unrelated to school, it is helpful to have a game plan.


Make sure you don’t sound too rehearsed. The more natural and casual you seem, the better.
Rather than saying, “Hello. I remember you enjoy . Did you watch the episode last night ?”, try to keep it casual and say something like, “Oh hey, you watch right ? Did you catch last night’s episode?”

, By initiating an interaction, it will show him that you’re both friendly and interested in getting to know him better. Remind yourself that, no matter how great he seems, you are just as great! Let your personality shine, and show him the great traits that your friends and family see.


Try to shake off your nerves, or at least not let him see them. The more comfortable you seem, the smoother the conversation will go. Don’t build it up to be a stressful or scary event in your head– it’s simply a conversation.
Start the conversation with something like, “Are you excited about this project coming up?” When he answers, you can start to tell him about your project ideas.
If you want to talk about something outside of school, you can mention a show you know he watches or a team he roots for. Saying something like, “Did you watch the last night? That was so !” is a great way to start a conversation and show him you have common interests.
 If you know you cheer for the same sports team or watch the same weekly television shows, bring that up in conversation. If you saw he ate your favorite flavor of chips for lunch, say something. It doesn’t matter what it is — common interests or hobbies are great ways to start conversations that can lead to other things. If he sees similarities in you, he will be more likely to like you!If you don’t know of any common interests, make some. If he wore a band t-shirt to school, listen to their music and mention it in conversation. If you see him reading a book, borrow a copy and put it on your desk. Get resourceful and find a way to connect.
At the same time, don't fake it. If you don't like the book you noticed he was reading, don't pretend you did. Instead, try a different one by the same author. Then you can say something like, "Oh you're reading ? That one wasn't my favorite, but I just read her new one. It was really good — you can borrow it when you're done reading that one, if you want." Or, just look for something else you have in common. You may not like the same music, for instance, but you may both love horror movies.

