 If your child’s hives are localized on one area of their body, wash the allergen off with soap and water. This should help relieve the hives and may keep them from getting worse because the allergen is lingering on the skin.You don’t need to purchase any special soap, using any soap will work to remove the allergen., A cool bath can soothe irritated skin and help decrease inflammation. It is most helpful when the hives are all over your child's body. You may want to consider adding a colloidal oatmeal preparation to help further soothe your child’s skin.Sprinkle water with baking soda, uncooked oatmeal or colloidal oatmeal, all of which can help calm your child’s skin.Let your child stay in the bathtub for only 10-15 minutes so they don’t get a chill., Applying a calamine lotion or non-prescription anti-itch cream can relieve hives, itching, and inflammation. You can purchase anti-itch cream at grocery and drug stores both in-store and online.A nonprescription anti-itch, or hydrocortisone, cream, can help relieve itching. Make sure to purchase a cream with at least 1% hydrocortisone.
Apply the cream once a day after your child’s bath to the affected area., The itching and inflammation from hives come from histamine in your blood. Cold packs or compresses can help relieve itching and inflammation associated with hives by constricting blood flow and cooling the skin.Histamine is produced when an allergen enters in the body. It causes all allergic reactions, including itching and inflammation.
You can place a cold compress on your rashes intermittently for 10 to 15 minutes, once every 2 hours or as needed., Help your child avoid scratching as much as possible. Scratching the can spread allergen, exacerbate symptoms, or cause other problems, including a skin infection., You can help prevent and relieve hives by protecting your child’s skin. Clothing, bandages, and even bug spray may offer some protection and help relieve symptoms.


Wear cool, loose, smooth textured clothing such as cotton or merino wool to keep your child from scratching and prevent excess sweating, which can exacerbate hives.Have your child wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants to keep her from scratching and protect it from external irritants.If your child will be exposed to insects, you can also apply bug repellant to areas that do not have hives. This may prevent insects from getting too close to your child’s skin and causing further allergic reactions.

