 English Mastiffs grow so rapidly that it’s actually not a good idea to give them a high-protein diet or any extra nutritional supplements. From the time that they’re three months and older, feed them a high-quality complete and balanced adult dry dog food with a medium fat- and protein-content.Check the package to see that it’s an ideal food for your Mastiff. It should have roughly 20-25% protein and 12-18% fat. It should also include the recommended daily doses of phosphorus and calcium, plus a 3-5% iodine content.
The amount you feed your dog will vary according to its age, weight, and condition. Look to the specific guidelines suggested on your dog food’s packaging to calculate the appropriate daily serving.
Always limit your Mastiff’s meals to the recommended serving sizes indicated on the back of your dog food. Keep in mind that Mastiffs have comparatively slow metabolisms, and larger dogs need to eat much less food per pound than smaller ones.
 Create established mealtimes at morning and night, and split their daily food allowance evenly between them. This will aid your dog’s digestion and prevent it from eating too much too quickly, which puts them at greater risk of bloat., Since they’re so far off the ground, it might be tempting to raise your English Mastiff’s food bowls off the ground, too. However, the limited studies that have been done show that this practice increases their risk of bloat. Stick to a large food dish that’s on the ground.Consider getting a specialized bowl with raised partitions inside that encourages your English Mastiff to eat slower. This will decrease their risk of vomiting and bloat.
 English Mastiffs need clean, fresh water to keep their digestive systems and joints healthy. They also drool a lot, so they need to replace the water they lose through salivating. Consequently, Mastiffs are an especially thirsty breed who should always have a dish of water available to them, even at night.Because Mastiffs tend to drool into their water, be sure to rinse their dish on a daily basis. If you don’t, they’ll get dehydrated since they’re averse to drinking their own drool.

