 For the more logically minded person on your list, use numbers to represent the impact of their gift. Many charities will explain in numbers what a specific dollar amount can achieve. Include this information in your gift.


For example, if you are donating to a food bank, explain that their generous donation will feed X number of people for Y number of days.
 Ask the person the following two questions: (1) "Do you think that you would like getting a gift that will make you feel better?" (2) "Do you think that giving a donation to a charity will make you feel better?" If the answer is "yes" to both questions, you can simply announce what your gift is.
 This gift will not take up any space in their home. They won’t have to decide what to do with it when they move. They won’t have to spend any time or energy maintaining this gift. You can highlight some of these convenient qualities of giving a virtual gift!


For example, you can say: "I'd like to give you something of very high quality that takes none of your space and wastes none of your time. Guess what it is?"
It may help to list some of these qualities jokingly, which can lessen the awkwardness. But your message of convenience will still be heard.
 Explain your thought process. This is an especially strong argument for a recipient who is relatively affluent; someone who already “has everything.”


Explain that you spent a lot of time brainstorming what to get them.
List some of the items you considered.
Finally, explain why this was the best choice.
 If money is tight for you this year, giving donation-based gifts can be a way to make your gifts go farther. If this is your case, outline this reality for your friend. It will shift to focus away from what they “didn’t get,” and back toward the actual spirit of giving.If you ordinarily give physical gifts and donate to charity around the holidays, you can save money by combining the two.
Most donations qualify as tax-deductions, which can help you out if money is tight.

