 It's important to have one foot in your community, but it's also very important to stay aware of what's going on outside of your narrow scope of vision. If you live in a small town, you may be quite disconnected from what's going on overseas. This makes it even more important to get informed and stay up to date.


The 24-hour news cycle tends to focus on sensationalized stories and partisan politics. try to check out a variety of sources of information, both online and in print, to stay up to date.
 If you feel passionately about a particular issue at stake in your world, join up with an association or organization that reflects your beliefs. If you care passionately about civil liberties, or womens' rights, or family values, volunteer your time, money, and effort with the appropriate association.


You can learn more about getting active and supporting a social cause directly by reading this article., If you want to contribute directly to someone's life, join a mentorship program. These typically pair willing adults with children or teens who are either at risk, or could just use a friend. There are lots of programs devoted to mentorship, but local Boys and Girls Clubs are a good place to get started., Pay attention not only to social issues, but environmental issues as well. Whether you care deeply about pollution in the oceans, or the land and water rights of farmers in the middle of the country, it's important to get informed about the issues facing the earth and participate in the conversation.


Learn more about what you can do to conserve energy at home or at work by reading this article.
 Life moves pretty fast. If you want to stay connected to the wider world, social networking is a great way to do it. You can follow your friends, both near and far, to stay up to date with their lives. You can also quickly and easily following trending topics, getting a feed of articles and content you might never find otherwise. Learn more about using a new social networking platform with the following articles:


How to Use Twitter
How to Use Facebook
How to Use Instagram
How to Use Pinterest

, Even if you're not the biggest tech-person in the world, nobody wants to be left behind. But you don't have to be first in line at the Apple store when the new gadget comes out to have a working knowledge of texting, video chatting, and cloud computing.

