 They're probably the factor that determine whether you're glamorous... or not. Go for classic cuts and models, which show the line of your body. Once again, invest in something of exceptional quality. The fabrics should be soft and smooth, like silk, jersey, and cashmere. Glamour style is, above all, elegant and sophisticated. Audrey Hepburn and Marilyn Monroe are good sources of inspiration. Avoid clothes that look too old, sporty, or messy. It is very important that you choose the image you wish to portray; there are many ways to look glamorous, and each one of them has its specific elements you must follow in order to portray that image. Here are some of them:



Old Hollywood glamour- think Marilyn Monroe and Sophia Loren. Its attributes are red lips, platinum blonde hair, diamonds, fur and '40s dressing style. Hair is very important; old Hollywood hairstyles are short-to-medium length, wavy and dyed blonde or black. As for makeup, wear red lipstick and use black mascara. Wear medium-length dresses and skirts, diamond earrings and fur coats.

Urban chic glamour- think Audrey Hepburn. Sleek lines, straight hair, and elegant, simple design- it's the favorite look of the wealthy New York women. To get this look, wear trench coats, black tights, stiletto heels, little black dresses, business suits and simple, delicate jewelry. The most used colors are the neutral ones: black, white, and beige; however, bright colors are welcome too, but in smaller amounts. Oversized sunglasses are a must. Wear precious fabrics like silk, cashmere and jersey; the fabrics must be as high quality as you can find. Avoid wearing jeans. Accessorize with huge handbags, fine jewelry and watches. As for makeup and hairstyle, long hair and the classic bob style are definitely the most acceptable; the makeup is very natural.

Opulent diva glamour- the more expensive and rich-looking it is, the better. Everything is allowed here: excessive jewelry, glitter, feathers, heavy makeup- as long as it's not (too) tacky, it's acceptable. To get the look, wear glittery dresses, fur, diamonds, opulent gowns for evening, metallic colors, high heels, animal prints, gold and precious gems. The predominant color is gold. Be careful not to look too tacky, though.
 You can dress casually and look glamorous at the same time. You don't have to wear a long dress every time you go out - you don't want to look like you're going to the Oscar ceremonies when you're just taking your dog out for a walk... A pair of black skinny jeans, high heels and a silk top are sometimes enough to make you look elegant. If all your clothes are good quality and have a somewhat special design or colour, you will never look "too" casual.
 Jewelry gives a sparkly touch to everything you wear. During daytime, it must be something that doesn't attract too much attention, but completes your outfit - for example, a necklace with a little gem, or a small bracelet. But for the evening, feel free to put on diamonds, pearls or precious gems and metals. Not too much though - excessive jewelry only looks good at Bollywood. And if you choose one type of jewelry - for instance, a pearl necklace - don't wear another type at the same outfit. For the pearl necklace you will have to choose pearl earrings. For a diamond necklace - diamond earrings. For a golden necklace - no silver bracelets, only gold. You get the idea?

, The key to having a fabulous wardrobe is to know how to shop. Especially if you’re one of those women who view shopping more as a hobby than as a process you have to master in order to make the right fashion decisions, follow these steps:


The first thing you have to do when you enter the store is to "scan" the general outlook of the clothes and find out what type of store it is. There are three criteria you must analyze to categorize the store: the range of prices, the age of the targeted consumers, and the fashion style of the clothes it sells. Your first concern should be the quality of the clothes; if it’s not high enough-regardless of the design of the clothes-, leave the place without second thoughts.
Go to the first rack of clothes that catches your eye. Start examining the fabrics; are they fabric too rough, too shiny or too easy to crease? Do the buttons look like they could fall in any moment? Does it smell funny? If the answer to all of these questions is “yes”, then don’t buy it.
Look at the design. Do you think it would flatter your body type? Does it have details that add much volume on one part of your body? Is it wearable? Does its color flatter your skin color?
Look at the price label. Do you think it’s worth the money? Would you wear it often, so the price per wear will be lower?
The ultimate test: try it on. Do you find it easy to dress (meaning the zipper isn’t broken, and the collar is large enough for your head to pass through it effortlessly)? Does it flatter your sizes? Does it fit you (it doesn’t look too tight or too large on you)? If the answers are all “yes”, then the item is probably worth it.
 Unless you have exactly the same proportions as the mannequins in the shop windows, not all clothes look perfect on you; even supermodels have different body types.


Hourglass-shaped girls have the most desirable body type; their balanced proportions and small waist are very resourceful in creating sexy curves. All they have to do is to enhance their waist and keep the balance between breasts and hips. Try wearing a thick belt straight over the narrowest point of your waist.
Pear-shaped girls have small shoulders and breasts, medium-sized midsection area, wide hips and heavy legs. The biggest challenge for them is to create the illusion of wider shoulders and smaller hips. Wear large neck-openings (large in width, not depth) and stay away from skinny pants and long tops that reach to the middle of your hips.
Apple-shaped girls have average shoulders and breasts, fat belly, not much of a waist and average hips and legs. They must create the illusion of a defined waist and enhance their shoulders and hips. Try wearing jackets that make your shoulders appear wider, high-waisted tops and classic jeans.
 As you gain more experience in what fashion is concerned, you will see what colours look good together... and what colours don't. Here are some examples of decent, neutral combinations of colours: cream and brown, black and white, gray/silver and white, gray and pastels. More daring color combinations are: black and either purple, red, yellow, blue, green, hot pink, light pink, gold, silver; purple and white, yellow and blue (sky blue especially), dark blue and gold/cream, white and gold, purple and gray, gold and gray, green and gray, red and silver/gray. Don't put more than two colors (that match) and two non-colors (black, white, gray) in one outfit.
 Shoes are the biggest fashion fetish of many women. Buy at least the absolutely necessary shoes: 1 pair of classic, black shoes, 1 pair of sandals, 1 pair of flat boots for bad weather, 1 pair of elegant boots, 1 pair of flat shoes, 1 pair of sport shoes. Continue your "shoe collection" with a few pairs in different colours and one in a metallic colour. Look for classic shapes; as for details, search for lace, crystals or buckles; they're timeless and add a bit of uniqueness to the shoe. Make sure you buy quality shoes, even they're a bit more expensive; finer quality lasts longer and, therefore, you won't have to buy another pair of shoes next month because the old one is already damaged. In a way, you actually save money by buying more expensive shoes. The heels must be as high as you are comfortable with. If you really like a pair of shoes with 12 centimeter (4.7 in) heels, but you never wear heels taller than 8 centimeter (3.1 in), you may buy it, but only wear it in places where you don't have to walk much.
 Look for a black leather bag with metallic details/white bag with golden details, or one in a metallic colour; they scream "glamour". Again, look for quality; cheap, fake leather will never look good quality and expensive. Avoid the shiny plastic; it looks cheap.
 Go out there and make yourself noticed. You deserve a little prize for all this effort. Don't forget to flaunt your own individual style too! Enjoy it, girl!

