 Take your receipt out and make sure the values are readable. Remove any wrinkles or smudges that may affect the visibility of the texts on the receipt.
 Once launched, you should have a screen with 4 square buttons labeled “SmartScan,” “Add Expense,” “Track Time,” and “Track Distance.”

, This is the top-left button. Your smartphone’s camera app should open automatically.
 Make sure your receipt is on a solid surface, preferably a darkly colored one to get the best picture. Also, ensure the receipt is flat and has as few wrinkles in it as possible.
 Center your receipt in the camera view, and hold steady as your camera focuses on the receipt.


Once the camera is focused, tap the shutter icon to take a picture of the receipt. The picture should come up in the next screen, with “Cancel” and “Use Photo” options at the bottom of the screen.
If the photo is clear and usable, tap “Use Photo,” and the next SmartScan window will appear.
 You can choose to add a comment to your receipt by tapping in the Comment field below the picture of the receipt.
 Below the Comment field, you can tap “Report” to add the receipt to an existing report.


If you don’t have an existing report, tap the plus (+) sign in the top-right corner, and the “Create Report” window will appear. Give the report a name by tapping “New Report” to bring up the keyboard, erasing the text, and typing in your own text. Then tap “Create” in the top right corner, and Expensify will create a new report and assign your receipt to that report.
 Choose the appropriate category from the list.
 Next, move the toggle switch to the right if this is a billable expense. If it is not billable, move the toggle switch to the left.
 Move the toggle switch to the right if this expense is reimbursable. If it isn’t reimbursable, move the toggle switch to the left.
 Do this by tapping “Save.” In a few minutes, your receipt should be fully scanned and show the merchant name and amount of purchase, unless the receipt was illegible.

