 In addition to being a fun and challenging activity for all ages of people, spinning a hula hoop burns up to 600 calories in one hour and can be done inside or out.Even just 15 minutes a day can make a big difference in your weight and health.Play energetic music, like electronic or pop, and try to keep spinning with the beat.


Hula hooping is easy to learn but takes practice. Start by holding the hoop so that it touches your waist on one side. Spin it counterclockwise, and rock your hips back and forth to keep it spinning.
If you are a beginner, try a weighted and larger hoop. They are easier to use.
As you get better, move up to a lighter, smaller hoop, which is more difficult to keep spinning and therefore burns more calories.;
, Try to take a long ride for enjoyment for 30 – 45 minutes every other day. You can also add time into your schedule to run errands on your bike or ride to and from school instead of having your parents take you in their car.You will get exercise while also reducing the time you sit inactive every day.


Aim to ride between two to four hours a week to improve overall health.Riding in the morning exposes your body to sunlight and helps you sleep better at night!If you don’t want to get up early enough to bike to school, make a commitment to doing it for just one week and see if you feel more energetic and are sleeping better by Saturday.
Cycling also improves your brain power, so riding to school can help you learn more and pay attention better in all your classes.Not only does it help you feel better, cycling instead of driving also helps the environment by creating less pollution.
 See how many laps you can finish, and aim to add one more each week or month. Try swimming with a different stroke every other day, or use a different stroke for each lap. This way you won’t get bored and will work as many muscles as possible.


If swimming laps sounds boring, bring some friends and play together. Play pool tag or volleyball.
In the summer, you can probably find a public pool in your neighborhood to play in.
There are also pools at some gyms. Ask your parents to get a family membership and take you to swim while they work out.
 Try out Wii Fit Plus or Xbox 360 Kinect Fitness, which have different sporting events that you have to move your body to play.Or, get a dancing game, like Dance Dance Revolution. Play one of these games instead of your usual inactive games, or alternate between the two.


You don’t have to play for a full hour at one time — try either twice a day for 30 minutes or four times a day for 15 minutes.Kids need to move around at least every two hours.After an hour of homework, play one round of a dancing or sports game for a break.
 There are so many different types of dance/exercise classes, you can definitely find one you enjoy! Try kickboxing or boxing, or a fusion dance class like Zumba, Bokwa, capoeira, or Masala Bhangra. Traditional classes like ballet, jazz, hip hop and swing dancing are also great exercise and encourage you to go regularly.


Zumba class is like a high-energy Latin dance party. Classes specifically for kids are easy to find and are often divided into age groups.Bokwa incorporates African dance, kickboxing and footwork and is super efficient at burning calories.Capoeira comes from Brazil and combines dancing with martial arts.If you enjoy Bollywood movies and Indian pop music, try Masala Bhangra, which mixes traditional and contemporary dance moves. , Whether karate, taekwondo, aikido or kung fu, martial arts promote both exercise and self-discipline. Generally, tests for the next level, or belt, take place every three months, so you get quick and visible rewards for progress.Karate is Japanese and uses quick, sharp kicks and punches during movements. Make sure you warm up before practicing!
Taekwondo is a form of karate from Korea. In addition to kicks and punches, it breathing and meditation are key components.
Aikido and jujitsu are both Japanese styles of fighting using a partner, but aikido is more gentle and less competitive.
Kung fu comes from China. It is like karate but easier on joints because movements are more fluid and less sharp. It is still fast-paced, so is a great aerobic workout!

, Yoga involves stretching and moving gently into different positions on a floor mat or outdoors. It may not sound very active, but increasing flexibility helps you lose weight and be more fit.“Doga” is yoga you do with your dog, either using him as a prop or teaching him to stand with you. In addition to exercise for you, it’s great bonding for you and your pet.There are also many good videos on YouTube and yoga websites you can watch and follow. Try the channels Cosmic Kids Yoga and Soft Music & Yoga ~YogaYak.
Doga poses depend on the size of your dog. Watch introductory videos online to learn basic poses., Just turn on your favorite music and start dancing. You can do whatever comes to mind or look up online tutorials for specific moves or routines. Don’t stress out about trying to do them perfectly. If you are having fun, then you are doing it right!


Aim for 30 minutes at least five days a week to lose up to 10 pounds in two months.Start with a five-minute warm-up by dancing at a slow pace.
Dance for 20 minutes quickly enough to keep your heart rate elevated.
End with another five minutes of cool-down, doing slower movements and stretching until your heart rate returns to normal.
Make sure you are moving your whole body. Raising your arms to your shoulders or higher will help get your heart rate up. Bend your knees and raise your legs instead of just moving your feet across the floor., Even kids as young as six can safely lift light weights, but follow safety guidelines and have a parent or coach assist you. It is a great activity to supplement sports with, since typical sports teams only meet and practice a couple times a week. Kids don’t gain visible body mass like adults when when weightlifting, but it does increase strength and motor skills.It’s safest to start with exercises that use your own bodyweight as resistance. After mastering these, you can try moving on to resistance bands and light weights.