 Turning vegetables into noodles is all the craze lately. You can even purchase something called a spiralizer to turn vegetables into perfectly coiled pieces that look just like pasta. The best part is they are vegetables so they’re an extremely healthy alternative to the traditional noodle.


Zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, asparagus, and any other vegetable that contains a good deal of moisture can be turned into a noodle.
Even better, try spaghetti squash, and you won't need a spiralizer. Simply cut it in half, scoop out the seeds, and bake it face-down in the over for about 30 minutes. Then take a fork and rake the squash to make "noodles.";
, By putting flavor-rich and healthy items into your pasta you can make your dish more flavorful without needing a heavy and high-calorie sauce to make it yummy. Really robust herbs like rosemary, sage, parsley, thyme, and basil are good options for adding flavor.


Try adding fresh chopped cilantro or parsley just before serving for a touch of green and great flavor.
 Drenching your noodles in thick, rich and high-calorie fats (or saturated fats, like butter, milk fats, lard, and hydrogenated oils) is not the way to make noodles a healthy food. Olive oil is a great source of unsaturated (healthy) fat and can be used to add flavor to a dish. It is especially good for the development of a tasty sauce.Avoid using full-fat milk when making a pasta sauce or butter or cream. If you can't avoid creamy sauces altogether, use skim or reduced fat milks.
Look up recipes for healthy pesto sauces to add great flavors to your noodles without a ton of calories.
Always choose low-fat cheeses.
 By bulking up your pasta dishes you can avoid unnecessarily large portion sizes, which will help you to feel full quicker without the extra calories. Load up your pasta with healthy vegetables like spinach to incorporate antioxidants.
Add beans and lentils for a boost of protein.
Add cooked corn for high levels of fiber and antioxidants.
 You can incorporate good protein by adding lean meats to your dish, such as chicken or turkey breast or lean cuts of pork or beef. An alternative to adding meat is to add tofu which can provide a good source of iron, calcium, amino acids, and micronutrients.

