 It is very important to treat all women as human beings and as equals, not just as potential wives or girlfriends. You might be apprehensive about talking to women because the ones you usually try to talk to are the ones you’re very attracted to and have a hard time conversing with naturally. But if you talk to more women, not just the ones who seem like potential dates, you'll get a lot of practice talking to women which you can apply to the rest of your life. After all, 50% of people on earth are women; you’ll need to talk to some of them at some point.


Talking to women should not always be with some ulterior motive in mind like getting a date. Talk to women as you would any other (male) friend. Consider your conversation with women as a mutually beneficial exchange through which you can grow as a person.
 Being yourself will put you more at ease around women. If you put on a show in order to overcome your fear of women -- engaging in braggadocio or bravado -- you will eventually be found out, plus you’ll be unhappy since you’ll feel obligated to constantly be the person you initially pretended to be.


For instance, if a woman is really into Western films, you should not pretend to also be into Western films just to impress her or make her think you're cool. Use your ignorance as an opportunity to let her wax poetic about High Plains Drifter. Ask lots of engaging questions like "When did it come out?" and "Who starred in it?" The conversation should be an opportunity to learn about the other person and their interests as much as an opportunity for you to demonstrate who you are.
 Instead of crossing your arms or looking down at your feet, look women in the eye and keep your hands in your pockets or at your sides. Greet everyone with a smile.When telling a story or a joke, use your hands to emphasize and illustrate what you’re saying. A wag of the finger or an open, upward-facing palm are two examples of common hand gestures used when in conversation.
 Don’t just focus on yourself or your likes to the exclusion of her interests. Conversation should be a two-way street. Find out what movies, books, music, and media she likes. Does she like to travel? If so, where to? If you don’t know what she’s interested in, just ask. Don’t get hung up on topics, either. If either of you are ready to talk about something else, jump into the next phase of the conversation.


Ask for clarification when she’s explaining or describing something. “Where was that, exactly?” or “What do you mean by that?” are good questions to get deeper into conversation with a woman and show you’re interested.
Recognize signs of boredom during a conversation: answers that are short, impersonal, superficial, and delivered in a deadpan manner. If a woman grows quiet and her eyes glaze over, you might want to change the topic or invite her to take the reins of the conversation. Ask “What do you think of that?” or “Have you ever tried that?” to keep her engaged., Going out to talk to women with a friend or two can make the process of meeting and talking to women easier. Ideally, you’ll head out with someone who has different strengths or conversation techniques than you do. Use the firsthand experience to learn from your friends, and ask for pointers. Head out to bars, clubs, and parties with your friend to get practice talking to women.You don’t have to meet women in traditional dating settings in order to overcome your fear of them. You could start out talking to women in online forums or chatrooms, then later move to face-to-face interaction. Try meeting women at book clubs, coffee shops, and on inter-gender sports teams.
 Even if a woman isn't interested in your romantically, there are very gracious ways to make that known; she doesn't need to treat you like an annoyance. If she rolls her eyes at you, barely answers you, and acts generally rude, excuse yourself politely. Don’t let anyone act as though they are too good for you.


For instance, if you offer to buy a woman a drink and she sneers, "From you? No thanks!", simply shrug and walk away. Nobody deserves that kind of treatment.
 Sometimes we take comments that were meant only jokingly to heart, especially when they’re from the opposite sex. Before getting hurt or upset, try to rethink the context of the conversation. If you’re hurt by something a woman said, tell her. Chances are she didn’t mean to hurt your feelings., You might get blown off a few times. You might get nervous and need to bail occasionally. No big deal! Stick with it and don’t be discouraged. Eventually, you will successfully talk to a woman. When you do not effectively talk to women, don’t blame yourself or dwell on it. Think of the conversation as practice, not as a failure. Try to learn something from it and don’t over-analyze any one conversation.


It’s hard to know sometimes why a conversation didn’t go well. Try different approaches when talking to women. Talk to women by meeting them on their terms. Be funny in one instance, and reflective and thoughtful in another.
Think about the woman you’re talking to: is she a deep thinker or is she more interested in superficial conversation? Match your conversational style and approach to the personality of the person you’re talking to.

