 Any divorce or child support dispute typically involves many hearings in court. Many hearings are “status” hearing, where once a month you go into court to keep the judge updated about the case.Look to see when your next court hearing is scheduled.


At the hearing, you can tell the judge you want an updated financial affidavit from your ex. Also be prepared to tell the judge why.
 You should be able to give the judge some reason why you think the affidavit is inaccurate. The judge certainly wants accurate, up-to-date information, but the judge won’t let you harass your ex. For this reason, have some evidence that shows the information in the affidavit is inaccurate.


For example, you might have spoken to a family member or a mutual friend who told you that your ex has a new job. You should write down the name and date of when you had the conversation.
 At your hearing, be sure to tell the judge you want an updated affidavit. You can say, “Your Honor, I’d like to request that Mr. Smith submit an updated affidavit.”


Identify the information on the current affidavit that is outdated. For example, “I’m concerned that Mr. Smith hasn’t updated his current income. I heard from his sister that he has a new job.”

, You should press your point. Ask the judge if you can have limited discovery. “Discovery” allows you to request information and documents from your ex. There are many helpful discovery techniques:Requests for Production. You can serve a request asking your ex to turn over certain documents. For example, you could get updated bank records, pay stubs, and tax returns.

Interrogatories. These are questions that your ex has to answer under oath. You could ask your ex if he or she has any property not listed on the affidavit. If your ex lies, then they commit perjury.

Depositions. You could also have your ex sit for a deposition. In a deposition, you ask your ex questions in person. He or she answers under oath. Unlike interrogatories, a deposition allows for follow-up questions.

Subpoenas. Even if you serve a request for production or interrogatories, your ex still might lie. He or she might lie during a deposition as well. Accordingly, you might have to subpoena financial documents directly from a bank or an employer.A subpoena is a legal command to turn over information. You should request the correct subpoena form from the court clerk.

