 The Spider-Man gets to level up 15% faster compared to other Spider-Man characters. Levelling up happens after finishing a run, either from a Mission, an Event, or a Daily Challenge.


The standard Spider-Man has this ability.;
, The Spider-Man doubles the combos he gets from passing through the rings during games. Instead of getting one combo for every ring, he gets two.


Bombastic Bag-man and Future Foundation Spider-Man have this ability.
 The Spider-Man doubles the combos he gets from every near miss during games. Instead of getting one combo for every near miss, he gets two.


Battle-damaged Spider-Man and Bulletproof Spider-Armor have this ability.
 The Spider-Man doubles the combos he gets from every hit or attack during games. Instead of getting one combo for every hit or attack (on enemies), he gets two.


Spider-Man (Ben Reilly), Cosmic Spider-Man, and Scarlet Spider have this ability.
 The Spider-Man gets 10% more vials for every game. For every 100 vials he collects, he actually gets 110 vials.


Ends of the Earth Spider-Man has this ability.
 The Spider-Man scores 30% more for his points for running in every game.


Spider-armor has this ability.
 The Spider-Man scores 30% more for his points in collecting vials during games.


Mangaverse Spider-Man, House of M Spider-Man and Electro-proof Spider-Man have this ability.
 The Spider-Man scores 30% more for his points from the combos during games. Combos are earned from attacks or hits, near misses, and rings.


Big Time Spider-Man (Sonic) and Scarlet Spider (Ben Reilly) have this ability.
 The Spider-Man scores 40% more for defeating a boss during games. Any of the Sinister Six villains is considered a boss.


Last Stand Spider-Man and Iron Spider have this ability.
 The Spider-Man gets 30% more vials from hitting enemies during games. Normally an enemy gives 10 vials when attacked. With this ability, the Spider-Man gets 13 vials.


Spider-Man Noir has this ability.
 The Spider-Man’s combo counter lasts four seconds longer during games. This means a longer time to sustain the combo counter before it runs out.


Secret War Spider-Man has this ability.
 The Spider-Man starts the game with 10 combos right away.


Spider-Man 2099 has this ability.
 If the game’s objective is to get a high score or run the required number of meters, which usually is the goal for ranking in the leaderboards, you should opt for a Spider-Man that can increase your combo counters faster or provide score bonuses. Any of the +1 to combos or bonus score abilities would greatly help.


Spider-men with higher levels would also significantly increase your score multipliers.
 If the game’s objective is to get the required number of combos, you should opt for a Spider-Man that can increase your combo counters faster. Any of the +1 to combos abilities will greatly help.
 If the game’s objective is to pass through the required number of rings, you should opt for a Spider-Man that can give you 30% bonus score from combo counters.


Using a Spider-Man with the +1 to combos from rings generally won’t be able to help since the additional combo doesn’t really count as a ring. At least with the 30% bonus score, he can get a higher score while meeting the objective.
 If the game’s objective is to do the required number of near misses, you should opt for a Spider-Man that can give you 30% bonus score from combo counters.


Using a Spider-Man with the +1 to combos from near misses generally won’t be able to help since the additional combo doesn’t really count as a near miss. At least with the 30% bonus score, he can get a higher score while meeting the objective.
 If the game’s objective is to hit the required number of enemies, you should opt for a Spider-Man that can give you 30% bonus score from combo counters.


Using a Spider-Man with the +1 to combos from attacks generally won’t be able to help since the additional combo doesn’t really count as an attack. At least with the 30% bonus score, he can get a higher score while meeting the objective.
 If the game’s objective is to collect the required number of vials, you should opt for a Spider-Man that can give you 10% more vials. A Spider-Man that can get 30% more vials from enemies will also help.


With any of these, you will be able to meet the objective in less time and with less effort.
 If the game’s objective is to defeat the required number of bosses, you should opt for a Spider-Man that can give you 40% bonus score from defeating bosses. It won’t help you achieve the objective faster, but it can help you score higher as you work through your games.
 If the game’s objective is to reach a number of combos in one game, you should opt for a Spider-Man that can increase your combo counters faster or get the combo counter to last longer. Any or both of these can greatly help.
 Look for the game app on your device. Its name is Spider-Man with the classic Spider-Man on the logo. Tap on it to launch it.
 On the main page, tap the red My Team button on the lower left corner. This will bring you to your current Spider-Men roster. All your Spider-Men’s character cards are displayed on the right side. Swipe up and down to view all of them.
 Tap on the Spider-Man card you want to view. You would be able to see his abilities on the left side. Determine which Spider-Man you need for the game that you will play. Take note of your choice.
 Go back to the main screen, and tap the corresponding buttons for the game you want to play. Equip the Spider-Men slots with your choices by tapping on the slots to the right of the screen then tap the “Start” button on the bottom right corner of the screen to start the game.