 Cories, for instance, are bottom feeders and share space easily with betta (who prefer swimming along the top of the tank). Loaches and otocinclus catfish, likewise, are also bottom feeders and therefore compatible with betta fish. Other species that you could select for a betta community include:


Ghost shrimp -- these shrimp are entirely transparent, making it difficult for betta fish to see them. Other sorts of shrimp such as Red Cherry shrimp may be eaten by the betta fish.
Snails -- any sort are good for a betta community, since they do their own thing along the bottom of the tank.
Feeder guppies -- these guppies are dull in color and thus unlikely to attract the betta’s attention.
Most corydoras, kuhli loaches, rasboras, white cloud mountain minnows, tetras, and bristlenose plecos also make good tankmates., Bettas generally like to move around their tank to explore.It is therefore important to provide a tank of the appropriate size.


Bettas should get at least 2.5 gallons (9.5 L) for themselves.Think about the spatial needs of the other fish and creatures in the community before introducing a betta. Ensure the community tank is not overcrowded.
 While very beautiful, certain fish will think the betta’s fins are there for them to nibble. Tiger barbs, for instance, should not be in the same tank as a a betta.


This is not a mere annoyance for the betta fish. Nipped fins can become infected and lead to increased stress.,, The temperature of a tank with betta fish in it should simulate the temperature of the tropics, around 75 to 82 degrees Fahrenheit (about 26 degrees Celsius).Finally, the community tank you’re adding the betta to should have a gentle filter, since betta fish are from non-flowing waters.You can test your water’s pH levels with a pH monitor. A simple handheld monitor should be available at your local pet store.
Aquarium tank thermometers are useful for monitoring the temperature in your betta fish tank. Keep one in the tank so you can check the temperature quickly at all times.
Do not keep your betta in a tank without a filter unless you have the time and energy necessary to perform frequent, high-volume water changes.
Do not use distilled water. Betta fish need water with vitamins and minerals that are unavailable in distilled water.