 Carefully clean your hands using hot water and neutral pH hand soap, a scent and dye free glycerin soap is usually the best option. Wash hands for about thirty seconds, rubbing hands together vigorously. Thoroughly rinse soap from hands with warm water, and dry hands using a clean towel or paper towels., Soak a q-tip or sterile gauze in warm water. Apply the damp tool to both ends of the piercing to dampen the site, softening the openings., These balls hold the jewelry in place, and are typically screwed or snapped in place. Wearing rubber gloves or using a piece of sterile gauze will help you keep control of these small, slick objects. Clean and store the balls in a container. Some jewelry comes with its own storage box, but a plastic storage bag or other container will also work., Apply a small amount of water-based lubricant or neutral pH soap to either end of the ring or bar piercing. Gently move the eyebrow jewelry back and forth to spread lubricant into the piercing. Take extra care if there are threads at one or both ends where the balls attach., Gently pull the jewelry from the piercing, and place it in a disinfectant or salt water solution to cleanse it. Then, place the jewelry in the container with the balls., Once you’ve removed the existing jewelry, use soap and water, witch hazel, or saline contact solution to clean the piercing site by soaking a q-tip or gauze in one of these cleansers and applying it to the piercing., Using water-based lubricant or soap and water, coat the ring or post of your replacement jewelry. This will make inserting the replacement eyebrow ring quicker and more comfortable., Be careful not to push too hard against any resistance as you may damage your piercing site. Add additional lubricant as necessary to make the placement of the new jewelry more comfortable., Use cotton balls, rubber gloves, or cloth to carefully screw the balls onto the ends of the new jewelry to hold it in place. Don’t attach too tightly or using pliers as this makes removal more difficult., Soak q-tips or gauze in warm water, and apply to the piercing site to remove lubricant. If your piercing feels swollen or inflamed following the placement of new jewelry, you may also want to place a steeped chamomile tea bag onto the piercing site to reduce swelling and discomfort., In most cases, the person who pierces your eyebrow will discuss the various gauges available, and make a recommendation based on the appearance you desire. Make note of the gauge you choose, and don’t hesitate to follow up with your piercer to make sure you have the right size before buying new jewelry., You may be tempted to choose a smaller gauge or if you’re planning to expand the piercing, a much larger gauge, but this can actually be detrimental to the healing process. Choose jewelry that is no more than 1/8 of an inch larger or smaller for best results.


Smaller jewelry may cause pulling or tearing. You may believe that exchanging your current jewelry for one of a smaller gauge will be more comfortable, but actually, it may cause a number of concerns. The piercing may shrink too quickly causing additional scar tissue, or the piercing may move around too easily snagging or tearing the piercing.
Carefully choose jewelry of slightly larger gauge to expand piercings. If you’re planning to expand your piercing, make sure you’ve discussed this with your piercer prior to the placement of your initial jewelry, and ask for recommendations on the next gauge size you should use., Most piercers are happy to exchange your jewelry for a minimal fee or no cost at all, especially if you buy your new jewelry from their shop. Most piercers will also walk you through the process, so you’re able to confidently complete the process on your own.