 Tumblr has come to be considered the home of fandom culture, regardless of which fandom you belong to.Create a Tumblr account and page.Make sure your username and the title of your blog broadcasts your fandom affiliation. You might include information about your fandom's subject, or a fandom identifying nickname, such as a well-known project (album, film, role), or anything else that signifies your dedication to other fans.
Conduct a tag search on your fandom subject. Surf around, clicking on other fan pages. If content is related to your interest, follow those Tumblr users!

Reblog worthy content, comment on it, and “heart” it to signify you appreciate the content shared with the community. This can be the beginning of a new friendship with a fellow fan.


Share content of your own individual fan-work, information you have gleaned through Google Alerts, and discoveries from social media following.
Make sure your posts have tags relevant to your fandom, so other fans will be able to see your content in the tag search and follow you. Tumblr fandoms often make a game out of including very long, idiosyncratic tags along with the simple fandom tags; keep this in mind for when you become part of fandom culture.Be social! Building friendships with the fans you meet on Tumblr will help forge a place for you in your fandom.
 Simply “following” your fandom subject on Twitter isn’t enough to connect you with larger community of fans. Search hashtags related to your fandom to find and follow other users who share your interest.


Make sure to talk to other fans as often as possible. A fandom thrives on the enthusiasm of its members. You should make an effort to maintain the relationships you’re building to ensure the health of your fandom.
 Fanfiction — fan-generated literature about fandom topics — is a very important part of fandom culture.Though much is published on Tumblr and Instagram, there are many websites dedicated specifically to fanfiction. Prominent among these are Archive of Our Own, Fanfiction.net, and Wattpad.Fanfiction can be further classified into the subgenres:


RPFs (real person fiction) are stories about the celebrity as themselves — a story about getting married to Harry Styles, for example.
AUs (alternate universe) are stories that change the reality in which the celebrity lives. For example, you might find stories in which Harry Styles is a painter instead of a singer.
OOCs (out of character) are stories in which the author changes the celebrity’s personality or persona — for example, a story in which Harry Styles is a violent mobster.

Remember to vote for the stories you like and leave positive feedback encouraging other writers to continue producing stories you like reading.
Once you’ve read enough to be comfortable with the genre, try your hand at writing your own fanfiction to share with your fandom.
 An internet forum is a message board where you can select a topic of interest and join a conversation with community members similar to yourself. Many web forums have different expectations and culture, but the atmosphere of your web forum will typically be in line with the that of your fandom.Web forums are a great place for you to post questions, coordinate online or real-life activities, and make friends with with other fans.
 You should look up fancons, as some are genre specific, but many cons are broad enough in scope that you're sure to find some fellow fans, discussion panels, and maybe even meet the people your fandom is based upon! The major fancon genres are: anime, comic, gaming, and fantasy/sci-fi.Coordinate group costumes with your friends or other fans you've met and geek out with like-minded individuals.
Discussion panels are increasingly places where actors and writers will make special announcements. Take advantage of this and think of clever questions you can ask at a panel discussion.
Check out after parties! People come to fancons from all over, many of them for the same reasons as you. When the convention hours are up, if you're still feeling social, talk fellow fans and see if there's an after party you are welcome to join.
 Street teams are groups who promote events and products — movies, concerts, and autograph sessions, to list a few. Street teamers pass out flyers, post stickers throughout target neighborhoods, promote events and products online through social media accounts, phone in requests for songs to radio stations (for music fandoms), and try to spread the word to other fans.


Popular street team organizations include Fancorps and Reverb Nation (for music).
By involving yourself with a street team, you’ll make friends with people as involved with your fandom as you are! It’s a great way to meet new friends and get a few perks while supporting the subject of your fandom.
 If you’re devoting enough time to fandom communities online and locally, you’ll likely have made many new friends who share your interests. Don’t let those friendships wither away and, along with them, your fandom! Comment regularly on your friends’ posts and share content of your own. Meet up with the friends you made on a street team. You’re now a full-fledged member of a fandom!

