 When your hair begins to look greasy, but you don’t want to wash it yet, you can add some dry conditioner to help your hair look clean.
 If many store bought products leave your hair feeling greasy, some natural products may help to give your hair an added glow without the grease. Like with shampoos and conditions, finding out which oils work best for you will most likely be a process of trial and error. To use these natural oils, apply a half a tablespoon of the oil to your hair after you have washed your hair. The oil will dry but will help your hair to retain moisture. The most common oils used to moisturize hair include:


Coconut oil.
Almond oil.
Avocado oil.
Aloe vera.
Moroccan oil.
 There are some natural powders that you can also use to give your hair a boost. These natural powers help to soften and nourish your hair. To apply these powers, rub a small amount of the powder into your scalp and hair. Common powders include:


Mustard powder.
Ginger powder.
Whole wheat flour and ground clover mixed with a little bit of water.
 Consider your hair type when you are selecting your brush or comb. You should also consider the challenges you face with your hair.


Boar hair brushes work well on thick, long hair and help to achieve a smooth, shiny blown out look.
Nylon hair brushes work well on medium hair and help to detangle even the wildest of manes.
Plastic brushes are all-purpose brushes that work on every type of hair, but particularly work well for very thick hair.
Small-toothed combs work well for short, thin hair.
Wide-toothed combed work well for short, thick hair.
 Wait until your hair has nearly dried before using a brush or comb to detangle knots. Hair is at it's weakest when wet, and therefore is more susceptible to damage.


Some people with curly hair maintain that they don’t wash their hair at all. If you have curly hair that gets frizzy, consider brushing your hair less often.
 Brushing your hair multiple times a day can actually make your hair look greasier. Instead, try to brush your hair once in the morning and once at night.


Try combing your hair with your fingers if it gets very tangled.
 Hair ties can break hair and cause split ends. If you put your hair up a lot, try to find hair ties that do not break hair or cause knots. You should also wear your hair in loose ponytails, rather than wrapping your hair up very tightly, as doing this can cause more damage.

