 It takes a good amount of heat to oxidize the carbon in the baking soda enough to reveal your message, which means you need a safe but strong source of direct heat. Several household heating elements can work.For example:


An incandescent light bulb works. You will need to hold the message near a hot bulb for several minutes to heat the baking soda enough.
A traditional stove is another idea. Be careful holding a piece of paper too close to hot coils, which could also start a fire.
Hair dryers can be turned up to a high heat and waved evenly over the page.
A dry iron can reveal the letters of your message as well. Avoid using a steam setting and draw the hot iron over your paper slowly and evenly.You could place your message on a baking try and put it in an oven set to 250 degrees, checking every few minutes for your letters to appear.
Laying your page on an old-fashioned radiator or the top of a toaster can work too.Pay attention to the paper at all times to reduce the risk of accidental flames.
 Choose the method of heating you feel safest with and avoid using any open flames if possible.


Halogen bulbs emit more heat than standard incandescent bulbs and increase the risk of fire.
Stoves will heat up slowly but eventually become very hot. Use kitchen tongs to hold your message and avoid getting the paper too close to the coils.
 Whatever method you use for heating the page containing the invisible ink, work slowly to ensure you heat the paper only as much as necessary.


Move your page over the heat source to avoid one place on the paper from getting too hot.It can take several minutes for your letters to appear, depending on the amount of heat you apply, the thickness and texture of the paper, and the saturation of the "ink" you made., As the paper warms up, your message will reappear on the page as though being burned into the paper itself. The letters appear brown because the carbon in the baking soda is oxidized more rapidly than normal by the heat.Oxidation is the same reason the flesh of an apple turns brown after sitting out.

