 If the internship is overseen by a college or university, which provides educational credit, then the person working is more like an intern than an employee.Where the internship is unrelated to a university or college, then it is more like employment, and the intern could really be an employee who must be paid a wage.
 The internship should also provide general skills and not training in work specific to the employer. In this way, the intern is gaining skills which she can take to a different employer.


However, where an intern is doing work specifically for the employer, such as answering phones or filing, then he or she could qualify as an employee and not an intern.In this situation, the internship is benefiting the employer.
 If you use an intern to replace an employee, then the intern is more like an employee. Also, if you use interns as extra help during certain times of the year, then the intern is more like an employee.For example, if a store hires interns only during peak shopping season, then the relationship looks more like employment than an internship. In particular, the work relationship appears to be for the benefit of the employer, who is busy during the shopping season.
 Many internships require training, with an experienced worker training the intern. You should identify the purpose of this training.


If the training is for the intern’s knowledge—and you do not require that the intern put this training to use by doing work for you—then the arrangement is more like an internship. A common situation would be “job shadowing,” where the intern follows an employee around without doing much work.Instead, the primary purpose of the shadowing is to learn.
However, when you supervise a worker in the same manner as you would an employee, then the relationship looks like an employer-employee relationship.
 An internship should have a fixed length. The end point should be determined before the intern starts working. Additionally, the internship should not be a “trial run” where the intern works for free before you decide whether to hire him or her.The intern’s expectations are a critical component. When the intern expects an offer of employment after the internship, then it is probably not an internship.
 The unpaid intern should not expect compensation.You should have some sort of agreement in which you state that the intern will not be paid.
 These factors must all be weighed. There is no simple bright-line test for determining if a person is an intern or an employee.


If, after weighing all of the circumstances, you do not know whether the person is an intern or employee, then you should speak to an attorney. You don’t want to fail to pay an employee wages he or she is entitled to.

