 Note that chances are you will not find information on Black Herefords in any older cattle breeds book, and perhaps not much on the Internet either. However, there is a couple breed association or ranch sites you will come across that tell about the Black Hereford breed.;
, Note the following:



Colouration: Black Herefords are black and white. However, do not immediately think that Black Herefords are the same as Holstein cattle, because they are not. BH's have the same colour patterns as their Hereford-breeding does, with the white face, stockings on their legs, belly, brisket, tail switch, and sometimes the crest. It is also not uncommon to have some BH's that have additional black patches on their faces.

Body type and characteristics: BH's have the same body type as Herefords and Angus cattle do: blocky and square, but not overly muscular like Charolais are. Naturally, bulls are more bigger and muscular than cows are.

Head characteristics: Again, the head is very similar to the Hereford, with the same long broad face and broad muzzle to accommodate for their excellent foraging ability. However, unlike the Hereford breed, Black Herefords are predominantly polled. Some may have scours, but the breed, as influenced by their Angus genes, is naturally polled.

Other characteristics: BH's have the characteristics of both the Hereford and Angus breeding, with great carcass merits along with a great ability to be highly efficient on pasture. This breed is also known for its great mothering ability, calving ease and longevity, milking ability, fertility, and all-around adaptability to different environments.

Black Herefords are a fairly new breed (a Made-in-America breed), with the American Black Hereford Association first founded in 1994. The first Black Herefords qualified for registration was recorded in 1997. The BH breed didn't receive official international designation by the National Association of Animal Breeds until 2003, and in 2005, ABHA created their own EPDs for registered bulls, cows and heifers.

The American Hereford Association has never recognized the Black Hereford breed as a part of the Hereford breed due to the fact that they are not "true Herefords," due to the black colour.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Black Hereford cattle, and compare them with pictures of Black Herefords on the ABHA breed website.

