 For example: If you're a lingerie shop or adult novelty website, pick a trade show that is in your industry, such as Xposed Expo or the Woman's Show. Shows to stay away from would be a pet expo or home and garden. These shows don't complement your business and people going to these shows aren't looking for your products and may even develop a negative reaction to your product.;
, They will be able to help you in deciding if each show is suitable for your business.
 Do not go overboard if your on a tight budget.You don't want to be stressed thinking about all the money you're putting out upfront and hoping that you'll make it back.
 Most companies fail to let people know they are participating in a trade show. This is a big mistake! If you don't tell anyone you're at the show and all the other vendors don't tell their customers they're at the show, how do you expect to have a successful show? You must let all your customers, family, friends know about the event your participating in. To do this you can try some of these approaches:


Simply send out an email blast, send Twitter updates about the event, post an event on Facebook or invite your Facebook contacts to an existing event page.
Post free ads on online classifieds.
Put up a poster in your store so customers coming in can see or post up a note on your website.


These simple yet effective methods will increase your chances of a successful show.
 Entice your customers to come to the show by offering a show special. You can do this by emailing/mailing your customers a printable coupon or having some coupons by the till to hand out to let them know about your special offer.
 So if you're traveling, book your flights, book your hotels. Make sure you have everything you need for your booth. For example: electrical gear, carpet, banners, etc.
 It could be for a free product or service. Make sure you honor your contest and give away the prize. This is a great way to build your email list. Put a little message on the entry slip that they authorize you to send them company updates, promotions, etc.
 Hand out cards with all of your business details printed on it. Or, use an online service that sends information to customers either via email or an app; ask them to leave their details on a list or through a digital device.
 Easy way to do this is smile! "Welcome to...".
 This is unwelcoming and people will just walk by. For those inevitable needed breaks, hire staff to help you out.
 Make it inviting so people want to come in and see what you have.
 Although this sounds trite, potential customers respond to your vibes and enthusiasm. If they can see you're passionate about your product or service, they'll be attracted.

