 Fill a plastic bottle with water. Put the pill on your tongue. Next, close your lips snugly around the opening of the water bottle. Put your head back and take a drink of the water. Keep your lips lightly around the bottle opening and use suction to pull the water into your mouth. The water and the pill should go down your throat.


Don't let air into the bottle when you take a drink.
This method is best when used with large tablets.The suction action of your drink of water will open your throat wider and help you swallow the pill better.
This method is not intended for children. Only older individuals should attempt this method.
 For this method, place the pill on your tongue. Take a drink of water but don't swallow it yet. Tilt your head down with your chin towards your chest. Let the capsule float to the back of your mouth and then swallow the pill.


This method works best on pills in capsule form.You can try this method on your child as well. After she takes a sip of water, just have her stare at the floor while you slip the capsule in the side of her mouth. The pill will float and she can swallow it and the water., Anxiety can be a significant factor in preventing an individual from swallowing a pill. Relaxation is important. If you are anxious, your body will be tense and you will have more trouble swallowing the pill. In order to prevent this, you need to relax. Sit down with a glass of water and do whatever you can to ease any anxiety. Find a quiet place, listen to music that calms you, or meditate.


This will help soothe your nerves and break the association of pill time being stressful, so your body will be less likely to gag.
If you are having trouble, you can talk to a psychologist to help you break through your anxiety about taking a pill.If you are trying to help a child swallow a pill, help make them feel comfortable by getting her mind off of the act before asking her to do it. Read her a story, play a game, or find some other activity that helps her relax before asking her to take the pill. The calmer she is, the more likely she will be to take the pill.
 You may be worried that a pill will not fit down your throat, especially if it is a large pill. To help you squash this fear, stand in front of a mirror. Open your mouth and say "ahhhhh." This will show you how wide your throat is and should show that a pill can clearly fit down it.You can also use a mirror to place the pills on your tongue. The farther back you put the pill, the shorter ways it has to go before you swallow it.
You can also do this with a child who is terrified of choking. Do it along with her to show that you understand her fears, but convince her that there is nothing to fear.
 There are many medications that are available in multiple forms. You may be able to get your medication as a liquid, a patch, a cream, an inhaled version, a suppository, or a dispersible, which is a pill that dissolved in water. Talk to your doctor about your options, especially if you have a hard time swallowing pills, no matter what method you try.Don't take a pill and try to use it in any other way unless your doctor says you can. Don't crush pills to make them a dispersible or try to use a pill as a suppository that isn't supposed to be. Always consult your doctor before you change the way in which you take medication.

