 Most people who study handgun bullet ballistics and tactics have concluded that handgun rounds are weak comparatively, and bullet-placement is a more reliable fight-stopper than the round itself. However, there are some advantages from one round to another, and knowing what caliber you're search for will help you make the most of your purchase.



Penetration is extremely important. If a bullet does not penetrate deep enough, vital organs and the nervous system are less likely to be damaged. In the late '90s the FBI conducted extensive studies which suggest a bullet should penetrate at least 14–16 inches (35.6–40.6 cm) to be reliable. This allows for bullets to enter a body at less than optimal angles and still have enough energy to reach vital organs or the spine.

Permanent cavity is the resulting "void" in a fleshy target where the majority of a bullet's energy was transferred and tissue was destroyed. The larger the permanent cavity, the greater the chance of vital organs or central nervous system being destroyed.

Recoil is something that is often not talked about in bullet ballistics because it is a very subjective and weapon-specific characteristic. Low recoil allows you put place more shots quicker and more accurately. Each person will have a different feel for the recoil of a bullet, and each handgun will transfer the recoil to the user in different ways.

Bullet energy is an over-emphasized feature of a round. In handguns, energy of bullets is extremely low. "Knock down power" is a fable born of Hollywood action movies scenes. People shot with a .22LR in non-vital areas have fallen down because they assumed being shot is synonymous with falling down and possibly dying., There are a lot of different calibers out there, and it will be daunting for the uninitiated to figure out what to buy without a basic primer:


9mm Parabellum is the most common pistol caliber. Its relatively low recoil allows for quick, accurate follow up shots. The magazine capacity is usually much greater than other larger rounds. Cost is low and availability is excellent, making the 9mm an attractive choice for extended practice. Finally, there are excellent higher pressure (+P rated) loads available, producing excellent self-defense characteristics (make sure your handgun is rated to shoot +P loads before you use them).
.45 ACP uses heavier, wider bullets than the 9mm at somewhat lower velocity. The caliber lends itself to use with sound suppressors due to the fact that a standard round (230 grain) is subsonic under almost all circumstances. The permanent cavity (on ballistics gel) of a JHP .45 is about 40% larger than JHP 9mm. Recoil is more severe than the 9mm, and magazine capacity tends to be much lower. Most law enforcement officers will say (referring to a point-blank gun fight), that if you don't hit them in the first three bullets, you aren't going to hit them. So a large capacity magazines mean less than you might think..40 S&W is another common caliber with performance characteristics somewhere between the 9mm Para and .45 ACP. It has gained a large following in law enforcement agencies and elsewhere. Among other benefits of the round, the flat nose of the round has shown to create larger temporary cavities and also to allow the energy to transfer at a quicker rate create a sizable permanent cavity.
.38 Special, .357 Magnum, and .44 Magnum are common revolver cartridges. The 357SIG (a 9mm bullet in a necked-down .40 cal casing) and 10mm Auto are also somewhat prevalent autoloader calibers.
The 5.7x28mm is designed to defeat Class III body armor with appropriate ammunition. Such steel-tipped ammunition is not widely available to civilians, but the advantage of the round as a very low-recoil, high-velocity round cannot be denied., Knock-down power in a pistol caliber is a complete farce. Newton's law says, "for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction" meaning that if the bullet had enough force to knockdown your target, firing the bullet would have enough force to knock you down. All this to say, one bullet is not guaranteed to knock a person down better than the other; it is more of a matter of who you are shooting, where you are shooting them, and whether or not this person has it in their mind that they should fall down when shot. Shot placement is much more important than the bullet size or energy.