 Keep in mind that you can learn about yourself by what you get embarrassed by. Think about the situation you were in. Ask yourself, “What was it about that situation that made me embarrassed?” It might not always simply be about the people you were actually around.For example, if you get overly embarrassed after failing at something you are typically very good at, you might be setting overly high expectations for yourself. In each moment of embarrassment, reflect on what your emotion can tell you about your expectations of yourself and others in general.
 While the title of this article is how to get over an embarrassing moment, certain people tend to have embarrassing moments quite a lot. It might even happen every day. If embarrassing moments seem to come up for you continuously, without your control, it could be the case that you have a social phobia. This is actually a type of anxiety disorder that has been shown to be highly correlated with persistent emotions of embarrassment. This makes it very difficult for you to simply get over embarrassing moments when they occur.If you can’t seem to simply shake off embarrassing emotions when they arise, and they seem to be coming up for you a lot, consider taking steps towards treating yourself for anxiety.
 If you feel there may be underlying issues that cause your embarrassment to be more severe than normal, it can help to talk with a counselor. This person can help you figure out your emotions and understand why you feel this way. He can also give you strategies for how to reduce the level of embarrassment that you feel.
 If you can’t stop thinking about the embarrassing moment, try meditating. Remember, the embarrassing moment is in the past. Try to keep yourself in the present. Mindfulness meditation is a technique that helps you be aware and nonjudgmental about your thoughts and emotions. It can be helpful to keep your thoughts about the embarrassing moment from taking over., Sit quietly for 10-15 minutes, breathing deeply. Focus on your breath.
Acknowledge each thought as it enters your mind. Identify the emotion that you're feeling. Say to yourself, "I feel embarrassment."
Accept the emotions that you're feeling, tell yourself, "I can accept my embarrassment."
Acknowledge that this is a temporary feeling. Say to yourself, "I know this feeling is temporary. It will subside. What do I need for myself right now?" Give yourself space and validation for your feelings, but recognize that your thoughts and responses may distort the reality of the situation.
Bring your attention and awareness back to your breath. As further thoughts pass through your mind, repeat the process to acknowledge them and let them go.
You can also search online for guided mindfulness meditation exercises.

