 If dirt, mud, or grass has collected in the grips of your lawn bowl, use a wooden skewer to pry the dirt out of them. Be gentle when doing this in order to avoid scratching the surface of your bowl. You don't have to remove all of the dirt at this point, but being able to remove the biggest chunks of dirt stuck in the grips will facilitate the next step.
 Using a sponge or rag soaked in warm water, wipe the surface of the bowl to remove any dirt that is left there. Be sure to wipe inside the grips as well to remove any residual dirt that you couldn't pry out using the skewer. Once all the dirt and grime has been removed, dry off your bowl completely before proceeding to the next step., This is similar to the microfibre cloth that you can use to clean your glasses. Using this cloth, wipe around the lawn bowl for about 10 minutes, turning the bowl as you go to ensure that you wipe over every bit of its surface at least 5 times. This will make sure that any dust on the bowl is gone so that it will be smooth and ready for the next step., This product is used to cover, fill, and hide any scratches or tiny chips on a lawn bowl. Spray it over the bowl lightly and use the microfibre cloth to firmly rub the spray over the surface of the bowl., Use a wax or gel polish that is specifically made for lawn bowls (this can be purchased from your local sports store) and follow the product's instructions to polish your bowl. Doing so will help improve the grip to ensure that you can play to the best of your ability., To get any excess materials or dust off of your bowl, cut the end off of a stocking and place the bowl in it. Then grab both ends of the stocking and rotate your arms to a 180 degree angle both sides. Once this is done, you can carefully remove the bowl from the stocking., Once you've completed the above steps, do a quick inspection of your bowl to make sure that it is clean. When inspecting the bowl, check for grip; shine; presence of dust, scratches, or chips; and the paint job. If you're unsatisfied with the way your bowl looks, repeat any of the above steps to improve its appearance.