 Prior to identifying your own personality or the personalities of others, you must understand its foundational meaning. Personality is a set of traits, which include a person's mood, emotions, and behaviors. These traits should be pretty stable and consistent prior to labeling yourself or someone else with a particular personality. Your personality can affect both your mood and emotional responses.


Your personality will affect your self-esteem, and it can also influence your interests, morals, values, and belief systems. A person’s identified personality is shaped by many factors, such as, genetics, and personal experiences ( i.e., trauma, parenting, developmental history, etc.).;
, In order to create a new personality, you will have to be able to evaluate your current personality and define the new personality you want. To do this, you will need to understand what traits define a personality. The big five personality traits recognized by most psychologists are:Neuroticism
Extroversion
Openness
Agreeableness
Conscientiousness

, Understand that an individual's personality is usually much more consistent and stable than their mood or emotions. However, with conscious awareness and effort, it can be changed. A person’s personality is also subject to change as they mature through different phases of life, and as they go through life experiences. For instance, someone who exhibits more of an extroversion personality may become more introverted. If you have a personality that you feel needs changes for improvement, your best strategy is working with a psychotherapist. The psychotherapist will be able to help you identify certain traits you want to change, enhance problem-solving capacities, self-representation, and self-regulation to help you make the positive changes you wish to see in your personality.


Some of the psychotherapeutic modalities used during psychotherapy sessions include cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), and dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT).
 To make a change in your personality, you will need to have an objective look at your current traits. Rate yourself on each of the big five personality traits. This will give you a baseline for any changes you want to make.Take a standardized tests to rate yourself on the big five personality traits: https://ocean.cambridgeanalytica.org/quiz.html

See a mental health professional for more accurate results. Personality tests are common and frequently used tools with psychotherapists. It allows the psychologist and yourself to fully capture your personality, and work as a team to address any areas of concern you would like to change. These tests are much more detailed and accurate than those you would find online. Some of the more common personality tests used by psychotherapists include:

Meyers-Briggs Type Indicator
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory
Rorschach Inkblot Test
Keirsey Temperament Sorter



, Once you have rated yourself on each of the personality traits, decide which ones you want to see change. You may want to express more of one personality trait and less of another. Make a list of which traits you want to change and in what way you want them to change.For example, you might decide that you want to be more agreeable and less neurotic.
As you make changes, you may feel the need to retest your personality. Try to use the same test that you used initially so that you can accurately compare the two results.

