 Some people prefer their own or minimal company, while others keep to themselves due to discomfort in social situations. Even if they are the former, they might appreciate having someone to hang out with on occasion.;
, You won't get to know this person unless you devote your time to talking to him or her, and introverts may be too nervous to initiate the conversation, so it's best if you're the one to start it, especially considering that you are an extrovert. Ask open ended questions in order to entice the introvert to reveal more about himself or herself.


Try not to be intimidating. Randomly striking up a conversation with an introvert might confuse or worry them. Ease into socialization with them. Also, try not to be too loud or excitable around them, as this could be annoying or intimidating to them.
 Spending too much time around this person may make him or her feel uncomfortable. Aim to keep the conversation going for as long as it's going. Look for social cues and if the other person seems bored with the conversation, politely end it and come back to that person later. Try a line such as "It was nice to talk to you, but I have to go meet my friends. Talk to you later!"

, If the introvert looks uncomfortable, depressed, angry, in the middle of something, or just does not feel like talking to anyone, take the hint; it's best to leave him or her alone and come back at a later time.
 Introverts can take a while to get acclimated to a person. If he or she hesitates when speaking, do not become impatient with him or her or start finishing his or her sentences. Showing that you are patient and a good listener will make the person feel more comfortable talking with you.
 Introverts become tired when they have too much social interaction, and they need some time to recharge by being alone for awhile. If you are with this person too often, he or she will probably need some decompression time alone, so it's important to give him or her some space now and then.
 Just because you are an extrovert does not mean you have the right to put down and insult introverts. Being an introvert or being shy do not make the person "less" or "worse" than you, so avoid treating it as such. Calling out the person with labels or insults is not appreciated and will make the person feel insulted and uncomfortable. Avoid these phrases, for example:


"You must be antisocial".
"You're not talking that much. Are you going through depression?"
"I don't bite, so why are you so shy?"
"Why are you so shy around me? Do you dislike me or something?"
"Come on...talk more!"

, If the introvert seems comfortable and is opening up to you, you should increase the amount of time that you spend talking to each other.
 Maybe inviting them over to hang out would be better than inviting them to a party. This varies between introverts, too. Some might feel uncomfortable in a one-on-one setting; having your full attention makes them feel like they're under a spotlight.
 Some people like to push their introverted friends to try new things or hang out with new people when they seriously don't want to. Don't pressure them into attending your party or anything like that. Coaxing them is okay. Pushing is not.
 Some people are perfectly happy being introverts. Even if they're not, it could take years for them to open up. They might always be a little distant. That's okay. It doesn't mean they don't like you.

