 Study your phone bill. Phone bills for postpaid subscriptions will normally display the full details of the plan you’re using, including the details about the number of text messages you can send, the number of call minutes you can make, and the data size that you can avail for mobile surfing.;
, If you’re using a prepaid subscription, and you don’t know the allotted data limit for the service you’re availing, the best way to find out is to call your network carrier’s customer support department, and ask them to supply you with the information you need.
 Check which applications you most frequently use. Uninstall apps that you no longer use to save on data since some Android apps still consume mobile data in the background even if you’re not using them., From your Android device’s Home screen, tap on the Settings app’s gear icon to open your device’s settings screen. Here you will see a list of options that you can use to customize your Android phone or tablet.
 Select “Data Usage” from the device settings. This will take you to a new screen wherein you will see a graph detailing the statistics of your mobile data usage.
 Tap the check box beside “Mobile Data” to enable this feature. This will allow your Android device to connect to the Internet using your carrier’s network.
 Right after switching on your Android device’s mobile data, you will see the “Set Data Limit” option appear right below it. Tap on this option to enable it, and you can now start putting a cap on your data usage.
 On the graph showing the statistics of your mobile data usage, you will see an arrow with a line and a data counter going across the graph horizontally. Drag this arrow up or down the graph, and you will see the data counter increase or decrease respectively. This counter determines your phone’s data cap.


Drag and set the limit according to the cap of your mobile plan or service, and exit the Settings screen to save the changes you made by pressing your Android device’s back button.
Once your Android device reaches the data usage limit you’ve set, the mobile data will automatically be disabled, and won’t turn on again unless you remove or increase the set data cap. This practice will allow you to stay below your data cap.

