 The most accurate at-home method of weighing your breasts is to submerge them in a bowl of water filled to the brim set upon a tray. Your breasts will displace some of the water into the tray. You can then weigh the water-filled tray and subtract the weight of the tray. You're left with the weight of the water, which you then convert to the weight of breast tissue. This experiment can easily be performed at home with these supplies:


A kitchen scale. A regular bathroom scale won't be as accurate; you need a scale that measures down to fractions of an ounce.
A bowl large enough to hold one breast. Choose a medium or large-sized bowl that easily fits one of your breasts.
A tray to catch the water displaced by your breast. Make sure it's a waterproof tray large enough to hold the bowl, with sides high enough to hold the water without spilling any. A lightweight baking pan would also work.;
, You'll need to know the weight of the empty tray before it gets filled with water. That way you'll be able to subtract the weight of the tray and end up with an accurate number for the weight of the water your breast displaces. Set the tray on the scale and write down how much it weighs.
 The temperature of the water won't affect the experiment, but warm water will feel a lot more comfortable against your skin. Test the temperature of the water to make sure it's comfortable.


It's important to fill the bowl all the way to the brim for the most accurate measurement. If you don't fill it all the way up, your breast won't displace as much water, and you'll end up under-mesuring the weight of your breast.
 The positioning will be slightly awkward, but try to lower yourself over the bowl so that one of your breasts is fully in the water. The water level should come up to your chest and rib cage, the area surrounding your breast. Your breast will displace water that will drip onto the tray.Don't wear a bra, since this will affect how much water is displaced. A bra will add girth to your breast as well as absorbing some of the water.
Make sure the water is caught in the tray. If any spills, the measurement will be inaccurate.
 Place it on the kitchen scale and write down the weight. It should be significantly higher than the tray alone. For example, if the empty tray weighed 8 ounces, the water-filled tray might weigh 42 ounces.
 This will give you the weight of the water alone. For example, if the water-filled tray weighs 42 ounces, subtract the weight of the empty tray, 8 ounces, to come up with 34 ounces. This is the weight of the water your breast displaced.
 Breast tissue has a different density than water, so it's necessary to use a conversion method to figure out the weight of your breast. Multiply the weight of the water by .9 to find out how much your breast weighs. Using the example above, you'd multiply 34 ounces by .9 to come up with 30.6 ounces., It's common for each breast to be slightly different. Repeat the steps with your other breast to find out its weight. Be sure to fill the bowl of water completely to the brim to end up with an estimate as accurate as possible.

