 The first step in avoiding negative people is to recognize when they're in your life. If you're consistently drained, depressed or exhausted after spending an hour with someone in your life, think about why this may be. Do you look forward to seeing the person? Or are you spending time with them for other reasons, such as feeling sorry for the person or wanting to help them with difficult parts of their life?Keeping a journal of your emotions can help you notice your feelings around others. If you notice that you feel depleted after a social activity with a friend, write it down. Notice if you experience similar feelings with this person on other days, or with other people.Try to spend some time writing in your journal every day. The more often you journal, the more accurate, and revealing, your journal is likely to be.
If the negative person is someone you're related to, it might be difficult to think clearly about whether or not you like the person. Try to imagine that you're just meeting the person for the first time, and consider if you'd want to become his friend.
 Does he try to control you, or tell you what to do? Does he act like your point of view isn't important? Does he usually see himself as the victim of other people's actions, or does he take responsibility for his part? Answering these questions may help you decide if the person is a negative influence in your life.For the purposes of this exercise, it doesn't matter why he does these things. Whether he had a bad childhood, or is getting through a divorce, or any other life circumstance, is inconsequential. You're simply gathering information as it relates to your own life.
When someone is always the victim of other people's actions, feeling oppressed or marginalized, or is always excusing his own bad behavior because of other people's actions, this is a sign of a negative person.
 Taking a quizor going through a checklist of positive qualities might help you identify what you like about someone in your life. It's important to discern what you enjoy about someone's company, because if you don't know what you get out of the relationship, chances are you'll find yourself repeating this process with another negative person.For example, if you enjoy helping people, you might find yourself seeking out negative people to try to "fix" or help, and get trapped.
Many negative people also have qualities that are engaging and attractive. For example, your negative friend may also be very smart and funny, or may enjoy some of the same hobbies you do.
 If you've identified some traits in your friend that you enjoy, try to think of ways to get that positive experience in other, healthier, ways. For example, if you like helping people, spend time volunteering with a charitable organizations. If you liked spending time with the person because she shared your interests, find a group of friends who share similar interests.Try a "meetup" group or other special interest group, which will be full of potential new friends who share your interest.
Find the positive qualities in your own life that don't include the negative person.
 Find other ways to fill your time, so that you're often too busy to spend time with the negative person. Develop other friendships that encourage your positive feelings.Creating distance from another person often involves giving yourself internal permission, realizing that it's okay to take care of yourself by avoiding the negative person.
Trust that this is a process, and you won't be able to shed yourself of a negative person overnight. This is particularly true if the negative person is someone you've known for a long time, a relative or spouse.
Be gentle with yourself as you disengage from the negative person.

