 “Tummy-time” is an important opportunity for your baby to play on the ground and to strengthen muscles in the neck, arms, trunk, and head. It will give your child the skills that should eventually lead to turning over, crawling, and sitting up. Just make sure that tummy-time is always when the child is awake and supervised.First off, spread a blanket, towel, or mat on the floor so that your baby has someplace comfortable to lie. You might also have tummy-time on your chest or stomach when you’re lying down.;
, Next, put your baby on the blanket or towel on his tummy. You can also give extra support with a rolled up towel. Just place this under the baby’s upper chest so that the child’s arms hang over the roll – and be sure the chin is also over it, so that his airway isn’t blocked.Your baby might not like being on the tummy at first. Start out with sessions that only last three to five minutes. You can work up gradually to 45 minutes to 60 minutes per day, spread out depending on your baby’s needs.
 Tummy-time is about encouraging your baby to move, look around, push up, and shift their body around to build up strength. Interact with and try to engage your child’s attention. Encourage your baby to lift their head, react to you, reach, and ultimately move and roll.Try to make and keep eye contact, encouraging your baby to look and you and interact. Consider singing, cooing, or humming, as well.
Bring in toys and physical objects, too, to motivate the child to look and reach. You might try hanging a toy overhead, for example, so that the baby will try to look up and strengthen the neck muscles – babies need to be able to support their heads in order to sit up.
You can also position a small mirror in front of your baby’s head. Chances are that the child will be intrigued by its own image and want to look up at it.
 Your baby will need to build up muscles and different motor skills before starting to sit up. Change position frequently to encourage this, putting the child on their back and side as well as on the tummy. Again, though, make sure to supervise.Try putting your baby on the side for tummy-time. Use a blanket with your hand or rolled up towel to support your baby’s back. The child’s arms should be in front and the knees and hips bent for comfort.Be sure to switch from side to side and back to the tummy so that your baby is able to use different muscle groups. This will help the muscles develop equally.
 There will plenty of signs that your baby has had enough of tummy-time. Don’t push for extra time. You can always try again later or the next day. Make sure to wrap things up when the child gets restless.


Your baby will let you know when enough is enough by becoming fussy, crying, or laying down. Take this to mean that the child is tired.
Pick up your baby or turn the child onto the back when tummy-time is over. Also, always be sure to watch your baby during tummy-time sessions. While babies can lie on their tummies when awake and under supervision, they should be on their back for sleeping in order to reduce the risk of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS).

