 You will want to find flat patches of light brown skin, called "café au lait" (French for "coffee with milk") spots. There may also be patches of lighter skin (hypo-pigmentation).
 These include a small or large head, small lower jaw, bird-like face, sloped, prominent forehead etc. Some patients have low hairline and webbed neck.


You may also find deformed eyes, eyelids, and ears. As a result of these defects, the FA sufferer may have problems with his hearing or sight.
 The thumb may be missing or deformed. Arms, forearms, thighs, and legs may be short, curved, or abnormally shaped. Hands and feet may have an abnormal number of bones, and some patients will have six fingers.


The spine and vertebrae are common sites for skeleton defects. These include a curved spine, known as scoliosis, abnormal ribs and vertebrae, or extra vertebra.
 Of course, since males and females have different genital systems, you will have to look for different signs.


Male genital defects can include underdevelopment of all genital organs, small penis, undescended testes, opening of urethra on the lower surface of penis, phimosis (abnormal tightness of the foreskin preventing retraction over the glans), small testes, and reduced production of sperm leading to infertility.
Female genital defects include absent, very narrow, or rudimentary vagina or uterus and shrinkage of the ovaries.
 A baby may have low birth weight due to insufficient nutrition in the mother’s womb. The child may not grow at a normal rate, and be shorter and thinner than children of same age. Any kind of anemia leads to inadequate oxygen supply to various tissues, meaning the patient will be undernourished in general. Poor brain development may mean a low IQ or learning difficulties.
 Fanconi anemia is a type of anemia, so it will share many symptoms of other forms of the disease. Suffering from these does not necessarily mean Fanconi anemia is the cause, but it is a possibility.


Fatigue is the main symptom of anemia. It occurs because the supply of oxygen, which is needed to burn nutrients in the cells and produce energy, is reduced.
Anemia also involves having reduced red blood cells (RBCs). Your skin will become pale in anemia because RBCs are responsible for the red color of the blood and thereby the pink hue of the skin.
Anemia causes increased cardiac output and thus blood supply to tissues in an attempt to compensate poor oxygenation. This may tire the heart and lead to heart failure. In this condition, the child will develop a cough with frothy mucus, shortness of breath (particularly while lying down), or swelling of the body.
Other symptoms of anemia include dizziness, headache (due to poor oxygen in the brain), and cold and clammy skin.
 White blood cells (WBCs) form the natural defense system of the body against various infections. When bone marrow fails, there will be reduced WBC production and loss of this natural defense. The child will easily develop infections from organisms that normal people can resist. These infections often last longer, and are difficult to treat.


Children who are diagnosed with cancer at an early age should be screened for Fanconi anemia.
 Platelets are needed for clotting of blood. In platelet deficiency, small cuts and wounds will bleed longer. The child also may bruise easily or have petechiae. These small red or purple spots on the skin are the result of bleeding from small vessels running under the skin.If platelets are critically reduced, there may be spontaneous bleeding from the nose, mouth or digestive tract and in the joints. This is a serious condition that needs urgent medical attention.

