 In most circumstances, you will be able to fill out a simple bill of sale form instead of drafting one from scratch. State DMVs and transportation departments will usually make forms available that include all of the required information. Talk with the vehicle's seller and determine who will obtain the bill of sale form. If you need to get the form, you can do so in the following ways:


First you can navigate to your state's DMV website and download the form from there. Generally, every state will have a place online where you can find forms. Look for the vehicle bill of sale form.
If you do not have consistent access to the internet, you can call your local DMV office and ask them to send the bill of sale form to you.
If you are near your DMV, you can visit the office in person and pick up a bill of sale form as well.
 Once you get a copy of your applicable bill of sale form, you will need to fill it out with the seller of the vehicle. Work through the form and fill out everything accurately and completely. Do not leave anything blank unless the form says it is acceptable. While each state form will differ in substance and layout, they will all usually ask for at least the following information:The vehicle's description
The names of the buyer and seller
The date the transaction took place
How much the vehicle was sold for
Whether the vehicle transfer was a gift
The seller's address and contact information
The buyer's address
The seller's signature

, If your state has a form, it may not include all of the information you want to include. If this happens, you can usually attach a piece of paper, known as an addendum, to the bill of sale form. Some states may even have certain addendum forms for particular situations. For example, in Vermont, if the vehicle you are buying is nine years old or newer, you and the seller must attach an odometer disclosure statement. This statement asks the seller to certify the vehicle's mileage and it must be signed by you and the seller., After you fill out the bill of sale and all required or discretionary addendums, you and the seller need to sign in the necessary places. Most states only require the seller to sign the bill of sale, but both parties might do it anyway. Additionally, you and/or the seller may have to sign one or more addendums. Make sure you read the form directions carefully so every party signs the in the correct places.
 The bill of sale is not only a document that evidences the sale of a vehicle, it is also an official document that must be submitted to the state. Therefore, you (the buyer) will need to obtain the original bill of sale once it has been filled out. This original document will need to be filed with the DMV when you register the vehicle in your name.
 Before you file the bill of sale, make copies for the seller and yourself. This document is your main piece of evidence proving a transfer took place. You will need it in case there is a dispute between you and the other party.

