 A general unwillingness to get serious about your relationship might signal that your partner is not invested in your relationship. If they avoid hanging out with you at times, appear disinterested in what is going on with you, or refuse to put a label on your relationship, your partner might not be that into you. This could the result of their feelings for their ex. However, it could also be due to bad chemistry or some other issue with your relationship., Although it is possible to eventually develop a friendly relationship, your partner should not be reaching out to their ex regularly. If your partner still talks to or hangs out with their ex, while not committing to your relationship, they are likely not ready to move on. A continued connection may mean that your partner is more invested in their old relationship than the new one.Warning signs can be things like your partner doing favors for their ex or remaining in contact with them.
 Although it is normal to have a few items around from previous relationships, your partner should not have a lot of their ex’s things. If they are still hanging on to lots of pictures and other personal belongings, you might want to talk to them about it. Too many things means that they are likely holding on to the past relationships through those objects.Let your partner know that their ex’s items bother you and ask them to either donate the items or return them. If they refuse to part with the items, you know that there are still some feelings.
 A reluctance to introduce you to people who know your partner’s ex may be a sign of lingering feelings. Your partner should want to share their world with you, including old friends. However, a reluctance to invite you to social gatherings with mutual friends or introduce you to them may be a sign that your partner has not let go of the past yet., Although it is normal to be on good terms with your ex’s family, your partner should let those ties go after the breakup. If your partner is still talking to or hanging out with their ex’s family, they likely still have some lingering feelings. There is a good chance that they are maintaining those relationships in the hopes of getting back with their ex., If your partner continues to closely monitor their ex’s social media presence, they are probably not ready to move on. You might pick up on this if your partner mentions or comments on their ex’s social media activity. For example, if your partner appears to get upset that their ex is in a new relationship, which they found out about online, there are likely some feelings there.You should always respect your partner’s privacy and not access their social media or email accounts without their permission.

