 Carefully review concentrations of vitamins and other ingredients in all supplements. Buy only supplements that abide by recognized manufacturing standards. Search for a supplement that uses purified sources and can provide full detail about concentrations of mercury, heavy metals, and other potential contaminants.Look for supplements that are endorsed or reviewed by the USP (US Pharmacopeial Convention) — this will be noted on the label. The USP ensures high quality standards for ingredients and manufacturing practices for supplement companies.Also, examine the levels of Vitamins A and D to make sure that you will not be consuming higher levels of them than is advisable. Most adults should not exceed 10000 IU of Vitamin A and 5000 IU of Vitamin D each day.Not all cod liver oil supplements are created equal. You may have to try several varieties before finding one that most appeals to you and meets quality standards;
, There is no nutritional difference between the two types of supplements. However, capsules can be slightly more expensive. Whether you take a capsule or a liquid version of cod liver oil is purely a decision of preference.


Liquid supplements often have a noticeable fishy taste, which can often be avoided by taking a supplement in capsule form. Belching a fishy smell or taste is a common side effect of both supplement forms.
Consider chilling your cod liver oil capsules or liquid if the taste is not pleasant.
 Dietary supplements (including vitamins, minerals, protein and herbal supplements) are not approved by the FDA prior to marketing and distribution to the public.It's important to be aware of how a supplement may make you feel.


Common side effects of cod liver oil supplements include: belching, bad breath, heart burn and nose bleeds.High or excessive doses may cause: increased chance of bleeding, disrupted blood clotting, nausea, loose stools, toxic levels of Vitamin A and D, and hypotension., Although many supplements are most likely harmless, you can never be too sure. Supplements may interact with medications or health conditions you have. Speaking to your doctor before taking any type of supplement is a wise decision. Be sure to review:


Why you want to take cod liver oil and how you think it may help or improve your health.
All of your other medications and any other supplements you are taking. Some medications, like blood thinners or medications for high blood pressure, are enhanced by fish oil supplements.Possible contraindications or instances where cod liver oil will be unsafe. Pregnant women or women who are nursing and those with certain bleeding conditions are typically not advised to take fish oil supplements, including cod liver oil., Speaking to a nutrition expert like a dietitian can help you to evaluate your diet and determine whether supplements are even necessary. Some people are able to get sufficient Vitamins A and D and healthy fatty acids from their diets.


Ask for advice on what foods to add to your diet or how to incorporate cod liver oil into your diet.
 Most supplements are sold in a variety of dosages. It's important to find a supplement and dosage that's appropriate for you.


In general, for lowering high blood pressure or triglycerides, consume 20 mL daily and to manage and lower high cholesterol, consume 30 mL daily.It's best to start with a low dosage and slowly increase to make sure you do not have any adverse side effects., If you're using the liquid version of this supplement, you'll need to find some creative ways to sneak it into your diet. Cod liver oil isn't the most pleasant tasting or smelling supplement.


If opting to buy the liquid form, there are a variety of tips and tricks to get the dosage down. You can pinch your nose and take it like a shot of cough syrup, mix it in a smoothie or other favorite beverages, drizzle it over salads, or mix with a teaspoon of honey.
Some cod liver oil supplements add a little flavoring like ginger or lemon to slightly mask the flavor and smell. These types of supplements might work well if you're sensitive to the taste.

