 It’s important that you decide the grade level and the subject area you wish to teach as this will then determine what areas of study you focus on in your degree program and your teacher training program.A complete list of approved subject areas for the state of Texas can be found here: https://secure.sbec.state.tx.us/SBECOnline/approvedprograms.asp?s=1&sid=.;
, Make sure your Bachelor’s degree is from an institution that is recognized as accredited by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB).A list of accredited universities recognized by the THECB can be found here: http://www.thecb.state.tx.us/index.cfm?objectid=106BD76B-C2C9-1CED-D9AEAF20A2CEB4C.
If you have a certification in Health Science Technology or a certification in Trades & Industrial Education, you are exempt from the Bachelor’s degree requirement.
 If you have a Bachelor’s degree in education, you can apply for an Approved Educator Preparation Program. A list of approved Educator Preparation Programs in the state of Texas can be found here: https://secure.sbec.state.tx.us/SBECOnline/approvedprograms.asp.


All teacher preparation programs will include a required practicum and an internship in a classroom setting. The student teaching portion of the program is considered the most valuable, as you will be given the chance to teach in a classroom setting, full time for 12-20 weeks. You will be placed in a classroom that is similar to the grade level and subject area you wish to teach once you become certified. You will be hosted by an experienced teacher and be given an evaluation with feedback on your performance with the students.If you have already completed a teacher preparation program in a different state, you can apply for a review of your credentials by the Texas Education Association. Do this online on the TEA website, found here: http://tea.texas.gov/Texas_Educators/Certification/Out-of-State_Certification/Out-of-State_Certified_Educators/. The processing of the application includes a one time $180 fee.
If you have already completed your teacher preparation in another country, your foreign credentials will be evaluated by an approved foreign credential evaluator and the evaluation will be submitted to the TEA for review. You can find a list of approved foreign credential evaluators here: http://tea.texas.gov/Texas_Educators/Certification/Out-of-State_Certification/Foreign_Credential_Evaluation_Services/.
 The state of Texas offers several financial aid options for individuals completing their Educator Preparation Program, as well as assistance for graduating teachers who have student related debt. There are also independent programs, funded through the state, that can provide financial assistance for aspiring teachers.The Teach for America program is a program that offers cash awards for recent teaching college graduates who teach in urban and rural public schools for two years.The Texas Troops to Teachers program offers support, financial and otherwise, as well as guidance for military veterans who are making a transition from active duty to teaching.The Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program can provide up to $17,500 in loan forgiveness for a teacher who is highly qualified, has taught full time for five consecutive years in a Title I school, and has taught secondary math, science, or special education to students with disabilities., Your Educator Preparation Program will be able to give you more information about the teaching certification exams and prepare you for the exams.You will be required to take the Texas Higher Education Assessment (THEA), which focuses on basic skills like Reading, Writing, and Mathematics.
You will also need to take certification tests based on the subject or subjects you are planning to teach, called the Exam for the Certification of Educators in Texas (ExCET) and the Texas Exam for Education Standards (TExEs). A complete list of the possible subjects for the exams can be found here: http://www.teaching-certification.com/texas-teaching-certification.html#initial-cert.
 Once you have completed the Educator Preparation Program, as well as your classroom experience requirements, and your examinations, you can apply for a Standard Teaching Certificate in Texas through the Educator Certification Online System, found here: https://secure.sbec.state.tx.us/SBECOnline/login.asp. You will need to complete the online application and provide the following information to the TEA:Official transcripts from all universities/colleges you have attended to show proof of your bachelor’s degree and your completion of the Educator Preparation Program.
Your teaching certification exam scores.
Necessary application fees to process your application.
You will also need to complete a criminal history background check through the FBI, which will require your fingerprints. The cost of a background check and fingerprinting is your responsibility.
Once your application is approved, you will be notified by email that you have received your Standard teaching certificate for the state of Texas.
 Many Educator Preparation Programs can help you locate a position in your area based on your chosen teaching subjected. Often, the school where you complete your internship in the Educator Preparation Program may offer you a full time position once you graduate.You can also do an online statewide job search for open teaching positions by using this database: http://tea.texas.gov/districtSearch.aspx.

