 If it turns out somebody will be a bit late, or somebody showed up early, then don't sit around and wait. Begin doing activities while you wait for your friends. Once all of the guests arrive, start doing the good stuff. In other words, get this party started!

, This is especially important if the all-nighter isn't really condoned by the parents. If you need to go to the bathroom, but can't because you'll wake everyone up, don't go crazy, but don't flush. If you really have to no matter what, tell your friends and they'll pretend they're asleep, and mess up your hair so you have bed-head.


If you accidentally drop something or make some kind of noise, stop, drop and get into sleeping positions. Once you all are in sleeping position, stay completely quiet and count 10 seconds. If you hear footsteps, pretend you are asleep, If you count 10 seconds and hear no footsteps, you're usually good.
Need to use the microwave for something while your guardians are sleeping and it's loud? No fear, there's a solution for that. When you're going to put the food into the microwave, try to open it slowly. If you have to jerk it open, put your elbow on it and pull the handle. (That works for doors too) When you put it in, close the microwave slowly and wait at least 10 seconds. If you hear nothing, enter the numbers in. Make sure to put it a couple seconds ahead, so you can open it before it ends and starts beeping, and Voila! You have your cooked food.
 Give scared persons a flashlight and do some fun or funny things to help them feel better. They definitely don't want to be left out because they are scared. If that doesn't work, try making them feel better by turning on the lights, or if you can't do that, then explain how that could never happen. If silliness doesn't work, hopefully logic will.
 If you or your friends are feeling sleepy, do some more activities. If you are doing activities, either you aren't occupied enough, it's not very active, or the game is boring.


A good tip to keep awake is to eat spicy or sour foods. They mess with your taste buds and the sugar will keep you up. Same goes with caffeinated drinks. Such as: Soda, Coke, Coffee, Monster, Redbull, root beer, or any other brand names.
If you can't eat, or that doesn't work, try stepping things up a bit. Pillow fights, scary movies, or other time consuming, interesting and fun things. If fun's not the problem, you may just need to splash some water on your face.
 Once you and all your friends have finally stayed up or finished the sleepover, be sure to have a good breakfast and send your guests off with a smile! Just be sure to tell them to make up the hours of sleep they lost, especially if it's during the school year!

