 Pack in some small toys, games, and puzzle books that your child can share with new friends during down time. These items will not only keep your children busy, but they may also help him break the ice and make new friends., Consider what kinds of activities your child will be participating in and what kinds of supplies are provided. For example, if the camper will be outside all day has very fair skin, sending a bottle of sunscreen in the care package would be smart. If there is no electricity in the cabins, consider sending a flashlight. If you know your child will be swimming every day, maybe surprise him with an extra bathing suit.


Toiletries are always a great addition to your care package, especially if the camp is in a rustic environment. Along with some fun stuff, send an extra toothbrush, bug spray, or your child's favorite shampoo.
 Consider sending your child a disposable camera, a journal, or a notebook that he can use as a camp yearbook to help him document the camp experience.


You can also send some plain t-shirts other items that can be drawn on, along with some fabric markers, for your child to decorate with friends., If your child has a hobby, like drawing for example, send some supplies. You could also send magazines or comics that fit his interests, or just something silly that you think will make him smile. Use your imagination and send something you know he will enjoy.
 If the camp allows you to send food, pack in some of your camper's favorite snacks. Try to send things that your child would not otherwise have access to at camp. You may even want to send some homemade goodies.


Don't pack anything perishable.
Be careful about sending anything that might melt in the summer heat.
 Many camps have restrictions on the kinds of items that are allowed to be sent in care packages. In particular, many prohibit food items. Some camps do not allow care packages at all, so make sure you find out the rules before you get started.
 A shoe box will do perfectly. Remember that the bigger and heavier the box is, the more expensive it will be to mail.


If you plan on packing anything fragile, make sure to pack it well with paper or bubble wrap.
 Sending it ahead of time so that it will be there on the child's first day of camp could be a great way to start off the camp experience, especially if your child is nervous about attending camp.If your child will be at camp for several weeks, consider sending multiple smaller packages.
 Tell him about things that are going on at home and ask him to tell you all about his adventures.


Try not to include anything in the letter that will make your child feel left out or make him worry about anything that is happening at home.
While it's okay to tell your child that you miss him, make sure to keep things positive and remind him of all the fun he will have at camp. Remember, you don't want your letters to make him homesick.For a personal touch, send some photos along with your letter. If your camper has younger siblings at home, they can send some drawings.
Send pre-addressed envelopes (if they are young) and extra stamps so he can write back to you.
 Make sure to check with the camp so you know exactly how it needs to be addressed.

