 It's important to understand why the person wanders, but talking to them may or may not be effective. For example, an autistic 8-year-old might benefit from a conversation, while a senior with memory loss may not. Depending on the type of disability and each situation, they might wander for different reasons, such as:Boredom
Not realizing where they are
Running from an upsetting or overwhelming situation
Fleeing from bullying or abuse
Wanting to explore something interesting;
, If you aren't sure what makes someone wander, record each incident in a journal. Write about the situation and exactly what happened. You might start to see patterns, and understand better how to prevent future wandering.

For example, "Dad turned on the blender. Susie put her hands over her ears and scrunched up her face. Her dad rolled his eyes. Her sister was blocking the way to her bedroom. Susie ran out the back door."
"I was talking to my friends at the zoo. Rayquan said he wanted to see the monkeys. I said later. At some point I realized he wasn't there anymore. I found him watching the monkeys."

, If your loved one is seeking a chance to be alone, then they may stop running out the door if they have a calm place in their bedroom or other room. Place some of their favorite soothing items in this place, such as calming pictures, stuffed toys, soft blankets, etc.

Explain that when they go there, no one will bother them and they can be alone.
Make sure that nobody approaches them while they're in there, even if it's just to talk. If the person really wants to be alone but can't, they might run out the door to search for somewhere quieter.
 Autistic and other disabled children may wander off without realizing that it is frightening to adults. Use "I" phrasing to explain how you feel when they run off unexpectedly. They may be able to remember this and be more careful in the future.

Take time to explain it to them, even if your child is young, nonspeaking, or not inclined to look at you. Autistic body language is a little different, so they may be paying close attention even if they seem inattentive to outsiders.
For example, say “I feel scared when I don't know where you are.”

, If your loved one doesn’t struggle with memory loss, you may be able to teach them to communicate their desires before deciding to wander off.

Encourage them to say things like "I want to leave" or "I want to check out that thing over there" before walking away. This gives you a chance to talk to them about their desire to leave, and work things out (like saying "we can go in 5 minutes" or "I'll come with you to look at that").
 One simple way to deter your loved one from wandering is to install new locks. Choose locks that your loved one can’t open easily or that are higher up and more out of reach. One such lock is called the “Door Guardian” and is easily used by those who have read the instructions but much more difficult for those who don’t know the trick.Put bars on the windows in extreme cases of wandering.
 If you live in the home with your loved one or if they have a caretaker, you can also install motion detectors near all exits. This will alert you that they are attempting to leave should you be busy in another room or sleeping.A cheaper and similarly efficient method would be to hang bells on the doorknobs. You can place windchimes near the windows, as well.
 A fence is also a great way to keep your loved one on their property and out of the streets. Put up a fence around the perimeter of their house and install locks to the fences that require keys or that are not easily unlocked., Paint your doors the same color as the walls or cover them with removable curtains. You can cover the doorknobs with cloth to hide them, as well., Another way to keep your loved one in the home is to put up signs at the the exits that say things like “STOP” or “DO NOT ENTER.” They will see these signs and potentially be deterred from exiting the home.Make sure the signs are attention grabbing. Print them on brightly colored paper with large lettering.
 While you are away or at work, your neighbors can be your second line of defense in keeping your loved one from wandering. Talk to your neighbors about the wandering so they know to keep an eye out, and ask them call you should your loved one ever get out. You could also ask them to distract the loved one to keep them from wandering further.Consider speaking to neighbors both on your loved one’s street and on the next streets as well to increase the perimeter of supervision.
 If your loved one wanders often and you feel that they could be a danger to themselves, strongly consider providing constant supervision for them. Take shifts with your siblings, your spouse, or others who want to help. Consider hiring someone to sit with your loved one while you are at work.If your loved one has a limited income, there are often state services that will provide in-home care.
 Though you cannot ensure that they carry a wallet with them, you can have them wear medical ID jewelry like a necklace or bracelet. You can purchase this kind of jewelry from MedicAlert and Alzheimer’s Safe Return. This jewelry will include their name, a contact number for you, as well as any medical allergies they might have.You can also consider putting temporary tattoos on their arm every few days that include their name, address, and your contact info.
 Should your loved one wander, the quickest way to find them is via a tracking device. There are many devices that you can place on your loved one that they will not notice and likely not try to remove. You can track the device online or work with local law enforcement to determine where your loved one is at all times. Some tracking devices you can use include:GPS Shoes from GPS Smart Sole
GPS watch from Revolutionary Tracker
You can also enroll them in the Silver Alert Directory in your state, if eligible. These alerts go out when certain people go missing; check the laws in your area.
 If your loved one is wandering via use of a car and is getting lost while driving or perhaps getting into accidents, it is time to take their keys. Your loved one is not only a danger to themselves at this point, but to others as well.Schedule time every week to take them to run errands or just to get out of the house. The more active you are able to keep them, the less likely they are to wander. Socializing is also important to maintaining their mental health.
 Another option is to have your loved one carry a contact sheet in their wallet that reminds them of who they can call if they get lost, or that they can give to someone, such as a police officer, to help them get back home.

For example, the sheet could have your name, cell phone number, and home address written on it.
You could also include a message at the top of the sheet that says, "I'm lost. Please call this number to help me get home."

, If your loved one has a tendency to wander, avoid taking them to places with large crowds. It will be much easier for your loved one to get lost and stay lost in such places. If you must take them out when there will be a crowd, keep your arms crossed with theirs or dress them in brightly colored clothing., Physical activity helps your loved one stay busy and interested in their surroundings, both of which will deter wandering. It is also a great way to help them maintain and improve their health. Take a walk with your loved one around the block or get them enrolled in some fitness classes, if possible., If your loved one enjoys investigating different places, you can offer them a safe opportunity to do this. Try taking them to a fenced-in park, letting them choose the route and pace on a walk or hike, or coming with them while they wander. This way, they get to wander, without being in any danger., Knowing the reasons why your loved one tends to wander may help you to reduce their wandering. Sometimes, your loved one might wander because they are not getting a good night’s sleep and are feeling restless. Help them develop a sleep routine that is regular and soothing.Encourage them to go to bed and rise at the same time each day.
Cut out TV and electronics use before bed.
Have them take a relaxing bath or read to wind down before bed.
Make sure their room is free of distracting lights at night, including a clock.
Reduce napping during the day as much as possible.
Cut out caffeine after noon.
 Though sometimes there is no reason, you might find that your loved one wanders because they are thirsty, hungry, or have some other need. Leave water or crackers by the bed to see if this addresses and eradicates the issue. Check in with them regularly to see if they need anything.Assess other potential needs and find ways to address them. Keep any essentials near them to keep them occupied, like a book, TV remote, tablet, or any other items your loved one uses often.
 You might find that your loved one is wandering because they are bored with their surroundings and in search of something more stimulating. To address this, try to facilitate as much social interaction with them and others as possible. Invite their old friends over. Talk to them while you watch TV. Help them connect with their siblings.Encourage them to eat with others rather than eating alone or in their room.
 If your loved one is saying that they are “ready to go home” even when they are home or expressing desire to leave a place before they are scheduled to, gently dissuade them from doing so. Don’t say things like “you are home” to them as this might confuse them further. Say instead “We are going to stay here for now. Don’t worry; I’m here and I’m going to make sure you’re safe.”, Though you may work diligently to provide a wander-free space for your loved one, you may find that your efforts are not enough. If you feel that your loved one could still be in danger or if you don’t have the support to provide them with adequate supervision, then begin considering nursing homes. Do some research on local homes and schedule a visit to your top picks.Talk to your loved one about nursing home placement. You might say “Mom, I know you want your independence and I want that for you, too. But I think it’s time that we consider nursing homes because your safety is the most important thing to me.”

