 Making a traditional cassette mixtape requires a few special pieces of gear: a blank cassette tape, a cassette recorder, a collection of recorded music (such as LPs or CDs), and a cord to connect the tape recorder to your music player.


Choose your length. There are a few different lengths of blank cassette tape commonly available. The best lengths for making a mixtape are 60 minutes (30 on each side) or 90 minutes (45 on each side). Avoid 120 minute cassettes, as their sound quality is considerably lower.
 Once you've settled on a track list list (get some ideas below), stack your recorded music so that you can work your way through the stack from top to bottom as you make the mixtape. This will help keep you from losing track of the project as you record.


If you are able to get lengths for each track, do so. This will help you organize your songs around the break that comes halfway through the tape.
 If your music collection is primarily digital but you would still like to make an old-fashioned cassette mixtape, all is not lost. Burn the songs you want to use onto blank CDs using your computer's optical recording drive, and then record to the tape from the CDs. Be sure that you burn a music disc and not a data disc, since data discs won't work with every kind of stereo.


Alternatively, if you have a way to run your MP3 player's audio through your stereo, you can record directly from it onto the tape. Be aware that sound quality will typically take a hit if you use this method, compared to the CD method.
 There are cords that should be able to do this for most cassette players.


If you can, use an integrated setup. Most stereo and hi-fi systems manufactured over the last few decades have a cassette recorder built into one of their integrated tape decks. Look for the tape deck with an extra button, which usually has a red dot on it.
 Let the tape play for a few seconds, until the sound changes to a smooth hiss, and then stop it.
 Put the first album you are copying a song from into the appropriate player on the stereo or hi-fi.


For CDs, pause the playback and skip tracks until you reach the track you want.
For other cassettes, fast-forward to the song, and then stop or pause the tape.
For LPs, leave the dust cover up and wait for a moment.
 Push the “record” button on the recorder deck (this will push the “play” button down automatically as well), and then start playing the song you picked. Pushing “record” first ensures that none of the song gets clipped off at the start.


If you're recording from an LP, drop the the needle just before the song you want to record, and once the record reaches the silent space between tracks, push “record” on the tape deck.
 Stay close to the stereo and push the “stop” button on the recorded deck as soon as your song is finished. This will stop the recording. You can then stop the first album and switch it out for the next song on your mixtape list.
 When your cassette reaches the end of the first side, it's time to flip it over and continue on the back.
 Listen to your mixtape through to make sure everything recorded correctly. If a song didn't come out right, record of that part of the tape until you are satisfied.


Unless you carefully budgeted your time, it's likely that you'll end up with part of a song at the end of the first side. You can erase songs from your mixtape by recording over them while no music is playing.
 Consider adding cover art, decorations, and other finishing touches.

