 If you look at violin practice as 'a chore' or 'boring' - chances are it will be a boring old chore. Instead, stop and think... why do you like the violin? Go through all the main reasons why you like it. Many like the violin because of its sound, so instead you could say something like "My violin is a cool instrument - I love its sound, so I will practise to make it sound even better!" Say it enough times, then it will become fun.;
, Your natural attention span only lasts 30-45 minutes. If you're an advanced player and you must practice for an hour or more per day, do half an hour in the morning and another half hour at night. You're doing the same amount of practice, but in small chunks.
 You may have been playing them for a while now, and have become too easy. Or it could be too hard. Ask your teacher for permission if you may learn some new pieces or scales.
 Sometimes, it pays to be a little bit crazy. Close your eyes and sway with the music like Joshua Bell. Mairead Nesbitt (the fiddler) from the Irish group Celtic Woman can play the violin while jumping and twirling around on stage. You could even choreograph a dance routine with your violin, like YouTube violinist Jun Sung Ahn (JunCurryAhn). If you choose this, find yourself a private studio, music room or a space in the house where you are free to move around.
 You can play pop music on your violin, for example. Alternatively, if you prefer learning violin by ear, listen to a particular song multiple and then teach yourself to play it with no sheet music.
 The more music you're exposed to, the better.
 You are pretty much inseparable. In your head, you can start up a little conversation with it, and let its sound 'talk' to you. Listen to whatever it has to say. Pretend only you and your violin can understand a secret language, like you would with your best friend. If you leave your instrument in its case for too long, you can say it will start to get lonely and neglected.
 Think about your memories with your violin. Were they happy memories? You have come a long way since when you were child. And your violin has come a long way since being popularized during the 13-14th Centuries. Question its past. Was it really one of the first instruments to appear in the Venetian Court? Just imagine all the stories your instrument could tell.
 Use your imagination to make up a story in the back of your mind as you practise. Here are a few suggestions:


You're a celebrity violinist and you're backstage preparing for a huge show. If you let yourself be lazy, you're going to get booed off by the crowds.






You have applied to audition for a prestigious violin scholarship, and you have to do a performance exam. The panel is testing you on how well you know your scales, your pieces, theory, your musicality and how well you can read sheet music. In order to get that scholarship, you need to practise harder and more efficiently to be just that little bit better than everyone else.






Imagine you are a child prodigy. You have to perform in front of some important people. Therefore, you must practise hard in order to impress them.






You're going to record your latest album. You want the CD to sound good enough to impress the untrained ear and the only way you can do that is practicing a number of times to avoid any 'recording' mistakes.
Imagine a special someone in your room as you practice. They are sitting in the corner, beside you. It could be your crush or significant other, a best friend, favourite family member, or someone in your life that you respect. No matter who they are, if they are a person worth impressing you must practice if you want to look good in front of them.
 Practise for a certain amount of time and reward yourself afterwards with things like a day with friends, movies, new stationery, books, clothes. Chocolates also work - but only do the chocolate reward sparingly. Avoid money rewards, these can become unappealing after you've spent some of it.
 Keep posters of them, get their latest albums and if possible watch their DVDs. This can be handy when you have a bad day, as having a picture of them or listening to their music can help inspire you. Some include Andre Rieu, Lindsey Stirling, Hilary Hahn, Sarah Chang, Midori, Celtic Woman's Mairead Nesbitt,and Itzhak Perlman.
 They often have the best practising tips.

