 Receive a high school diploma or complete the General Education Development (GED) requirement.You will need to have one of these certifications and be at least 18 years old to become a tattoo artist.;
, Tattoo artists must be extremely skilled artist with an attention to detail and an eye for colors. If you do not have any formal art training, then consider taking an introductory drawing course before pursuing tattoo artistry.


If you are already a skilled artist, continue to practice your craft and develop a portfolio of your best work. Having a quality portfolio will help you when you are applying for apprenticeships.
You must also have excellent vision and steady hands to be a tattoo artist.
,,,,, Do not take it personal they want to know if you are serious about tattooing.
,,


Try to find a reputable artist or studio to complete your apprenticeship with.
Choose a mentor with several years of tattooing experience.
The apprenticeship length will vary depending on your states' requirements for tattoo certifications.
Some apprenticeships are free while others are expensive. Research to find the right apprenticeship.
 While your apprenticeship will teach you the practical skills involved, you will also need to learn about disease prevention and skin diseases/infections.This information may be included in the written test that your state requires for certification.
 The specific requirements for tattoo certification will vary from state to state, but most states require that you complete a certain number of hours working as an apprentice and pass a written examination.
 Again, requirements vary between states, but many states require you to renew your tattoo license every year or so by completing additional courses., The best way to build a strong client base is to perform tattoos on as many people as possible and do excellent work. It is important to get positive reviews from your clients so you will be referred to friends and family members. You should keep your portfolio updated as your job progresses, and be sure to include your best and unique work.


If you would like to open your own tattoo studio, you should enroll in business management courses that focus on small businesses. You will need to write a business plan, find a location, buy software to track your money, and check with your state regarding the necessary licenses and health codes for tattoo studios.

