 Once you are at your performance, there are several things you can do to protect your voice. The first is to sing more quietly than you might normally.Singing more quietly may help preserve your voice for the the duration of the performance, and avoid strain.
If you are singing with a microphone, ask to turn up the PA system so your voice will be more amplified. This will make you easier to hear and hopefully reduce the temptation to strain your voice to achieve your normal volume.;
, Depending on the type of singing you're doing, the performance can be a very physical process. Try to reduce physical effort to conserve energy.If you are a rock singer, for example, you may be accustomed to jumping around, dancing, and so on, as part of your performance. Try to keep these activities to a minimum and focus on making it through the performance.
 Right before and during your performance, drink lots of water.Drink a tall glass before you play, and take a bottle or two on stage with you. This can help keep your energy levels up and your vocal cords lubricated.
 It's a good idea to go in to the performance with a "plan b" for some of the notes you would normally sing. High notes in particular may simply be outside your range right now.Think about whether you could sing those notes an octave lower, or sing a different note in the same key that won't sound too far off the mark. You just won't be able to cover the same range you normally would, so it's better to have an alternative in mind than to strain for notes you can't reach.
 If possible, keep the performance short. If you have control over this, reduce the number of songs you'll be singing, dropping out the particularly difficult ones.Planning to do an encore? Consider just doing one more song, instead of the two or three you had planned.
In an audition or chorale performance, you may not have much control over this, but if you do, make the most of it.
 After the performance is over, drink water, use your humidifier, and get plenty of rest. Your vocal cords will now need time to recover from the ordeal of the performance.