 You need at least eight hours of sleep each night. To make this easier, wear comfortable clothing to bed such as flannel shorts, an oversized t-shirt, or nothing if you prefer it. Once you've gotten into bed immediately turn out the light and get into your average position. If anything is uncomfortable fix it immediately until you're completely comfortable. Reading a book before bed helps to relax you.'The Sleep Book' by Doctor Seuss is a good one.;
, Wash your hands after you use the bathroom and before you eat or prepare food. Take a shower at least every day. These are general health things you should keep in mind.
 Wet your hair and scrub a quarter sized amount of shampoo into your scalp. Rinse out the shampoo thoroughly, squeezing the water out of your hair. Rub conditioner in the ends of your hair. Wash your body whilst the conditioner is still in your hair. Shave your legs and underarms if you like. Then rinse out the conditioner.
 Brush your teeth two or three times a day. Floss one or two times a day. Use mouthwash if you like. Be sure to visit your dentist every six months to maintain good dental health.
 Find a face cleansing routine that works for you. A suggestion is to use a cleanser twice a day, a toner once a day, a moisturizer twice a day and a scrub or mask once a week. Use body moisturizer every so often to maintain soft, sweet smelling skin.
 Use deodorant if you think you'll sweat (if it's a hot day, if you have sport etc). If you like wear a little bit of perfume (make sure not to over-do it), or wear a pleasant body mist.
 Make sure you have the essentials. These include two pairs of good fit jeans (one blue and one black), one pair of good fit slacks, two sweater sets, two blouses, t-shirts in many colors, one above the knee skirt, one below the knee skirt, socks, tights or leggings, under garments, one pair of slip on shoes (little or no heel), one pair of tennis shoes, one pair of slip on shoes (higher heel), one pair of knee high boots, one pair of converse (plain black), two or three hoodies, one ski jacket, a few summer scarves and some belts and hats. Have some dresses if you like wearing them. Avoid jeans all together if you prefer. There are no rules about what you where when you have a free choice, no item of clothing is essential.
 Style your hair however you like. Your hairdresser can suggest some nice styles that suit you. Some things you might like to have to maintain nice hair are gel, hairspray, shampoo, conditioner, leave in conditioner, de-tangling spray, and temporary dye.
 Make-up essentials include blush, powder, concealer, chapstick, lipgloss, lipstick, eyeshadow, eyeliner, mascara, blush brush, eyeshadow brush, crease brush, eyebrow and lash brush and a lip brush. Don't over-do the make-up, as it looks tacky if you do.
 To do this you will need clippers and/or a nail file, cuticle cream and nail cleaner (optional). It's handy to have a cuticle pusher, a cuticle nipper, buffer and some nice nail polish.
 Keep your grades up. If you're having trouble in a particular subject, ask your teacher, an older sibling or parent for help, or get a tutor.
 Exercise regularly and eat healthily. Don't be afraid to eat chocolate or other food you enjoy once in a while and don't starve yourself. Some girls these days are unfortunately becoming anorexic or bulimic. Try not to become a victim of these conditions. If you have a friend who is interested in this, discourage them. If you know someone who is truly anorexic or bulimic, get them help by telling the school counselor or parents.
 Friends are important. Don't dump your old friends for new ones, and be friends with the right people. If they talk a lot and do not so well in school it will probably affect your grades. If someone is annoying you by constantly following you around, no matter how hard it is, just ask them if they could give you some alone time.
 Be happy! Listen to adults such as parents and teachers, as they are, hopefully, wise and full of experience. You don't have to listen to everyone, only people that you trust and respect. If a peer tells you that you're not smart just tell them, "It's none of your business whether I'm doing well in school so don't tell me if I'm smart or not."

, Keep your room, backpack, desk, and locker neat and tidy. If you're just a slob in general, try really hard to be organized as it helps with nearly all aspects of your life.
 Try playing an instrument, drawing, acting in a school play, taking up a sport etc. These activities help to keep you fulfilled and happy, and also builds new skills.

