 This includes making sure storm windows are installed and closed in place if you have them. Windows should be latched. Open them during the day if the outside temperature is higher than the inside temperature.


Keep your windows air-tight. You may want to purchase removable window caulk or plastic to better seal them. At a minimum, stuff a towel or shirt in front of any noticeable leaks.;
, This will keep the cold air out, and the warmth from the sun will heat your house without cold air coming in. You could also cover your windows with clear plastic sheets.
 A set of heavy curtains can block heavy drafts of air. Open them when the sun is shining and close them when it's not.
 Check around the door frame and also under the door. You may want to buy weather stripping or a door sweep. Again, at minimum, make a draft dodger or stuff a towel at the bottom of the door.
 Check for obstructions (e.g. plants, sheds) that might keep the sun's rays from reaching your house. Remove items leaning against walls on the sunny side of your house. (Ideally, put them back again at night for additional insulation).
 The closed door makes that room another barrier between you and the frigid outdoors. It also stops air from circulating as much, which reduces heat loss.


Home improvement stores sell magnetic register covers to 'shut off' forced air furnace registers in unused rooms. That way when the heater does click on, only the registers in the rooms you use will pump out heat. This makes for more efficient use of the heater.
Check that all heat registers are adjusted open, especially where plumbing pipes might freeze. Unblock cold air returns in heated rooms (they may be blocked with furniture or rug) so heat can circulate efficiently.
 Rugs and carpets help prevent heat loss through the floor. They are generally warmer to the touch than wood or stone, and so offer a warmer surface to walk on.
 A lot of heat escapes through the attic, as warm air rises and cold air sinks. Make sure that your attic has enough insulation.
 If you have a fire place, you can heat your house by lighting a fire. If there is no fireplace, you might consider installing one. Always supervise the fire while it is lit., Cooking can help you to keep warm as an activity, through the oven's warmth and by eating something nice and warm after.


Bake cookies or a pie. Your oven will help to dry the air and heat the kitchen. The kitchen will be warm while you are cooking, and then you can have a great home cooked meal too!
After, leave the oven on and open the oven door to let some heat in the house. Only leave the oven on for 10 to 20 minutes, so you don't waste energy.
Limit cooking that gives off steam, as this will increase the humidity in the air and make your house damp. Lowering humidity in the wintertime helps you to feel warmer. Water vapor (humidity) has a greater heat capacity (ability to absorb heat) than dry air. As a result, humid air feels colder in winter than does dry air and it takes more heat to make damp air feel comfortable.
 A candle/candles can produce a lot of heat, just be mindful of where they are placed and do not leave them unattended. A trip to most any grocery store or discount store can provide you with a number of candles cheap!


Use a candle heater. It doesn't create as much heat as a fireplace or real heater, but will create warmth very cheaply.
 The average incandescent light bulb releases up to 95% of its energy as heat rather than light, making it an extremely efficient heat source.Compact Fluorescent and LED lights are not helpful in warming your room, so save them for warmer days and use the money you saved to pay the heat bill.
 Warm beverages will raise your core temperature. The process can be very relaxing and even stimulating. Make a cup of tea or coffee. Sip on some warm broth.
 A lot of people say you release most of your body's heat from your head but despite common belief, you release heat equally throughout your body. Either way, a hat is a good friend at a time like this. A turtleneck sweater or 'onesie' can also work wonders. Dress in layers, especially with wool or cotton clothing. Wear slippers or warm socks. When you are sitting still, wrap a thick pure wool blanket around you. You also may want to consider purchasing a thermal shirt as wearing one under your sweater makes for a comfy shirt and a great amount of warmth.


If you still get cold legs, you could buy a 2-pack of black tights from your local shop. Make sure they are opaques. Wear one or more pairs over each other under your clothes; this will provide your body with another layer of clothing to trap in warm air. Men can use long underwear in lieu of stockings.
 If, for example, you have a bedroom that is much smaller than your living room you could choose to use it as your bed-sitting room.
 20 minutes of vigorous exercise can warm you up and keep you warm well after the exercise session. Plus, a healthy body is generally more tolerant of the cold.


Be active. Moving around produces body heat! The more active you are, the better your blood circulation will be. This means that warm blood gets to your fingers and toes, keeping them warm.
 The living body of any warm-blooded animal is a furnace unto itself. Snuggle with your cat or dog to keep each other warm.
 Quickly spot-heat parts of your body, or your cold shoes or clothes before donning. You might use it to warm your bed before you get in it. Never cover it! It could overheat and cause a fire.
 Rather than heating the whole house or room, sit on a low wattage heating pad. You can also make your own heating pads:


Use a hot water bottle. It's great for warming your hands and lap while sitting; also put it under the covers at the foot of the bed.
Microwave socks or small homemade "pillows" (also known as heat packs) filled with rice, dried corn, or beans for one minute in the microwave and use as a heating pad or bed-warmer.
 Think of it as a big, fluffy blanket with sleeves. They are very warm and comfortable, and you can even sleep in them!

, Purposefully spend time in a location that is heated at no cost to you: library, church, a friend's house, etc.
 An electric blanket can keep you very warm and comfortable in the night and it is more economical that an inefficient and expensive old wall heater. Over-the-knee versions for sitting up are available, usually covered with a nice, fluffy and warm fabric.
 You don't need to go camping to use a sleeping bag. A zero-degree sleeping bag can keep you warm while you snooze at home. Roll out the sleeping bag on your bed to keep you warm and insulated all night long., If you are suffering a cold house due to an energy blackout, the above tips will help you get through this short term emergency. But if you are living with a non-working heater because you don't have enough money to pay for heat repairs, you will need to start saving money in the bank for exactly this type of emergency. Pay yourself first so that you can get through any and all emergencies as they arise. Don't leave yourself out in the cold.
 They might work with you to find a payment plan you can afford. In addition to this, you may be eligible for federal assistance to help pay your bill.

