 Your list should consist of the following:

Enclosure (tank or tub)
Substrate (bedding)
Hide
Water bowl
Heat source (heat lamp, UTH, or heat tape)
Frozen mice
Tongs
Feeding enclosure (preferably just a plastic tub)
Thermometer;
, All of the materials can be found at a pet store; however, it is recommended to avoid purchasing anything from a corporate pet store, because many of these corporations are notorious for being very abusive to the reptiles they sell. Here are a few areas you should consider buying your materials from:

Online (reputable websites only)
Local pet store (not a corporate chain)
Department stores (for tongs, makeshift hides, etc.)

, Any enclosure for a snake should be fully escape-proof, allow for air-circulation and be large enough for the snake to fully stretch its body inside the enclosure.There are two ways of going about housing a snake in an enclosure; a glass terrarium or a plastic tub.


Tub - You must drill holes all around the plastic tub in order to allow air-circulation in it. Plastic tubs are great if you plan to have multiple snakes if you want to save money. Make sure to put weight on top of the tub like books so that there is absolutely no chance of escape.
Tank - A more aesthetic enclosure than the tub but more expensive. You can decorate your tank with fake plants and rocks to make it look more natural. Tanks are great if you plan to own a small number of snakes.
 Three common tools used to heat a reptile’s enclosure are under-tank heaters (UTH), heat tapes and/or heat lamps. UTHs or heat tape are preferred for heating snake enclosures, since snakes do not require UV light to survive.


Make sure your enclosure is at the correct temperature before purchasing the Kenyan Sand boa. The warm side of the enclosure should be at about 95 degrees Fahrenheit, and the cool side should be around 80 degrees Fahrenheit.
If you’re using a plastic tub, you will not be able to use a heat lamp as it won’t fit inside the tub and may melt the plastic of the tub.
Heat tape and UTHs are more energy efficient and do a great job at heating a plastic tub enclosure without melting it. Make sure to place them outside of the enclosure.
 A sterile log, rock or cave can serve as a hide for your Kenyan Sand Boa. New and clean paper bowls can be turned into excellent hides as well. Anything that you place in the enclosure must be sterile in order to protect the snake from viruses, bacteria and parasites.


Snakes love to hide. It makes them feel safe and comfortable. Provide your Kenyan Sand Boa with a place to hide in its enclosure.
Hides should be placed on the warm side of the enclosure. That way the snake will be able to stay warm and hide simultaneously.
Do not purchase a large and heavy hide, since it may burrow underneath it and get crushed.
 Aspen snake bedding or sterile play sand can be used as substrate for a Kenyan Sand Boa. These two types of substrates are most commonly used and are inexpensive.


Kenyan Sand Boas love to burrow underground in the wild, and play sand or aspen will allow it to do just that!
Make sure the enclosure has enough substrate in it to allow your Kenyan Sand Boa to fully submerge itself under it.
 Make sure there is a water bowl with fresh, clean and dechlorinated water present inside the enclosure at all times.
 Ask the owner of the snake if you could handle it before purchasing it. Also, ask the owner when the snake was last fed, so you will know when to feed it its next meal. While handling the snake you should notice a few things. The snake should:

Have bright and open eyes
Be active and moving
Lack any injuries or deformities
Be clean

, Once inside the enclosure, leave it alone for a few days before handling it. Make sure the enclosure has fresh water and a heat source at all times.

Adult boas should be fed every 7-10 days.
 The size of the mouse should be no larger than the widest portion of the snake’s body., Thaw the frozen mice out in warm water for 10-15 minutes before feeding them to your snake. If your Kenyan Sand Boa swallows a partially frozen mouse, it may die!


Using your tongs, pick up the mouse and wiggle it around in front of the Kenyan Sand Boa. This is too imitate what a live mouse would do. Eventually, the Kenyan Sand Boa should strike the mouse, constrict it and swallow it.
Sometimes the snake will simply swallow it without constricting it and this is fine, however if you wish to stimulate the things it would be doing in the wild, you should attempt to make it constrict its meals by wiggling the mouse around, with tongs, while it’s in the snake’s mouth.
 Kenyan Sand Boas should be fed in a separate area from the enclosure in which it resides, such as a separate tub. If it is fed in the enclosure it lives in, the Kenyan Sand Boa will probably end up swallowing some substrate along with its meal. This can lead to health issues or even death for the snake.,, Kenyan Sand Boas have are usually mild mannered. They should be handled every day or every other day so they stay mild mannered., They may bite only if they think your hand is food. Besides, there is a much higher chance of the snake getting injured than you.

