 There may be multiple shelters for you to volunteer at, or maybe you just have one local adoption group. Try to locate all of the shelters in your area so that you can choose the one that works best for you.



The Shelter Project can help you identify all of the animal shelters and rescues in your area. Simply type in your postcode and click the option to find a “Pet Adoption Group.”;
, Depending on the shelter’s size and needs, there may be a variety of different jobs they need you to fill. Volunteers are often asked to socialize and train dogs to make them attractive for adoption. Other jobs may require you to take on a customer service role to help potential adopters at the shelter.Some jobs you may be able to do include:


Walking dogs
Bathing dogs
Training dogs
Providing veterinary care
Grooming dogs
Helping families find the right dog
Working in administration

, Shelters often need assistance with fundraising, marketing, and caring for the dogs. Contact the shelter, and let them know if you have a particular skill that might help them with these specialized services.If you're a photographer, you may be able to take professional quality pictures of the dogs to post online. This will help the dogs be adopted more quickly.
If you have experience in marketing, you may be able to help the shelter advertise their dogs.
You should let the shelter know of any previous work you have with helping animals, including any veterinary training that you may have.
 Some shelters will ask you to fill out an online form to sign up; others may have you complete a physical application. This form may ask you to provide your age, experience with dogs, contact information, and availability.


The shelter’s website should state what their volunteer policies are. If they do not, try calling the shelter and asking them, “How can I volunteer to help the dogs?”
Many shelters may require you to be at least 16 years old to volunteer. Some may let you volunteer with a parent or guardian if you are younger.
 Animal shelters often rely on their volunteers to function at full capacity. It is important that you follow through on your promises when you volunteer. Most shelters will assign you a time when you should come to volunteer. Make sure you’re able to be there when they need you.


Some shelters may require you to commit to a length of time when you will volunteer. This period may be as long as year.
You can work with the shelter to find a shift that fits your schedule. Be prepared to volunteer for between two and four hours per shift.