 In order to repair the exhaust leak, you will need to jack the vehicle up to locate it. When you jack up a portion of the car, the weight of that portion will be centralized into the relatively small space beneath the jack. It’s important that you choose a surface that can support that weight. You also need the surface to be level, as it’s extremely unsafe to jack up a car at an angle.Black top or concrete are acceptable surfaces to jack up a car.
Never jack up a car on grass, dirt or gravel as it may cause the jack to topple over.;
, The exhaust piping in your vehicle can reach extremely high temperatures while the engine is running. Allow the vehicle to cool for a few hours before attempting to work on the exhaust to avoid burning yourself.It may take a number of hours to allow the exhaust to cool enough to touch.
Touch the hood of your car. If it is still warm, the engine and exhaust are both still extremely hot.
 Slide a scissor or trolley jack below the vehicle at one of its designated jack points. If you are unsure where these jack points are, refer to the vehicle’s owner’s manual to help you locate them. With the jack in the correct space, jack up the car until it is high enough to safely work beneath it.Once the vehicle is jacked up, place jack stands beneath the vehicle to support its weight.
Never work beneath a vehicle supported only by a jack.
 From beneath the vehicle, inspect the exhaust piping starting at the front of the vehicle and working your way back. If you have an idea of where the leak may be, you can begin your inspection in that area. Look for signs of damage such as scrapes, rust, cracks or holes.In lower vehicles, exhaust leaks can be caused by the underside of the vehicle bottoming out on things like speed bumps or pot holes.
Rust is also a common cause of exhaust leaks. If rust penetrates through all the way through a pipe, it will result in a leak.
Cracks in the piping are another common cause of exhaust leaks.
 If you are unable to readily identify the source of the leak with a visual inspection, have a friend start the vehicle. From beneath the car or truck you should be able to spot the leak as puffs of exhaust smoke escapes from it.Be extremely careful working under a vehicle that is running. Keep your hands away from any moving parts.
Make sure the vehicle is in park (for automatic transmissions) or is in neutral with the wheels chocked (standard transmissions) before starting it.
 Depending on the type of damage you identify on your exhaust piping, your repair options may vary. If the exhaust piping is covered in extensive rust, that entire component of the exhaust may need to be replaced by a professional. Small scrapes or holes can be addressed without cutting out portions of the exhaust.Small holes may be repaired using exhaust tape or repair putty.
Larger holes will need a piece of aluminum in conjunction with an epoxy to seal.

