 When you’re having a face-to-face conversation with a colleague, focusing on their eyes and face is the best way to let them know you’re listening. If you extend your officemates this courtesy, they’ll do the same for you.Some people may find it difficult or uncomfortable to look directly into others’ eyes. Try practicing on friends and family, or focus on a spot on your co-worker’s face that’s very near their eyes.
 Slouching not only closes off your body, but it’s also associated with laziness and unprofessionalism. Try rolling your shoulders back a few times and opening your chest when you’re sitting and standing. You’ll look more approachable, and your back won’t hurt as much at the end of the workday.


If you’re unsure of what to do with your hands while speaking to another person, try resting them comfortably on your lap or on the table or desk in front of you. If you’re standing, try clasping them in front of you.
Always square your shoulders and face directly toward the person you are communicating with.
 If you’re waiting for a meeting to start, consider jotting down some notes rather than burying your nose in your phone. This will make it easy for you to immediately engage others in a conversation when they enter the room. Always keep your attention on the people with whom you’re communicating.


Do not, under any circumstances, check your electronics while others are speaking. This is the fastest and easiest way to shut down mutual respect, and it will surely affect your future interactions with your co-workers.
 Smiling will make your colleagues feel more comfortable around you, and psychologists suggest that it makes you happier on a day-to-day basis. While you shouldn’t paste a fake smile on your face every time you walk into the office, you can smile when you greet and thank people, or when they ask you how you’re doing. This will inject positivity and openness into your workplace., Nod and tilt your head when others are speaking so as to provide them with constant visual cues that you’re following along and engaged with the material. You can also take notes, making sure to periodically look up from your notebook., While everyone is entitled to their own personal style, wearing formal attire at work can lead to better communication between co-workers. Your superiors, in particular, may be more likely to take you seriously and interact with you as an equal if you’re dressing with care while on the job.