 Affordable, everyday black clothing can make a striking impression. Black somehow makes casual outfits look "put together." Best of all, since most people wear these sorts of clothes often in their day-to-day lives, you'll be getting a good value out any clothes you end up using.



Examples: Black t-shirts, jeans, shorts, socks, skirts, belts, baseball caps, tennis shoes, etc.

Notes: Try to avoid a 100%-black outfit when you're wearing casual clothing. One-color outfits can make your features blend together, giving you a "formless" look. For instance, a black t-shirt looks great with blue or grey jeans, but if you're wearing it with black jeans, you might use a different-colored belt to break up the monotony.;
, Black is perfect if you're trying to make a "bookish" or "artistic" impression. Use a single eye-catching black accessory to lend a little artsy flair to outfit or wear a black academic-inspired outfit to show that you're busy pondering life's deeper questions.



Examples: Black turtlenecks, flannel shirts, older blazers, scarves, boots, glasses, jewelry, berets, accessories, makeup, etc.

Notes: Quirky and antique-style accessories go great with these types of outfits. For example, an out-of-fashion scarf from the 1970s suddenly looks deliberate and fashionable on an intellectual with a black beret at the coffee shop.
 When it comes to formal occasions, always bet on black. "Nice" black clothes are a great investment because they're appropriate for almost any formal get-together, from weddings to funerals. Black formal wear is stately, elegant, attractive, and respectful all at once — you'll never be sorry to wear it when you're enjoying the finer things in life.



Examples: Black suits, dresses, tuxedos, veils, earrings, ties, scarves, cufflinks, dress shirts, dress pants, leather shoes, high heels, etc.
 Believe it or not, there's some scientific truth to the old saying "black is slimming." Black outfits absorb light, rather than reflect it, so they tend to make it hard to see the wrinkles, lines, and shadows that ordinarily form on a person's clothes.This can give black outfits a slimmer, sleeker look than similar colored outfits, making them perfect for when you want to play up your lean, athletic features.



Examples: Yoga pants, athletic shorts, ballet tights, workout clothes, "under armor," skinny jeans, tight leather jackets, etc.

Notes: The fit of these clothes plays a big role in how they make you look — a big, baggy black workout shirt won't have a slimming effect, for instance.
 From Green Day to The Cure, many important rock acts have used black clothing as part of their image. This sort of clothing usually gives the impression of "defiance" — in other words, you know you look like a punk, and you don't care one bit!



Examples: Black skinny jeans, band t-shirts, studded clothing, distressed jeans, fishnet stockings, ragged skirts, painted nails, makeup, etc.

Notes: If you're looking to go all-out, consider extreme options like dyed-black hairdos, nose piercings, and so on. However, keep in mind that these fashion choices can be bad choices for certain situations. For instance, it's never a good idea to go to a job interview dressed like you've just gotten back from a headbanging punk show.
 It's not just black clothes that go well with almost everything. Black accessories are very versatile as well and can be used to spice up a huge variety of outfits. Use black accessories to add a touch of class to casual multicolored clothes or match them with mostly-black outfits for a deliberate, put-together look — it's all up to you!



Examples: Black horn-rimmed glasses, leather purses, messenger bags, gloves, watches, jewelry, piercings, hair bands, etc.
 Not all black clothes are created equally — different black fabrics will have different textures that can affect the way they look and feel on you. Knowing these variations will allow you to experiment and create the ideal black outfit. See below for just a few fabrics commonly worn in black:



Cotton: Breathable and comfortable. Flat appearance. A good general fabric choice when it comes to black clothing. Unlike other shades, black cotton doesn't darken when wet.

Polyester: Less breathable, but resistant to wrinkling. Soft and smooth. Good for black casual wear.Silk: Smooth, shiny, sleek.In black, it looks luxurious, even decadent. Generally best for men to limit themselves to one silk item per outfit — women can sometimes get away with more.

Leather: Strong and tough. Can be flat or shiny depending on the finish. In black, it can give a tough "biker" look or a sleek, "clean" one, depending on the fit and the smoothness of the leather.
 Understanding the idea of contrast is important when putting together a black outfit. When you're wearing mostly black, anything that isn't black will stick out visually and will naturally attract the eye. For this reason, it's a good idea to wear colored clothing and accessories near features that you want to show off — other people's eyes will spend a lot of time looking here.


Keep in mind also that, depending on your skin tone, exposed skin may also create this contrast. Use this to your advantage by making areas of contrast next to skin you want people to look at. For example, if you want people to look at your beautiful face, a black turtleneck that ends sharply below your jawline is a great idea.
 A completely uniform black outfit can be quite striking, but it's not your only option. Try using fabrics with patterns that incorporate black to add contrast and variation to your look. The black used in the pattern will automatically go with whatever other black clothes you're wearing, allowing you to maintain the black "theme" of your outfit without committing to a single color.


There are many different patterns that will work here. Polka dots, floral designs, plaid, pinstripes and more are all available in styles that incorporate the color black, giving you many different fashion choices.
 Another way to add visual contrast to a black outfit is to play with its texture. This is a little more difficult than simply wearing different types of clothes, but it gives you a great opportunity to express your creativity. There are two ways to do this:



Use materials with different visual qualities. For example, wearing a suit made entirely out of shiny black silk can be a little overwhelming, but wearing a black silk shirt inside a flat black cotton blazer will create an interesting contrast and call attention to the center of your torso.

Use folds, seams, creases, ruffles, etc. For example, a sheer black can look amazing on its own, but if you want to spice it up, adding horizontal folds to the back can give a completely new look.
 This is perhaps one of the most famous women's fashions from the 20th century and it still looks just as great today. Black dresses come in many different styles. Some are pleated, others are draped, and still others are Jersey knit. However, the basic idea is always the same: you'll want to wear a somewhat form-fitting solid black dress with mostly black accessories. This look is simple, elegant, and easy to put together — a classic.


Here, you're actually trying to avoid creating too much contrast in your outfit. A few non-black accessories (especially jewelry and makeup) look great, but wearing too much color can dampen this outfit's striking effect.
 Anyone can look and feel like a movie star with this outfit. Wearing a metallic shirt or jacket over black pants creates a gorgeous visual contrast and calls attention to your upper half. This is also one of the rare outfits where a shiny metallic top won't look over-the-top, making it a great opportunity to wear clothes you normally wouldn't.


This outfit is a great hit at events with a "glamorous" theme, like Oscar parties.
 Transparent, lacy wraps aren't a common choice in today's fashion landscape, but they're the perfect "cherry on top" of a semi-formal ensemble. Try throwing them on top of colored outfits to lend them a touch of seriousness or use them with a black coat for the perfect winter outfit. A pair of eyes peering out from behind a black scarf can be mysterious and enticing, so these accessories make a great choice for when you're in a flirty mood!

, Black jewelry (naturally) matches black outfits perfectly, but you can also use it with colorful, casual outfits for a look that's fun and dignified at the same time. You have many choices when it comes to black pieces of jewelry, including black pearls, black studded earrings, and black stone necklaces, so be willing to experiment!


As a general rule, the simpler your outfit is, the more jewelry you can get away with wearing. Simple black outfits (like the little black dress above) can benefit from lots of jewelry because of the exciting contrast created. On the other hand, jewelry can "get lost" in more complicated outfits where there's already a lot to take in visually.
 Indiana Jones, the Fonz, James Dean — these paragons of masculinity all knew that there are few things manlier than good leather. Well-fitting black leather jackets look great on top of casual clothes like jeans and t-shirts, but they also pair well with more serious shirt-and-tie outfits. While good jackets can be expensive, they last forever when well-maintained (and if you don't want to spend the money, you can always look for bargains at thrift stores).


If you want them to stay looking great in the long term, leather jackets require a little basic care. See our leather jacket care article for detailed information.
 One outfit that uses black and is fairly popular today is the "skater" look. For this outfit, you'll want to stick to black t-shirts (bands and logo prints are great for variety) and grey or dark-colored skinny jeans. Actual skating skills are optional — some enjoy this fashion all by itself, much to the chagrin of true skaters.


Good choices for accessories include flat-billed baseball caps, puffy Vans sneakers, Chuck Taylor All-Stars, and colored or studded belts.
 Late to the office? This outfit is quick, easy, and suitable for most "business casual" dress codes. Best of all, since it's harder to see wrinkles on black fabric, you may not even need to iron your shirt!


If you're looking for something just slightly classier, try throwing on a tie and a set of cufflinks to turn this outfit from business casual to semi-formal.
 Wearing a black hat doesn't necessarily mean that you have to look like the bad guy in a Western movie — in fact, men have a huge variety of styles to choose from in terms of black hats. Just a few great choices are below:



Black baseball caps: Great for casual outfits when home and out and about. Unlike many black accessories, these won't make your outfit look more serious or dignified.

Black beanie or knit cap: Warm, comfortable, and simple. Complements winter jackets and scarves. A great choice whether you're on the ski slopes or the front porch.

Black beret: Fancy, intellectual, and artsy. Great for hipster-inspired outfits and intellectual looks. Can border on looking pretentious.

Black driving cap/kangol: Gives an old-school, refined look. Goes well with leather jacket or peacoat.

Black fedora: Quirky, old-fashioned. Best for novelty wearing at parties, ska concerts. Wide-brimmed varieties not recommended.

