 Building your self-confidence takes time and patience, but working towards higher self-confidence can help you to feel better about yourself even when you are dealing with a bully. Some things you can do to build your confidence up include:Making a list of your achievements. Writing down all of the things you have achieved in your life so far, big or small may help you to feel more confident. Try writing down as many achievements as you can think of and read the list often. For example, you might include passing a difficult test, making the winning goal for your soccer team, or finishing a really long book.
Identify your strengths. It is also helpful to list all of the things that make you special. Try writing down a list of your strengths, such as your kindness, honesty, or loyalty. You can also include things like skills, special talents, and any special knowledge you possess.
List your goals. Making a list of things you hope to accomplish one day can also help you build self-confidence. These can include things like, get an A in math class, attend college, become a lawyer, etc. Make a list of all the goals you have, short and long-term.;
, Many kids and teens will blame themselves for being different when they feel bullied or picked on. This only feeds the cycle and gives people more power to pick on you. Instead, you should recognize that the person teasing you is at fault.For example, if a person is teasing you for being “too smart,” it is likely a result of their insecurities with their own grades.
 When being teased, kids and teens often start to build their identity around the hurtful things that are said. You need to remember that there are many good things about you and your personality, and that the teasing is more of a reflection of the bullies personality than yours.Someone saying something like “You’re boring,” does not make you boring. They do not speak for everyone, and the insult is typically just a way to upset you.
 Talking to your close friends can help to eliminate the feelings of isolation that often plague the victims of teasing. It will make you feel connected to your peers, and will also give you the chance for an emotional release. Your friends might also be able to help you stop the teasing if they are aware of how much it bothers you., Some kids and teens withdraw in an attempt to avoid teasing. Instead, you should let your personality show. Being confident will send a message to anyone teasing you that you are in control of your life. It can also make it easier to make more friends, which will often help to defer the teasing.For example, if you are being teased for being bad at a sport, do not let this prevent you from showing off how good you are at singing.

