 Off-brand or generic reeds simply do not play as well or last as long as their more expensive counterparts. Clarinet players of every skill level have had success with Vandorens, but there are other brands out there as well. If price proves to be an obstacle, know where to find deals. While a box of 10 Vandorens may cost 3 or 4 dollars per reed through your local music store, if you buy in bulk from online suppliers, you may be able to get them at half that price.;
, Lay new reeds on a flat surface and firmly rub them from the heart to the tip with the back of a teaspoon. This enhances the reed's life expectancy by closing its fibers.
, Then dry it, with a cotton cloth of handkerchief, moving towards the tip. Alternatively, if you're in a hurry, just pass it between your thumb and index finger - again, moving towards the tip.
 Have three or four good ones with you at any given time, and play with a different one every time, instead of playing on just one reed for a long stretch and then starting over with another new one.
 The type of case you need may depend on what type of reed you use, how wet your reeds are when you put them away, and other factors.


Reeds dry best in a well-ventilated case with a ribbed floor, so air can get everywhere.
Other cases have glass floors to prevent waves from forming at the tip of the reed.
Humidity is always a factor in the lifespan of a reed. Some cases come with replaceable cartridges containing a substance that regulates the humidity level within the case.
Avoid storing reeds in the little plastic individual cases they are sold in. While there's nothing wrong with them, it is easier to lose or mix up individually stored reeds, and they'll start to pile up after a while.
Never keep reeds in a case that is completely closed. They will go moldy.
 This counteracts the effects of your saliva. Leave the reeds in the solution overnight and rinse them well before you use them again.
 Don't leave your clarinet standing on its bell with the reed on it (this is a bad idea in the first place, but why risk losing a good reed too?). If you're taking a break from playing, put a mouthpiece cap over the reed to protect it and keep it moist. Don't "wall test" reeds just for the fun of it.

