 Commercial or Industrial Grade tools are expensive and often somewhat heavier than handyman or homeowner's grades, and most portable bandsaws fall in the former category. Here are some options you may find on portable bandsaws:

Capacity. Since the stock or material you are cutting must fit in the throat of the machine, choosing one with sufficient capacity is essential. Large capacity portable bandsaws can cut pipe or angle stock up to about 6 inches (15.2 cm), whereas standard machines are limited to about 4 inches (10.2 cm) of diameter or width.
Power source. If you are working in the field where electrical cords are not practical, you may choose to purchase a battery powered saw. These, however, are more expensive than the typical A.C. voltage saws, and have limited cutting times between battery recharging.
Brand choice. Most name-brands offer similar features and torque, and use a common blade length. Common brands include Porter Cable, Milwaukee, Ridgid, and DeWalt, and are available at builder's supply centers and tool retailers. Discount retailers offer off-brand tools which serve the same purpose, but may be of lower quality than the previous brands, at much lower prices. Be aware that with power tools, as with many consumer products, you will probably get what you pay for.;
, Portable bandsaws use a trigger switch similar to drills and circular saws, but usually are equipped with a separate speed selector so the sawblade moves at a speed suitable for the material you are cutting., This will allow you to guide the tool, while maintaining complete control of it. Other notable components your should be familiar with are these:





 The tracking adjustment screw on this model saw.

Tracking adjustment. This feature allows you to adjust the path the bandsaw's blade travels as it revolves around the rear drive pulley and the forward idler pulley. Because the front pulley floats on a spring tension hub assembly, it must be adjusted so the alignment cause the blade to travel positioned correctly on these two pulleys.




 The tension control lever, which is turned to release tension when installing a new blade.

Tension release handle. This handle, located on the forward end of the saw, is released to allow the operator to quickly and easily change the bandsaw blade if it becomes dull or is not suitable for the task at hand.
Guide rollers. These roller bearing assemblies support the blade as it is engaged in cutting your material so it doesn't deflect or bind. Because the bandsaw blade is made of a thin, flexible metal, these rollers must rotate freely and be positioned correctly to prevent the blade from binding or warping during the cut.
Cutting shoe. This is a flat, notched metal guide which will support the saw to offset the drag of the blades teeth as they cut the stock. This helps to insure the metal being sawn will not be dragged into the rear drive pulley while you are cutting.
 Bandsaws operate with an exposed blade capable of cutting through almost any common metal from soft copper to cast iron and steel, and will cut fingers with no discretion. This is one reason why the operator should keep both hands on the provided handles (located on the back of the saw, away from the blade)., Safety glasses and gloves are very important, but also keep in mind that loose jewelry or clothing can easily get caught in the moving blade., Using a vice or having a helper to hold a round pipe or bar will prevent it from spinning in response to the blade biting into it during a cut. Metal which bends during the cut can bind the blade causing the operator to lose control of his saw, and heavy items can drop on the operator's feet when they fall free., Mark pipe around the diameter so the finished cut will be true., Keep the shoe of the saw firmly against the stock., Do not force the saw or apply excessive pressure, as the saw's teeth are able to remove only a certain amount of material with each pass. Rocking the saw when cutting very thick, solid pieces of stock may allow the metal chips to clear the saw's kerf, but usually, holding the saw steady in relation to the cut is the best method., Check the free end of the stock to make sure there is nothing in the way of it when it drops off., Set the saw on a clean, level surface when the cut is finished, to insure it does not fall and become damaged, or get dirt or debris in the pulley assemblies.