 When you are interacting with an impatient toddler one of the best ways you can help them wait is to distract them. When they aren't thinking about waiting, it’s much easier for them to pass the time peacefully. Do something (or a few different things) to occupy their mind so that the wait doesn't seem so long.


Pull out the toys, snacks, or activities you brought with you to distract the toddler if you had the chance to prepare in advance.
Use your electronic device to show them short, age-appropriate videos or download an educational app for them. Remember to monitor what they're doing on your device. However, keep in mind that your child should not have too much screen time. Children under between the age of two and five should be limited to one hour of screen time per day.Break this time into short 10 to 15 minute increments and make sure that you continue to interact with your child during this time.Present distractions one at a time with some waiting in between. For example, if you're waiting to see the doctor, you might give the toddler a puzzle and then wait a few minutes after they finish with it to give them the next distraction.
 Toddlers are always on the go anyway, so use that energy for your benefit. Instead of trying to make the toddler be still and quiet, get them active. Getting the toddler to focus on something physical can help them wait more patiently and expend some of their energy.Have the toddler do some basic stretches. For instance, have them rotate their head left, right, up, and down. Then have them stretch their back, shoulders, and the rest of their body. You can even try doing yoga with your toddler. Learn a few toddler-friendly poses and do these with your toddler as needed.
Even small movements like wiggling fingers, ears, their nose or toes can distract a toddler and help them wait.
Ask the toddler to clap or stomp to repeat a rhythm you give them if it won’t distract or disturb anyone else.
 For toddlers, playing is learning. You can help them wait by playing games that focus their attention on something other than waiting and challenge their mind.Interacting with the toddler and not just giving them something to do on their own can also help the time go by quicker for you as well.


You can play matching or sorting games. For instance, you can help the toddler find all the red things or round things in the area.
Try counting or alphabet games. For example, you could count the number of people or list things that start with a certain letter.
 Using humor can help calm a toddler on the verge, or in the middle of a meltdown. It can also be used to briefly distract the toddler.While you are making the toddler laugh you might boost your mood and attitude, also.


Make silly faces with the toddler or do something silly like see who can touch their nose with their tongue.
Talk to each other using silly voices. For example, you could say the alphabet like a robot or an alien.
If your toddler has a favorite movie or tv character, then you could do an impersonation to make your toddler giggle.
 Toddlers can be challenging even when they’re getting what they want and an impatient toddler can be too much for even the most seasoned person to handle. It's okay to ask for help distracting a toddler if it’s becoming too much for you to tackle. Sometimes just seeing a new face might distract a toddler enough to help them wait a little bit longer. If you have someone with you that can help, ask for their assistance.


For example, you could ask your spouse to entertain the toddler for a few minutes while you take a short break to calm yourself.
Or, for instance, you might ask an older child to help you play a game with the toddler.
You can also try teaching manners to your toddler, such as by teaching them how to shake hands, greet people, and introduce themselves.
 You can help a toddler wait patiently by praising and rewarding them while they are waiting.By doing this you’re reinforcing their good behavior so that they continue to wait patiently. You’re also making waiting a pleasant (or at least not so awful) experience for them.


Tell the toddler that they’re doing a good job waiting. For example, you might say, “You should be proud of how patient you're being. I'm proud of you.”
Give them a small reward every so often while they're waiting. For instance, you might let the toddler have a bit of their favorite treat or let them play with a special toy.

