 Before you apply the concealer, you want to prepare your face for makeup. Moisturizer gives your face essential hydration, and it provides a good base for your makeup. Apply to a clean face, and pat in until it is all absorbed.


A good moisturizer should absorb into your skin easily without making your face feel dry or tight. If you have oily or combination skin, look for one that is water or gel-based. If you have dry skin, you may want to find one with an oil—such as mineral oil, jojoba oil, rosehip oil, or camellia oil—as one of its top ingredients.
Use moisturizer even if you have oily skin. Otherwise, your skin may absorb the moisture in your makeup, causing it to have a cakey appearance., After the moisturizer is absorbed, squeeze out about a raisin sized amount of primer. Apply primer with your fingers or a makeup sponge.A good primer will smooth out the texture of your face without drying your face or causing it to look shiny.


Primers are available in both tinted and untinted varieties.
Primers are also good at smoothing out large pores, pitted acne scars, and wrinkles. If desired, look for a primer that is marketed as targeting these issues.
 Using clean fingers or a brush, gently put your concealer on the hyperpigmented areas. Pat it gently to spread the concealer and to blend it with your natural complexion.


Be extremely gently around the eye area. The skin around your eyes is much thinner than the rest of your face. Dot the concealer under your eyes. Starting with the inner corner, pat the concealer to cover the undereye area, or make soft tapping with your fingers, as though you were playing the piano., With clean fingers, a brush, or a makeup sponge, apply your foundation or BB cream in dots around your face. Blend it by patting it down and rolling your fingers or brush. Make sure your entire face is covered for an even complexion. Your concealer should not be noticeable under the foundation., Setting your makeup can ensure that your makeup lasts all day. You can use a powder or a spray to set the makeup, depending on your preference and skin type.


If you have oily or combo skin, a good matte powder can help your makeup remain in place all day by absorbing oil. Use a cushion or a powder brush to evenly blend it over your face.If you have dry skin, a makeup setting spray can help your complexion remain even without drying out your skin. Spray it on your skin after blending your makeup. You can reapply the spray throughout the day for a burst of hydration.

