 If there is none, then try a Judo school. It's the next closest thing.;
, Also, be sure to check out who he or she got their black belt from. They should have a traceable lineage.
 When your first begin to learn BJJ, it will be very frustrating. People larger than you will crush you. People smaller than you will run circles around you. Be patient and take a few hits, it's all part of the learning process

, BJJ is about making techniques automatic to your body (like tying shoe laces).
 Ask your instructor if necessary. Escapes and proper positioning for escapes should be the first thing on a beginners mind. You will be escaping and defending A LOT. Once you feel comfortable, you pick another area to work on.
 For example, today I'm going to class to make sure I do my hip escapes properly. Or, I'm going to class today and working on my mount escapes.
 Competing isn't for everyone, but win or lose, the best part about competing is the preparation for it and the lesson you get while competing. It will help in your development of technique and practical experience.
 This should be the place where you try out techniques against your buddies. This is where you perfect things, put yourself in bad spots to work out of them and just open up your game to expand your BJJ skills. The competitions is where you put it all out there against someone you don't know.
 If you're not having fun, you're doing something wrong.
 Like in every sport, it's a good idea to watch how the professionals do what they do best. Watch the high level BJJ fighters (e.g. Roger Gracie, Cobrinha) to see the things they do. Find a fighter that is most like you and try learn things from them. Live a healthy lifestyle and you will feel great.
 Sometimes it will take you 5 attempts to get a technique and sometime it takes 3 years. The more time you take with a technique, the better it can get.
 Different partners have different strengths, weaknesses, body builds, weight, etc.. working with different partners will help you to analyse what techniques work best for you against a certain body type or partner of a certain weight. Using different partners will also help you to identify which areas of your training that you need to work on. For example: If you train with a particular partner and that partner never tries to take a back mount, then how will you ever improve at defending against back mount offensive techniques?

