 Open any web browser and visit the Google+ page.;
, Click the “Sign in” button on the top right corner of the main page. The Google sign in page will load. Enter your Google ID and password, then click the “Sign in” button to proceed.
 Click the “Home” button on the top left corner of the main page to bring down the main menu. Select “Hangouts” from here, and you will be brought to the Google+ Hangouts page.
 Click the “Hangouts On Air” tab on the header.


Hangouts On Air is where you record your virtual hangout or chat for publishing and broadcasting online.
 Click the “Create a Hangout On Air” button on the header banner. A window will appear where you need to input some basic details about your hangout.


Give the hangout a name by typing it in the first field.
On the next field, type in the description of your hangout.
Indicate start time. You can choose between the “Now” or “Later” buttons for the start time of your hangout. If you choose “Later,” you will have to set the date, time, and duration of your hangout.
On the last field, type in the names of the people, circles, or email addresses you’re inviting to this hangout. You can also make it public so everyone can see it.
 Do this by clicking the “Share” button. This will create your hangout and send your invitations., Click the “Home” button on the top left corner of the page to bring down the main menu. Select “Events” from here, and you will be brought to the Google+ Events page. All your events, including the hangout you’ve just created, will be displayed here.


Click the hangout you want to start and record. The hangout’s page will load.
 On the designated start time of your hangout, click “Start” on the video box. A Google+ Hangouts window will open. This is the main video screen for your hangout.
 You will be able to see them on your screen once they join.
 Once you’re ready to record your hangout, click the “Start broadcast” button on the bottom bar of the Hangouts window. You are about to go live now, and your video will be streamed live on Google+ and YouTube.


You will see “LIVE” on the bottom bar as you conduct your hangout.
 Once you’re done with your hangout, click “Stop broadcast” on the bottom bar of the Hangouts window. You will now be taken off the air.


Your hangout will be recorded and published on Google+ and YouTube under your Google account.

