 Voting is the core of the democratic process and is a critical part of anyone’s personal political activism. Register to vote and be sure your vote counts.


Volunteer at a voter registration drive or as an election poll worker. This work is critical to conduct open, accurate, and fair elections.;
, Frequently, personal connections to current events can spur people to speak out for a cause.Identify social problems, such as poverty, animal welfare, or the environment, that make you want to take action and make a difference in society.


Make note of your particular skills. If you can speak several languages, have teaching experience, or are knowledgeable in a particular area, you can put this to good use in worthwhile organizations. Volunteer with political organizations that match your interests. Many non-profit organizations with political agendas need both monetary help as well as volunteer service.
 Political expression through signage communicates your support for particular causes or candidates, and can help get the message out.Bumper stickers, yard signs, and political apparel can be a fun, low-key way to get involved in politics and illustrate your values to others., Sometimes being politically active means merely using your voice to make a difference. Write to your local, state, and federally elected officials to make your opinion on political issues known. Describe what you see as the problem, and urge them to vote the way you feel best makes a difference.


Keep up with the news in order to understand all sides of the political issue at hand. Read local and national newspapers, or reputable news websites to find out the debates.
Know the political system, and how bills make their way through state and federal channels. Find your Congressional district, and who your senators and representatives are. , While the excitement of national politics often takes center stage, local government and its impact on civic quality of life cannot be underestimated.Volunteering and voting in local elections ensures you have a say in your community, and in your local government services, such as emergency services or local utilities.
Local elections can have a big impact on your wallet when financial decisions like budgets or tax cuts are on the ballot., You can get involved with local or national elections on the ground by joining candidates’ campaigns as a volunteer. You’ll be able to speak directly to voters, either in person or on the phone, and help get the message out., All political policies and programs need money to implement them. Your financial contributions are an effective way to be politically active. Political action committees, or “PAC’s” are organizations that raise money to influence elections or legislation. Because they can donate larger amounts of money than individual donors, they can serve as an important source of funding for campaigns and candidates. Consult the Federal Election Committee for a list of political action committees and their causes. You can legally donate up to $5,000 per calendar year to a PAC that supports federal candidates. , Organized, public demonstrations are a traditional element of political activism. Marches, demonstrations, rallies, and public speeches can help attract other people to a cause and draw attention to the message. Because some of these events can turn violent, be sure to have an exit strategy. Plan what to do if there is a stampede, mass arrests, or violence.


Be prepared. Bring food, water, and any necessary medical supplies, and wear comfortable shoes and clothing.Attend the event with friends or people you know, and stay together as a group. Let others know you are attending the protest ahead of time.
Know your rights if you are stopped by police or arrested. You have the right to remain silent and to ask for an attorney. 