 Your airline may provide flight insurance or partner with a private insurer. Call them up and ask. You may also be offered insurance when you purchase your ticket, whether over the phone or online.


For example, both JetBlue and Delta partner with Allianz Global Assistance to offer different insurance policies.Avoid immediately purchasing the insurance offered by your airline. Generally, they offer less protection than you can get from an insurer.Definitely be sure to shop around.;
, You should check online by typing “flight insurance” and scrolling through the results. You might also want to visit websites that will compare flight insurance for you.


For example, Squaremouth is a website that helpfully compares insurance from different insurers for you., Your local travel agent might know of insurers who offer coverage. You can find a travel agent by looking in the phone book or searching online. Call them up and explain the type of insurance you want. They may be able to point you in the right direction.
 There are several different types of insurance, and some insurers will bundle all of them in a comprehensive “travel insurance” package. Consider the following types of coverage:Trip cancellation. This insurance reimburses you for your pre-paid, non-refundable expenses if you need to cancel before you depart.
Trip interruption. This insurance will cover you if something happens after you leave home that causes your flight to be interrupted. For example, you might become sick during your trip and miss your flight home.
Trip delay. This insurance reimburses you for meals and accommodations if your trip’s departure or return is delayed for a covered reason.
Missed connection coverage. This insurance helps you if you missed a connecting flight.
Baggage delay. This insurance will reimburse you for essential items if your bags are delayed for 24 hours.
 The delay or cancellation must have been for a covered reason in order for your insurance to kick in. Make sure to find out what events are covered before you purchase. For example, trip cancellation coverage might have a variety of different covered events, which could vary depending on the insurer:common carrier delay
lost passport
natural disaster
hijacking
civil unrest
injury, illness, or death to you, a traveling companion, or a family memberjury duty

, You can purchase a basic travel cancellation or travel delay policy. However, you might want additional coverage or riders. Consider adding the following, depending on your needs:


“Cancel for any reason” rider. With this rider, you can cancel for any reason and get reimbursed. You will have to pay more for this rider, up to 12% of your trip.However, it can afford greater peace of mind.
Emergency medical or dental insurance. If you’re traveling out of the country, you shouldn’t assume your insurance will cover you should you become ill or injured. Accordingly, you might want to buy emergency medical/dental insurance.
Emergency medical transportation. This insurance will arrange for you to be transported to an appropriate medical facility to receive treatment.
 You can use a website that will gather quotes for you from many different insurers. Or you can contact several insurers on your own. Whichever method you choose, request quotes from multiple insurers. Generally, travel insurance costs roughly 4-8% of the trip cost.Also discuss details of the policy. The company may provide you with a sample policy. If not, ask what are covered events and how much you will be reimbursed if you need to use the insurance.
Write this information down in a handy location so that you can easily compare policies.
Don’t delay. You’ll want to purchase your insurance within a few days of booking your trip.
 You want to make an apples-to-apples comparison between insurers. Accordingly, you should check how much you are reimbursed for your delay or cancellation. The amount will differ.


Policies might also have different minimum delays before they kick in. For example, one insurer might have a six hour minimum, while another insurer will have a 12 hour minimum., You’ll need to provide information about the dates of travel and who is travelling. You can pay for the insurance using a credit card.Hold onto your copy of the policy. You’ll want it with you when you travel in case any problems arise.
 You’ll need to prove to the insurance company that your delay or cancellation was for a covered reason. This means you’ll need documentation. If the delay/cancellation wasn’t for a covered reason, you won’t be reimbursed. The documentation you need will depend on the reason for the delay.


If a traveler fell sick or was injured, get medical records. Also get a doctor to sign a letter or a physician’s statement form, which your insurer should provide.
If you miss a connection, then find proof of payment and proof of why you missed the connection, such as severe weather.For example, you can print off weather reports or try to get something in writing from the airline explaining the reason for the delay.
 You’ll need to show the insurer how much you spent. Save all receipts.It’s best to buy a folder and store all receipts there. If possible, try to get digital copies of receipts in case you lose the physical one. For example, you could take a photo of your receipt using your smart phone.


If you have flight delay coverage, save receipts for your hotel room as well as for meals.
If you have flight cancellation coverage, find the receipt for the trip that was cancelled.
 As soon as you know there is a problem, find the phone number for your insurer. Call them and report the problem.Ask what other information they will need from you.


Insurers should have 24-hour support helpline, which makes it convenient to reach them.
Complete any required paperwork and submit it promptly. Remember to hold onto a copy of everything you submit in case it gets lost.

