 Red meat is one of the best sources of iron. Red meat contains heme iron, which is only found in animal products. This type of iron is easier for your body to absorb. Add lean sources of red meat to your diet to increase your iron.Three ounces of red meat, such as lean beef chuck or tenderloin, has around 3 mg of iron.
Avoid liver while you are pregnant, though it contains one of the highest concentrations of iron. Liver also contains high amounts of Vitamin A, which can be dangerous while pregnant.;
, Red meat is not the only meat that contains iron. White meats, such as chicken and turkey, also contain heme iron. They just contain less iron than red meat.Three ounces of dark meat turkey has around 2 mg of iron, while three ounces of turkey breast or chicken contain between 1.1 to 1.4 mg of iron.
Three ounces of pork loin or white fish has just under 1 mg of iron.
 Many foods are fortified with iron. Foods fortified with iron contain non-heme iron, which is more difficult for your body to absorb. Look on labels of cereals, breads, pastas, and grains to see if they are fortified with iron.


For example, a cup of cereal fortified with iron can have 24 mg of iron, while a cup of instant oatmeal fortified with iron can have 10 mg.
 Beans and legumes have a good amount of iron.You can eat these foods as side dishes, in soups or casseroles, or on salads. A half of cup of most beans have more iron than three ounces of red meat. However, these foods contain non-heme iron, so it is harder for your body to absorb.The following lists the iron content in common cooked beans:


One cup of edamame: 8.8 mg
One cup lentils: 6.6 mg
One cup kidney beans: 5.2 mg
One cup black or pinto beans: 3.6 mg
One cup lima beans: 4.5 mg
One cup chickpeas (garbanzo beans): 4.8 mg

, Leafy greens and dried fruit are a good source of plant-based iron. Spinach, kale, and parsley are good choices, as are dried apricots, figs, and prunes.For example, half a cup of cooked spinach has 3.2 g of iron. Five halves of dried apricots and half a cup of raisins have around 1.5 to 2 mg of iron.