 Using either a garden hose or the bathtub faucet, fill the tank to about ¼ full with water, then empty it fully. Repeat this about five times, until the water in the tank is considerably clearer than when you started.


To empty the tank, lift it slowly at one end from a squatting position, extending your legs to lift the tank instead of lifting with your arms and back muscles. The tank should be almost in a vertical position before all the water drains out.
Ask someone, preferably an adult, to help you lift the tank if it is too heavy for you.
 Make a mixture of 0.5 cups (0.1 L) of chlorine bleach for every 1 gallon (3.8 L) of water.Or combine 1⁄4 cup (0.1 L) of plain distilled white vinegar with 1 gallon (3.8 L) of water.


If you'll be doing the cleaning on a lawn or in an area near other vegetation, don’t use bleach or vinegar cleaning solutions, since these will kill plants. Instead, find a biodegradable, plant-friendly tank cleaner at the pet store.
Never use household cleaner, detergent, or disinfecting agent like dish or hand soap (Lysol, Comet, etc.) since the chemical residue is difficult to fully remove.
If the odor of chlorine or vinegar bothers you, check the pet store for a turtle-safe tank cleaner. Make sure to choose a plant-friendly, biodegradable one if you’ll be cleaning outdoors near plants.
 Dip a sponge or coarse rag in the cleaning solution. Scrub all sides of the tank, including the bottom, making sure to pay special attention to the corners and spaces where two panels come together. Debris tends to build up and get caught easier in these areas.


To keep the substrate out of the way, tilt the tank to one side so the rocks fall to that side. Scrub everything except the rocks, then tilt the tank to the other side and repeat the process. Finally, scrub the substrate as well.
 Take apart the filter according to its instruction manual, and scrub the individual pieces with the cleaning solution. Pay special attention to the filter by rinsing it under the hose or faucet. Scrub the outside of the heater, and clean any decorations, rocks, wood, and plastic plants as well. Rinse everything together in the bucket or tub, and leave them to dry.


Have someone clean your filter for you if you have cuts or scrapes on your hands, since they could become infected.Replace the filter bag once a month., Splash water over the tank with the hose or bathtub, being sure to remove all residue from the cleaning agent and leftover debris. Rinse all sides of the tank until there is no scent of either the vinegar or bleach remaining. Dry the outside with a clean towel.

