 You will need to give your name and your dog’s information to the receptionist. In the waiting room, take a few deep breathes to reduce any stress or anxiety. You might want to bring a treat and a toy for your dog.Stay away from any unruly animals.
 Your veterinarian should weigh your puppy. This will give them a baseline to see how fast they grow and gain weight in the first few months of their life.You could ask your veterinarian:


“How much does my dog weigh?”
“What is a healthy weight for my dog?”

, Puppies can maintain a temperature of about 12º Fahrenheit (-11 Celsius) warmer than air temperature. The temperature of puppies rises every week until they are four weeks of age and reach a normal adult body temperature. In the meantime, they need to stay close to their mother and other bodies to keep warm.
 Make sure the veterinarian does a complete examination of your new puppy. They will need to familiarize themselves with the features of your puppy so they can observe proper development over the years. In particular, make sure the examine the following:Get the eyes, ears, feet, nose, abdomen and genitalia examined.
Get the abdomen and lymph nodes checked out.Make sure the skin and coat are examined.Ask them to check the teeth and mouth. , You may want to get a microchip inserted in your new dog’s back, so that it will be easier to locate them in the event of loss. If your puppy runs away and a stranger finds it and takes it to a veterinarian or rescue, they can scan the puppy to find out its’ information.The average cost of microchipping your dog is $45.If you don’t microchip your dog and they get lost, you are not as likely to recover them. In fact, less than 22% of dogs that are not microchipped are returned to their owners., Neutering your puppy can save money down the line. You should find out what your veterinarian recommends in terms of neutering or spaying your puppy.Spaying your female dog will keep them healthy. In particular, it will help prevent infections and breast tumors.Neutering your male dog is a good way of preventing testicular cancer.Spaying and neutering your dog is a way to help stop more dogs from going homeless., Your veterinarian may have recommendations for feeding your puppy based on breed and other factors. You should find out what you need to be feeding your new puppy.Consider asking:


“What are the best puppy food options?”
“What ratio of fat to protein should be in my dog’s food?”
“What ingredients should I look for on the dog food label?”
“Is more expensive food better for my dog or can I buy cheaper dog food?”

, You can start preventive flea and tick prevention on puppies beginning at eight weeks of age. It is important to do preventive care because fleas and ticks carry disease., If your veterinarian asks you to administer any medications to your puppy, you should ask for specific directions. You may have to put the medication in their food or directly in their mouth. Make sure you get the proper instructions.Find out about worm medications. Your veterinarian may ask for a stool sample to determine possible worms. Many new puppies have worms. However, it is easy to treat roundworms with a medication that can be given at home or at the veterinarian’s office., Your veterinarian will begin vaccinations at around eight weeks of age. You should find out when you need to come back for vaccinations. You should also find out if it is possible to personalize the vaccination to suit your dog. Some of the vaccinations will be mandatory and some will be recommended. In addition to mandatory rabies vaccinations, you may be offered vaccinations to guard against the following:Hepatitis.
Parvovirus.
Canine Distemper.
Leptospirosis.
Ask about personalizing vaccines to save money., You should ask your vet for recommendations on dog training. If you have specific behavioral concerns, you should ask your veterinarian for advice on how to address your specific concerns.


Search for classes based on the age and skill level of your dog.