 Have you seen someone who couldn't seem to stop tapping his foot, twirling his pencil, or doing some other sort of repetitive motion while he was trying to focus on a task? If so, you've seen a good example of fidgeting; short, repetitive physical behaviors that sometimes prove to increase focus, especially for tasks that require long, uninterrupted attention. For instance, a doctor in one clinical example found it easier to concentrate while chewing gum during operations.Keep in mind, however, that some types of fidgeting can be distracting to other people, especially in quiet situations (like standardized testing rooms.) Try to use subtle fidgeting behaviors that don't produce any noise and aren't visually distracting. Tapping your toes inside your shoe is just one great choice.
Another good idea is to take every opportunity you get to work while moving. For instance, if you're at home, don't do your work sitting silently at a desk. Instead, try working at a high counter-top, while standing and swaying from side to side. For hands-free tasks (like taking important telephone calls and listening to audio recordings), you can even try walking or pacing.;
, Having a dirty desk isn't just bad Feng shui. It can also be a serious impediment to your ability to focus. Research has found that having a cluttered workspace decreases focus. As the many different objects in your field of vision compete for your attention, your brain is forced to divide its focus between all of them, rather than focusing only on important objects (like, for instance, the blank test page in front of you.)Thus, if you struggle with focusing, it's a great idea to get into the habit of cleaning your work area before you dive into an important task.
 It's common knowledge that some people prefer to work while listening to music, including people with ADHD.Recent research, however, has actually clarified that listening to music can encourage activity in a region of the brain called the Default Mode Network which is partially responsible for controlling how likely you are to be distracted by outside stimuli.Note that there's one important caveat to this trick - the music you listen to has to be something you enjoy. Listening to music that you dislike has not been demonstrated to improve focus.
 Discussing important work that you have to do with other people can help you actually buckle down and get it done in several ways. First, talking about your assignment can help you understand it more clearly. Since you have to mentally "digest" and break down your task into its essential elements in order to communicate it to someone else, this can make it much easier for you to understand. In addition, mentioning your assignment to someone else puts pressure on you to actually do it. If you don't, you risk embarrassing yourself in front of the person.


In fact, one strategy for dealing with ADHD involves telling someone else that you will call or text once you finish an important task. This way, your partner can hold you accountable. If you slack off and your partner doesn't hear from you, the person will know to pressure you to get to work.Some people with ADHD also find that it's helpful to do work in the presence of someone they care about, like a family member or a close friend.This allows them to ask the other person for help focusing or understanding the task they've been given whenever their attention starts to wander. However, if you find that you start to spend more time chatting and goofing off than working when you have other people around you, this strategy may not be for you.
 Sometimes, simply seeing your important objectives listed in front of you can be enough to spur you to start solving them. Having an organized, logical list of tasks makes it much easier to deal with everything that's on your plate. Checking off important items in order as you complete them gives you a sense of satisfaction which can give you the motivation to move on to the next task immediately, rather than letting yourself get distracted.For people with ADHD who have a hard time remembering their important responsibilities, a to-do list can also be a big productivity boost simply because it makes it much harder to forget to do things. If having a to-do list works for you, consider keeping a notebook or legal pad with you wherever you go so you'll always have easy access to your list.
 If you force yourself to adhere to a responsible schedule, it's a lot more difficult to neglect your important tasks because you'll be able to avoid putting yourself in situations where you're likely to slack off. With the wide availability of smartphones and other mobile computers, it's easier than ever to set a rigid schedule for yourself. Try programming alarms into your phone to remind you when to get up, when to start working, when to start studying, and so on. Stick to your schedule - it's not useful for focusing if you ignore it.If you're not sure where to start when it comes to making an ADHD-appropriate schedule, try using a search-engine query for "ADHD schedule". You should get dozens of results for children and adults. Below you can find a very general-purpose schedule you may want to consider using. The sample schedule assumes you are a full-time student, so feel free to adjust it as you see fit.




7:00 AM: Wake up and take a shower.

8:00 AM: Leave for work/school.

9:00 AM - 12:00 PM: Focus solely on classes/schoolwork. No distractions.

12:00 PM - 12:30 PM: Lunch break. Relax as much as you want.

12:30 PM - 3:30 PM: Focus solely on classes/schoolwork. No distractions.

3:30 PM: Leave for home.

4:00 PM - 6:00 PM: Free time (unless a major project requires your attention.)

6:00 PM - 6:30 PM: Dinner.

6:30 PM - 9:30 PM: Homework/study time. No distractions.

9:30 PM - 11:00 PM: Free time (unless a major project requires your attention.)

11:00 PM: Go to bed.
 Though it might seem completely unrelated to your ability to focus, the way you live can have a major affect on it (especially if you have a physiological condition like ADHD.) Not being able to focus on your work can be a major problem if it's allowed to get out of control, so give yourself the best possible chance of success by following these common-sense lifestyle tips.



Get plenty of exercise. Exercise isn't just important for your overall health, it's also a huge help when it comes to focusing. Research has shown that healthy levels of exercise can increase focus and brain function on a level similar to that of actual ADHD medications.

Limit caffeine intake. While caffeine is a stimulant and thus can improve some types of cognitive functions (like memory, concentration, etc.), it's not generally recommended in high doses (i.e. doses exceeding 400 mg) for ADHD patients. Over time, caffeine use can lead to a dependent state that's accompanied by nervousness, headaches, and irritability, all of which make focusing more difficult. In addition, caffeine can make it difficult to sleep, which is very important for ADHD patients (see below). If you are interested in using caffeine to treat ADHD, speak with your physician about the appropriate dose for your needs.Get enough sleep. It's hard enough to focus when you have ADHD - don't give yourself the added hurdle of being exhausted too. Most adults need 7-9 hours of sleep to function at peak performance; children often need more.Note that difficulty sleeping is more common in people with ADHD than in the general population. If it's difficult to get to sleep even when following the lifestyle suggestions above, medication or therapy may be helpful.