 This happens because the tissue responds to the menstrual cycle the same way as when it is in the uterus and builds up, breaks down and sheds; however, because this tissue is not in the uterus, it has no way to leave the body and the excess build up causes inflammation, scar tissue and severe pain. Pain medications and hormonal treatments may not be enough to control the pain from endometriosis. This is because it is typically a condition that requires more extensive medical evaluation and intervention.


If you suspect you may have endometriosis, the first step is to book an appointment with your doctor who can set you up for the necessary tests.
The only way to confirm (and to treat) endometriosis is via laparoscopic surgery.
You will have a daytime surgery (of less than an hour duration) where an OB/GYN medical specialist will insert a camera through some small openings in your abdomen to check for the presence of uterine tissue outside of the uterus.
If any uterine tissue is found in the abdominal cavity, the surgeon can perform "ablation," meaning getting rid of the tissue that is not supposed to be there.
Following this procedure, your menstrual pain should be greatly diminished (if not eliminated altogether).
It is important to treat endometriosis if you suspect you may have it because, if present for a long time, it can lead to complications such as chronic pelvic pain or troubles with fertility.
Speak to your doctor for further information if you suspect this may apply to you.
 What this means is that a device is inserted through your vagina into your uterus, and the menstrual tissue lining the uterine wall is "burned off," or removed. You will be under general anesthesia at this time, so you will not feel any pain.


The next time your period is supposed to come, there will be very little to no menstrual tissue left to become inflamed.
As a result, you will experience minimal to no bleeding at the time of your period, and it should also make a notable difference in getting rid of your pain.
Your surgeon will aim to remove 90% of the uterine endometrial tissue at the time of surgery, so often about 10% remains. This is to make sure that your doctor does not accidentally damage the uterus itself.
 In extreme cases of painful menstrual cramps, it may mean that something more serious is going on. Your doctor may need to perform blood tests, or even to insert a laparoscopic camera into your lower abdomen or pelvic area to see what is going on. If you have more complex issues that go beyond simple period cramps, it is important to have this diagnosed and treated appropriately. Most solutions to more complex issues are surgical.

