 In order to build independence in your child, you should give them tasks and chores that they can complete on their own. This will help them learn to be responsible and less dependent. These chores should change as your child ages.For example, have your toddler or young child get dressed on their own, brush their teeth, or put away their toys.
Ask older children to do the dishes, fold laundry, or make their bed.
Get teenagers and young adults to help make dinner, shovel the driveway, or mow the lawn.
 Failure is an important aspect of life. If your child has experienced small failures from a young age, they will be less likely to develop a fear of failure. A fear of failure can lead to dependence because your child will be too afraid to do things on their own in case they fail.As a result explain to your child that failure is a normal part of learning and that they can overcome failure through hard work and problem solving.
This also signals to your child that you are confident in their ability to work through things on their own which will give them the confidence they need to become independent as they grow older.
For example, if your child is learning to ride a bike they may fall off multiple times causing them to feel defeated. You want to encourage them to get back on the bike and keep trying.
 As you give your children more responsibility, you need to set clear guidelines. This way your child will know exactly what they need to do and what the consequences will be for not completing their responsibilities. This will help your child understand that in order to be independent they need to take responsibility for their actions.For example, say to your child “It is your responsibility to wear your helmet while riding your bike. If you don’t wear your helmet then your bike will be taken away for the rest of the week.”
Alternatively, for an older child you could say “You are responsible for cleaning up after dinner. If you don’t do this, you will not be able to use your phone until your chores are complete.”

