


Your most recent U.S. passport should be undamaged. You will need to be able to submit it with your application, so it needs to be in good enough condition to survive mailing.
The passport should have your current legal name on it. If not, you will need to have legal documentation showing your name change and must be prepared to send that documentation in with your application.
Your most recent passport must have been issued within the past 15 years.
You must have been at least 16 years old when your most recent passport was issued.
You must currently reside within the United States or Canada.
If any of these conditions cannot be met, you will need to renew your passport in person.;
, This form, U.S. Passport Renewal Application for Eligible Individuals, is a fairly straight-forward form that will ask you for personal information. All sections of the form are required.


You can fill the form out on the computer and print it,or you can print a blank form and fill it out by hand using black ink.
Specify the type of passport you want to apply for. You can apply for a U.S. Passport Book, U.S. Passport Card, or both. You can also apply for a 28-page book or a 52-page book.
Fill out your biographic information. Include your last name, first name, and middle name. Also include your date of birth, sex, place of birth, and social security number. If you have used other names in the past, including a legal name change, maiden name, or previous marriage, you will need to list these names, as well.
Include your contact information. Write down your e-mail address, primary contact phone number, and mailing address.
Write out the information on your current passport. Write your name as listed on the passport, your most recent passport book or passport card number, and the issue date of both or either document.
Complete the remainder of the form. You will need to indicate your height, hair color, eye color, occupation, employer or school if applicable, permanent address, emergency contact, and travel plans.
 You need to sign the first page of the application with your full signature. You also need to indicate the current date.
 In addition to the application, there are several other documents you will need to include in order to get your passport renewed.


Include your most recent U.S. Passport. This can either be a book or card.You will need a current, updated passport photograph.This photograph must be in color, printed on photo quality paper, 2 by 2 inches (51 by 51 mm) large, sized so that the head is between 1 inch (2.5 cm) and 1 3/8 inches (25 and 35 mm) from the bottom of the chin to the top of the head, and taken within the last 6 months. It also needs to be taken in front of a plain white background with a neutral expression and in daily clothing.
You must also include the current passport fee.As of March 2013, an adult passport book and card cost $140 to renew. The book alone costs $110, and the card alone costs $30.
Make the check payable to the Department of State.
If your current name varies from the name on your most recent passport, you must also send a court order or marriage certificate to indicate why your name changed.
 Pack all the documents into a padded, waterproof envelope and mail it to:


National Passport Processing Center, P.O. Box 90155, Philadelphia, PA 19190-0155., As of early March 2013, routine applications are processed within 4 to 6 weeks.If expedited, a passport is usually ready within 2 to 3 weeks.
If you are in a rush due to travel plans, expedite your application by writing "EXPEDITE" clearly across the outside of the mailing envelop. You should also send it using overnight delivery, and you must include a check for $60 made out to the U.S. Department of State.
Use an envelope that is large enough to fit all the documents without folding them.

