 You need to see what is on your driving record before you go about removing violations. You can get a copy of your record in the following ways:Order from your nearest Department of Motor Vehicles. Stop in or look on the website. Many states let you order a copy of your driving history in person or online. You usually have to pay a fee.
Order online. The website DMV.com has partnered with Backgroundchecks.com. They are not affiliated with your state government, but you can order a copy of your driving record from their website for a fee.;
, Each state decides how long a traffic violation will stay on your record. For example, in Minnesota, serious speeding violations (15+ mph over the limit) stay on your record for 15 years.In Washington, most convictions stay on your record for five years. However, alcohol-related convictions and vehicular assault/homicide convictions stay on your record for life.Look on your state’s DMV website to see if you can find this information.
 It’s up to every state whether they will expunge convictions from your driving record or not. Oklahoma, for example, will not remove convictions. Instead, they make you wait three years for the convictions to fall off your record.


However, violations might not fall off your driving record automatically. You may need to stop into the DMV and ask to have a conviction removed manually if it is too old., The DMV should let you know what requirements you must meet. For example, in Maryland, you must satisfy the following:Three years without another conviction for a moving violation or criminal offense involving a motor vehicle.
No license suspension or revocation.
No conviction for DWI, DUI, or failing to remain at the scene of a crime that results in death or bodily injury.
 Your DMV will provide you with the form to fill out. Each state’s form is different, but you will generally be asked for the following information:full name
address
date of birth
driver’s license number
certification that you meet the requirements
signature

, Your state might require a fee for a manual expungement. Call the DMV ahead of time or check their website for the amount and acceptable methods of payment (cash, credit, debit, check).


Your request will be reviewed and you should receive a decision in writing.If you haven’t heard anything after a couple of weeks, contact the DMV.

