 It is important to choose weapons that will sabotage the attackers. Rapid-fire guns, heavy machine guns and explosives are great choices for this situation. Perks are also key for helping your squad members. Make sure each player on your team uses different SQUAD SPECIALIZATIONS to strengthen your entire team. If any of your team members don't have any SQUAD SPECIALIZATIONS, that's okay as well.;
, Unlike attackers in "SQUAD RUSH", defender's do not have to worry about the amount of tickets they have. They don't have any at all! Choose classes that will easily sabotage incoming attackers, such as the "SUPPORT" class. They provide ammunition for your team and great suppressive fire on the attackers. But don't forget about the other classes. They each serve their purposes as well, so use them depending on how the game is going.
 As a defender, it is important to know areas in your map where attackers can come from to arm the M-COM. Study the maps of BATTLEFIELD 3 and pay attention to the HUD once in a while to recall where you are and locate enemies. Remember, attackers can come from any direction, so keep your eyes peeled.
 If the M-COM is within a building or an enclosed area, don't let the attackers blow it up. It's harder for the defenders to predict where attackers will be coming from instead of having only one entrance to the M-COM. If the attackers has armed the M-COM, clear them out and guard whoever is defusing. It's also possible to shoot and throw grenades while defusing and arming an M-COM, so keep this in mind as well.
 Do a reconnaissance of the attackers and find out their strategy and common routes they use for getting to the M-COM. Using this information and changing your own strategy based off this information can give your squad the upper-hand.
 This is the most important key to winning any BATTLEFIELD game. Communicating with others about your status and the enemy's position could mean the difference between a loss and a win. Provide ammo/health and help your team out in any way you can to ensure your victory.

