 If you're looking for muscle-building protein, whey protein is generally your best option. Whey protein can come in the form of powder or pills and is commonly used when people are trying to build muscle via things like weight training programs.Look for a whey protein powder or supplement with a high biological value. This measures how well your body can absorb the protein. The higher the biological value, the better.
Powders are usually used in things like shakes and smoothies. If your diet consists of shakes and smoothies anyway, go for a powder. Otherwise, a pill or tablet may make more sense for you.
A great way to boost your protein intake and save some money is to add powdered milk (whey protein is derived from milk) to a glass of regular milk and doubling the amount of protein.;
, If you're striving for weight loss, protein shakes can be used as a meal or snack replacement. This can help you feel full longer and give your body strength for extra exercise during weight loss regimens. It's always best to talk to your doctor before attempting to lose weight, so ask your doctor for suggestions for protein shakes.Avoid shakes high in added sugars. These may sabotage weight loss efforts.
Avoid shakes with branched-chain amino acids. These are used for body building, which can lead to increased muscle and weight gain.
 If you are lactose intolerant or have irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), products containing lactose must be avoided, as they will can cause serious discomfort and digestive issues. Avoid supplements and powders made with artificial sweeteners, lactose sugars, or dextrins/maltodextrins., Soy has been shown to help promote bone health for some. If you're upping your protein intake to improve bone health, try a soy powder or pill to add protein.Powders are usually used if smoothies and shakes are a part of your regular diet. Otherwise, a pill or tablet is the better option.
Some evidence indicates soy may have an effect on hormone levels, so you may want to talk to your doctor before using a soy supplement.
 Protein supplements are not FDA regulated and may not be necessary for healthy adults. Even very physically active adults may not benefit from protein supplements.It's a good idea to speak with your doctor before adding a supplement to your diet. Your doctor should be more familiar with safe supplements and can also recommend specific varieties based on your current health and fitness level.


Ask your doctor for a referral to a registered dietitian. These highly trained professionals can help you choose a supplement that fits your needs and should be well-informed about reputable brands.
 Look for supplements that have been verified by a reputable third party, such as USP (US Pharmacopeia), NSF International, or ConsumerLab.com. While verification doesn't necessarily mean the product will work as advertised, it does mean that it contains the ingredients advertised on the label and that it doesn't contain toxic substances such as arsenic, bacteria, or lead., In general, cheap supplements are not the best idea. Low-cost proteins may use inexpensive blends that the body does not digest very well, contain sub-par ingredients, or may not even contain what they advertise on the label. You should splurge on higher priced protein supplements whenever possible as these may be better for your overall health., Dairy-based proteins are generally healthier when they come from grass-fed cows, goats, or other animals. You should also make sure the animals were raised hormone-free. This should all be indicated somewhere on a protein supplements label., Artificial colors, flavors, or sweeteners can diminish the effect of protein powders. Read ingredients lists carefully and opt for the most natural supplements you can find in your price range.Sucralose is a common artificial sweetener used in protein powders. Avoid powders that contain sucralose.
You should also look out for things like artificial colorings and dyes.
Hydrogenated oils should also be avoided.
 Often, it's better to add protein to your diet naturally instead of relying on supplements. If you're concerned about your protein intake, seek out natural sources of protein. You can add things like peanut butter, yogurt, soy milk, oats, or hemp seed to shakes or smoothies. This may be healthier than adding a supplement.You can also eat more lean meats and beans, which are great sources of protein.


You can also talk to your doctor or dietitian about healthy sources of protein. If you're concerned about protein due to a new workout routine, your doctor should be able to advise how much protein to add and where to get it naturally.
 You want to make sure you're not getting too much protein. Supplements may have high levels of protein and, if you're getting protein from other places in your diet, you may end up overdoing it in regards to protein intake. Most adults need about 0.75 g of protein/kg body weight each day, but this may depend on your activity level.You can read How to Determine How Much Protein You Need for more information.

Track how much protein you get from food sources. If you're within healthy levels, you may want to opt out of taking supplements. If you need more protein, make sure the amount of protein in your supplements will not exceed your daily limit.
You can end up with health issues like dizziness, weakness, and bad breath if you consume too much protein.
 Some protein shakes and powders are high in added sugars. If you have diabetes, go for supplements without added sugar.You should also be tracking your carbohydrate intake if you have diabetes, so make sure you look for the total carbohydrate content and count it as part of your meal or snack.
 If you have chronic kidney disease, your body cannot tolerate high amounts of protein. You will need to be careful about how much protein you consume in your diet, and taking a supplement can put you at risk of serious complications., You should always ask a pharmacist whether a supplement is safe given your existing medication. Some supplements may affect prescription medications in a negative way. It's also a good idea to talk to your doctor before taking protein supplements.