


If making garments is your specialty, sew a few sample dresses or other garments to show to potential buyers. Let buyers know that the items are only samples and offer to sew garments based on the buyer's measurements.






Sew handbags or other accessories. Purses and bags are popular items at craft fairs and online shops, so think of a way to put your sewing skills to use to come up with a design that sets your bags apart.






For example, you might want to sew bags with LED lights sewn into the front. Another idea would be to make a purse that can fold up to fit in a pocket when not in use.;
,


You don't want to start an online shop or attend a craft fair and have only 1 or 2 items for sale. Make at least 20 hand-sewn items before you put your shop up online or register for craft fairs.
Don't go overboard purchasing materials. You don't want to end up with massive amounts of unsold inventory if your home sewing business doesn't take off.



Before applying to any craft fair, look at the style of the fair and the type of items that vendors sell to determine whether your items will be a good fit.
For example, if you sew traditional items, you may not fit in at a more trendy or contemporary craft fair.
Some craft fairs want a wide range of items and may not accept you if you sew items that are common, such as purses or skirts.
Scout out the craft fair while you're there to meet other artists and to see what other crafters are doing. Bring along a friend to watch your table while you walk around the craft fair.


The cost of traveling to craft fairs can add up. You'll also have to pay for the table or booth, as well as materials to display your hand-sewn items.



Register for an account at an online handmade listing site. You can do this in place of selling at craft fairs to make your sewing business truly a home business.
List your items on the site and set prices for them. Set your prices so that you'll actually make money.
Don't be shy about pricing items high. You've put a lot of work into sewing them, and you should make money beyond reimbursing yourself for materials.



Print fliers advertising your lessons and hang them at local fabric and craft stores.
Advertise your lessons on a free online classified website.

