 This technique works better if you are face to face with your crush. This tactic requires you to trick your crush into calling or texting you to find out some sort of information. The key is to express interest in an activity but tell him you are in a rush.


Start small and say, “hey James”. Then follow up with a question about an event he’s interested in or even what he’s doing over the weekend. Express an interest in the plans.
Try something like: “let me know if you end up going” or “maybe we can go together”
As a result, your crush will be backed into a corner and may have no choice but to ask for your number. Once he calls or texts you, you can save his contact information to your phone.;
, Invite your crush to an event with a larger group of friends. Tell him that you can text the details later, and try to walk away. Your crush should realize that the two of you have never exchanged numbers and mention it right then and there.It is essential that the event you invite your crush to is a group event. Group events are non-committal and less nerve-wracking. Your crush is more likely to respond favorably in this set of circumstances than he might if you invite him on a date.
Try to make the group consist of people your crush knows casually but not too well. If the group consists of your crush's close friends, odds are, he will know someone else's phone number and just text that person for the details instead of you.
Start walking away as soon as you make the invitation. If you hang around too long, your crush might ask you for the details then and there.
Your crush will likely respond in one of three ways. With any luck, he will call or text you right then to store his number in your phone. If this does not happen and the event passes, he might ask you for your number afterward, so he doesn’t miss out next time. Of course, there is also a chance that your crush will not ask at all, in which case, he probably isn't interested in exchanging digits.
 Instead of making plans, you can offer your phone number to your crush on a “just in case” basis. Think of a specific circumstance that you and your crush share and develop an excuse around that. If you can do this skillfully, your crush may even ask for your number without you offering it.If the two of you share a class, use that as a starting place. Consider your options. If you are great at math and your crush struggles with it, you could offer tutoring whenever he gets stuck on a homework problem. Similarly, if your crush knows in advance that he will be absent, tell him that you are just a phone call away if he needs an update on what was missed.For a crush that shares an extracurricular activity with you: offer your phone number and tell him to use it if he needs a ride to or from school.
When you and your crush root for the same sports team, use that as an opportunity to hand over your number. Say that you will miss the big game this weekend and ask your crush to text you with an update on the score.
 When hanging out with your crush, mention that the ringer on your phone has been acting up and ask your crush to call it. This should prompt him to ask for your number. Once your crush calls you, you’ll get his number without even asking for it.


You and your crush need to be talking alone so that no one else offers to call your phone instead.
Once your crush calls you, act relieved about the fact that your phone went off. Make it convincing, but try not to get too carried away.
 Once you and your crush have exchanged phone numbers, stay calm about it. Do not call or text that night. Give it some time to prevent yourself from seeming too intrigued.It’s okay if he figures out your plan and knows you like him. If he likes you back, he’ll have even more of a reason to ask you out.

