 One of the most important qualities of a fair parent is a willingness to be understanding. If you want to succeed as a parent, then you have to make an effort to really understand what is going on in your child’s mind, in his life at school, and in his relationships with his friends. Often, your children act out or misbehave for reasons that are less than obvious, and you may need to work on putting yourself in your children’s shoes to understand where they are coming from.


Before you issue a punishment or make a new rule, take the time to think about how this will affect your children. It’s only fair that you consider how they might feel before taking action.
 If you want to be a fair parent, then it’s important to listen to your children. You may think that your child has simply misbehaved and may be feeling frustrated with him or her, but many times, the problem runs deeper than that. If you really want to be fair to your child, then you should sit down with him or her and talk about what’s been going on and why your child might be acting up at home or in school. This can help you be fair and get to the root of the problem.


Listening to your children can also help show them how much you care, and it will let them see that you’re making an effort to know what’s going on in their minds instead of just imposing rules.
Of course, there may be some days when you’re just too tired to listen. Still, make sure you can give your children the time they deserve and really hear them out. Put away your work phone or your computer and give your children all of the attention they need.
 Being fair doesn’t mean treating all of your children equally; it means treating them fairly. One of your children may be much more outgoing than the other, one may be more temperamental than the other, or one may struggle in school more than the other. If you really want to be fair, then you should make sure to give each child the attention he needs and to set rules and guidelines that are reasonable for each of them.


Every child is unique, so treating every child equally actually isn’t fair. Instead, pay attention to what your children really need and give that to them.
 This sets up your children to have lower expectations about the world, and can influence them to be more pessimistic people. When your child cries, “It’s not fair!” Instead of simply saying, “Life’s not fair,” try explaining the reasoning behind your decisions or letting your child discuss his feelings, when it’s appropriate.You should avoid saying “Life’s not fair” while also making it clear that the world doesn’t revolve around your children. You want them to feel that they are capable of reaching their potential in a relatively welcoming world, but you don’t want them to be spoiled and think they can have everything they want, either.
 If you want to be a fair parent, then you have to be crystal clear about your expectations for your children. Let them know when curfew is, how much TV time they get, what you expect for them to do in school, and any chores that they must complete daily. If you have set rules, then you have to be consistent and stick to them, making sure that all of your children are held to a certain standard. If you change a rule, explain your reasoning, so your children aren’t thrown off guard.


One of the easiest ways to be fair is to remind your children of the rules in your household. If they get in trouble for doing something that they thought was allowed, then they’ll be more likely to cry, “It’s not fair!”
If you have children that are several years apart, it’s only natural that the older child will have more privileges than the younger child. Make sure that you explain this as best you can, so the younger child doesn’t feel that you’re being arbitrary or playing favorites.
 In order to be a fair parent, you have to work on doing as you say, so your children see that your rules are worth listening to. Of course, there will be some rules that you establish that may not apply to you, such as an early bedtime, but whenever you’re expecting certain behavior from your children, you should let them see you demonstrate that behavior as well if you want to be fair.


If you tell them to treat each other with kindness but treat your neighbors or strangers with disrespect, tell your kids to clean up while leaving your kitchen a mess, and so on, then they’ll be confused and will think that you’re sending a mixed message.
You don’t want your children to think you’re hypocritical if you impose rules that you don’t follow yourself.

