 Studies have shown that long-term, low-grade, chronic stress increases cortisol levels in the body. When this occurs, not only can it be difficult to lose weight, you may even gain more body fat.Exercising regularly can help manage stress levels. If you're feeling overwhelmed or overly stressed, take a 10 minute walk to help yourself calm down and unwind. Try yoga, which can be meditative.
Engage in other activities that will also help you relax. You can listen to music, read a good book or magazine, journaling, get together with friends, or watch a movie. Try meditation, deep breathing, positive visualization, and progressive muscle relaxation.
If you're having trouble managing stress levels, consider talking to a therapist or behavior specialist. These health professionals will be able to coach and guide you to better stress management.
Avoid relying on tobacco, alcohol, caffeine, or other drugs.
 Many people do not get adequate rest each night. Sleep is important for a variety of bodily functions including weight management. Go bed to earlier to get more sleep to help reduce your body fat levels.It's recommended to get between seven and nine hours of sleep each night. You may need to go to bed earlier and wake up a little later (if possible) to help you increase the amount you sleep each night.
Adequate rest also helps improve athletic performance in addition to helping you manage your hunger signals throughout the day.
 Portion control is necessary if you want to reduce body fat. Portion controlling will help you reduce your overall calorie intake and body fat.


In general, average healthy adults adults should consume no more than 3 – 4 oz of protein, 1/2 cup of grains, 1/2 cup of fruit and 1 cup of vegetables per serving.Use measuring cups or a food scale to help keep you on track with your portions.
You can also use smaller plates, bowls and cups to physically limit how much food you can serve yourself at one sitting.
Consuming more than the recommended portions of foods may increase your risk for gaining weight and increasing total body fat.
 Turn off your TV, put away your phone or book, and pay attention when you are eating. Eat slowly, chew well, and savor your food. Eating while distracted or when you are feeling emotional can cause you to overeat.Try to be present when you eat your food, noticing the tastes, smells, and textures.