 Many people who are overweight tend to over-eat not because they are hungry all the time, but because of boredom, unhappiness, social or family expectations, or just a lack of good information about healthy eating.This is one of the reasons why healthy, lasting weight loss is about more than just trying to eat less. Only by identifying and addressing root behaviors can a proper weight loss plan succeed. This is also why the right support network is so important.
If depression or some other condition is at the root of your struggle with your weight, the proper help is essential, before any concern about weight loss.
Teen weight loss is often most effective when the entire family is fully supportive. This does not necessarily mean that everyone has to go on a diet; it may, however, mean changing mealtime routines and replacing unhealthy eating habits with more nutritious alternatives.
 The hardest part of a diet is keeping yourself positive and motivated. Don't think about what you're missing out on. Instead, focus on how good it's going to feel when you can feel comfortable in your own skin and wear the clothes you want to wear.


When you see other people who look great, don't get jealous — focus on how good you’ll look (and feel) if you stick to your plan!

, Don't even think about what you can't eat. Instead, focus on the foods you're allowed to eat that you actually enjoy!


You don't have to eat broccoli if you don't like it — stick to munching on the carrots you love! So what if you can't eat bread? You can still eat the turkey from your beloved turkey sandwiches!
A diet shouldn't be a punishment. Put some thought into making your meals enjoyable so you look forward to them.
 If you deny yourself completely, you may get frustrated and give up.


A good way to avoid this is to allow yourself one "structured" cheat day a week. When the day is over, you'll have satisfied all your cravings and will be ready to put in another six days of healthy eating.
Don't cheat mindlessly. When you're eating forbidden foods on cheat day, really savor the experience. Enjoy that burger with all five senses, and eat it slow to make the experience last longer.
 But every once in a while, the urge to accept an offered cookie or soft drink might get the better of you — and that's okay!


If you ate 100 calories too much today, don't beat yourself up about it. Just work out a little harder tomorrow or eat especially healthy food.
Even though you want to lose weight fast, don't forget that weight loss is still a long-term process. Little mistakes here and there won't ruin your diet.
Cut yourself some slack, but rededicate yourself to your plan. You'll get there soon enough!

, Getting positive feedback and support from other people is a great way to stay motivated. If you have a friend or two who are also trying to lose weight, talk to them about your struggles on bad days or how you're feeling really positive on good days.


You can also find people to talk to in many online weight loss forums, where you can share your frustrations and successes with a lot of people who are going through the same thing.
Consider joining Weight Watchers or another respected weight-loss program for extra support and information. Many hospitals and medical clinics also have weight-loss centers to help teenagers lose weight effectively and safely.
Starting a friendly competition with friends and relatives can help you exceed your goals. Who can get the most steps in on their pedometer this week?

