 Before you decide to wean yourself off of Effexor, you really should speak to your doctor or psychiatrist. Effexor is a difficult medication to stop taking, and doing so can bring on intense emotional reactions, including suicidal thoughts. It is best to undergo this transition under advisement from a professional you trust., Most people are prescribed Effexor XR (extended release), however these pills are difficult to split for tapering. Effexor IR (immediate release) tablets come in 25mg, 37.5mg, 50mg, and 100mg doses, which makes the dose easier to control. Talk to your doctor about switching to IR tablets for a smoother tapering experience.With a pill splitter you can split your pills in half when necessary.
Splitting tablets like this will enable you to have more control over your dosage.
 Some doctors recommend cutting your dosage by 37.5 to 75 mg, taking that amount for one week, and then cutting the dose by another 37.5 to 75 mg. For a more gradual program, cut your dosage by just 10%, stay at this dosage for a week, and cut by 10% again. This method can take several months, but it is less likely to induce withdrawal. , If your goal is to stop using mood-altering medication, then this step will seem counterintuitive; however, many doctors recommend substituting a different antidepressant medication (usually 10 – 20 mg Prozac) to help you transition off of Effexor. Prozac is less likely to produce withdrawal symptoms, so introducing it (at your doctor’s request) may help stabilize your mood and prevent withdrawal as you wean yourself from Effexor., Once again, it is important to stay in contact with your doctor when you are altering your dosage, medication, or treatment plan. Such changes have been shown to bring about sudden, dire mood swings, and may cause you to do something dangerous. Furthermore, staying in touch with your doctor will help keep you healthy and happy and you undergo this change.It may be a good idea to keep a log of how you feel and each stage of your tapering.

