 With the shemagh completely open, match one corner with the corner diagonally opposite from it, folding the square in half and into a triangle.


This particular tying method is a good option if you want to use the shemagh to protect your head and face from cold winds or hot sun. It's especially good if you also want to protect yourself from breathing in sandy or debris-filled air.
 Pull the folded edge of the shemagh over your forehead, positioning it somewhere between your hairline and your eyebrows.


The excess material should drape over the top of your head and down the back, not in front of your face.
Choose a point roughly three-quarters of the way along the folded edge. There should be more material on the right end than on the left.
If you have ever tied a bandana, a good tip would be to hold the shemagh over your forehead as though you were getting ready to tie a really large bandana.
 Wrap the left side, or the shorter side, of the shemagh under your chin and up toward the back of your head.









Hold this piece still with your right hand. Do not tuck the end into the rest of the shemagh fabric yet.
 With your free hand, pull the right side or the longer side across your face so that it covers your nose and mouth.
 Continue to wrap the longer end of the scarf by bringing it up and over the top of your head. The edge should drape completely over your head, and the end should roughly meet the end on the opposite side.









One hand should still be holding the first end taut against the side of your head while your other hand maneuvers this second end around.
 Tie two overhand knots to secure the shemagh in place.









Do not tie the knot so tightly that you make it difficult to breathe or turn your head, but make sure that the material is taut against all parts of your neck, face, and head.
 Adjust the shemagh as needed so that the material covers the top of your head and lower half of your face without covering your eyes. After this step, the shemagh is complete.









A primary disadvantage of this wrapping style is that the shemagh cannot be easily pulled down off the head and turned into a scarf. This is a secure wrapping style, however, and provides your head with greater protection than the traditional or casual wrapping style mentioned here.

