 If the proposal comes from someone you genuinely care about, and you just aren’t sure if you’re ready for marriage, ask them for time to think about it.


Saying “no” to a proposal is surprisingly common, so do not feel as if you’re being unusual or cruel.Asking for time to think about things may hurt your partner’s feelings, but it will buy you time to reflect, and leaves you the option to say “yes” if you change your mind, or to explain yourself carefully if you don’t.;
, If you decide that marriage, ultimately, is not your goal but your partner disagrees, then it’s probably time to break things off anyway. If you do see matrimony as a possibility, then you will have to handle matters gently to avoid causing lasting hurt feelings.


This is a matter for some introspection. Try not to make a hasty or ill-considered decision, because there are likely to be far-reaching consequences for your relationship no matter what you do.
Think about what constitutes a healthy marriage, and what your motivations for saying “yes” would be. Marriage probably won’t save a struggling relationship, but it can enrich a healthy one.
 Kindness, sensitivity, and honesty will go a long way in making your refusal less painful to them.


Tell them your answer in person, if possible. It’s only fair.
If you or they are too emotional for an in-person refusal, then a telephone conversation or a hand-written letter are the next best options. You should not use a highly impersonal method like text messaging to turn them down.
 It may result in some hurt feelings, but you can overcome those with time, and if they truly love you, giving you a little time will not change that fact.How long you wait depends entirely on you and your partner. You do not want to rush a decision on marriage if you aren’t sure, but on the other hand you owe your partner a definitive answer at some point.
Have some empathy for your partner as you consider things. They are likely waiting on pins and needles for your answer, and ultimately marriage is a cooperative venture. Keep them foremost in your mind as you think about what to do. When you’re ready, break the news to them without delay.
 Not every relationship has matrimony as the goal, and declining a proposal does not necessarily spell doom for everyone. Plenty of people create long-lasting, satisfying partnerships without formally getting married.


Just because you aren’t ready to tie the knot today doesn’t mean you’ll never want to do it. Explain to your partner that you’re not ready for that step just yet.
If you never want to get married, you need to tell your partner. They may be fine with it, they may not, but you owe it to them to be honest., If you decline the proposal, it is your obligation to keep the news to yourself. Politeness dictates that you should spare your partner the potential embarrassment and humiliation of others bringing up their rejection.If you want to tell someone about it, the right thing to do is to ask your partner if they mind first.
Only tell people you trust not to spread the story around. A spurned proposal is exciting gossip, so make sure that it isn’t being spread around needlessly.

