 If your instructor doesn’t sell horses, ask if they know someone who does. Talk to friends and colleagues who own horses and find out if they’re happy with their horse. If they are, ask them to recommend the person who sold them their horse.


As a last resort, if you’re still having trouble locating a seller, check the classifieds in your local paper or online at Craigslist and similar sites.
Use Equine Legal Solutions’ checklist at http://www.equinelegalsolutions.com/uploads/4/0/2/5/40254925/hbc.pdf to help you identify important information and ask relevant questions before visiting a particular horse. For instance, you might want to inquire about the horse’s medical history, temperament, training, and competition record. Many of the questions you ask will be specific to your own personal preferences in a horse, so think carefully about what information you need to make a good decision.
 Bring a trusted friend or family member with you to look over the horse or horses you’re thinking of buying. They’ll help evaluate:


the horse’s gait (should be measured and regular)
the horse’s temperament (the horse should not bolt out of the gate as soon as you open it, and should not twitch or shy away when groomed or touched)
how well a particular horse would suit you based on your build (a bigger person needs a bigger horse, and vice versa)
the horse’s general health and activity level (should be inquisitive, alert, and playful but obedient)

, Buying a sick horse means you’ll end up making a greater investment in medicine and veterinary care than you need to.


Don’t have the seller’s vet look the horse over for you, even if they offer to throw it in for free. You might not get an objective evaluation. Instead, choose your own vet to look the horse over.
 You can often lease a horse for six months or more. Use this trial period to learn more about the horse’s temperament, habits, and personality.


If you want to arrange for a shorter lease, ask the owner for a lease period that suits you. Shorter leases of 7 to 30 days could be possible.
The owner may want a written agreement and may ask you to supply insurance on the horse. They may also want to inspect the space where the horse will be kept.
You might be able to lease a horse from your riding instructor.
 On the internet, you can buy almost anything, including horses. Many people check out horses they might want to buy via online videos and pictures. However, as a first-time buyer, you’d do well to buy a horse locally.As you gain more experience with horses and horse-buying, you might choose to buy a horse online.
If you do buy a horse online, always make a trip out to see the horse with a veterinarian before finalizing the purchase.
 This means that the horse is lame, sick, or too old to be sold to experienced and knowledgeable buyers. Plus, buying a horse at an auction means you won’t get to ride it or get much sense of its temperament before making the purchase. If you choose to buy a horse at an auction anyway, be sure you know what you’re getting into.


Check the terms and conditions of the sale. Most horses at auction sales are sold “as is,” meaning you won’t be able to make a return if you don’t like it.
Read the documentation for the horse at the auction. Auctions usually provide X-rays and a veterinarian’s report on the animal for potential buyers. Read it carefully so you can make an informed decision.
Familiarize yourself with the auction’s dispute procedures. This way, if you do decide to pursue a return, you’ll know how to do so.
 The contract must include the sale price, warranties, and any other stipulations made by you or the seller. You should both sign and date every page of both your copies.


If the horse’s owner has sold horses before, you can use their contract, but look it over with a lawyer or with someone you trust who has bought horses before.

