 Do you want a large, fancy crown or a simple tiara? Do you want it to look natural or fantasy-like? Take a look at the different types of shells, and see how they could be put together to form a crown. For example, pointy turret shells that look like unicorn horns would make great points for your crown. Starfish, sand dollars, or scalloped shells could make pretty centerpieces.
 Try to get an assortment of shells, such as: scalloped/fan shaped shells, pointy "unicorn horn" turret shells, conch shells, and snail/cat's eye shells. You can also get some sand dollars or a star fish for the center.It would also be a good idea to buy some embellishments and fillers, such as: pearl beads, glass beads, sea glass, and tiny rhinestones. You can use these to fill in any gaps.

You don't have to head out to the beach to get shells. You can buy bags of them from the craft store.
 You can paint all of the shells the same color, or you can use different colors. Purple and teal are great options, but you can use other colors too, such as pearl, pink, or gold.You can also skip painting the shells if you want a natural-looking crown.

You may need to apply several coats of paint. Allow each coat to dry first before you do, however.
If you want something more natural, but still shimmery, paint your shells with a single, light coat of pearl-colored paint.
 Paint your shells decoupage glue (ie: Mod Podge), then sprinkle extra-fine scrapbooking glitter over them. Tap off any excess glitter. For something more subtle, outline the shells' edges, ridges, and grooves with liquid glue, then add the glitter.Use a glitter color that matches the shell to prevent any clashing. Iridescent is also a good option.
You don't have to add glitter to all of your shells. You can leave some un-glittered.
 Tiaras made out of hard, study plastic work great. You can also use a metal one as well. Avoid tiaras made from cheap, flimsy, or brittle plastic, as they may not hold up well to the weight of the shells.Make sure that the tiara has combs at the end. This will help anchor the crown when you wear it.
 If the tiara has any clunky rhinestones or fuzzy boas, you will need to remove those first.If the tiara has any protruding pieces that you feel will interfere with your final design, cut them off with a craft blade; you can also try carefully breaking them off instead.

If you have a metal tiara, you can try cutting parts off with wire cutters.
If you really like a certain embellishment, save it so that you can glue it on later.
 This will give the shells something to stick to. If your tiara has lots of curly designs, be sure to wrap the pipe cleaners around each individual design. You will end up with a tiara that looks like it's made out of pipe cleaners.Don't use the standard fuzzy pipe cleaners.

Use colors that match your shell colors. If you have lots of warm colors, use gold. If you have lots of cool colors, try silver, blue, or green.
For a more natural looking crown, use jute cord instead. Secure both ends with hot glue.Another option would be to use thin, satin ribbon. Choose a color that works with your design, and secure both ends with glue.
 Choose a large, scalloped shell, starfish, or sand dollar as your focal point. Glue it down in the center of the crown with hot glue or industrial strength glue., Pick out your pointy shells, and glue then along the edges of your crown. Make sure that the opening of the shell is facing the tiara's band; this way, the hole won't be visible in the end. For a more interesting effect, glue the taller shells towards the center of the tiara, and the shorter ones towards the ends.You can add as many spikes as you want. You can have them go from the focal point all the way to the combs, or you can have just a few on each side.
For a more interesting look, alternate between turret and conch shells.
 At this point, the base of your crown is done. You can make it look more interesting by adding more layers. For example, you could glue some clam or snail shells along the base of your crown. A smaller clam shell to either side of your focal point would also look pretty.

If you used a sand dollar as your focal point, consider gluing down a tiny starfish in the middle.
 You may have some gaps between your shells, especially along the bottom. You can fill these in with small items, such as glass beads, pearl beads, or tiny rhinestones. Bits of sea glass would also look pretty., Your crown is essentially done at this point, but if it feels like it's missing something, consider adding some rhinestones. Use super glue to attach tiny rhinestones to the shells. You can put the rhinestones around the edges of the shells or down the ridges. If you used a starfish, you could add rhinestones down the middle of each arm.