 This is a good idea whether you’re flying or driving, because gift wrap can be easily damaged during transport. If you’re flying, there are additional reasons to avoid wrapping gifts before you travel, most significantly being the possibility of TSA officials unwrapping them during a security inspection. Wrapped gifts are allowed to be in in your luggage, but they will be subjected to the same scrutiny and restrictions that your luggage is held to, including random inspections.


If you can wait until you reach your destination to wrap the gifts, this may be the wisest course of action for you.You could ship the wrapping supplies with your luggage, or buy the needed wrapping materials upon your arrival.
 No matter how you plan to travel, always take the necessary precautions to protect fragile and breakable gifts. Wrap them in several layers of bubble wrap and nestle them somewhere safe, like inside a hard-shell suitcase. If you’re driving, you may want to separate the breakable items from the other gifts and put them in the backseat. If it’s breakable and also a heavy item, put the gift in the backseat area, but on the floorboard.
 To avoid incurring extra fees to fly them or possible damage to your vehicle to drive them, look into shipping your gifts ahead through a service like FedEx. You may also want to consider this option if you simply want to avoid the hassle of hauling gifts around, especially if you need to transport a lot of them and are travelling alone. Check-in lines can get long and tiresome, especially around the holidays, and shipping ahead can make your airport experience much smoother.Check with your airline about their luggage fees before you make your decision – most of them have a weight limit and will charge you a fee if you go over that. If you have heavy gifts to transport, ground shipping may be a better option.
If you ship the items, you’ll get a tracking number and have the option to purchase several different tiers of insurance, if you like.

