 You may want to try yoga poses beyond sun salutations. Choosing poses from the four groups of asanas that complement your cardio can bring you maximum benefits. Remember that you can have an effective yoga practice with just a few poses. Incorporating and mastering different poses can also help you put together a stimulating practice that won’t feel like a routine.Start with easier poses and then try more difficult ones after you master basic ones.
Incorporate poses from each asana group in the following order: standing poses, inversions, backbends, and forward bends.
Consider adding twisting poses to neutralize and stretch your spine between backbends and forward bends.
Hold each asana for 3-5 breaths.
 Standing poses can help strengthen and stretch your legs. They also help you balance and focus. Start with basic standing poses such as tree pose or the Warrior Series.Add or substitute other standing poses such as extended triangle pose and or revolved triangle pose as you progress., Inversions and backbends are poses that can strengthen and stretch your back and chest muscles. Adding one or two backbends to your routine. Following each backbend with an inversion. This can complement your cardio routine by building your endurance and muscle while stretching out muscles tight from exercise.Add backbends including locust pose, cobra pose, or bridge pose.
Work up to dhanurasana (bow pose) and urdhva dhanurasana (full wheel or upward bow).Try inversions such as handstands or headstands using a wall until you build enough strength to do the full pose.
Take a twist pose if you need reset yourself between backbends and forward bends. Start with simple variations such as Bharadvaja’s twist or half lord of the fishes pose., Seated postures help balance out your body after backbends and inversions. They are also an excellent way to stretch out tight muscles from cardio.Hold seated postures for 8-10 breaths.Add seated forward bend, heat of the knee pose, or star pose to stretch out your entire body. Gradually add more difficult postures such as pigeon and boat pose., Every yoga practice should end with corpse pose, or savasana. This pose neutralizes and recharges your mind and body. It also helps open your chest, relax your legs and release your shoulders. Lie on the floor with your feet hip width apart, your arms slightly out to the side, and your eyes closed. Allow yourself to relax fully for as long as you like.Lie on your back and place your legs so they go up the wall. Your whole foot should point towards the ceiling. This can help your legs relax better than if your legs are on the ground. It may also be more appropriate if you have lower back issues or find savasana difficult.