 The absolute must-do first step of removing a broken lightbulb is making sure that it is completely disconnected to all power. Head to your breaker box, and turn off the corresponding breaker with the room your broken bulb is located in.






;
, When working with electricity, it is best to double (and even triple!) check your power source before beginning a project. Start by turning on







, When working with broken glass and electricity, you should always wear rubber gloves; gardening or dish gloves work fine. You may also want pliers with a rubber handle, and a cloth for grabbing any broken pieces of glass.
 It is generally considered the easiest to remove and clean a broken lightbulb using a pair of regular needle-nose pliers. Use the pliers to twist the metal part of the bulb in a counter-clockwise motion. The metal may tear off in strips, but this should actually make it easier to pull out. If there is any broken glass still attached to the bulb, you can use the pliers to keep your hands safely away or to pull out the glass before touching the rest of the bulb.
 It may sound strange, but you use duct tape for everything else, right? Cut a long piece of duct tape, and roll it back on itself to create a sticky wad about the size of your broken light bulb. Stick the wad into the center of the bulb and apply a bit of pressure, and then turn the bulb counterclockwise. Any remaining glass should stick to the tape, all while giving you a better grip







, Soap has been recommended as the easiest means to remove a broken light bulb by some, but it may require a bit of cleanup afterwards. Simply push the soap up into the broken bulb; the glass will harmlessly become stuck in the soap, and the soap will give you a means to twist the base. Spin the soap







, The old housewive’s trick of using a potato to pick up broken glass works well in this scenario. Halve a potato, and then stick the raw side into the broken light bulb. The jagged edges will stick to the potato, preventing it from cutting you. Continue twisting the bulb counter-clockwise to remove it from the socket. You may have to wipe up any potato juice left behind with a clean, dry towel when finished.
 Although not everyone has a large piece of cork on hand, if you do, you can use it for removing your broken light bulb. Hold the cork up to the bulb and apply pressure so that the rough edges of the bulb stick to the cork. Then, simply remove the bulb as you normally would by twisting the cork/bulb base in a counter-clockwise direction until the bulb pops out.








