 Stress can actually cause weight gain. People who are stressed out tend to overeat and go for high calorie comfort foods over healthier options. Working on managing your stress level can help prevent weight gain.


Warning signs of stress include things like heightened anxiety, muscle tension, and irritability. When you feel these warning signs, be extra conscientious about what you're eating. Are you actually hungry or are you eating due to your mood? Is the food you're eating healthy and nutritious or are you binge eating low-quality food to combat anxiety?Yoga, meditation, stretching, massage, and deep breathing are all excellent methods to combat unwanted stress. Try incorporating some of these techniques into your day-to-day life and see if you notice an overall improvement in mood.Work on establishing a good sleep schedule. Running low on sleep can worsen stress. Try to go to bed and wake up at the same time each day, aiming for about 8 hours of quality sleep each night.Not everyone can manage stress on their own. If you have trouble regulating stress, you may have an anxiety disorder or other underlying mental health issue. Make an appointment with a therapist to talk about better managing stress. You can find a therapist by asking your regular doctor for a referral. You can also call your insurance company and ask for a list of therapists and psychiatrists in your network. If you are a college student, you may be entitled to free counseling through your college or university.
 Sometimes, the way you eat can lead to overindulgence. Making a habit of eating more mindfully can help you control how much you eat. This can lead to less weight gain.


Give your food 100% of your attention. Eat meals at a table. Stay away from the television when eating. Do not eat while you're working or doing another task. Focus solely on the food and the sensations it brings you.Check in as you eat. Pause once in awhile and think, "On a scale of 1 to 10, how would I rate my hunger?" Take note of when you feel somewhat full and when you feel completely full. Many people do not pay attention to their body's signals and end up eating well after they feel satisfied.Tune into your senses as you eat. Chew each bite slowly and pay attention to how eating feels. How does the food taste and smell? Tune into the textures and flavors of each bite you eat., Alcohol is a major culprit for many when it comes to unwanted weight gain. Alcoholic beverages are high in empty calories and, when inebriated, people often develop food cravings. Work on drinking in moderation.


Understand what it means to drink in moderation. For women and men over 65, drinking in moderation means no more than one drink a day. For men under 65, this means no more than two drinks a day. A drink generally means 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of spirits.In some situations, it can be hard to avoid overindulging. If you're going to a party, for example, you may feel pressured to drink. Try to avoid situations where heavy drinking is the main event. If you do attend an event where there will be drinking, try ordering a non-alcoholic beverage. This will keep your hands occupied and may reduce some of the temptation to drink.
If you do go out to a bar for drinks with friends, eat a nutritious meal beforehand. This will leave less room for alcohol and may prevent food cravings after drinking.
 Avoiding weight gain can be difficult. Many people struggle to maintain healthy eating and exercise habits. Seek support from others if you're trying to maintain a healthy weight.


Talk to your friends and family members about the changes you're making. There may be small things they can do to help. For example, they could avoid serving sugary snacks at parties you're attending. Your friends could agree to plan events that do not involve drinking or eating on the weekends.
Network with others working on maintaining a healthy weight. Make friends at the gym. If you're in a weight loss or weight management program, like Weight Watchers, plan social events with other members.
If you struggle with your weight due to a mental or physical health issue, see if you can find a support group in your area. If you can't find a physical support group, there are forums online for people with a wide variety of mental and physical health issues.

