 Use a ruler to measure the length and width of your phone. Add 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) to each measurement., Cut two strips of duct tape based on your length measurement. Stick them down on a cutting mat, overlapping the sides until you get your width measurement. Flip the sheet over, and cover it with two more strips of duct tape.

Repeat this step for the other sheet.
Use an craft blade to cut off any excess duct tape.
 You will need two strips that match the length of your sheet, and two strips that match the width. Slice each strip in half lengthwise. You will have a total of eight strips when you are done.

You can use the same color as your case, or a coordinating one.
 Place one of the shorter strips over one of the narrow ends of your first duct tape sheet. Make sure that half of it is sticking out over the edge of the sheet. Flip the sheet over, and stick the other half of the strip down. Do this for the remaining edges on both sheets.This will hide the raw edges of the sheet as well as reinforce it., The rectangle needs to be the same size as one of your duct tape sheets. If you don't have a heavy-duty Ziploc bag, you can use a freezer one instead.Make sure that you cut the rectangle out of a blank side, without any words, patterns or designs.

Alternatively, you can make a large "duct tape sheet" using clear packaging tape.Don't use the small sandwich bags made from thin plastic. They are not very durable.
 Set down one of your duct tape sheets. Place your phone on top of it, making sure that it's centered. Place the plastic sheet on top of your phone., Cut a strip of duct tape to match the length of your duct tape sheet, then slice it in half lengthwise. Place one of the strips over the edge of the plastic sheet, then carefully fold the excess onto the back of the duct tape sheet.Repeat this step with the other strip for the other side edge. Make sure that you pull the plastic sheet tightly across the front of the phone.
You can use a contrasting color to make your case look more interesting.
 The slits should be right next to the duct tape border, and about ½ inch (1 centimeter) long. You will have three tabs at the bottom of your plastic sheet: two solid duct tape tabs on each side, and a clear, plastic tab in the middle., Fold down the left tab on your plastic sheet; it will make a sort of triangular shape. Secure it with a thin piece of tape. Repeat this step for the right tab., Cut a strip of duct tape that is the same width as your duct tape sheet. Slice the strip in half lengthwise. Use one of the strips to tape down the center tab on the plastic sheet. Fold the excess tape over the bottom edge of the duct tape sheep and onto the back., Take the other strip from the previous step. Stick it to the top of the plastic sheet, so that half of it is touching the plastic, and the other half is sticking out. Fold it over the top edge of the plastic sheet. Make sure that you are only taping the plastic sheet and not the duct tape sheet.Ensure that the strip doesn't cover the camera on your phone. Trim the strip down narrower, if you have to.
 You can use the same color as the sheet, or a contrasting color. You will be using this to bind the two duct tape sheets together., Set your duct tape sheets down on your cutting mat, leaving a small gap between them. Place your duct tape strip over the right and left side edges of the sheets, covering the gap.The gap needs to be about the same width as your phone.
 This time, cut the strip 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) longer than your assembled case. Use the same color as the first strip. This time, Flip your assembled case over first so that you can see the outside. Place the second strip of duct tape right over the center seam, covering the sticky part.You will have ½ inch (1 centimeter) of excess tape sticking out over the top and bottom of the case., Flip the case over so that you can see the inside. Fold the excess tape at the top and bottom edges down. Your case is now fully assembled!, Each strip needs to be 4 inches (10 centimeters) long. You can match the color to your case or to the trim. You can also use a third color, but make sure that it goes well with the other two., Place your first strip down, sticky-side up. Place your second strip right on top of it, sticky-side-down. Make sure that they overlap by 1½ inches (4 centimeters). You will have about ½ inch (2 centimeter) of excess tape along the top and bottom long edges., Fold the top edge down first. Flip the strap over, then fold the other edge down as well. You should now have a strap that has smooth, finished edges on both sides., Flip your phone case over so that the back is visible. Cut a strip of duct tape that is 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) wider than your strap. Center the end of the strap on the back of the tape, then secure the tape to the back of your case.Make sure that the strap is centered; it should be halfway down the length of your case.
 Cut a piece of self-adhesive Velcro that is a little narrower than your strap. Peel off the plastic backing from one side, then press it against the inside of the strap. Do not pull apart the two Velcro halves yet., Once you have the Velcro secure to the back of the strap, peel away the second plastic backing. Pull the strap across the front of your case to where you want it to be, then press down on it.Use your fingernail to gently pry the two Velcro hales apart. Press down on them

