 When you’re mixing lip products to create a custom color, it helps to separate them according to color. That will make it easier when you’re trying to tweak the color exactly to your specifications.For example, you might make a pile of red lip products, one for pink, one for nude, and so on.
You may also further sort your lip products by type. For example, you might make separate piles of red lipsticks, red glosses, and red lip pencils. it’s usually easier to mix lip color together if they’re the same type of product because the consistency will be similar.
You may also want to consider separating your lip products based on finish. For example, separate matte, glossy, frosty, and glitter finish lip products into different piles. That way, if you want to change the finish of your lip color, you’ll know which pile to grab from.;
, Once your lip products are separated by color, you can choose two or more than will help you create your unique color. Use a lip brush or small metal spatula to take some of each shade and place them on some type of surface such as a plastic plate or dish. Mix them together with your brush or spatula until fully combined.If you’re only making the lip color for one-time use, you only need to take a little of each shade. However, if you want to create a custom color that you can use repeatedly, take a larger amount of each shade and make sure that you have a container, such as a small metal makeup pan or jar, to store the excess in.
You don’t necessarily have to mix the lip products on a separate surface -- try layering them on your lips directly and blotting your lips together to mix the colors. In fact, that’s the best way to mix lip pencils because those products don’t have enough texture to mix on a plate or palette.
 If you’ve mixed your lip colors on a palette or other surface, it’s best to try the custom shade out before applying it to your lips. Use a brush or your finger to swipe the custom shade on the back of your hand to see if you’re happy with the color.If you aren’t happy with the shade of your custom lip color, you can tweak it by adding more of one or more of the lip products. Keep mixing until you’re happy with the color, but be sure to test it again before applying.
 When you’re happy with the final shade of your custom lip color, use a clean finger or lip brush to apply it to your lips. Depending on the finishes of the lip products you’ve used, you may want to finish off your lips with a coat of clear lip gloss or balm to add some shine.