 Even nicer leggings can make a more casual and playful statement, so before you plan your next trip to the office with your brand-new leggings, check out your work environment to see if it's appropriate.


Check out to see if other people in your workplace wear leggings or skirts that could be paired with leggings.
 There's nothing wrong with cotton leggings, but if you need to dress up for work, you should try wearing leggings that are made of suede, leather, or even dark denim. Having a variety of leggings to choose from will help you mix and match more fantastic work outfits.


Remember the rule about not wearing leggings instead of pants. If you wear leather leggings and just a top to work, you will look unprofessional and may embarrass yourself, depending on wear you work.
If you just can't give up your cotton leggings, stick to black for work.
 Stick to mostly black or at least solid-colored leggings in the workplace. If you wear patterned lacy black leggings, you may look too trashy for the workplace. Funky-patterned leggings can be fun for after work, but they are too playful for a work environment.


If your leggings have subtle tiny polka dots running over dark material and they almost look solid, that can be an exception.
 If you wear a fancy top, it can help play up your leggings and make them look more fancy and appropriate for work. Here are some tops that you can wear over the leggings:


Wear a tailored jacket over a simple shift dress and pair it with cotton leggings.
Wear a loose top and a solid-color skirt with your leggings. Make sure the skirt doesn't fall too high above your knee to avoid looking too provocative. The loose top should be fancy enough to tie the whole look together.
 If you have a long, thick sweater that falls below your fingertips, you may be able to pull it off with leggings. Wear a belt around the sweater and high boots that match the sweater.


To pull this look off at work, the sweater has to look really nice.
 Sandals look great with leggings but aren't acceptable for most work places. Avoid sandals in a professional work environment, especially with leggings, which will look even more casual.


Pair the leggings with low or high black boots.
Pair them with close-toed shoes with a little bit of a heel.
 You can pair a flowing tunic top with denim leggings and ballet flats. To dress it up more for work, add a couple of long chain necklaces or a decorative scarf. You'll look trendy and casual at the same time.


Avoid wearing leggings with shorts to work. Though this may be a cute look if you're out with your friends, avoid the look in the workplace even if it's a casual day. You wouldn't wear shorts to work on casual Friday, and the same goes for shorts with leggings, unless, they are properly tailored shorts.

