 The environment you work in can help with your overall productivity. There are no strict rules about a work environment, so pick what feels right for you. Surround yourself with inspiring decorations that help you feel enthusiastic and passionate. These feelings will help you stay on task and be productive.For example, maybe a particular artist inspires you. Invest in a few prints of their paintings and hang these up on your walls.
If you can choose a particular space to work, choose a space free of distractions. Working in front of your television may be a bad idea, but maybe you can push a desk into the corner of your bedroom and work there.;
, Before you begin your work load for the day, prioritize. To-do lists are a great tool, but organize them a little rather than just writing down everything that needs to get done. Group tasks in terms of importance.Before making your list, write down categories in terms of important. For example, tasks labeled "urgent" must be done today. Tasks labeled "important, but not urgent" are important to do, but can wait. Tasks with labels like "low-priority" can be put off if necessary.
List task sunder each category. For example, if you need to finish a report for work, that would be an urgent task. If you need to begin another work project, but the deadline is not for another two weeks, that would be an "important, but not urgent" task. If you would like to go for a run after work, but it's not vital, that would be a "low-priority" task.
 Finishing crucial tasks first thing in the morning will leave you with a sense of accomplishment. The day will already feel like a success and a great deal of your stress will be eliminated. Start off each day by knocking out the most important tasks on your list.For example, if you have five e-mails you need to respond to and a report that must be proofread, do that as soon as you get into the office.
 Take advantage of your downtime by keeping work with you at all times. If you have a few stray minutes on the bus, use that to read something for school or work. If you're waiting in line at the grocery store, return some work e-mails on your phone. If you always have work on you, you can always be making the most of your time.If you're a student, think about investing in some audiobooks or recording your lectures. While waiting in line or walking to class, you can listen to material for your courses.
 Many people assume multitasking is a great way to get more done each day and manage time wisely. However, focusing on multiple tasks at once actually makes you less productive. Things will take longer to do, as you're not giving anything your full attention. Focus completely on one task at a time instead. You will get your work done quicker this way, allowing you to make the most of your time.For example, return all your emails. Then, log out of your email account and move on to another task. Do not worry about your email for now. If you need to return more emails later in the day, you can do that after you complete the task at hand.

