


Invest in a basic knee-length pencil skirt. Look for one in a neutral color, and go with black for the most versatility.
Buy dress slacks in a neutral color. Take your time in choosing a pair that flatters your legs.
Purchase a few colorful knit tops. Choose colors that work well with your skin tone.
Own a white, fitted button-down shirt.
Keep a stock of fitted, short-sleeve t-shirts.
Keep a stock of fitted tank tops and camisoles, as well.
Look for a blazer. Choose one that matches the color and style of either your pencil skirt or dress pants.
Pick out a cardigan sweater.
Pick out a little black dress. A good little black dress can be dressed up for semi-formal occasions or dressed down for a night on the town. For best results, look for a dress in a classic cut.
Have at least one pair of flattering jeans. Look for a timeless dark-wash denim and a classic style, such as boot cut or straight leg.
Also own a pair of flattering khaki pants. For some occasions, jeans are too casual and dress slacks are too dressy. Khaki pants are good for bridging that gap.
Purchase a fitted coat suitable for spring and fall weather. Think trench coats and pea coats.
Own a heavier fitted coat capable of keeping you warm in the winter.;
,


Keep a few casual sundresses handy for warm spring and summer weather.
Purchase capri pants for the warmer weather. Choose a length and cut—loose or fitted—that flatters your legs.
Consider purchasing a fitted pea coat for autumn and winter.
Look for a few heavy sweaters for the winter. Turtlenecks are considered classic, but many other styles also work well.
 Think black, gray, tan, dark brown, white, and cream. Neutral colors are the most versatile.



Think primary and secondary colors. A few brights and variations will not hurt, but try to stick with colors that are always considered acceptable. Avoid colors that are only "in" for the season.
Look for colors that coordinate well with your skin tone.
Consider a blouse or dress with a small polka dot print.
Search for pinstripe pants or shirts.
Try on a subdued floral pattern.
Look at muted, mellow plaid prints, especially for the fall and winter.
 Always choose clothing that fits your body properly. Ill-fitted pieces will prevent your style from looking classic, regardless of the pieces you have in your wardrobe.

