 Go to the library and pick up some books for your toddler. Many children’s books now state what ages the book targets (such as “for children ages 2-4”). Choose books that suit your child’s age so that they will be engaged with the book.For toddlers ages 12-24 months, choose sturdy books that show kids doing everyday things. Books about routines (such as mealtimes, going to bed, waking up) are also a good choice. Interactive books that include lifting flaps and exploring textures will keep your child interested. For textures, check out “Pat the Bunny” by Dorothy Kunhardt and “Tails” by Matthew Von Fleet. Books about routines include “Goodnight Moon” by Margaret Wise Brown and “Bath Time!” by Sandra Boynton.
Toddlers ages 24-36 months tend to prefer to follow along with you and turn the pages on their own. Let them guess the next word or explore the pictures on the pages. Some favorites include “Go, Dog, Go!” by Dr. Seuss, “Chicka Chicka Boom Boom” by Bill Martin Jr. and John Archambault, and “Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?” by Bill Martin.
Avoid using iPads and other electronic readers. Having your toddler play with a tablet may seem like a good way to keep them occupied, but this is not healthy for toddlers. Using a tablet decreases a child's opportunity for social interactions and this may lead to higher relational problems in the future.;
, When at the library, tell your child that they can choose 2-3 books to bring home. Your toddler may choose books that have beautiful pictures, or that explore a new interest, such as trains or animals.Include your toddler in the process of choosing books so that your child will be excited to read it together.


Toddlers enjoy exploring books on their own. Your toddler may want to look at a book’s pictures ahead of time, turn the pages, and look through books when playing alone.
 Choose books that have few words on the page so that your toddler can follow along. Toddlers prefer books with repetitive texts so that they can participate in reading, too. Look for books that accompany your toddler’s interests.For example, if your child loves dinosaurs, find books about dinosaurs.
 Keep books in the house, in the car, and on your person. Books can come in handy if you’re in a waiting room or in line for something. At home, store books on a low shelf or basket so that your child can easily access them when wanted.Making books and reading accessible is important to keep children interested and engaged in books from an early age.
Ask your librarian for recommendations and keep a stack of books available to your child.
 Transitioning to reading books can be difficult for toddlers if they are wound up. Allow some time for the transition. Say, “In 5 minutes we will sit down and read a book” and then give 2- and 1-minute warnings. When the time does come, give your child time to relax and be ready to hear the story., Having a routine with reading will help to develop discipline and a sense of consistency in your child. Find a time when your child is relaxed, such as after bathtime or before bed. This can help your child associate books with feeling calm. Have rituals around reading, such as allowing your child to choose a book, then you choose a book.Have a place you read together regularly, such as a reading nook or comfy space. You can also read in your child’s bed.
 Toddlers tend to be squirmy and on the move. If your child only makes it through a few pages, don’t sweat it or push to finish the story. Allow your child to play and close the book.Reading should be fun and not a chore. If your child is disinterested or moving on with his or her interests, let it be.


For example, your child may want to read a book, then move onto playing with stuffed animals.
 While most parents and caretakers love when their child sits calmly on their lap, this may be unrealistic for some toddlers. Toddlers want to move around and be active. If your child does not want to sit but wants to be read to, this is okay. Let your child move around, run, jump, and do somersaults. Your child may be moving, but likely listening.Ask your librarian for recommendations for books that include movement. Check out “Press Here” by Herve Tullet and “Good Night Yoga” by Mariam Gates.
 Toddlers love silliness, and the sillier the story, the more engaged your child may become. Be expressive and act out the story. Make animal noises, read in different accents, and use plenty of emotion. Showing that you are having fun will help to make reading a positive experience and help your child to associate reading with fun. Your child will love it and stay engaged with the book.If your child is interested in animal books, make the noise of each animal when you see it. Encourage your kid to do the same!
For example, say, “What is that? Yes, that’s a truck. A big, yellow truck.”

, Children love to know what happens next in a book. Create anticipation before turning the page. Set a mood for each book and allow your child to feel excited about what happens.Ask questions such as, “What do you think will happen next?”


You can also label your own feelings to help build emotional vocabulary, such as, “Oh, I can’t wait to see what happens! Maybe he will feel happy or sad. What do you think?”

, As your child begins to speak, books can be an important tool to help develop words and phrasing. If your child is familiar with a story, pause before finishing a rhyme or phrase and allow your child to say the word. Ask questions about the book such as, “What does the cow say?” or “Where is your mouth?” Then, expand on your child’s response., Make books interactive by finding details in the illustrations. Point to items and name them. Say, “This is a hat. It goes on your head.” Then, as your child gets older, ask about what’s going on in the pictures. Ask, “How many owls?” and “What color are the cars?”Ask about cause-and-effect and relationships within the pictures.Engage with the text and the illustrations as much as possible.
 Toddlers often want to read the same story over and over again. While this can feel tedious to you, your toddler likely enjoys the consistency and routine of reading the same book. This can help build your child’s attention and enjoyment of reading.Allow your child to have favorite books, even if you dislike them. Remember that your child is learning, even if you are frustrated.

