;
, When you first start playing Bad Piggies, you’ll only have access to the first set of levels, categorized as “Ground Hog Day.”

, After the game launches, you’ll be shown a screen with six empty boxes placed in a grid pattern, along with various supplies at the bottom of the screen. Your goal is to drag and drop each of the supplies into the grid to create a vehicle that can be used to transport your piggy to the finish line. For example, level one provides you with two wheels and three boxes.
 For example, in level one you must move both wheels to the bottom of the grid, then place all three boxes on top of the wheels to create a boxcar, or wagon.
 This places the piggy in the vehicle so it can be driven to the finish line.
 Your vehicle will start driving by itself toward the finish line. Once you’ve crossed the finish line, you can advance to the next level., These buttons feature extra tools such as balloons, bottle rockets, motors, and engines that can be used throughout the journey to help you reach the finish line.
 The Bellows and Fan tools provide your vehicle with extra momentum so you can move faster toward the finish line.
 When detonated at the right time, TNT will blow up obstacles that stand in your way.
 When pointing downward toward the ground, Soda Bottles allow your vehicle to fly high so you can conquer hills and collect stars.
 This allows you to see whether any hills, gaps, or other obstacles should be taken into consideration so you can build a vehicle that takes your piggy to the finish line.
 Not all vehicles must be built in a traditional manner to help you advance toward the finish line.
 This can help prevent your vehicle from surging forward and crashing when all soda bottles are activated at the same time.
 The goal of these levels is to cross the finish line with your entire vehicle intact.
 Longer vehicles are less likely to tip over than shorter vehicles, and will help you maintain balance.
 Your vehicle may end up driving more efficiently when weight is distributed properly.