 You may have guides, if this is so, just keep your eye on them and don't get distracted. If you can't find your way to class, try to find the reception or ask a teacher or student.;
, Dress Well. It saves about 10 minutes of time. And, if you change your mind, you won't have to start over. Lay out an undershirt, underwear, top, bottom, socks, and shoes. Also anything else, like earrings or a scarf. (Make an alternative outfit, in case you have second thoughts.) About a week before school starts, you should start to see what pieces of clothing look good together. Buy some outfits, but also buy a bunch of plain, dark, light, or ripped jeans. Also buy some plain color t-shirts. They look good with anything! Wait until school starts, to do the bulk of your shopping, to see what is "in". If you have a uniform, make sure it's been washed, pressed and hung up. Always wear full school uniform on the first day of school.
 Put this with your school clothes. If you are wearing makeup, lay your supplies out as well. Decide exactly what you'll do in the morning so you'll be prepared. Leave yourself time to get ready, by planning a rough schedule and adding fifteen minutes. Don't get your supplies list until day 1. Buy a notebook and binder for every class, so you only get to get a few things the school-rush day. That way, you won't get stuck with a Hello Kitty notebook or a Barbie binder.
 Look in the mirror, and practice your smile, conversation starters, anything else you may say, and tell yourself you'll have an awesome first day. Use whitening toothpaste. For an extra fresh, clean mouth, rinse with mouthwash, brush your teeth, and rinse with mouthwash again. Pack some mints for your locker also. Keep your head up and smile; confidence is key!

, Also keep a box of "extras". Anything extra you'll need, such as a mini brush, lip gloss, and mascara, extra ponytails, clips, feminine things, and a headband. Or, if you are not that worried about all that, use it for extra things you just want to have in case, like ballpoint pens, or anything else.
 In it you should pack gum/mints,), extra pens, pads or tampons, and anything else. Don't over-pack. Only bring the essentials: extra supplies, makeup, and only what you need for the class. So, you have backup, while in style! Tomboy gal? Pack it in a small Puma handbag or a Hollister tote - they don't look as girly, and they are durable.
 Triple check, though you won't need much on Day 1, you still should get everything you can into your locker.
 You can write things you are worried about or things you're excited about - whatever makes you relax better. Write in bold/large letters, I'll Do Great! Keep it under your pillow, or if you don't want someone to find it, throw it away somewhere.
 feel good. If it isn't too late, get a steady sleep schedule started 1-2 weeks before school starts. If it's too late, start as soon as you can! Calm down, and just relax

, Take a quick, 10 minute shower (or take one the night before).
 If it helps you, practice approaching people, asking questions and directions, and your great, beautiful smile! Just remember, don't make your conversations awkward, practice something you would say, not something random!

, Even if you are feeling a bit anxious, convince yourself you're totally relaxed and confident. People won't shove you through the halls; they will help and respect you.
 You always want to feel confident, and you don't want people to say your hair's gross!

, You will feel a lot better if you walk into school with your friends, so you aren't so lost or look like you don't know where to go. This is the best way to start the day. If this is your first day in a completely new neighborhood, and you don't have any friends just yet, then promise yourself you'll make some! When you get used to the new school, especially high school, you shouldn't be afraid to introduce yourself to new people in the classes your usual friends aren't in. Be friendly!

, If you are girly you could choose a fashion bag that is colourful but large. If you are not so girly then choose a sports bag or backpack.
 Starting from scratch is always hard. Make lots of friends, join a few clubs here and there, get to know teachers. It's going to be a great year so be sure to start it off right!

