 Either you become a part-time or full time fan, the thing is that you are gonna be a fanatic of the franchise in one way or another, and you'll enter the world of Stargate fandom in general.;
, Watching them can also bring you closer to the franchise.


To start it off, you better watch the 1994 Stargate movie starting Kurt Russell and James Spader, either on TV, on VCD or on DVD and Blu-ray. There is also a special edition on DVD and a special commemorative edition DVD and Blu-ray disc released in 2009 marking its 15th anniversary.






Continue with watching Stargate SG-1, the first of three television series of what would be the Stargate franchise, with 10 seasons. There are reruns of them in several television channels worldwide, and one can also watch the series on DVD. And as the series also had two direct-to-DVD movies produced (Stargate: The Ark of Truth and Stargate: Continuum), you may have to watch them as well.






Progress on with watching the animated series Stargate Infinity (1 season) and the two spin-off series Stargate Atlantis (5 seasons) and Stargate Universe (2 seasons) either on TV reruns or on DVD. SGA is also available on Blu-Ray as well so try buying it on that format.
 If you may, you have to focus first on either the movie or your favorite of the 3 television series to read on.


Check your local bookstore if a SG book is available, or online for any copies to be purchased. You can also try the Stargate Novels website for online purchase or to know what SG related novels to buy firsthand.
 Since 1999, the Gateworld webpage serves as the online hub of the entire franchise so check it out also for news, interviews with the cast and crew of all three television series and for its online encyclopedia of all 3 Stargate TV shows and even buy franchise-related goods and merchandise online. Stargate Wiki is another online encyclopedia for fans of the franchise, so make sure you register there.


Try having a Stargate theme username in the Internet so as to spread your love for the franchise to users globally.
 Avid Gaters use them while they talk to others. Include the following lines or phrases such as these in your conversations:


Oh for cryin' out loud! - Jack O'Neill
Godspeed - General George Hammond
Indeed. - Teal'c (If you say that line you can optionally raise your eyebrow like Teal'c)
Yee-haw! - General George Hammond
You know, lose it. It means, go crazy. Nuts, insane. Bonzo. No Longer in possession of one's faculties, Three fries short of a Happy Meal, WACKO!!!!! - Jack O'Neill
That's O'Neill, with two Ls. - Jack O'Neill
I'm confident - Daniel Jackson
Oh no! - Dr. Rodney McKay
That's Lieutenant Colonel errand boy to you. - John Sheppard
When there is time, there is hope. - Teyla Emmagan
Scenarios include: having to say Godspeed in cheering for favorite personalities or sports teams or saying farewell and in paying tribute for those who are deceased
Noticing someone drinking coffee and quoting Hammond's line "For someone who just drank a cup of steaming hot coffee!" in the process
saying the line "With all due respect, Sir" in formal conversations

, With the cancellation of the latest SG-related computer game Stargate: Resistance in 2011, the only PC game available now is the brand new and unofficial Stargate System Lords, based on Stargate SG-1 where one plays as a Goa'uld in the early years of the civilization. There's also the brand new game Stargate SG-1: Unleashed for iOS and later on Android and Steam, now available online. You can also buy SG-related card games online or at a local store.
 Reading the books, watching both the movie and the TV series (previously mentioned), and going online will help one increase his/her knowledge of the franchise. Things also to learn are the characters of both the movie and the subsequent television series.
 They can be bought either online or from real auctions and even from attics of fellow fans. Doing that will show others what you've progressed as a fan of the Stargate franchise.
 They can be both fun and a great way to appreciate the franchise and to celebrate the Stargate spirit in you. If you do, consider these:



Go in costume to these conventions. Either buy the costumes online or on a store, especially in a military store or make them yourself, and you'll do what Gaters are sometimes required to wear. Several characters wore United States Air Force and United States Marine Corps regulation uniforms so buy them from military outfit stores.
Be in character in these cons. As several of the characters in both the movie and the 3 TV series, as a military science fiction work, are military personnel from the United States Air Force (as well as the US Marine Corps) and it is set in the present day, act like them properly and in the right manner as real life military personnel do.
 Doing that will make you a contributor in the now ongoing campaign to save the Stargate franchise as a whole, especially the 3rd TV series of it, Stargate Universe, on which its cancellation and the subsequent 10 final aired episodes, most especially the finale cliffhanger episode on May of 2011 sparked the flames of fans who wanted the series to go on after its second season finale, which would turn out to be the finale of the series as a whole.

