 Getting to the shuttle quickly is even more important for a jumping smash. If you move too slowly, the shuttle will be too low for you to get the most out of this swing. Hold the racket in a forehand grip on the approach.An overhead smash is very similar in the beginning to a regular smash: your body and feet should face side-court and your stance should be firm.
The jumping smash will return the shuttle with greater power and at a steeper angle, making it even more difficult to return.Keep your body loose but ready. It’s common to tense your muscles when preparing to jump, but this can restrict your range of motion., While keeping your eyes on the shuttle, stretch back your racket arm as far as you can. Your non-racket arm will be about level with your ribs and bent at the elbow. Bend a little at the knees and lean forward slightly. All set? Now you’re ready to jump., Take a deep breath and drive downwards with your racket foot to jump into the air. Stretch out your non-racket arm so it’s above your head and off to your side to maintain balance while in the air.Timing is the key for a wicked jumping smash. In the best case scenario, you’ll be airborne and starting to swing at the highest point of your jump.
When going into the jump, your legs should be mostly straight. As you reach the intercept point, bend your legs backwards., Swing your racket forward to hit the shuttle and, as you do so, lower your non-racket arm to your side and straighten it at the elbow. Simultaneously, squeeze your abs as hard as you can and bring your racket foot forward a little.Envision a clear mental picture of the angle you want to send the shuttle on back over the net. This will help improve accuracy.
If you have not started far enough behind the shuttle, or if you’re too far behind it, you won’t be able to fully extend your arm as you swing. This will decrease the power of your smash., Continue the motion of your swing after hitting the shuttle until your arm is facing forward and mostly straight. As you approach the ground, bring your racket foot farther forward so you’re ready to land. Stabilize after landing and be ready to return the shuttle.


Jump smashes are most suitable on poor returns, where the shuttle is launched high toward the center of the court.