 Your right to take photographs and video of people and things that are in public spaces and in plain view is constitutionally protected. Taking photographs of public places and public officials, even police, in public is considered a form of public oversight of the government. Generally, unless prohibited by a specific law or ordinance, you are allowed to photograph the following in public spaces:


Buildings, including public buildings and bridges.
People in public, including children.
Celebrities.
Police and other public officials, including when they are performing their official duties.
Airports and other mass transit depots.;
, There is a common misperception, particularly since September 11th, that you cannot take pictures on mass transit or in airport terminals. There is no broad prohibition against photography on mass transit. The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) has stated that photography is allowed in and around airline security checkpoints so long as you do not interfere with the screening process.In New York City, there was a move to stop photography on subways, Long Island Railroad, and Metro North trains. Ultimately, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) stated affirmatively that there is no ban on photography.Despite this ban, MTA police officers have threatened to arrest press and civilian photographers.If you are threatened with arrest for taking pictures on public transportation, you can contact your local ACLU office to get information on your legal rights in your area.
 There is no federal law that prohibits individuals from photographing the exterior of federal buildings. While journalists and civilians taking pictures have suffered harassment, been detained and arrested for photographing and videotaping federal buildings from public sidewalks, there is no legal justification for this conduct.


The U.S Department of Homeland Security issued a memo stating that photographing the exterior of federal buildings from public property is allowed.
You can access a copy of the memo on the ACLU’s website. The ACLU recommends that you bring a copy of the memo with you if you plan to photograph federal buildings.You should note that you are entitled to take a photograph of the exterior of a building. If you use a telephoto lens to look inside someone’s window you are invading that person’s privacy and you may be subject to a lawsuit., Citizens have the right to take a picture or videotape police officers in public who are performing their jobs. Photography, in this instance, stands as an independent record of police activity, which can be used to show police misconduct.


You have the right to photograph the police. Police officers may tell you that you are not allowed to photograph them. However, as discussed in more detail below, if you are taking pictures or video in a public space or in a private space at which you are entitled to be present, and you are not interfering with the police, you have the legal right to take pictures.
 You can only enter private property with the permission of the property owner and the property owner has the right to limit what you are allowed to photograph on his or her land. A property owner can ask you to leave the property if you fail to follow the rules that were established for your photography. You can be arrested for entering someone’s private property without permission, this is referred to as trespassing.You can, however, take pictures of private land from a public place or from another location where you have permission to enter.There are several exceptions to the trespass law as related to photography. You are allowed to take photos to document or lessen a disaster. You are also permitted to take photos on someone else’s property to document a crime., Police officers can order a person to stop taking pictures if the person is interfering with police operations. Interfering with police operations does not mean filming or photographing the police while they are working. If you are ordered to stop photographing the police, you will have to make a judgment as to whether you are going to comply with the order. If you are not close to the scene but it appears you are being harassed because the police officers do not want their activities caught on camera, you can consider respectfully declining the officer’s request.
 If you are interfering with police operations or breaking a law in order to take a picture (such as trespassing), you may be arrested or detained by the police. You may also be arrested if you photograph certain places related to national security, such as nuclear facilities or military installations. While private individuals may not have a right to stop you from photographing them on a public street, there are limits on how you can use the image.


For example, you cannot publish a picture of a person for advertising purposes without seeking the permission of the person you photographed.
Similarly, you cannot use the photo in an article describing something that may be considered negative without having the person’s permission. For example, you cannot use a photograph that you took in public in an article about obesity without receiving the person’s permission.
You may be sued if you use a person’s image improperly.You cannot photograph people when they have secluded themselves in places where they have an expectation of privacy, such as dressing rooms, bathrooms, or inside of their homes.
 Often, security guards start confrontations over photographers taking pictures of the place where they work. Occasionally, security officers may try to restrict photography citing vaguely worded security concerns. As a professional or civilian photographer you should understand that a member of the public does not have the right to detain you in a public place because you are taking pictures. Even if a person asks you questions, you are under no obligation to provide any answers regarding your photography.


It is illegal for a member of the public to detain you against your will.
Legally, a person cannot use fear or the threat of violence in order to force you to disclose your identity or the reason you are taking pictures.
If you are being harassed or threatened by a member of the public you can call the police. If you feel that you may be injured, you can call 911 and try to remove yourself from harm as quickly as possible.
Some states require that you disclose your identity to a police officer, but you are not required to disclose your identity to a member of the public at large., A photographer may be able to defuse a tense situation with a person who was photographed by speaking politely and calmly to the person. If the person begins to escalate the situation and you feel threatened, you should call the police. If someone is trying to detain you or take your film, consider asking the following questions so that you can follow-up with legal action if necessary:


Ask the person for his or her name.
Ask the person to identify his or her employer. This may be particularly important if a security guard is harassing you.
Ask them whether you are free to leave and whether they intend to detain you. If they state that are going to detain you, ask them if they intend to use physical force.
Ask them on what legal grounds they think that they can detain you or attempt to confiscate your camera.
You should contact the police as soon as you are able., In most cases, the police have no legal grounds to stop you from taking pictures. However, it is important that you remain polite when speaking with the police and never physically resist a police officer.If you are stopped by a police officer, you can do the following:


Ask “am I free to go?”If the officer says no, then you are being detained by the police.Generally, a police officer cannot detain a person without reasonable suspicion that you committed or were about to commit a crime. Until you ask whether you can leave, your stop is considered voluntary and legal.
If the officer detains you, you have the right to politely ask for what reason or crime you are suspected of committing. You can also remind the officer that your right to take photographs is protected by the First Amendment.Photographers have been charged with disorderly conduct, trespass and obstruction of governmental administration just for taking pictures as part of their job. Often, district attorneys dismiss the charges but the officers, by arresting the photographer on questionable charges, were able to stop the photographer from taking pictures., If you are seen photographing an event, a police officer may attempt to confiscate or demand access to your photography equipment or to view your film or video. You can refuse the police access to your equipment by asking whether they have a warrant to view your digital data. This question may be enough to stop a police officer from pursuing the matter further. While the Supreme Court has not ruled specifically on the need for a warrant to view digital images, it has ruled that the police need a warrant to search your cell phone. Private parties cannot force you to delete images unless they get a court order.


Under certain circumstances the police can access your cell phone and most likely your camera without a warrant. The police would have to show exigent circumstances, which means they need to access your electronics in order to save a life, or because the police officer has a reasonable, good faith belief that they can prevent the destruction of evidence., Police officers are not legally allowed to delete your photographs or video under any circumstances. Officers who have engaged in this type of conduct have faced felony charges for evidence tampering and obstruction and theft for taking a photographer’s memory card. If an officer attempts to delete your photograph, you can politely remind him that it is a felony if he deletes the material., If you suffered harassment, intimidation, or threats, or you were physically detained, you should contact the police. If you suffered at the hands of the police, you should contact a civil rights attorney and ask them how you should proceed. Often there are civilian complaint boards to which you can report improper and illegal police conduct.


You may also have a civil case against the person who harassed on your or their employer. You may be entitled to money damages for any injuries that you suffered.