 If you're experiencing spasticity, you may need a range of medications and treatments that are only available through a doctor. You may also require medical devices like a brace or an orthosis to assist you in your daily functions, which will also require a doctor's visit (specifically to an orthotist). Your doctor will want to monitor your condition and may require follow-up visits to determine how effective your treatment options are.;
, Antispasmodic drugs, also known as anticholinergic drugs, are a class of medications that treat a variety of muscle spasms.Some common antispasmodics prescribed for spasticity include:


Baclofen (Lioresal) - targets the spinal cord to alter signals sent to the brain. Side effects include hallucinations, confusion, sedation, and weakness/loss of muscle coordination.
Dantrolene sodium (Dantrium) - weakens spastic muscles without targeting the nervous system. Side effects include drowsiness, dizziness, weakness, nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, depression, blood abnormalities, and liver damage.
Tizanidine hydrochloride (Zanaflex) - targets the central nervous system to reduce muscular reflexes. Side effects include dizziness, drowsiness, low blood pressure, dry mouth, and possible liver damage.
 Benzodiazepines are a group of skeletal muscle relaxants that are often prescribed to treat spasticity.Benzodiazepines may even be effective when used in low doses to treat spasticity in children.However, due to the potential for tolerance and addiction, it's generally advised that benzodiazepine use be kept to a minimum and remain closely monitored by a medical professional.Some common benzodiazepines include:


Alprazolam (Xanax)
Clonazepam (Klonopin)
Diazepam (Valium)

, Intramuscular injections provide relief for extended periods of time with few reported side effects. They can help treat spasticity in as few as one muscle or muscle group with great accuracy, but they may not be as effective at treating broader, more diffused spasticity problems.Some common intramuscular injections used to treat spasticity include:


Botulinum Toxin A (Botox)
Botulinum Toxin B (Myobloc)
Phenol

, A baclofen pump is a surgically implanted device that is inserted around the spinal cord. It delivers medication to your spinal cord at regular intervals that your doctor will determine and set.Because the pump is surgically implanted, you will need to have the medicine reservoir refilled every four to six weeks.
This treatment option seems to work best with leg spasticity.
Since medicine is delivered directly to the spinal cord, it does not pass the blood-brain barrier and therefore does not cause any cognitive side effects.
 For some individuals with severe spasticity, surgery may be a viable option when other treatments have failed. However, because surgery is such an invasive and serious procedure, you should think carefully about your options and discuss the possible benefits and downsides with your doctor.An orthopedic surgeon may be able to simply cut an affected muscle or tendon to elongate it, thereby reducing contractions.
A neurosurgeon can perform a rhizotomy in which the roots of affected nerves are cut from the spinal cord. This permanently paralyzes some or all of the attached muscles, preventing further spasticity.
Be aware that both surgical options are permanent. In the case of a rhizotomy, it will result in permanent loss of muscle function.
 A physical therapist can help you improve your flexibility and range of motion. Physical therapy can also teach you ways to stretch and exercise your muscles at home between sessions.Ask your doctor for recommendations if you need a physical therapist.
 Some individuals find that stretching triggers spasticity because of the physical limitations on muscle use that may come with spasticity.However, it's generally agreed that daily stretching exercises can help prevent spasticity in the long run.Making stretching a regular part of your treatment plan will help limber your muscles and get your body used to extending and flexing your muscles.


Extend each spastic muscle's joint so the affected muscles are stretched as far as they can comfortably reach.Try to hold the position for about one minute. You should begin to feel the muscle relax and loosen up.
Release the position and allow your muscles to gradually relax. Gradually work through each affected muscle group.
As you continue your stretches over the weeks and months ahead, try to increase the number of stretches and the types of movement you perform.
If you're unsure of how to stretch your muscles or if you need assistance, a physical therapist can help you get started.
 Exercising in a pool makes your body feel more supported. This can give you a broader range of motions and flexibility than you would otherwise get doing the same exercises on dry ground.Cold temperatures can trigger spasticity.However, too high of a temperature may lead to quicker fatigue.A temperature slightly below 85 degrees Fahrenheit (29 degrees Celsius) is generally considered ideal.
Be aware of your own limitations. If you're not a strong swimmer or if your symptoms may cause a drowning hazard, avoid pool exercises or have someone closely supervise you at all times.
 Orthoses are medical devices that are custom-built for patients by an orthotist. These devices can help reduce spasticity by altering the position your muscles rest in.Some common orthoses for individuals with spasticity include:


finger and toe spreaders
braces (worn on the foot, ankle, hand, or wrist)

, Some people with spasticity issues have uncontrollable movements or contractions at night. This can disrupt sleep and make it difficult to remain comfortable in bed. Using special splints and/or padded braces can help keep your body in a position that reduces the chance of nocturnal spasticity.Ask your doctor or orthotist if medical splints and braces designed for nighttime use may help your condition.
 Some individuals with spasticity find that relaxation techniques reduce the incidence of muscle spasms. Relaxation techniques can also help you mentally and emotionally cope with your condition.Progressive muscle relaxation can be very helpful at reducing spasticity.

Deep breathing, yoga, and meditation may also help relieve some symptoms of spasticity.
 Different individuals may experience different triggers of muscle spasms. However, some conditions are generally acknowledged as being common triggers for many people.Some triggers for individuals with spasticity include, but are not limited to:


extreme temperatures (both heat and cold)
fatigue
high levels of humidity
infections
tight clothing
sudden movements without proper stretching and preparedness

, Severe spasticity may leave some individuals confined to a bed or chair for long periods of time. If this happens, it's important to take health and sanitation precautions so you can prevent infections and irritations from developing.Change positions regularly to avoid developing bedsores.
Wear comfortable, loose-fitting clothing to reduce muscle constriction.
Keep your skin clean. If you cannot bathe on your own, keep pre-moistened wet wipes handy and use them to clean your body.
 Some individuals with spasticity find that constipation or painful hemorrhoids can affect their condition. These complications can be avoided with careful monitoring and regulation of your diet.Eat a diet high in fiber to prevent constipation.
Stay hydrated by drinking plenty of water throughout the day.
Aim for two to three liters of total beverages consumed each day. Be sure to further increase your water intake if you live in a hot, arid environment or if you are physically active.