 Being together is not the only way you can show that you love him. Your boyfriend needs his friends and to enjoy things outside of you and the relationship. By encouraging him to go out with his friends, you are showing him that you love him and trust him. Plus, when he returns, you can remind him that you love him and only him by telling him how much you missed him.Don’t get upset or angry if he wants to go watch a game with his friends. Time apart is good for you both, as is spending time with your friends.
Make sure the time with his friends is realistic. Your boyfriend shouldn’t expect you to never see your friends while he sees his. He should also not skip out of responsibilities you share to hang out with his friends.
 Your relationship should involve spending a lot of time together. When you go on dates, eat dinner, or watch television, stay present in the moment. Enjoy the activity and talk to one another. Leave your cell phone and social media accounts alone for a little while. This will show him you love only him and not people online.It’s okay to spend an hour or so tweeting about the issues of the day, but there’s also a time to call it quits. If you spend time on social media while he's right there with you, you'll make him feel unloved. Rather than checking your phone throughout your date, focus on him. Social media will still be there tomorrow.
 Be friendly and respectful to his friends. It is important that you form good relationships with his friends because they are important to your boyfriend. However, you shouldn’t flirt with them. If you really love your boyfriend, you will be friendly with his friends but nothing more. Instead, focus your affection on your boyfriend while you are with his friends to remind him he's the only one for you.This will hurt their friendship and put you under suspicion. It’s okay to offer a friendly hug after you’ve gotten to know them, but softly grazing their arms or standing too close are red flags for flirting. Behavior like this will make your guy think twice about your loyalty.
 This should go without saying. If you truly love your guy and only him, you won’t go behind his back with someone else. Remain faithful to show him he’s the only one in your heart.

