 There are a lot of home remedies that can reduce the look of your cystic acne scars. But, just because something claims to be natural doesn't mean it's safe. Read up on the ingredients involved in remedies and avoid ingredients that you're sensitive or allergic to. Avoid mixing powders with oils and don't combine any treatments (herbal or oil) with lemon juice. If you want to use lemon juice along with another method, rinse off the lemon juice first and wait 2 or 3 hours before using a different method.


If you're thinking about buying an over-the-counter home treatment for scar removal, research the product first.;
, If you have darker cystic acne scars, the vitamin C in lemon juice can improve wound healing. Use a cotton ball or cotton swab soaked in lemon juice and apply it directly to your scar. Let the juice air dry before rinsing your skin with warm water. Repeat this once a day.Be aware that exposing your skin to sun when you have lemon juice on it can bleach the skin.
 Cystic scar tissue may feel firm or rough. Applying aloe vera gel into the scar can soften the scar tissue. Use gel directly from the aloe vera plant or purchase an aloe vera gel that doesn't contain many additional ingredients.Studies have shown that aloe vera can improve the appearance and characteristics of scars. It's an anti-inflammatory herb which helps increase the elasticity of the new skin tissue.
 Choose a gel caplet of vitamin E that contains 400 IU in liquid form and choose a gel caplet of vitamin D that contains 1000 to 2000 IU in liquid form. Open each gel caplet and squeeze the vitamins into a small bowl. Mix in 8 to 10 drops of castor oil and massage the mixture onto your scar. Leave the vitamins on your skin to improve the appearance of your cystic acne scars.Or, you could try mixing 2 to 3 drops of lavender oil or St John's wort oil into 2 tablespoons of castor oil for a healing massage oil. St. John's wort oil is often used to heal c-section scars., Steep a bag of organic green tea in warm water to soften it. Place the tea bag directly on your scar for 10 to 15 minutes. Do this 3 or 4 times a day. You can also soak a cotton towel in green tea, squeeze out the excess and place it over the scar.


Green tea may minimize scarring because it contains antioxidants that help your skin heal., This herb has been used in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) for centuries to reduce scarring. Get R. arnebiae from a TCM practitioner or purchase an R. arnebiae soap, powder, or concentrated herb form. To use the powder, mix ½ teaspoon of the powder or ¼ teaspoon of the concentrated herb with 1 to 2 tablespoons of castor oil. Massage the mixture into the scar tissue 3-4 times a day.R. arnebiae is also known as Zi Cao and lithospermum erythrorhizon. In TCM, it's characterized as a heat and toxin releaser. Studies show that it can reduce the numbers and functions of scar-forming cells.

