;
, As you come across prompts in your everyday life, write in your diary about the special memories you have of your loved one. Initially you may feel overwhelmed with memories.


Write about how you spent a certain holiday or celebration with them or what they thought of the approaching springtime, whatever is foremost in your mind. Whenever you feel the need to talk about them and remember them you can add to your journal or letters and read over previous entries.
Over time, this will become a precious keepsake and could be a beautiful gift in later years for a grandchild, nephew, niece, son or daughter, especially a child named after your loved one. It will give them a special connection to the person whose heritage is now intertwined in a special way with their own and in whom they will probably develop a great interest and bond which may be a source of strength for you. Create traditions to remember them by. You may want to make them private or for the entire family or, indeed, combine the two.
Create traditions to remember them by. You may want to make them private or for the entire family or, indeed, combine the two.

Religious ceremonies held on the anniversary or a birthday can be a great source of comfort and hope. You might like to hold a memorial service as an alternative near the anniversary, perhaps at home or in your garden, where you scattered the ashes or in a place that holds special memories. Songs and music, sharing memories of your loved one or special poems or reflections can all be incorporated and you may build up a tradition of using one composition or reflection each year if it held a special meaning.
This is a beautiful way to keep memories alive but can be a great source of comfort and a means of feeling close to your loved one by listening to 'Mary's song' or 'Dad's poem'. Going for a meal or a picnic, a family gathering around the date or a special outing are all traditions you and others close to your loved one can do to keep your bond strong and to build new memories associated with your loved one.
, Sometimes, you need someone to care of the moment you want to share, but you can't. To your loved one, just try to write it in your dairy.
 If they love you, they also want the progress in your life. They did not want to ruin your life in their memory.
, It will calm you down and your worries.

