 If you're not already logged in, you will need to be to start scheduling posts. In other words:


Visit facebook.com.
Type in your email address and password
Click the "Log In" button to proceed.;
, It's important to note that Facebook does not let you schedule posts for your personal account.You can only schedule posts for pages you have created — things like groups, fan pages, business pages, and so on. To get to one of these pages, click the small arrow in the top right of your main feed screen (near the globe and lock icons). In the drop-down menu underneath "Use Facebook as," click on the name of the page you've created.


If you haven't already made a page, you can do so with the "Create Page" option in the same menu. See our article on creating a small business page for more information.
 At the top of the page you've created, start typing a status update in the text box. By default, this box should read "What have you been up to?" in greyed-out text. Don't make the post yet.


At this point, you can also insert media into your post by clicking on the small "Photo/video" link above the text box. Do this before scheduling the post.
 When you've typed your post, click the arrow next to the blue and white "Post" button. Click on "Schedule" in the dropdown menu.
 In the window that pops up, choose a date with the calendar pop-up box (click on the small calendar icon to open the pop-up.) Select the time (down to the minute) from the box on the right by clicking on the time and using the up and down arrow keys on your keyboard.


You must schedule your post at least 10 minutes in the future. You can schedule your posts up to 6 months in advance.
All times refer to your current timezone., Your post will now be scheduled to post automatically at the date and time you've provided. You will see "1 Scheduled Post" on your page timeline.


If you need to make changes, just click the "See Post" link in the "1 Scheduled Post" box. From there, click on the little arrow in the top right of the post's box to Edit, Publish, Reschedule, or Delete your post.
You can also do this by clicking "Activity" at the top of your page, then clicking "Scheduled Posts" in the left column.