 If you are thinking about trying to break up your crush and your enemy, you should get that thought out of your head. Interfering with the relationship, especially negatively, may cost you any chance of having a future relationship with your crush.Trying to sabotage the relationship makes you look petty and jealous, which is not something you want people - especially your enemy - to think about you.
 Because your enemy is dating your crush, you may want to talk bad about them, complain about how awful they are, or even spread lies. You should avoid this. Being negative about your enemy means that you are stooping to their level and not being a nice person. You should take the high road and be nice, or just ignore your enemy all together.Avoid the temptation to go up to your crush and say, "You are dating the biggest jerk on the planet! You should date someone nice and sweet, like me." Doing something like this will only make your crush mad at you.
Talking about your enemy to other people may get back around to them or your crush. Your crush might be mad if they find out you are badmouthing the person they are dating.
 Your enemy may know how you feel about your crush, and this may give them reason to tease you or rub their new relationship in your face. If your enemy is bullying you or being mean, just ignore it. Giving in to the teasing by reacting or getting upset just lets your enemy know you are jealous and upset.Don’t give in to the urge to tease or make fun of your enemy in retaliation. This makes you seem petty and jealous, and brings you down to your enemy’s level.
 Turn the negative jealous feelings into positive ones. Instead of being jealous that your enemy got your crush instead of them, be happy for them. Be nice to your enemy and your crush. Don’t let your enemy know you are bothered by the relationship at all. This will eliminate any reason for your enemy to be mad at you, badmouth you to your crush, or make fun of you.Every time you get angry or upset that your enemy has your crush, try to think, "Good for them. I am happy they are dating someone." It may not always work, but it will help you start to train your brain away from negative, jealous thoughts.
Another way to be happy for your enemy is to stop thinking about them as an enemy. Start calling them by name in your head. Refer to them "my acquaintance" or "that person I know." Changing the vocabulary in your head can help release negative thoughts and help you be happy for them.
If you send positive vibes out into the world, you will be happier. Being jealous and angry isn’t healthy. It’s much easier to move on and let go of jealousy if you think positively about the situation.

