 The Indiana courts make this packet of forms available for married couples with biological or adopted minor children who want to divorce, provided they have already made an agreement on custody and parenting time of their children and the division of all debts and property., The forms and instructions are available online, or you can get print copies of the same forms at your county court clerk's office., The packet includes six forms that you must fill out to ask the court for a divorce. Detailed instructions on how to fill out each form are included in the packet.You can type the information directly into the forms, or you can print them and write in the information required with a black ink pen.
The Appearance by Unrepresented Person in Civil Case form lets the court know that you want to start a civil case and you don't have an attorney.
The Confidential Form is where you put all your confidential information such as Social Security numbers. This information will not be part of the public record of your case.
The Verified Petition for Dissolution of Marriage and Agreement sets forth the agreement you and your spouse have made, and asks the court to approve that agreement and grant you a divorce.
The Summons notifies your spouse that you've filed for divorce and that he will have to file an appearance as well if he wants to participate in the case.
The Verified Waiver of Final Hearing lets the court know that since you and your spouse agree to all the terms of the divorce you've waived your right to a final hearing.
The Decree of Dissolution of Marriage is the final order the judge will sign that will formally end your marriage and outline your agreement regarding issues such as division of property and child custody., You must complete the Child Support Obligation Worksheet before you can complete the corresponding section of your agreement.To fill out the worksheet, you'll need to use Indiana's child support calculator at http://mycourts.in.gov/csc/parents/.
 Since court records are available to the public by law, Indiana provides a separate document where you can write down any confidential information that is necessary to your case.

Information such as Social Security numbers, bank account numbers, other financial account numbers, or medical records should be included on this form and not on any of the other papers you file with the court.
The confidential form is always printed on green paper to alert court staff that it cannot be released to the public even if it's part of the case file as a whole.
The rest of the forms in the packet should be printed on white paper. Check your local rules to see how many copies of each document you need and whether there are any other forms required for your county court., Sign each of your forms in the blanks provided. Since you are the one filing the forms, you'll sign each document everywhere it leaves a blank for the petitioner.

Indiana does not require you to sign your documents in the presence of a notary or any other witnesses., To open your case, you'll need to take the originals and copies of your appearance, confidential form, verified petition, and summons.You'll have to pay a filing fee ranging from $132 to $152 depending on the county where you live.If you can't afford the fee, you can fill out and file a form with the court to apply for a fee waiver.
Once you've paid, the clerk will give you a case number and process your forms by stamping them with the filing date., You must send your spouse, or his attorney if he has one, a copy of your file-stamped forms. Typically you would mail the forms using certified mail.

You can also complete service by hiring someone from a private process serving company or by contacting the Sheriff's office.
Different counties have different preferred methods of service, so ask the clerk what would be the best way for you to do this., Indiana judges can enter temporary orders, but they cannot finalize a divorce until at least 60 days after the initial petition was filed. Depending on how busy the judge assigned to your case is, you may have to wait longer than that., After the waiting period, take originals and copies of your final hearing waiver and decree of dissolution and file them with the clerk. The clerk will forward the decree to the judge to sign.

You need to bring at least three copies of the decree along with two pre-addressed stamped envelopes. When the judge signs the decree, one copy will remain at the court, while one will be sent to you and the other to your spouse., Since you waived your final hearing, you'll receive your decree in the mail after the judge has signed it.