 Many online perfume retailers offer free samples when you purchase from their store. Choose a perfume and place it in your online cart. As you checkout, you will be prompted to choose free samples. Some retailers will offer only perfume and cologne samples. Other retailers will offer samples of perfume and other beauty products. Choose the samples you want and they will be automatically added to your cart.


Some places require you to spend a certain amount to be eligible for free samples. For other stores, you must buy something from the beauty department. For example, you couldn't buy a dress and qualify for free perfume samples.
Online retailers that offer free perfume samples include Sephora, Macy's, Ulta, and Nordstrom.;
, Many perfume manufacturers will send e-mail offers for free samples of new and upcoming scents to people on their mailing list. Decide which perfume companies you like and want to receive samples from, and then sign up for their mailing lists.


Make sure to look for offers when you know new perfumes are coming out.
This can be time consuming and may yield little rewards. Many companies will have limited amounts of samples, so you have to make sure you check at the right times.
Get a separate e-mail address for this. That keeps spam from your regular e-mail.
Some companies you may want to sign up with are Hermes, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Marc Jacobs, Ralph Lauren, and Dolce and Gabana. Browse perfume catalogs and the perfume counter to get ideas for companies to sign up with., Instead of waiting for a new fragrance to come out, try to get a sample now. Write the perfume manufacturer's customer service and ask them for free samples.


Make sure to be polite. Don't be offended or upset when they say no. Some companies will send you a sample; others will not., There are websites that collect free online offers, like free samples. They find them through the manufacturer's websites, Facebook, and other offers. They will send e-mails with daily or weekly offers, or post them on their website.


Use an alternate e-mail address. Don't use your primary address. You don't want to end up with a lot of spam.
Don't give out your credit card information. These sites should send you to free samples, not places where you have to buy things. The same goes for shipping costs. Also don't get tricked into buying products for the samples through these websites.

