 If you feed your baby when you first notice they are hungry, your baby will be more relaxed. A fussy and/or crying baby will draw a lot of attention. Your baby may display typical signs of hunger, or they may have unique signals that they want to eat. Pay attention to how your baby acts when they are hungry so you can easily read their cues. Typical signs of hunger are:Hand and/or finger sucking
Turning their head towards your breast
Making sucking noises with their mouth

, Nursing in the comfort of your own home is much different than nursing in public. You do not know how your baby will react to being covered or more confined when eating. Nurse at home exactly as you would if you were in public. This includes your outfit, your cover up, and possibly working with one hand or in a confined space.Latch without exposing your entire breast.
Nurse in front of the mirror so you can see how much you are exposing.
You will be more confident in public because you know how you actually look to other people, and you have an idea of how your baby will respond.
You can also nurse in front of someone you are comfortable with and get their feedback on how much they can actually see.
 You do not want to be caught off guard if another person complains or a manager tells you that you need to go to the bathroom. Have a response ready in case this happens. It is your choice how you address the issue.Educate yourself about your state's laws regarding breastfeeding in public. In almost every state in the United States (Idaho is the only exception) you are legally protected and can breastfeed wherever and whenever you want.You can ignore the comment.
You can talk to the person about the importance and benefits of breastfeeding.
You can make a joke about the situation.
You can ask the person questions about their viewpoint and why they feel the way they do.
You can show empathy and tell the person that you understand their discomfort with you breastfeeding in public.
If you are asked to go to the bathroom, you may say, “No, I’m fine. We don’t eat in bathrooms.” Or “No, thank you. Bathrooms aren’t for eating.”
If a customer complains, you may say, “I understand. If you sit at the table over there, you will not be able to see us and may be more comfortable.”

