 Can you turn your eyelids inside out? Can you shred like Hendrix on guitar? Everyone's good at something, so take the time to sharpen up with a little practice and show the world what you've got! Musical performances can make for amazing viral videos, but there's no limit here — for instance, videos of incredible sports moves, martial arts skills, Rubik's cube-solving, and much more can all achieve viral success.



Examples: "The Evolution of Dance," "Chocolate Rain," etc.

Viral Tip: For the best chance at success, try to limit yourself to things that people can't see from anyone else. For example, being able to dunk on a regulation hoop is pretty amazing, but it's something people anyone who watches basketball has seen before. Being able to dunk over a friend's head, on the other hand, is a lot rarer and more impressive.
 Believe it or not, some of the biggest viral stars in the world are people who simply record themselves playing video games, then share the footage with their live commentary added in. These types of videos, which are called "Let's Play" videos, are a form of entertainment that's rapidly grown in popularity in the last few years, so you'll already have a built-in audience if you're able to put out funny, well-made content.



Examples: YouTube channels like Markiplier, PewDiePie, etc.

Viral Tip: If you gain popularity with a Let's Play channel, convert your viral success into cash! For example, some Let's Play-ers make revenue-sharing deals with advertisers, others get sponsored by established video content providers, and still others use digital payment systems like Patreon to take donations from their viewers., There's no beating a cute animal for working your way into your audience's hearts. Cute animals have an almost universal appeal — there's something about watching a baby puppy take its first steps, for instance, that can warm even the coldest hearts. If you have an adorable pet or you happen to stumble across a heartwarming interaction at the zoo, take your phone out and start recording!



Examples: "Sneezing Panda," "Otters Holding Hands."

Viral Tip: Recording a funny or cute animal video often requires a little more luck and patience than it would take to capture a young relative doing something funny, for instance. It's difficult to predict exactly how animals will behave, even when they're well-behaved, so be patient and keep your camera running!

, DIY and "How-to" videos are immensely popular online. Though these types of videos may not be as likely to get you the internet super-stardom that funny Let's Plays or meme videos are, they can bring their brand of popularity. For instance, the YouTube channel "DaveHax," which contains short how-to videos for basic crafts, routinely gets hundreds of thousands of views per video (sometimes even several million.)Examples: "Life Hack" videos, "WonderHowTo" videos, etc.

Viral Tip: For maximum popularity, you'll want to address problems that lots of people have a hard time dealing with. For example, common computer performance issues like slow loading times, bad Wi-Fi connections, and so on are among the very most common customer support issues., It's amazing how quickly pop culture that seems cutting-edge at the time becomes embarrassingly dated. Older music, fashion, TV shows, and so on can be absolutely cringe-inducing with a decade or two of hindsight. Unearthing an old, forgotten gem of retro cheese and uploading it to the internet can be an unorthodox path to viral success, but it's one that can truly pay off if you hit the jackpot — consider how the practice of "Rickrolling" became a cultural touchstone based off of a decades-old music video by Rick Astley.



Examples: "Rickroll" videos, "Super Bowl Shuffle" clips, "Everything Is Terrible," etc.

Viral Tip: Though every decade has its fair share of cheese, for many, the neon-soaked 1980s take the cake. Try watching forgotten 80s junk-cinema classics like Miami Connection for a taste of just how corny the Reagan years seem today.

