 Blend them into your skin with your fingers, using circular motions.;
, This has a lighter coverage, so it won't look as chalky. The eyes are the attention drawer in this look, so everything else needs to fall behind and blend. Apply dots on the face and blend with a makeup brush, a beauty blender, or your fingers.
 Put a dot under the eyes and any imperfections you may have, then blend well with a small concealer brush, a sponge, or just by hand. Keep in mind that if you use your hands though, it may not look as smooth. If you want a natural skin look, leave some flaws uncovered. It will look as if you did not use foundation at all.
 Use a powder and apply it with a brush on the T-zone (forehead and nose) and where you applied concealer.
 Primer keeps makeup on your face for the whole day - you don't want to look like a colored panda!

, This will even the color out, allowing everything to flow perfectly. If a lot of veins are showing, apply a dab of concealer before you apply the eyeshadow. If needed, you might want to blend the concealer and eyeshadow.
 Blend it well. Gold is a perfect shade that goes with any skin color, and works like magic with bright eyeliner. It also enhances your eye color, no matter what it is. On top of that, you can apply any eyeshadow of your choice, as long as it works with your chosen eyeliner color.


For example, you wouldn't want purple eyeliner with orange eyeshadow. (Of course, you're free to do so if you want.)

, Trace the marks with an eyebrow pencil. It should go up to a quarter of the lid and wing upwards. Fill the area you traced with a gel liner in the color of your choice.
 Blend well. White gives your eyes that much needed "boost." It will also make your eyes look more alive.
 Apply on the top in a zigzag motion, then the roots, using the same zigzag motion. The zigzag motion will help you to make the layers even.
 Use a pencil or brow powder and carefully make light strokes. Make it look natural and clean.You don't want to draw much attention from the eyes themselves.
 Balms with vitamins included are best.
 A clear lipstick in the middle will help bring shine to your lips, although it is not necessary.

