 People have a tendency to avoid blinking when working on a computer, watching television or playing video games. This puts a lot of strain on the eyes.


You can relax and refresh the eyes by making a conscious effort to blink every 3 to 4 seconds, over a two minute period. Use a watch to time yourself, if necessary.
This will relieve some of the pressure on your eyes, leaving them ready to process new information.
 Covering your eye with the palm of your hand helps to relax both the eye and the mind, relieving stress and allowing you to blink freely.


Place your right hand over your right eye, resting your fingers against your forehead and the heel of your hand against your cheekbone. Don't apply any pressure.
Keep the hand in place for 30 seconds to a minute, blinking freely throughout. Uncover your right eye, then use your left hand to cover your left eye and repeat.
 This exercise helps to strengthen your eye muscles and increase their flexibility, making them less prone to injury and high pressure.


Imagine a big number eight on the wall in front of you, turned onto its side. Use your eyes to trace this number eight, without moving your head. Keep doing this for a minute or two.
If you're having difficulty imagining a sideways number eight, try actually drawing one on a large piece of paper and sticking it on the wall. You can trace this with your eyes instead.
 This exercise helps to strengthen the eye muscles and improve your overall vision.


Find a relaxing place to sit, without any distractions. Hold your thumb approximately 10 inches (25.4 cm) in front of your face and focus your eyes on it.
Focus on your thumb for five to 10 seconds, then switch your focus to another object, between 10 to 20 feet (3.0 to 6.1 m) away from you. Alternate between focusing on your thumb and focusing on the far away object for a minute or two.
 This exercise improves your focusing skills and also helps to strengthens your eye muscles.


Stretch one hand directly out in front of you, then stick up your thumb. Focus both eyes on the thumb, then slowly move your thumb towards you until it is about three inches away from your face.
Move your thumb away from you again, keeping both eyes on it at all times. Continue to focus on your moving thumb for a minute or two.
 This technique may also help alleviate eye pressure.Biofeedback teaches you to control normal bodily process, such as heart rate, blood pressure, and body temperature.A biofeedback therapist will teach you proper technique so you can begin to practice on your own.

