 What do you want your child to get out of preschool? What's important to you in a preschool program? Are you finding the thought of your child going to preschool difficult at all? Be aware that if you feel ambivalent about your child going then they will certainly pick up on those feelings and are likely to express anxiety about being separated from you. You need to ensure your own feelings are positive in order for the experience for your child to be positive to resolve any doubts you may have.;
, They often will let you visit them while they are in session, ask questions, and let your child play. Do this well in advance. Many preschools have waiting lists. You may need to register anywhere from 1 week to 1 year in advance! Ask questions such as:


What are the backgrounds of the teachers? What type of experience and training do they have? Will they let you stay in the preschool room until your child is comfortable with you leaving? How do they comfort upset children?
What portion of the program is teacher-directed, if any? What choices do the children get to make?
Will they serve snacks or does your child need to bring food? Are any foods, such as peanuts, not allowed?
Do children need to be potty-trained to attend?
Will there be any special needs children in the class?

, Joyfully say, "Guess what tomorrow is? Preschool!" Pack a lunch or snack together. Let your child help decide what to put in it. "Would you like an orange or an apple for your preschool snack?" Be excited about preschool. Say things like, "I bet you're looking forward to playing with the cars." or "Hey, you get to see Michelle tomorrow."

, Be sure to leave lots of time to get there so you're not rushing. Rushing can make you and your child anxious! When you get to preschool, hang his coat up and put his snack away. Then take him to pee, if you didn't before you left home. This will save the teachers time and will reduce accidents. Leave your cell phone number with the teachers in case they need to contact you.
 Plan to stay for at least 1 class. Get cozy; bring a book or magazine! Choose a spot to sit where your child can see you most of the time. Sit back and let your child bond with the preschool teacher(s). Try not to move around; stay in 1 spot so she feels secure, but be willing to get up and help her if requested. How long you need to stay will depend on your child. Children who are very confident and have a lot of experience interacting with strangers will need less time. Children who are more timid will need you to stay longer. Expect to stay anywhere from 1 day to 1 month or more.
 You can start by leaving for short times and see how she reacts. Never sneak off, always let your child know you're going and that you will come back. You can say "Mommy's going to go buy some ice cream while you're in preschool. Do you want me to buy strawberry or vanilla?" If she is concerned, you can say "Mommy will be really quick. Michelle will take good care of you. We can have the ice cream after preschool's over." Give her a kiss and a hug and say "Can you make a craft for me while I'm gone?" Some parents will give their child a special toy to take care of for them. "Will you take good care of Fluffy while I'm gone?"

, Anytime your child expresses concerns, listen to her and reassure her, "You are going to have lots of fun with Jody while Mamma goes and gets some library books." Hug. If your child feels nervous about you driving off, you can tell her you're going to go out to the parking lot to vacuum the Cheerios off her car seat.
 At pickup time, ask questions such as, "Did you have fun?" or "What toys did you play with today?" or "Did the teacher read you a book?"

, Watch to see how your child is adjusting. Do you feel he's making a good connection with his teachers? Does he get excited talking about all the fun he's having? Be sure to listen to him about how he feels and be prepared to make changes if necessary. If you find your child is starting to act out at home, consider reducing the number of days he attends or changing to a preschool with a smaller class size. If you feel he needs you more, you can offer to volunteer. The teachers might really appreciate the extra help.
 They are growing up!

