 A dry throat may indicate that your fluid intake is insufficient. Drinking enough fluids, especially plain old water, may then eliminate the dry throat. Sip water or any other fluids regularly throughout the day.


Limit your intake of caffeinated and alcoholic beverages, for the same reason an athletic trainer would recommend.These substances have a dehydrating effect, so regardless of what the commercials tell you, these are not the beverages to grab to quench your thirst.
Some medications can have dehydrating effects also, so consider consulting your physician or pharmacist regarding your medications and dry throat symptoms.
 Smoking is a bad choice for about a million other reasons already, but it -- and other throat irritants like dust and air pollution -- can cause dry throat. If you suffer from dry throat (and even if you don’t, for that matter), limit your exposure to throat-irritating pollutants., This is one reason why dry throat can occur when you are battling a stuffy nose.


If you notice dry throat especially after waking up, it may be the result of mouth-breathing during sleep.
Breathing through the mouth at night can be a sign of obstructive sleep apnea,a potentially serious medical condition, so consider consulting your doctor if you suspect this.
 The backflow of stomach acid into the esophagus can cause various kinds of throat irritation, including a feeling of dryness. Again, if your dry throat happens mostly as you wake up in the morning, this may be the cause.If you suffer from reflux during the night, you might try to limit your intake of acid producing foods in the evening, prop your head up higher with pillows, prop up the headboard side legs of your bed with wood blocks, or consult your pharmacist or doctor regarding the use of over-the-counter or prescription medications.
 Colder air holds less moisture, so during winter months especially, with the added drying effect of home heaters, your indoor air may become extremely dry. This can lead to a dry throat. The cool mist from the humidifier can soothe a dry throat by adding moisture to the mucus membranes.This may also be your excuse to take a long winter vacation to a warm, tropical climate!

, When caused by a medical condition, dry throat is usually the result of an annoying but generally not severe condition like allergies or the common cold. That said, when a more serious condition is present, dry and/or sore throat can be an early indicator.


Dry throat can be an indicator of strep throat or mononucleosis, tonsillitis, cancers of the throat or esophagus, or (to get even more rare but also more terrifying) the Ebola virus, among other conditions.If you have a fever and body aches with your dry throat, consult your physician to determine if you have an infection that may be of concern.