 Tax attorneys can be expensive, and in many cases other tax experts can handle your issues at a lower cost. However, you should always look for a lawyer if the IRS is threatening legal action.A tax attorney also is recommended if you need advice on the tax consequences of your business or estate plan.Attorneys can represent you and speak on your behalf before the IRS, but so can a certified public accountant or an enrolled agent licensed by the IRS.Even if you could hire a CPA or an enrolled agent to represent you, such as in an audit, you may benefit from hiring an attorney because attorney-client privilege means the things you say to your attorney will be confidential, while things you say to a CPA or an enrolled agent would not.On the other hand, tax attorneys may not be the best people to ask if you have questions about your tax returnsor if you have questions about potential deductions or financial planning.Your employer also may have discounted legal services available through an employee assistance program. While these attorneys typically only handle more basic legal issues, you can take advantage of a short, relatively inexpensive consultation to get a professional opinion on what steps you need to take.;
, Start by talking to your banker, accountant, or other lawyer to find out if there's a particular tax attorney they'd recommend.


These professionals also are likely to have an idea of your financial issues and what's at stake with your tax problem.
It also may be helpful to get a professional opinion from another attorney on whether your situation is simple enough for a beginning attorney, or has complexities that would require an experienced specialist., There are many websites dedicated to helping people find an attorney who specializes in tax law, including your state or local bar association.


Your state or local bar association's website will have a list of licensed attorneys in your area, and allow you to search for attorneys who practice in a specific area of law such as taxation.
 There are national and state programs that certify experienced lawyers as experts in their chosen specialties, including tax law.


Generally, board-certified tax specialists have been licensed for at least five years, taken additional courses and training programs in tax law, and passed additional exams in tax law.A board-certified tax specialist will have experience handling a wide variety of tax issues, thus increasing the chance she's dealt with situations similar to yours.
The American College of Board Certified Attorneys has a search page where you can find board-certified tax attorneys near you.
 Study the information on the site to learn more about the personal background, education, and experience of the attorneys you've found.


All attorneys must have a J.D. to take the bar exam and practice law. However, many tax attorneys also have an additional degree known as a Master of Laws, or L.L.M., in taxation. These attorneys may have more knowledge of the intricacies of tax law than those who only have a J.D.You may be able to find an attorney who also is a certified public accountant. That might be an advantage for you, depending on what your tax issues are and whether you already have a CPA., If you find significant complaints or disciplinary action against any of the attorneys you were thinking about hiring, you'll probably want to eliminate them from consideration.


The American Bar Association has a locator map you can use to find your nearest bar association's website.
Once you're on your state or local bar association website, look for a link to search for attorneys who are members of that bar.
 Before you hire one attorney, you want to interview at least three prospects so you can find someone who best suits your needs.Summer or fall is the best time to talk to tax attorneys, not the holiday season or the tax season, when the best attorneys will be too busy., Depending on your tax problem, your prospective attorneys may need to see certain financial records or copies of your tax returns so they can accurately assess your situation.


If you've received any notices or other letters from the IRS, each prospective attorney probably will want to see those., You want to make sure you're comfortable with your attorney, as well as confident that she is knowledgeable and capable of representing your interests.


If you've read up on your own issue, you'll have a better idea of the sorts of questions to ask your prospects. For example, if you're about to get audited, you don't want to hire a tax attorney who's never handled an audit, even if he has plenty of experience in other areas of tax law.
Find out if she's handled cases such as yours, and if so, how often and for how long. Ask what her average outcome is for cases similar to yours, and what percentage of her practice those sorts of cases make up. If she doesn't handle cases similar to yours very often, she might not be the best attorney for you.
 You probably will feel most comfortable with an attorney whose general attitude mirrors your own, rather than someone whose attitude is at odds with the outcome you hope to achieve.


For example, if you're interviewing an attorney who has ads on TV where he brandishes a bat and shouts that he won't let the IRS take your hard-earned money, keep in mind that he may have an antagonistic attitude toward the IRS that could translate into a less amicable resolution of your issues.
 You must decide if you're comfortable with the level of hands-on involvement the attorney will have, and whether you trust the other people he'll have working on your case to handle it appropriately.


If you don't work with attorneys very often, you probably prefer to deal with one lawyer directly rather than having to interact with a team of people.
For example, you may interview a solo practitioner who handles all of his own cases, and find you prefer that to a large, fancy firm where your case would be handled primarily by a first-year attorney.At the same time, if a large law firm handles a lot of your other business, you might feel more comfortable letting them handle your tax issues as well, even if you've never worked with their tax department.
 The most competent attorneys will ask you lots of questions, pay attention when you speak, and show interest in you and in your case.An attorney may be highly qualified and have extensive experience, but if he looks bored and distracted throughout the interview, he probably can't be counted on to give your case the attention it needs.
 Not only do you want an attorney who is experienced and well qualified to handle your case, you also want someone whose demeanor and methods inspire confidence and security.


For example, in some situations, you might be better off going with a younger, less experienced attorney because he had lower rates and showed great enthusiasm for you and your case., What would be best for you depends on your situation. For example, you may prefer to spend more money to have your problem resolved quickly as opposed to dragging it out over a longer period of time.


Make sure you understand your attorney's fees and how you'll be billed. Some may charge a flat rate for certain tasks and bill by the hour for others. You may have to pay up front or you may owe nothing until the case is over.
You may be able to negotiate your rate, particularly if you've approached the attorney during a slow time, such as during the summer. Regardless, make sure you get any fee arrangement in writing before the attorney starts doing any work for you., The best, most experienced attorney may not have time to take your case if you wait too long after the initial interview. Likewise, the lawyers you're not planning on hiring deserve to know you've gone with someone else so they can feel free to take on other clients.


At the same time, don't bow to pressure to make a decision during the interview or immediately afterward – even if you've already interviewed your other prospects. Take your time to evaluate your options before jumping into a commitment.
 Aside from payments and billing rates, you want to make sure you and your attorney are on the same page about what you're paying him to do for you.


If you have any financial or time limitations, you should let your attorney know at this time if you haven't already.
 Attorneys who bill hourly often charge an up-front retainer. This amount of money secures the attorney to represent you. After the retainer has been exhausted using normal hourly rates, your attorney will bill you by the hour.

