 Wash two pounds of fresh strawberries. Remove the stems and cut the strawberries in half. If your strawberries are frozen, allow to thaw before slicing in half. It is possible that using frozen strawberries in this method may alter the taste a little, so try to use fresh strawberries if you can.
 Top with the remaining chopped strawberries, and then cover those with the rest of the sugar. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap or foil paper and let sit in the refrigerator for 24 hours., A saucepan is deep cooking pan. If you don’t have one, a large pot will suffice. Put the pan on the stove and heat over medium-high heat. Keep a close eye on the mixture as it comes to a boil to prevent it from burning. When it begins to boil, reduce the heat and let it simmer for 30 minutes.
 Place a sieve or strainer over the bowl. The mesh of the sieve or strainer should be fine to prevent the tiniest of food particles, like the seeds, from passing through.
 Once poured through, the cooked strawberries should be left in the sieve. Using a spatula or the back of a large spoon, smash the strawberries into the sieve to squeeze out any remaining juices. You now should have a bowl of hot strawberry syrup.
 The sterilized bottle will ensure that the mixture lasts for longer than a few days in your refrigerator. If you have one, put a funnel cup inside the spout of the bottle to keep from spilling the syrup over the sides. If you don’t have a funnel cup, transfer the mixture into a container with a spout. This should make it easier to pour the syrup into the bottle without spilling it. Top the bottle with the sterilized cap and allow the bottle and the mixture to completely cool before storing in the refrigerator.


To sterilize a glass bottle, wash the glass bottle and then place on a baking sheet in an oven preheated to 170 degrees. Let it sit for 30 minutes.
Put the cap of the bottle in a small bowl and pour boiling water over it. This will sterilize it.
Remove the bottle from the oven with an oven-mitt or thick towel to be safe. Wait until it is cool enough to touch before filling with the strawberry syrup.
 Add more strawberry syrup if you’d prefer it sweeter. Or add more water if it’s too sweet. You can spice up your strawberry juice by using soda water instead. Or if you’re having an evening event, use the strawberry syrup to make a strawberry cocktail.

