 To perform a full body scan meditation, set aside about 30 minutes. Pick a comfortable location, and lie down so that your back is flat.Make sure your phone, computer, and television are off so you can concentrate on the meditation.
Your bed or a yoga mat are good places to perform this exercise.
It can also help you relax if you dim the lights and take off your shoes. Some people also find it helpful to close their eyes.
 Before you officially start the scan, pay attention to the parts of your body that seem tense or painful. When you identify these areas, try to relax or soften your muscles.Holding tension in these areas will prevent you from being fully relaxed and enjoying as much benefit from the body scan.
 Pretend you are checking in with different parts of your body, and pay attention to how these parts feel. Focus on one part at a time.For example, if you start with your foot, observe how different parts of the foot touch the mat, your bed, or the floor. Do certain parts of your foot feel different from the rest? If you are wearing shoes or socks, think about how these feel against your feet.
Many people find it helpful to start with their toes and move toward their head. You can also start with your head and work toward your toes.
 When you finish reflecting on a body part, allow yourself to move on to another. Work your way to the top of your head.Don’t feel rushed or worry about the time. You don’t have to spend a specific amount of time on each body part. Just give yourself long enough to scan how each part feels.
 It can be challenging to eliminate distractions such as negative thoughts, the sound of traffic, or a radio in another room, but don’t let these intrude on your meditation.Allow negative thoughts and distractions from the world around you to fade away. If you find yourself getting distracted during the scan, don’t feel bad. Knowing when you become distracted is a beneficial part of the exercise because you will be better able to prevent this from occurring in the future.
Don’t feel like you are judging your body during the scan. Instead, you are observing how it feels and works.
 After you’ve scanned each body part, try to be aware of how they connect to one another at your joints. Notice how these connections feel., As a final part of the scan, think about how your skin feels.Are certain parts cooler or warmer than others? Can you feel different textures from clothing, sheets, or the mat?

, Now that you’ve fully scanned your body, try writing about your experience in a notebook or journal.Do you feel less pain or tension in certain areas?
What worked well with the exercise? What parts of the body scan seemed less effective? Were there moments when you felt distracted? What distracted you? How could you avoid these distractions in the future?

, Repeat this exercise as often as you would like to relax your body. The more regularly you perform a body scan, the easier it will be to maintain your focus and achieve the most benefit.

