 The standing side abduction is the same as the side-lying hip abduction, except that you’re standing upright and adding some resistance to the movement of your outside leg. While standing, hold onto a wall, railing or stable chair with your right hand. Place a dumbbell into your left hand and hold it against your left thigh. Flex your left foot and lift it outwards from the wall, then bring it back down towards the wall again. Keep your back straight.Perform 5 to 10 repetitions of this exercise, depending on how advanced you are in your workout. Once you’ve completed all repetitions on one side, switch and do the other side.
The weight of the dumbbell will depend on what is comfortable for you at the moment. Start with a light weight dumbbell and increase the weight as you perform the exercise over time.
An alternative to a dumbbell is to use a resistance band, which is essentially a large elastic band specifically designed for exercise purposes. To use the resistance band, you’ll need a chair or an exercise machine with an anchor point near the floor to attach the band to (that’s steady and won’t move as you pull against the band). Place one end of the band around the steady object and the other band around your left ankle. When you pull your left leg outwards, the band will act as resistance to the movement.
 This exercise requires a resistance band that is short enough to go around your legs and provide resistance as your widen your stance. You can place the band around your legs at knee level (slightly above your actual knee joints), at ankle level, or around the balls of your feet - whichever location is most comfortable for you at the time. Once the band is in place, widen your stance until there is a decent amount of resistance on the band. Then slightly bend your knees and have your arms out in front of you.For the Monster walk, keep the band stretched and walk forwards and backwards, stepping one foot in front of the other.
For the Sumo walk, keep the band stretched and shimmy to the left and the right.
Perform 5 to 10 repetitions of this exercise (in either direction), depending on how advanced you are in your workout.
 For this exercise you’ll want to set the treadmill at a 3 to 5% incline, and at a speed of 2 to 3 mph (3.2 to 4.8 km/h) (very slow). Start the treadmill while standing on the side panel (the part that doesn’t move). If your right side is facing the front of the treadmill, place your right hand on the front bar for support, and your left hand on the left-side bar for support. Step onto the tread and start walking sideways. Again, if your right side is facing the front of the treadmill, you’ll want to step ‘forward’ by crossing your left foot over your right foot.Perform this exercise for 5 to 10 minutes on either side, with 30 second breaks every minute or so.
Start this exercise at a very, very slow speed until you get use to the motion. Once you’re more comfortable, you can increase the speed. However, note that the speed isn’t the key to this exercise, it’s the movement. So continuing at a slow speed will be just as effective.
 If you have a pair of kettlebells or have access to some at your gym, then you can use them to help you build your hip muscles. Stand with your feet about shoulder width apart, bend forward at your hips, and grasp a kettlebell by the handle with both hands.Keeping your arms and back straight, lift the kettlebell up, out and away from your body in front of you as you straighten your knees and hips. The kettlebell should swing out as you do this.
Then, flowing with the movement of the kettlebell, bend at your hips and knees again and bring the kettlebell back down to the ground.
Repeat this movement 10 to 15 times and do three sets.

