 If you have some more time to commit to doing some morning yoga, you can add a few more poses to help wake yourself up. Doing a spinal twist can help detox you and build energy.Sit cross-legged and press your sitting bones into the floor. Lengthen your spine by reaching the crown of your head towards the ceiling. Sit on a folded blanket or extend one leg if this is uncomfortable.
Place your left hand on your right knee, breathe in and then breathe out as you twist to the right. Inhale, return your body to the starting positions, and repeat on the other side.
 Stretching your spine can also help you wake up with yoga. Get onto all fours and lengthen your spine. Reach the crown of your head toward the wall in front of you and your tailbone toward the wall behind you. Breathe in deeply and exhale as you round your back up toward the ceiling and draw your chin toward your belly. Arch your back as you inhale. Then drop your belly toward the floor as you lift your sitting bones and chest. This should invigorate and relax you.Keep your wrists under your shoulders. Your knees should rest under your hips.
Repeat this sequence three times.
 Your legs and back can take a beating during the day. Adding Warrior One, which is like a high lunge, can strengthen and stretch your lower back, legs, and hips.Stand up straight and then step forward about a leg’s distance into a high lunge. Turn in your left foot slightly for added support. Raise your arms directly above your head and look past your fingers.
Keep your knee and ankle in one direct line. Drop your left knee to the ground if standing in the lunge is too difficult for you. You’ll get the same benefits and minimize the risk of injury.
Step your left leg forward to meet the right. Repeat the pose on your left leg.
 If you’re looking to gain balance and help concentrate your mind in the morning, try tree pose. Not only does it help you collect and focus yourself, but it can also strengthen and stretch your legs.Stand in mountain pose and gently shift your weight on to your left foot. Bring the sole of your right foot to your left inner thigh. Then gently press your hands together in prayer position and take a few breaths. Repeat by shifting your weight onto your right foot and placing your left foot on your right inner thigh.
Place your foot on your calf muscle or ankle if you feel a bit wobbly doing the full posture. Avoid placing your foot on your knee, which can protect it and your standing leg., Mornings are often hectic for some people, while others may feel tense because of work, school, or other obligations. Doing a seated twist is a great way to ring out tension in your body and help you calm down for the day ahead.Sit upright with your legs stretched out in front of you. Bend your knees with both feet on the floor. Slide your left foot under your right so that it grazes your right hip. Make sure that both your sitting bones remain on the floor to get the most out of your twist.
Twist your upper body toward the right. If you can, place your left elbow on your right knee to help yourself get deeper into the twist. Make sure your back is straight and your shoulders parallel to one another.
 End your morning yoga with savasana, or corpse pose. Savasana helps further calm and relax you. It also can further open your chest and release tight shoulders. Lie on the floor with your feel hip width apart, your arms slightly out to the side, and your eyes closed. Close your eyes and breathe naturally for as long as your like.#*Put your legs up the wall if savasana hurts your back or feels uncomfortable. This can help your legs relax better than if they are on the ground. It may also be more appropriate if you have lower back issues.