 You’ll need a regular ruler and a quilting ruler to properly take measurements, as well as a notepad and writing utensil for writing them down. Get a pair of scissors or a rotary cutter to cut the liner. Some other supplies you need are: shelf liner, a cleaning cloth, all-purpose cleaner or vinegar, a cutting mat, and a squeegee., Use the regular ruler to measure the length and width of a shelf that you plan on lining. Make sure to write down these measurements in a notebook., Multiply the length by the width measurement. Take that number and multiply it by the number of shelves you have. This will tell you approximately how much liner you need to buy.


If your shelves measure 10 inches (25.4 centimeters) by 5 inches (12.7 centimeters) and you have 8 shelves in your kitchen that you want to line, you’ll multiply 10 in (25.4 cm) x 5 in (12.7 cm) = 50 in (127 cm) and then 50 in (127 cm) x 8 = 400 in (1,016 cm). In this example, you’d need to buy at least 400 square inches (1,016 cm) of liner.
 Scan the aisle of a home improvement store to find patterns and colors that you like, whether it’s bright red polka dots or solid black. Contact paper is one of the more popular liner material options because it’s decorative on one side and has an adhesive on the other. You can also choose a non-slip material such as sponge or ribbed plastic to avoid issues in the future when you remove the liner., Before lining your cabinet shelves, you’ll need to empty them out completely. Take out all of your non-perishable bottles, cans, and boxes of food as well as all dishes and cooking utensils. Put these items on a nearby flat surface that’s out of the way, such as your kitchen table.
 Soak a clean cloth in either all-purpose cleaner or vinegar diluted by water and wring out the cloth well. Wipe down the interior of your cabinets with the cloth. Use a toothbrush to scrub the edges, corners, and cracks., Keep the cabinet doors open for a half hour or so after you’ve cleaned them so that they can dry out naturally. Touch the shelves after this amount of time has gone by to check that they’re fully dry., Use the quilting ruler to measure your liner to fit the measurements of the shelves that you wrote down earlier. Mark the top and bottom of the paper with a pencil or pen., Use scissors or place a cutting mat underneath the liner and then cut it with a rotary cutter. Use the quilting ruler as a guide while you’re cutting the liner. Repeat this process to create as many pieces of liner as there are shelves., Take the backing off of your contact liner paper and carefully place it on your shelf. Go over the liner with a squeegee to eliminate any bubbles or wrinkles.Put a small blob of reusable mounting putty in each corner of the cabinet before placing in spongy or plastic liner to secure it., One by one, take the pre-cut pieces of liner, place them in each shelf space, and smooth them out until all of your shelves are lined.