 If you are seeking to revive a trademark someone else initially registered, but has since fallen out of use, your first step should be to determine the current status of that trademark. The USPTO maintains a database of the status of all trademarks that are registered in the United States. You can search this information using the Trademark Electronic Search System provided by the USPTO to determine if the trademark you wish to revive is still in use or not.If you plan to use the trademark internationally, you will also want to conduct a global search for the trademark to determine its status in countries other than the United States.If the trademark is still active, you will not be able to use it unless you acquire the rights from the current owner. The following steps will presume the trademark has fallen out of use.
 Filing this application with the USPTO before you actually begin to use the mark in the course of business allows you to establish a formal date on which you registered the trademark. This allows you to acquire certain rights in that trademark before you actually begin to use it on your products or services. For purposes of any disputes that arise to the trademark, these dates are critical; the sooner you are able to establish evidence that you are using the mark, the better.


Such an application requires you to establish that you have a genuine intent to use the trademark in the course of business in the foreseeable future, and demonstrating this intent is key to ensuring your intent-to-use application survives any challenges that might arise.
As such, you should be prepared to present evidence that shows you have a genuine intention to use the mark in the future, which can include any activities related to getting your business for the trademarked product up and running (e.g., market research, research & development, manufacturing activities, etc.)., Once you are ready to begin to use the trademark in an actual commercial manner, it is time to actually register your trademark. While you are not required to register your trademark with the USPTO in order to use it, registration helps secure your ownership of the mark in any future disputes that may arise.


As a part of this process, the USPTO will publish your application for to give others a chance to oppose your rights to that particular trademark. This is when the previous owner will likely raise a legal challenge to your rights to the trademark if he or she plans on doing so. Intellectual-property law is quite complicated and sometimes lacks clear standards, so any such challenge pertaining to whether or not the mark was actually abandoned by its initial owner will be a difficult process to weather.
Be prepared to hire an attorney to mount your legal defense to any such challenge if you don't have someone with relevant expertise that can fulfill this role.
 Even absent federal registration with the USPTO, the common law—the part of the law deriving from custom and judicial precedent rather than statute—recognizes that certain rights arise from the use of a trademark, regardless of federal registration. This allows a person who has been using the trademark in a commercial manner to sometimes mount a successful challenge to a trademark registration or application., If you've made it this far and still maintain ownership of the trademark, you are set to starting using it on your products/services. Just don't make the same mistake as the previous owner—make sure you continue to use the mark and respond to any continuing requests from the USPTO!

