 However, if these measures don't work, surgery will be necessary in order to lower pressure in the eyes.


Surgery for glaucoma helps to improve the flow of fluid within the eyes, lowering eye pressure as a result. Sometimes, a single surgery will not be enough to adequately relieve eye pressure and treat glaucoma. In this situation, a follow-up surgery may be necessary.
There are several types of surgery used to treat glaucoma, depending on the severity of the condition.
 Drainage implants are usually used to treat high eye pressure in children and in people with advanced glaucoma. During the procedure, a small tube is inserted into the eye to facilitate the drainage of fluid. Once the fluid is drained, pressure in the eye is reduced.
 Trabeculoplasty is a type of laser surgery that uses a high-energy laser beam to open blocked drainage canals in the eyes, allowing the excess fluid to drain. After the surgery, eye pressure is checked periodically to ensure that the procedure was successful.


Another type of laser surgery is iridotomy. This type of laser is used in people with very narrow drainage angles in the eyes. During this procedure, a small hole is created on the top part of the iris to allow for the drainage of fluid.
If laser iridotomy doesn't work, peripheral iridotomy may be done. This procedure involves removing a small part of the iris in order to improve fluid drainage. This type of surgery is relatively rare.
 Trabeculectomy is a type of surgical procedure used as a last resort in the treatment of high eye pressure if eye drops and laser surgery remain unsuccessful.


In this procedure, a surgeon creates an opening in the sclera (the white part of the eye) and removes a small piece of tissue in the base of the cornea. This allows fluid to flow freely from the eye, resulting in reduced pressure.
The procedure is done in one eye and is repeated in the other eye several weeks later, if necessary. Additional treatments may be required following this procedure as the opening might become blocked or closed up again.

