 Select the identity theft category. Then select the appropriate subcategory related to your case, such as data breach, lost wallet or purse or identity theft. Follow the prompts to submit all of the relevant information about the crime. Skip any items that don’t apply to you, and provide as many details as you can., Provide the date on which you noticed the identity theft. Indicate how much time and money you have spent trying to resolve the matter yourself. Submit details about the credit issuer and the type of credit account that has been used. Indicate whether you intend to file a complaint against the company. Tell whether you have been contacted by debt collectors about this account., If you know who stole your identity or fraudulently used your credit card, fill out what you know. Provide the person’s name and address. Indicate how the person is related to you, if applicable. Note how you think the person got a hold of your information., If you have filed a police report, include this information. Provide the date you filed the police report. Indicate the name and location of the police department. Fill in the name of the officer who took the report. Provide the officer’s contact information., Indicate whether you have contacted any of the credit bureaus and placed a fraud alert on your file. Note whether you have a complaint about any of the credit reporting agencies. Identify what information on your credit report is now inaccurate as a result of the crime. Provide information about credit inquiries that appear on your report as a result of the identity theft., Provide information verifying your identity, such as your name, address and contact information. Indicate how long you have lived at your current address. Provide your driver’s license number if you have one. Include your date of birth and your Social Security number., In the comments section of the document, you can write about what happened. Provide any additional information that wasn’t covered in any of the previous sections. Don’t repeat your Social Security number, date of birth or any account numbers in this section. You can enter up to 3,500 characters in this section., Review the information you have provided. Make any necessary edits. Once you are satisfied that the information is correct, click on “Submit” to file your complaint with the FTC. Print out a copy of the complaint and keep it for your records.