 Snow rakes are long-handled aluminum “rakes” designed to remove snow from high places without having to climb all the way up to the roof. You may not be able to get rid of the ice dam, but, using this rake, you can get rid of the snow that is accumulating behind the ice dam and brush it away to prevent any further water damage.Purchase a rake with wheels on it to avoid damaging the shingles on your roof., A simple way to stop an ice dam in its tracks is to refreeze it. One way to do this is to bring a box fan up to your attic, point it directly at the areas where water is leaking in and turn it on. The increased airflow will push cold air towards the water, causing the water to refreeze. This is not a permanent solution, but will function as a temporary stop-gap measure., Fill a woman's stocking with calcium chloride, and lay it in position directly over the ice dam in your gutter. If necessary, use a long handled rake or other tool to help get it in position. Over time, the calcium chloride will clear a channel in the ice dam, allowing the water on your roof to escape.Never use rock salt for this, as it will do more damage to your roof than it will to the ice.Alternatively, you can fill paper bags with calcium chloride, and toss them up on to the roof, just above the ice dam. With any luck, the bags, after becoming wet, will rip and spread the calcium chloride into the dam, effectively melting it away.
 Heat tape goes by many different names, but they all perform the same function. They are small strips of material that will prevent ice buildup, allowing the water to flow freely through small channels out of your gutter. You will want to run this material all the way through your gutters to ensure that ice doesn’t form at the end of the gutter. This will allow water to escape through the channels.You can install heat tape yourself, but it is better left to professionals. You really don’t want to be climbing a ladder in the dead of winter.
Heat tape costs anywhere from $30 to $60 per running foot, with installation included.