 Don’t limit yourself to the fantasy genre when you’re looking for inspiration – check out lots of different genres for unique ideas.


If you find yourself really stuck, go online and check out some of the random plot generator websites.The plot prompts you get from these websites can range from serious to very silly, but you never know what might kick start your imagination!

, For example, if you wanted to write about a character walking into a city, your description of the setting should not stop at, “Elrond walked along the path into the city.” Discuss the path – is it straight or crooked? Does the path look frequently used or is it overgrown? What part of the city is the path in? What do the city buildings look like? Is the area safe? What time of day is it? Is it raining, overcast or sunny?Your description doesn't need to answer all of these questions. Aim to include enough detail so that everyone can envision the setting clearly.
If something about the setting is very unusual, spend extra time on those details. Include a backstory about how and/or why this strangeness came to be.
 This will make your narrative cohesive. It will also create the sense that your characters are progressing through relevant situations that will help to ultimately resolve the central conflict.


Subplots are fine and expected. However, make sure there will be a way for you bring that subplot back around to the central narrative.
Try to keep any irrelevant or external plot elements to a minimum., Make sure your characters encounter situations that will require action. Every encounter doesn’t need to be negative, but you do need to include plenty of obstacles that the characters must face.Set up scenarios that could go in multiple directions, allowing the players to make choices that progress the game.


Some choices should be minor, but the majority of them need to be important and move the narrative forward.
When you set up a situation that could go in multiple directions, be prepared with unrevealed backstory and setting for each of them.