 It is important to know your local and state laws before you begin to ride. A good course will not only cover state guidelines, but also review proper gear, tips for navigating hills and turns, and important life saving tips.
 Always wear a properly fit helmet. The helmet should be snug and unable to move when the rider shakes their head. Chin harness must be secure, rider should feel pressure under their chin. The ATV safety institute recommends a long sleeve shirt, long pants, good gloves and boots that cover the ankle. Goggles are recommended; make sure they are free of scratches and fit securely around the head., Check the brakes and brake lights. Inspect the throttle. It must return to position immediately when it is released. Measure the air pressure in the tires; refer to the manufactures recommended level. Check headlights, always ride on a full tank of gas. Inspect the chains and drive shaft. Chain should have proper slack and lubrication. Nuts and bolts may loosen with ATV use, check to make sure they are snug., The places you will be riding generally won't be as well-kept as the roads, so be careful., Floods and rain cause poor traction, and in snow you may sink. Getting a strong headwind while riding fast could cause you to flip over., The momentum could throw you forward and lead to possible injury., When ascending, plant your feet firmly, keep a good grip on the handlebars and keep your weight toward the front of the ATV. When descending keep weight toward the rear of the ATV. Use your brakes gradually as you go down and look ahead at all times. Always maintain a safe speed; do not accelerate quickly. When traveling in a group, keep a safe distance between all riders especially on hills.,, Do not travel on public roads., Release the parking brake and slowly apply the throttle. Test the brakes one more time while going a slow speed., If your ATV begins to tip during a turn, lean your body further into your turn and gradually decrease speed., A quick sharp turn can lead to an accident.,