 The Center for Disease Control (CDC) has created several voluntary community level strategies for combating a flu pandemic.Keep an eye on your local news for public bulletins about steps you should take.


These community-level interventions are triggered by the number of cases of illness in a given community and the number of deaths it has caused.In a severe pandemic, you will be asked to take certain steps to minimize the spread of the disease.
 The CDC may ask that infected people be isolated from others during treatment. This can occur in the home or in a medical facility, depending on the severity of the illness.Comply with all instructions given by community leaders.


As noted, it's generally a good idea to keep infected persons away from healthy ones. In a pandemic situation, however, the CDC may provide additional instructions for keeping infected persons isolated.
 In a moderate to severe pandemic, the CDC may ask schools to shut down temporarily.Make plans for caring for your children at home if this should occur.


This may require you or another family member to take time off work.
Plan some activities your children can take part in should school be cancelled for more than a day or two.
Make sure your children are washing their hands regularly and taking other precautions to avoid infection.
 In a more severe pandemic situation, the CDC may recommend what it calls social distancing. This means avoiding unnecessary contact with other people, even if you are healthy. This could include a variety of recommendations, such as the following:Asking people to voluntarily work from home, if it is an option
Asking people to cancel or stay away from large gatherings, such as sporting events or concerts
Asking people who are caring for someone with the flu to stay home from work
Asking employers to stagger work shifts in order to reduce the number of people working in a facility at any given time

, In addition to these measures, the CDC may request that people in your community take other steps to reduce the risk of infection. Be attentive to announcements from the CDC or your community leaders, and do your best to comply with all requests.

