 You have to arrive before the Petronas Skybridge ticket counter opens at 8:30 AM. By this time the queue is already 'miles' long. Many queue as early as 6:00 in the morning. Usually by 9:30 AM the tickets for the day will all have all been given out.;
, The Petronas Skybridge is open to visitors from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM everyday except Mondays and public holidays. A limited number of tickets, with time stamps, are issued every day. Please note that there is no advance ticketing system in place. Tickets are issued 'fresh' daily.
 Tickets are issued for time slots of 15 minutes, and each time slot is limited to 20 visitors. Once you receive your tickets, you have to return 15 minutes before the assigned time to reconfirm your reservation. If you are early enough in the morning, you may choose the time slot for your visit. You will then be ushered to a waiting gallery. The gallery is in itself worth visiting, as there are interesting exhibits relating to tall buildings. There is a "live" demonstration of what happens when lightning strikes a tall building, and also a laser sensor that compares your height with that of the tower.
 You will be invited into the 3-D auditorium where Polaroid glasses will be loaned to you. Here you will learn all about the construction and concept of the Petronas Twin Towers.
 Before being allowed to board the flight to the Petronas Skybridge you will be asked to proceed to the security area. There a guide will give you a briefing about your visit and answer any questions you may have. Your visit is limited to 10 minutes. If the wind is strong during your visit you might feel the building actually sway as much as 30 centimeters (11.8 in).
 If you want to avoid the long queue, you can tip someone (especially taxi drivers or bellboys) to obtain tickets on your behalf. One person may obtain up to five tickets.
 You can casually arrive around 3:00 or 4:00 PM without a ticket and try your luck. As the tickets are given out free, some people who queue in the morning fail to return at their assigned time later in the day. If you are lucky, you may get tickets without the hassle of early morning queuing.
 Single visitors or couples have a better chance of getting in than do larger groups. In any event, don't be disheartened if you fail to get tickets. Try again at another time.
 You can visit KL Tower instead. It gives you an even better view of Kuala Lumpur, is seldom crowded, and you won't have to hassle with queues. However, it is not free, and you need to go there by taxi. It is a good 30-to-40-minute walk.
 It's not recommended, but it is possible to do it Alain 'Spiderman' Robert style. On 20 March 1997 a French "Spiderman" attempted to climb the towers without so much as a safety harness. He was stopped by local police on the 60th floor. (The Skybridge is at Level 41.) He attempted it again ten years later and was again stopped by the authorities at the same level.
 See the story in the local newspaper, The Star .
 For groups up to 120 students, you may write in to obtain special approval for your visit. This will allow you to avoid the queue.

