 Treat your girl right by doing things to make her happy. Don't do these things expecting favors in return or because you want something from her. Instead, do them because you think she deserves them and because you really want her to be happy. She can tell the difference between things you do to get what you want and things you do because you love her.


For example, you can turn the tables and learn how to crochet, just to make her a scarf for once.
You should try to do things that make her happy based on things that she cares about and that matter to her. If she's a huge rock climbing fan, for example, make a special custom pouch for her chalk.
Be polite. Some women expect you to hold open doors for them and pull out their chair. Some women will be offended by this behavior. You’ll have to work out with your girl what she wants from you but some basic politeness is always in order. Don’t burp or fart around her. Give her an arm to lean on when she’s walking in high heels. Help her carry things when her arms are full or the items are heavy. This is basic politeness and the same sort of thing that you should do for anyone, not just women.;
, Relationships mean being together. If you're not willing to make time for her in your day then what does that tell her. Set aside time in your week for going on a date, even if it's free and low-key. Text her and spend some time talking to her on the phone. She should be high enough in your priorities that you're willing to break a date with your friends in order to go to a movie with her.


While you should make her feel like she gets 1-on-1 time with you, you can also help her to feel like you're paying attention to her by taking her with you to hang out with your friends. As long as you're affectionate even when you're around other people, she'll usually still come away feeling like she got some good time in with you.
Of course, it’s important for her to have alone time to. Her independence is very important. Don’t take up all of her time and make sure that she is able to hang out with her friends and do things with them regularly.
 You should encourage her to do the things that make her happy. This is one of the most important roles in a relationship: we give each other support and make each other better people. When you do this for her, by showing her how important it is to chase her dreams, you'll really be treating her right.


For example, maybe she's mentioned how much she likes to write songs for herself. Encourage her to set up a YouTube channel so that she can share those wonderful songs with the world.
 When you open yourself up to thinking about her, it will show and make her feel really good and loved. Let things remind you of her, think of her when you hear about events she might enjoy, and enjoy remembering things that you've done together. When you do these things, it will often show in little ways that she will notice.


For example, you'll be walking down the street and see a picture in a shop that reminds you of that one time you went to the beach together. Buy her the picture and give it to her, telling her what it reminded you of and how good it made you feel. She'll just melt.
 When you take an interest in her feelings, thoughts, and opinions, it will make her feel respected and appreciated. This is a good way to treat a girl, making her happy and grateful for the relationship that she has with you.


Ask her what she thinks about things. Not just what she thinks about broad topics like music or television, but also ask about how she feels about current events, politics, and the things going on in your lives. This will help her to feel respected. The same goes for asking her opinion on problems you have in your own life.
Pay attention to her feelings and learn how to tell when she's upset, tired, angry or happy. Once you recognize these feelings, support her when she needs it and let her talk about things that make her happy or excited. Comfort her when she's sad, even if it means just being a silent shoulder to cry on. You can say something like, "You seem like you're having a tough time. I don't know what's bothering you but I hope you know that I'm here to listen if you want to talk."

, Taking someone that you love for granted is really easy. However, this can really ruin relationships. No matter if you've been together for five months or five years, you should never assume that someone "should" do something for you. When she does something nice for you, thank her. Never expect things from her and show your gratitude when she does do nice things.


For example, let's say that she makes you dinner. Don't just complain about how it tastes. Instead, thank her and offer to clean up the dishes.

