 Using a sharp, serrated knife, cut the greens off the top of the beetroot. Trim about 1/4 inch (6 mm) from the root end of the beet, as well.


You can technically juice the top greens with the beetroot, but it's more common to prepare the juice with only the beetroot. If you do choose to include the greens, however, rinse them under running water and chop them into lengths measuring 2 inches (5 cm) or smaller. Juice them alongside the prepared beetroot.;
, Rinse the beetroots under cool, running water. Use a vegetable brush to scrub off any dirt you cannot scrape away with your fingers.


Beetroot skin contains plenty of nutrients, so if it's relatively thin, you should clean the skin and leave it intact for the juice.
On the other hand, if the skin seems notably tough or dirty, you can peel the beetroot using a vegetable peeler or paring knife before continuing further.
 Cut the beetroots in half, then cut each portion in half again.If the pieces are too large for the appliance, you could burn out the motor. Most juicers, blenders, and foot processors can handle quartered beetroot, but if you have a low-powered appliance or an older model, you may need to cut each quarter in half.
 Place the collection pitcher beneath the pour spout of the juicer.


If you have a model that does not come with its own collection pitcher, place a bowl or large glass beneath the spout before continuing.
 Place one chunk of beetroot into the feed chute. Use the appliance's plunger to gently push the beetroot through the machine.


Work slowly and gently. Beetroots are very hard, so it may take some time for the motor to process it. Do not force the chunk through too quickly or firmly since doing so could burn out the motor.
As soon as one beetroot piece passes through the juicer, start feeding the next chunk through. Continue until the entire prepare beet has been juiced.
 Pour the collected beetroot juice into a serving glass. Drink it immediately or chill it for 30 minutes before enjoying.


You can store beetroot juice in the refrigerator for a day or two, but the flavor is best when enjoyed immediately or shortly thereafter.
 Place the beetroot chunks and water in a high-powered blender or food processor.


Since beetroots are such hard vegetables, most blenders will have difficulty processing them dry. Adding a splash of water should help the appliance move more smoothly at the beginning of the process.
 Puree the beetroots with the water on high speed. Continue until you no longer notice any large pieces of beetroot.Even though the juice should be relatively smooth, it will still seem quite chunky. You'll need to strain the juice from the pulp before it's ready to drink.
 Cut two 24-inch (61-cm) long pieces of cheesecloth. Stack the two on top of one another, then fold them in half to create four layers. Place the layered cheesecloth inside of a large bowl.If you don't have cheesecloth, consider using a jelly bag. Wrap the jelly bag as is over the mouth of a large measuring cup or bowl.
In a pinch, you could simply use a fine-mesh strainer. Balance the strainer over the mouth of a large bowl.
 Pour the contents of the blender into the cheesecloth. Gather the edges of the cloth together over the pulp, twist the opening closed, and squeeze down on the bundle to force the juice through the cloth and into the bowl beneath.


Follow the same procedure if you use a jelly bag.
If you use a fine-mesh strainer, use a rubber spatula to press down on the pulp, squeezing as much juice out as possible.
Note that you should wear a pair of food-grade rubber or plastic gloves while working with the beet pulp. Otherwise, the beetroot juice will stain your hands red.
 Discard the pulp and pour the beetroot juice into a serving glass. Enjoy it immediately or drink it after the juice has chilled in your refrigerator for 30 minutes.


You can technically save beetroot juice in your refrigerator for one or two days, but it tastes best when consumed immediately.
 Rinse, peel, and cut the solid ingredients into chunks.Prepare the beetroot as though you were preparing plain beetroot juice. Scrub off any dirt using a vegetable brush while rinsing the vegetable under cool, running water. Cut the clean beetroot into quarters.
Peel the apple, remove the core, and cut it into quarters.
Use the back of a spoon to peel the skin off the piece of ginger. Since the ginger is so small already, you do not need to chop it down any further.
Chop the greens off each carrot. Peel away the thin outer skin, rinse the carrots under running water, and cut each one into 2-inch (5-cm) chunks.
 Process the solid ingredients through the juicer as though you were preparing basic beetroot juice. Do not add the apple juice.


Feed the apple through first, followed by the carrot and the beetroot. Finish by feeding the ginger through.
Use a spoon to quickly stir the collected juice. Doing so should help blend the flavors together.
 Process the solid ingredients and the apple juice in the blender or food processor as though you were preparing basic beetroot juice.


Blend the apple and apple juice first, continuing until completely liquefied. Afterward, add the carrots, beetroot, and ginger, then blend until smooth.
Strain the juice through four layers of cheesecloth and discard the pulp.
 Pour the beetroot juice into a serving glass. You can drink it immediately or chill it in your refrigerator for 30 minutes before enjoying.
 Clean the beetroot, peel the cucumber, and skin the pineapple. Cut each of these ingredients into relatively small chunks using a sharp knife.Prepare the beetroot as though you were preparing it for basic beetroot juice. Cut off both ends, scrub away the dirt under running water, and chop the beetroot into quarters.
If the cucumber has a waxed skin, you'll need to peel the skin. If the skin isn't waxed, you can simply rinse the cucumber under running water without peeling it. Cut the vegetable into 1-inch (2.5-cm) slices.
Cut the ends off the pineapple. Stand the fruit on one flat end and slice away the skin with a sharp knife. From there, chop one-quarter to one-half of the pineapple, stopping once you have approximately 1 cup (250 ml) of pineapple chunks.
 If you choose to use an actual juicer, simply feed the solid ingredients through the feed chute, gently depressing them with the juicer's plunger. Do not add the pineapple juice.


Feed the pineapple through first, followed by the cucumber slices. Finish by feeding through the beetroot chunks.
Quickly stir the collected juice with a spoon to help blend the flavors.
 If you decide to use a blender or food processor, blend the pineapple juice and solid ingredients together. Strain the beetroot juice from the chunky pulp.


Blend the pineapple chunks, pineapple juice, and cucumbers together until liquefied. Add the chunks of beetroot juice, then continue blending until mostly smooth.
Strain the juice through four layers of cheesecloth. Discard the leftover pulp.
 Pour the beetroot juice into a serving glass. Drink it immediately or, if desired, chill it in your refrigerator for about 30 minutes prior to consumption.

