 How you dress says a lot to everyone, especially to the opposite sex. Also, you would be surprised at how what you wear affects the people that you attract. If you dress in low-cut shirts and miniskirts, you're more than likely going to attract a guy that bases who he dates on looks. If you dress a little more conservatively, say in good-fitting jeans and a cute top, you will probably find a guy that will respect you. By the clothes you wear, you show a guy not only your personality, but how you view yourself. Dress like you don't want everyone to know what color panties and bra you're wearing! And if money is an issue: don't worry. Any guy worth having could care less whether you shop at a designer boutique or a discount store, or both.;
, You need to realize that with most guys, less is more. Don't apply that to clothes though!


With makeup, they want to see you, not a face you cake on every morning. Pick a foundation/base color that is your skin color, and blend it well with your neck and hairline. Pick a subtle color for an eyeshadow, one that complements your eye color. Put a little eyeliner on your lower lid, mascara to the top lid, and a sheer lip gloss to that beautiful kisser of yours. Maybe even add a subtle color to your cheeks, but you don't have to. It is absolutely necessary to remember, though, that if you're scared for a guy to see you without makeup, that your husband will one day eventually see you without it. Might as well get used to it now!
Your hair is probably one of the first things that people see when they look at you. There is no particular style that guys prefer, but there are some aspects of hair that need to be there. It needs to be touchable, neat, clean, and trimmed. No split ends or colored hair with roots that show. It's nice to style it a different way every once in a while. And if you part your hair, you might want to avoid the horrible part. Even a little to the side makes a huge difference.
Cute nails are important, especially if you plan on holding hands with that special guy once you find him! They don't even have to be painted. But, like your hair, there are some rules to follow. Your nails don't need to be too long, ragged, half-painted, or just ugly to look at. If you take care of them, they never have to be painted or made up. Just keep them filed, clean, and push your cuticles back every once in a while. Add a little lotion to soften them up, and the guys will be begging to hold your hand!

, He may be the guy in your history class, the boy that has the locker beside yours,... whoever. The first thing you have to do is probably the hardest: talk to him. A witty little comment, picking at him about something playfully, "forgetting" what your teacher assigned for homework -- anything. It doesn't have to be a drawn out conversation, either. Just a few words every now and then to keep yourself first and foremost in his mind. If he seems to enjoy talking to you, proceed to the next step! If not, don't be discouraged. Cut your losses and move on.
 Ask for his screen name or cell phone number to stay in touch with him. Ask him if he wants to go out with a group of friends one night, or if you're bold, alone. If he says no, don't worry. He may be legitimately busy, or possibly just nervous. Do not obsess, though. Guys get suffocated easily, and if you text, call, or IM him constantly, he will probably get freaked out. Let him initiate some conversations, too!

, It may be hard, yes, but it will be worth it! If he says no, do not take it as a failure or a waste of time. He may be nervous, talking to someone else, or just not want a girlfriend at the moment. If it turns out that he just doesn't feel that way about you, then at least you made a friend!

