 To do so, press the Home button--the circular button below your iPad's screen--to minimize an opened app, then press it again to arrive at the Home Screen.

If pressing the Home button a second time doesn't do anything, you're already on the Home Screen.
You can also close the app by double-pressing the Home button and then swiping up on the app's page.;
, After a moment, it will begin wiggling, which means that it is ready to be moved.

Be sure not to press down hard on the app's icon since doing so may invoke your iPad's 3D Touch mechanic, which won't let you move the app.
 You can drag the app to a point in between two other apps to place it there, or you can drag the app to the right side of the Home Screen to create a new page for the app.

If your iPad already has multiple pages right of the Home Screen, dragging the app to the edge of the screen will allow you to place the app on one of these screens.
You can place several apps in the bar at the bottom of your Home Screen. These apps will be available on any page right of the Home Screen.
 Doing so will cause all apps to stop wiggling, thereby preventing you from being able to move them any more.

If you don't like your apps' rearranged format, simply tap and hold an app again to place them back in editing mode.
 It should begin wiggling., After a moment, you should see a box appear around the bottom app., This will both drop it into a folder with the other app and open the folder for review., To do so, tap the x to the right of the folder's name at the top of the screen, then type in a new name., Doing so minimizes your folder., Any folder with more than nine apps in it will gain additional pages for more apps, meaning you'll swipe right inside of the folder to view subsequent pages., Re-positioning a folder works the same way as moving apps.

To delete a folder, drag its apps out and drop them onto the Home Screen or subsequent pages. Once the folder is empty, it will cease to exist.
 It should start to wiggle., If you see an X here, it means the app can be deleted.

Some apps, such as Safari, Settings, and the Clock, cannot be removed from your iPad.
 Make sure you're doing this on an app you truly wish to delete., Doing so will delete the app from your iPad., It's a blue app with a white "A" made of writing utensils that's likely on the Home Screen., This option is in the bottom-right corner of the screen., You'll see this bar at the top of the screen., It's a tab on the top-right side of the screen.

On some iPads, you may first need to tap your name.
 You may have to scroll down to find it since apps stored here are arranged in the order in which you downloaded them., It's the cloud-shaped icon with a downward-facing arrow that's to the right of your selected app. Tapping this will immediately prompt the app to download back onto your iPad, though you may first need to enter your Apple ID password to confirm this decision.