 Ground turmeric is more widely available that the fresh variety. None the less, fresh turmeric can often be found at farmers’ markets, larger grocery stores, health food stores, and Asian markets.


To mince fresh turmeric, peel it with a small spoon and then grate it on a Microplane or on the smallest holes of a box grater. You can also mince it with a large kitchen knife.;
, Ginger is the most common flavor addition flavor addition to turmeric tea. Cinnamon is another popular option. Both, like turmeric, are hailed as anti-inflammatories.


When choosing an herbal teabag, look for lemongrass., Grinding the dried spices will result in more potent flavors.


Prepare fresh ginger in the same manner as you would the turmeric. Peel it with a spoon. Then, grate in on a Microplane or box grater.
Cinnamon sticks can be added whole. Or, for a stronger flavor, you can grind them in mortar and pestle or a clean coffee grinder.
Black pepper can be added whole or ground.
Cayenne pepper can be added for some extra kick and a small metabolism boost.
, Add any optional ingredients, except the milk, at this time. If using an herbal tea bag, do not add it yet.
 Simmering happens at a lower temperature than boiling. Review the process here: How to Simmer

, Do this carefully. The contents of the pan will be very hot! Use an oven mitt or a folded to kitchen towel to protect your hand.


Add the herbal tea bag, if using, and let steep for three minutes.
 Pour the tea through a sieve set inside a mug or a teapot. This will help remove the solids and yield a smooth tea.


Use caution when straining the tea. Remember, the liquid is going to be hot.
 You can do this to the entire batch or, if you’re making multiple servings, let individual drinkers add their own.
 Milk helps to reduce the tea’s bitterness.,, In addition to standard tea brewing equipment like a pot, a kettle, and a mug, you’ll need the following hardware:4 tea satchels. Also known as, tea sachets, loose tea filters, or, simply, tea bags, these are readily available online.
A small bowl.
Measuring spoons.
 For this recipe, you will need the following ingredients:


2.5 tablespoons ground turmeric
1.5 tablespoons ground cinnamon
4 tablespoons loose lemongrass tea
20 peppercorns
One-half of a tablespoon is equivalent to 1.5 teaspoons

, Place all of the ingredients in the small bowl and stir to combine.
 Use 1 tablespoon of the ingredient mixture per tea satchel.
 Use the standard herbal tea-brewing method: How to Make Herbal Tea


Consider adding fresh ginger as the tea brews.
You can also add orange slices and honey.
 These homemade tea bags make great gifts, especially when combined with other tea-making paraphernalia.

