 To be clinically diagnosed with bipolar in the depressive phase, the individual must have experienced the depressive episode for at least two weeks. They must have five of the following signs and symptoms:

Sad mood for much of their day
Anhedonia or decreased interest and pleasure in their normal activities
Fluctuations in appetite and weight
Insomnia (inability to sleep) or hypersomnia (excessive sleepiness)
Fatigue and/or loss of energy
Restlessness or increased motor activity, or slowing down of their normal movement
Decreased memory, inability to make decisions, and difficulty concentrating
Feeling worthless, hopeless, helpless or guilty
Considering or imagining suicide

, During a depressive episode, a person may sleep more or less than normal. What’s more, sleep may be broken and disrupted, with them waking up sooner than they would like. Your loved one may stay in their bed all day or have trouble getting their day started.In order for these symptoms to meet the criteria for a depressive episode, they must interfere with the person’s functioning for a period of at least two weeks., The negative feelings associated with a depressive episode may lead to the sufferer eating more than normal. The person may gain a significant amount of weight in a short period of time, particularly if they are also engaging in sedentary activities like sleeping all day.


On the flip side, a depressive episode may also translate to eating much less than usual and losing a fair bit of weight in a short period of time due to lack of appetite., During periods of depression, a person suffering from bipolar disorder may have difficulty feeling pleasure, even during activities they once cared about such as sex. This feeling of dejection is one of the most classic signs of depression., A concept known as psychomotor slowness describes a person with bipolar depression. In contrast to a manic episode, someone who is depressed may move and speak quite slowly. They may lack energy to do the basic tasks of everyday life.Fatigue can be a sign of a medical condition like hypothyroidism or even unipolar depression (that is, depression without mania). Be sure to examine other symptoms before assuming your loved one has manic depression.
 People who experience depression may be at an increased risk of suicide. It’s important to know how to recognize suicidal behavior, because being able to just might help you save your loved one’s life. Furthermore, if a sufferer has an immediate family member who has committed suicide or they are using alcohol or drugs, their risk is even higher. Signs of suicidal behavior may include:Obsessing over death or loss
Giving things away, even prized possessions
Saying “goodbye” to friends and family
Researching suicide
Practicing the act, such as looking for a place and gathering materials (e.g. pills or a rope)

, In some individuals, an episode of mania and depression may occur at the same time. Referred to as a mixed episode (or, more recently, “mixed features”), this may be characterized by simultaneous feelings of despair coupled with increased energy.Pay attention if depression is accompanied by agitation, anxiety, irritability or restlessness. Look for combinations of high energy and low mood during mixed episodes.
Because people in mixed episodes are experiencing a two-polar cycle of both highs and lows, they may also be at increased risk of suicide. If you see signs of both mania and depression in someone you know, get them help right away.