 Instead of sharing everything you want to say to your friends on social media, catch up with them later and strike up a conversation about whatever it is you want to communicate. You can communicate with your friends about both online content and real-world situations or ideas. For instance, if you have a funny video you want your friends to see, arrange to meet them and say, “I have a funny video I think you’d like to see. Let’s watch it together.”That way, you will ensure that they see it, since many people have so much information coming through their social media that they don’t have time to check it all.
You’ll also avoid oversharing since you’re adding one less post to social media.
Don't forget the importance of face-to-face and phone conversations.
 There’s more to social media than just posting your own content about your own life. Limit your risk of oversharing by browsing news articles and commenting on friends’ pages. Try to put the “social” in social media.It’s especially important to respond to your friends’ posts regarding sincere emotional pain. It's even better if you call or visit them as well.
Responding to other posts on some social media platforms is best done through built-in approval indicators or by rebroadcasting the post you identified with, enjoyed, or found amusing.
 Spend at least a day or two each week where you don’t use social media at all. This will give you time to decompress from the information overload that can take hold of even seasoned web users. Taking time away from social media will reduce the pressure you might sometimes feel to contribute new content to your social media streams, which can lead to oversharing.If you find you’re checking social media so much that it interferes with your work, academic, or real social life, implement a steeper cut in your social media usage.
There are many things you can do instead of oversharing on social media. For instance, you could play baseball with your friends. You could invite your family for a hike in the woods.
If you prefer spending time alone off of social media, you could catch up on your reading or learn how to bake a new recipe.
Think about some of your favorite hobbies and spend time doing them instead of oversharing on social media.
 Social media and the internet can reward your brain in the same way that drugs do, and they can cause you to become overstimulated if you use them throughout the day. You need to make sure that you have a life and interests outside of social media.If you find yourself constantly checking your accounts or struggling with oversharing, look for the symptoms of addiction:

Feelings of guilt
Anxiety
Depression
Dishonesty
Euphoric feelings when in front of the computer
Unable to keep schedules
No sense of time
Isolation