 To start, place your arms around the girl you want to carry. You can place one arm around her back and the other arm around the bend in her knees. Have her place her own arms arounds your shoulders to make the process of picking her up easier.;
, When lifting an object heavier than a few pounds, you want to lift with your legs instead of your back. This prevents back strain. Squat down and position your arms around the girl. Then, move upward, lifting your own body with your legs instead of your back.You can keep your balance by spreading your feet apart slightly before lifting, providing you with a wider base.
If you feel you're losing your balance, you may want to set the girl down and start over just to be safe.
 When carrying a heavy object, you should keep that object close to your body.A human body is no different. If you carry a girl closer to you, the process will feel more intimate and romantic.


Pull the girl in close to you. Have her pull herself in close by nestling in your arms.
You can gently squeeze her legs and back, bringing her body closer to your body.
 When carrying a heavy object, keep your back, shoulders, and neck straight. Try to consciously bring your shoulders back when carrying a girl, straightening out your back. You may stumble a bit as you carry a person, but try to do your best to keep your body straight. Imagine a vertical line is drawn between your ankles and the tip of your head., You do not want to drop a person you are carrying. This can cause injury. For added safety, ask that the girl hold onto you. She can gently wrap her arms around your shoulders for support.
 As most people weigh over 100 pounds, carrying a person can be strenuous work. Only carry a girl as long as you feel comfortable. When you begin to feel strain in your muscles, gently put the girl down.


Squat slightly, lowering your body with your legs and not your back.
Lower the arm that's holding her legs, allowing her to safely place her feet onto solid ground.
Help her stand back upright if she stumbles at all while you're putting her down.

