 When you have Crohn's, you'll quickly learn that there are a specific set of foods that will cause discomfort, pain and a flare up of symptoms. Knowing these foods can help you manage your symptoms during the summer season.Although many Crohn's patients share similar "trigger foods," you will most likely have a set that is unique to you and your disease.
Many people are sensitive to and should avoid foods like: dairy products, high-fat foods (like fried or fast foods), caffeine, alcohol, spicy foods or food with a high amount of fiber.Keep a list or journal of your trigger foods handy and make sure you're very familiar with them and where they occur. Knowing them can help you navigate summer barbecues, cookouts and vacations much better.;
, Choosing leaner cuts of protein is always a good idea if you have Crohn's; however, during the summer months, it can be tempting to deviate towards fattier cuts of meat, like hot dogs, ribs, hamburgers, fatty cuts of steak, sausages or chicken wings.


Whether you're going to a barbecue or grilling outside, it can be tempting to choose protein sources that are higher in fat or more processed. Avoid these foods as much as possible.
These fattier cuts of protein can cause a flare up of symptoms. The fat is harder to digest which causes stomach aches, cramping, bloating and diarrhea.Limit your portion sizes. It's hard to digest more than 6 oz of protein per serving. So measure portions to 3 – 4 oz total to prevent further issues. Three ounces of fish, meat, or poultry is roughly equal to the size of the palm of your hand.
 Although summer is known for some unhealthier choices, it's also known for a wide array of fresh fruits and vegetables. Be sure to fill up on these delicious and nutrient-dense foods.


Fruits and vegetables are great foods to include during the summer. They're more readily available, less expensive and are more flavorful.
If fibrous foods cause symptoms, stay away from vegetables like: cabbage, kale, broccoli, cauliflower or brussels sprouts.
Instead, choose well-cooked vegetables. For example, grilled peppers, eggplant or onions are very flavorful, nutritious and will most likely not upset your GI system.Try to fill half of your plate with fruits and vegetables.
Fruit is a great item to have in place of a high-fat dessert (like ice cream or pie). Use fruit as a sweet ending when you're cooking out or attending a barbecue.
 When you have Crohn's disease, it's important to stay away from trigger foods; however, many common summertime condiments and side dishes can contain some of your trigger foods.Be wary of items that are high in fat, are overly acidic or are very spicy. These could cause symptoms.
When it comes to condiments, be mindful when using or eating: spicy barbecue sauce, hot sauce, salsa, mayonnaise or sour cream.
Also be aware of "diet" or sugar-free items. These may contain artificial sweeteners that can cause symptoms as well.
Common summertime side dishes can also cause problems. Potato salad, coleslaw, macaroni salad or potato chips are notoriously high in fat. Not only are they not the healthiest item, the high-fat content can give your GI system a lot of problems.
 One important thing to consider diet-wise in the summer is hydration. With increased temperatures and humidity levels, it's easier to get dehydrated.


Dehydration can make chronic diarrhea or constipation worse (both of which can be common to those suffering from Crohn's).Make sure to be constantly drinking in the summer. You should be aiming for at least 64 oz (1.9 liters) of clear, hydrating fluids daily; however, due to the increased heat you may need upwards of 80 oz (2.4 liters) daily.
Choose beverages like: water, flavored water, sparkling water (if carbonated beverages don't bother you) and decaf coffee and tea.
 You might notice that summertime brings on more alcoholic beverages. Whether it's a summery sangria or a wine spritzer, try to minimize your alcohol consumption.


Alcohol is a common GI irritant that can cause symptoms or make them worse when you have Crohn's disease.Alcoholic beverages that have a higher sugar content (like wheat beers or mixed drinks) are known to cause an increase of symptoms.Although some patients with Crohn's disease can tolerate some alcohol, keep your consumption moderate. Only have one drink a day and drink it slowly along with a lot of water.
Caffeine is a GI stimulant which can cause bloating, cramping and diarrhea. Stay away from those iced lattes and other caffeinated beverages during the summer. Choose decaf instead.
 Whether you're just going to a friend's cookout or you're traveling, to best manage your Crohn's, you need to plan ahead. This will help you be prepared for a variety of situations.If you're going to a barbecue or cookout, ask the host what's being served. This can give you an idea if you'll be able to eat the food or not.
If you don't feel like you'll be able to eat or can't find out what's being served, plan ahead by having a small meal. This can help prevent you from getting overly hungry.
If you're on vacation and are planning to go out to eat, look online at the restaurant menus. Find a few options that would be appropriate for your diet.
 A great way to handle summer festivities and events is by bringing your own food with you. That way, you know for sure there is something you'll be able to eat.


If you're going to a barbecue or cookout, ask the host if you can bring something. It'll be a nice gesture, helpful to the host and ensure there's something you can eat as well.
If you want to bring more than a dish, talk to the host and ask if they mind if you bring a small meal for yourself. Explain that you have Crohn's disease or are on a special diet and you want to be sure to have something available to you.
 Another time that you can bring food items with you is when you go on vacation. Consider planning ahead and having items on hand that you'll be able to eat and tolerate.


If you're going on vacation, think about what types of foods and how much food you can bring with you. This will depend on where you're staying. A hotel may have limited food storage, whereas a beach house probably will have a pantry, refrigerator and freezer.
If you're going to a hotel, call ahead and ask for a small mini fridge in your room. That way you can store cold items.
If you're going to rent a house, make sure to pack foods or purchase foods to keep at home that you can eat.
Also, consider bringing a cooler or bag with you. That way while you're traveling you don't have to rely on gas-station food, airport food or fast food for your options.
 Crohn's disease can be treated with a variety of medications — both prescription and over-the-counter. Have these with you at all times and make sure you have an intervention plan as well.


If you are traveling, you need to bring all prescription medications with you. Also, make sure you have a full stock of over-the-counter medications that you regularly use (like a stool softener, anti-diarrheal or acid reducer).
Do some research ahead of time on emergency facilities around where you will be staying. This should be part of your intervention plan. What hospitals, emergency rooms or urgent cares are near your hotel, rental, or campsite?
Also, keep a list of all your doctors and their phone numbers (including the emergency line) with you as part of your intervention plan. This way, if you're traveling you or someone with you can contact them if needed.
 Again, planning ahead with Crohn's disease is essential. This is especially true when it comes to finding the closest restrooms.


If you have Crohn's, there may be times when you need to use the restroom immediately.
If you're going to a cookout or barbecue, ask the host where the closest restroom is for guests as soon as you arrive.
If you're traveling, plan bathroom stops along the way. Check which exits or towns have a gas station, convenience store or restaurant immediately off the highway that you can get to quickly.
If you're going out to eat while on vacation, make sure to ask the hostess where the closest restrooms are in the restaurant for patrons.
 Although foods play a huge role in whether or not your Crohn's disease is well managed, there are lifestyle factors that can affect it as well. This is especially true with stress.


Studies have shown that those people who suffer from Crohn's disease note more severe symptoms and more flareups with daily and low-grade stress levels.Summer can be a relaxing and fun season — make sure to focus on relaxation techniques and de-stressing.
Go to barbecues, cookouts and vacations. This time away from work and being together with family and friends can help keep your mood elevated and distract you from your Crohn's disease.
Also try: exercising regularly, talking to a Crohn's support group, doing meditation or yoga or listening to music.
If you're having difficulty managing your stress, consider talking to a behavioral therapist for additional support.
 Crohn's can be a serious disease and it can be very difficult to manage. Talking with your physician regularly can help you better manage your condition.


Since Crohn's needs a lot of management on your part, keeping in touch with your doctor can help you better manage your symptoms and improve your quality of life.
Talk to your doctor about your diet and symptoms. Ask them to help you find a diet and eating pattern that will minimize your overall symptoms.
Also ask you doctor for a referral to a dietitian. Many dietitians focus on GI disorders and can help you plan your summer while also reducing your symptoms or the possibility of having a flare up.
If you do have a flare up, call or contact your doctor immediately. Don't wait until symptoms have subsided. Even if they treat you with over-the-counter medications, it's good to let your physician know what's going on.
 One way to help manage your Crohn's disease is by being physically active. The summer is a great time to be active since you can do more exercises outdoors.


Exercise is a great form of stress relief, can help keep your bowels regularly and work to help prevent symptoms of Crohn's.Aim for 30 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise five days a week (for a total of 150 minutes) or 75 minutes of high-intensity exercise. Be sure to include two to three days of strength training each week as well.
Indulge in some fun summertime exercises. Try swimming, going for a hike, surfing, rollerblading or rock climbing.
If you're currently having a flare up, stick to light activities like yoga or tai chi.
 You might be surprised to find out that sleep is another essential habit to help manage your Crohn's disease. Make sure to get an adequate amount of sleep, especially during flareups, to help manage your symptoms.


Studies have linked sleep disturbances and lack of sleep with Crohn's disease and increased prevalence of symptoms.Summertime may come with some schedule changes with vacations, time off of work and more parties to go to; however, always try to get at least seven to nine hours of sleep each night.
Even if you're out late at a barbecue or staying up later while on vacation, try to sleep in later.

