 This may mean calling your brother and telling him you’re super stressed or it might mean sitting down with your parents and telling them that you’re stressed out. Acknowledging how you are feeling and expressing it provides an outlet for your stress.Communicating how you are feeling can prevent confusion and misunderstanding in your relationships.Tell others how you are feeling before your feelings lead to an argument or worse. Let them know that you are stressed and may need a few minutes to sort yourself out.
Try to not just talk about what is stressing you, but also work together to figure out ways to decrease your stress level. For example, you could say something like, “I am feeling stressed about ___. Do you have any suggestions?”
If someone is causing you stress, then talk to them about it calmly, without yelling, screaming or using an accusatory tone.Explain to them how their actions, words, or even expectations cause you stress. For example, you could say something like, “I feel stressed when you ____. Would it be possible for you to ___?”

, Sometimes you can’t, or just don’t want to talk about how you feel. Writing down your feelings can be just as calming as talking about them.


Write about what is stressing you, how or why it is causing you stress, and how you are experiencing the stress physically, mentally, emotionally, etc.
Use a journal or diary to keep a running record of your feelings and then review it from time to time. Reviewing what you have written may help you to identify patterns in your stressors.
 Express how you are feeling in any way that is appropriate for the situation and helps calm you down. It’s not so much what you do to express that you are stressed, but more so that you are do something to appropriately express how you are feeling.


Doodle a small picture depicting how you feel. Draw another picture of how you will look when you are calm.
Take a selfie showing how you feel at the moment (frown, pout, scream, etc.). Take a few showing you looking calm and happy.
Sing one of your favorite songs in your head. Try to pick a song that expresses how you are feeling and lifts your spirits.