 Different cultures have different rules for how to participate in smudging ceremonies, but removing metal jewelry, belts, and so forth is a common requirement. This may be considered a way to make yourself spiritually prepared, or can symbolize detachment from valuable possessions.


Many experienced ceremony leaders allow you to keep on wedding rings and other metal objects with spiritual significance, so feel free to do so when performing your own ceremony.
 Different traditions have different ways to prepare their participants, but a couple of the more common ones are listed below. Many elders are not strict about these rules, but consider following them out of respect:Do not drink alcohol or take drugs for at least 24 hours before the ceremony, and preferably not for several days. They may leave you spiritually weakened.
Menstruating or pregnant women are sometimes asked to leave due to beliefs of their spiritual intensity disrupting the ceremony or leaving them vulnerable. Often, they are welcome at the house smudging ceremony but are not personally purified.
 You and anyone else present should enter the ceremony with good intentions. Pray to the world's creator, to spirits, or in whatever way you feel comfortable. If you do not wish to pray, talk or think about your gratitude toward the plants and the earth that produces them.You may continue to pray throughout the ceremony, either silently or aloud. Many people believe the smoke carries your prayers.
 You may already have a prepared "smudge stick", or bundle of herbs which can be used for multiple ceremonies. Otherwise, place a small handful of the dried plant material into a natural container, such as a clay, stone, or abalone shell bowl.
 You can light the plants with any source of fire, although some people feel more in touch with the ceremony if they use matches rather than a lighter or torch. Let the fire catch hold for about 30 seconds, then blow it out so the herbs are only producing smoke.


Feel free to relight the herbs or add more during the ceremony if the smoke starts running out.
 Typically, each participant is smudged before the house is. There is no one correct way to perform this part of the ceremony, although one suggestion is described below. Just make sure each participant rubs the smoke against their body and focuses on their ritual purification.


If you have an eagle, hawk, or turkey feather, use it to fan the smoke.
When you are being purified, use your hands as a cup to catch the smoke, then pass it over yourself or rub it against your skin. In some areas, people put their hands palms downward when they're finished.Many people prefer to start with the head and heart, then move the smoke downward across their arms and legs.You may use any method you wish, however.
Menstruating and pregnant women usually do not participate in this part of the ceremony, as they are already in a special spiritual state. Anyone else has the option to politely decline as well.
 Use a feather to push the smoke to each place in the house, or use your hands. As you pass by an open door or window, you may use the feather to push the smoke outside, carrying with it the negative energies.


Different traditions begin at the east wall, west wall, or front entrance.
You may walk clockwise or counterclockwise. As with many aspects of the smudging ceremony, different cultures or individuals follow different practices.
 Some people prepare a new smudging container and burn an additional plant for another effect. Probably the most common of these multi-part ceremonies involves sage and/or cedar for the initial purification, then sweetgrass to please the new spirits or create a positive environment.
 Thank the earth for providing a sacrifice of plants for you to use, and thank the plants and fire as well. Ashes will provide nutrients back to the soil. This act has a different interpretation in some traditions: the Anishinaabe place the ashes outside to symbolize leaving negative feelings outside the door.You can either let the herbs finish smoldering, or extinguish the plant and return what's left along with the ashes.
If using a smudge stick, extinguish it by gently stubbing it against a hard surface. Return the ash and broken fragments to the soil, and store the stick in a special location off the ground for later use.

