 The green polish you picked out for this nail art probably comes with your standard polish brush. Because the holly leaves are so small, you will need a smaller nail art brush to create them. Pick up a bit of green polish from the bottle using the normal polish brush, and put a little bead, or droplet of polish, onto a smooth surface.








A nonporous surface like glass or metal is best for this, because it will not absorb your polish.
 Dip your small nail art brush into the green polish. Then, carefully create one stripe widthwise at the base of your nail. This stripe will be the body of the first leaf. Using your brush, carefully create spikes coming out of this leaf, slowly forming it into the shape of a holly leaf. It might not look perfect, but as long as you get the general shape, that’s all that matters!








After you’ve created one leaf along the base of your nail, create another leaf going in the opposite direction down the side of your nail. The two leaves will end up forming an L shape.
While you’re creating this leaf, it might be helpful to Google pictures of holly leaves. That will give you an idea of what yours should look like.
 Your holly berries, like the leaves, are much too small to create with a standard polish brush. Instead, use your brush to put a drop of polish on your surface. You will be using a dotting tool to create your berries.
 Dip your dotting tool into the droplet of red polish. Then, carefully dot it between the two leaves you’ve created on your nail. You can add as many “berries” as you like using this technique. Just make sure they are touching the leaves that you’ve created.
 This step is crucial to protect your carefully created design. Once your holly has dried completely, apply a clear topcoat over the entire nail. Not only will this create a beautiful shine on your nail, but it will help keep your polish from chipping.








If you notice your manicure start to lose its shine, you can always apply another coat of topcoat to bring it back to life!

