 A school lunch should include every food group and sandwiches and wraps are a perfect way to get started.Branch out from plain peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and use healthier ingredients like meat, cheese, and vegetables. Try some of these:


Use whole grain breads and tortillas for the healthiest outcome.
Meat, cheese, and eggs work well together.. A cheesy egg bagel and a breakfast burrito are just as delicious at lunch time.
Grilled chicken with lettuce and bell peppers, topped with dressing.

Bacon lettuce and tomato sandwich. Also known as “BLT”, these three ingredients can make a delicious sandwich when combined.
If meats and cheeses are out of the question due to your lifestyle, do not fret. Equally nutritious sandwiches or wraps can be made from vegetables, nut butters, beans, and tofu.;
, Soups are a diverse food that are easy to pack and make. They are also a healthy source of nutrients and can be reheated once your child gets to school.Pack the soup in a thermos or other waterproof container, that way it can’t leak! Try these combinations out:



Classic chicken noodle soup. Combine chicken broth with flat noodles and cooked chicken.

Tomato soup. Also include a grilled cheese sandwich for dipping.

Cream of vegetable soup. Include some crackers to break up and sprinkle in.
Bean and ham soup. Combine navy beans, ham, and assorted vegetables.

Combine Mirepoix with some meat. Mirepoix is a common mixture all around the world of equal parts onion, carrot, and celery. Use it as a base to form a hearty stew with any additional ingredients.
 On their own, rice and pasta are filling and easy to make, but they are rather lacking when it comes to key nutrients.Combine them with meat or vegetable sauces to make a unique and filling meal that can take many forms:



Macaroni and cheese. This familiar dish can be combined with sliced ham, hot dogs, or even baked beans to make it more nutritious and filling.

Spaghetti. Regular noodles can be combined with marinara or alfredo sauce and meatballs. Mix it up by using different kinds of noodles with crazy shapes or cheese filled noodles like tortellini.

Stir fry. This dish can be a bit tricky to learn, but is definitely worth it. Fry up some chicken or beef with carrots, onions, broccoli, peppers and peas then serve on top of white rice.

