 Your body will crave a hot shower after all that exercise. This will tire your body out, and make your shower feel more relaxing.
 Daydream about something you enjoy doing, or about your latest diy craft project. You can also try envisioning all of your troubles going down the drain with your bath water., This will make them extra warm and fluffy for when you get out of your shower. If you have a bathrobe, consider heating that up as well.
 Reaching for your shampoo in the middle of your shower, and then realizing that it is not there and having to get out into the cold bathroom to look for it is anything but relaxing. Instead, make sure that everything you need for your shower is there, ready and full.
 Keep in mind, however, that very hot water is not the best for your skin and hair, as it can cause them to become dry. If you do plan on treating yourself to a hot shower, try to keep it shorter—no longer than 20 minutes—and to use moisturizer afterwards.
 If you have any special shower gels or body washes that you were saving for that one special occasion, now is the time to use it. Use your body scrubs to massage away those dead skin cells, and your body butters (after your shower) to moisturize your skin. If you don't have any favorite bath products, consider getting something lavender scented. Lavender is often used during aromatherapy to help relieve stress.


Consider making your own bath products. Nothing beats the luxury of homemade bath products. Click here to learn how to make a few.
 Not only will this help invigorate your scalp, but it can also help sooth away any stress. Tilt your head back, close your eyes, and gently massage your scalp with your fingertips.
 Close your eyes and massage your entire face using smooth, circular motions. If you have any exfoliating face washes, now is a great time to bring them out.


If you are stressed, focus your massage on your eyes, forehead, and temples.
 The relaxation doe not have to end the minute you step out of the shower. There are a few things you can do to make that good feeling last even longer. Here are a few ideas to get you started:


Apply some lavender-scented body butter. This will help lock moisture into your skin, making it feel soft and silky. You can even massage your skin while you are at it to help you relax some more.
Slip into a warm, fluffy bathrobe after you towel off. This can help give your shower a more spa-like experience, especially if you give yourself a pedicure afterwards.
Enjoy a cup of hot chamomile tea. If you don't like chamomile tea, try any other herbal or caffeine-free tea.
Take a nap or enjoy a book or movie. If you still have errands to run, consider napping, reading, or doing something else that you enjoy for about an hour. This will help you relax and prepare you for the work ahead.

