 Your home security plan might include upgrades or purchases that you will need to spend money on. Decide how much you can spend on your home's security.;
, Any security plan should include keeping intruders from easily entering your home through any doors and windows.


Make sure your doors and windows are kept locked and made from high quality, sturdy instruction. For example, your outside doors should not be hollow or they can be easily broken down.






Install strike plates correctly. This is the metal plate that is attached to your door jamb. It will keep a bolt and lock secure.






Check your door and window hinges. They should be properly installed and secure. If there is a window on your door, make sure it is in good shape and not in need of replacement.
 If there are holes or damages to your fence or gate, plan to have them repaired or replaced.


Consider installing a fence or a gate if you do not currently have one. They can help you keep people and animals off your property.
 Maybe you rely on a simple deadbolt, or you have an alarm system attached to every door and window.


Price updated security features to see if they are in your budget. Many people increase their home security by installing cameras, panic buttons and sensors on their property.
 Or, consider a sign that warns people approaching of dogs and alarms.
 All outside areas near your home should be illuminated: http://www.delmarfans.com/educate/outdoor-security-lighting/ . Indoor lighting is necessary too. A few lamps should be left on in the home if you are out.


Set your lights on a timer if you do not want to manually turn them on and off. Or, keep them on all the time.
 Your home security plan should contain instructions to all family members on what to do and where to go if something should happen at home.


Decide where you will meet if there is an emergency. This might be a neighbor's house, a relative's home or a public place that is easy to get to.
 Do not give out your home security code or leave your key outside in an obvious location.
 Whether it is pepper spray, Mace or a stun gun, try to keep it non-lethal for your own protection.
 Post it on your refrigerator so it is easy for your family members to see, and include a copy in other areas of your house in case you need to refer to it quickly.


Create a diagram that will highlight the areas that are alarmed as well as where you keep the pepper spray or other defensive tools. Include phone numbers of your local police station as well as friends and relatives. Do not let this plan outside of your house, or your security will be compromised.







