 An overhead harness fits over your dog’s head and has straps or tabs that adjust to fit around her belly. Some overhead harnesses also come with chest protection to prevent rubbing and added safety features like reflective trim and a car seat restraint loop.Look online for an overhead harness, or at your local pet store.
You will need to measure your pup’s girth or belly area and her neck area to determine her size.
Alternatively, you could also take your dog with you when you go shopping for a harness and have your pup try the harness on before you buy it. To confirm the harness fits your dog properly, make sure you can fit at least two fingers between the harness and your dog's body at all points, including her belly and her neck.
Note that most harnesses are not adequate restraints in a motor vehicle. Do not use a regular harness as a seat belt /restraint unless it specifically says on the packaging that it is designed for this purpose.;
, This will keep her from moving around while you attach the harness. You may also need to ask a friend or partner to hold your dog to keep her still.


Keep some treats around to reward her once you put on the harness., This will help you identify the neck part of the harness. Reassure your pup with a few pets.
 The neck piece will be the large round hole in the middle of the harness. It should be large enough for you to slide it over your dog’s head without squeezing or pulling on her ears or face.


If it is too small to slide over her head, the harness may be too small for her neck.
 Slide the straps between your pup's two front legs. The straps should sit between her two front legs, under her belly. They should fit snugly, but not be too short or too tight around your pup’s legs. If the straps don't reach around your pups' belly, they are likely too short and the harness may be too small for her.
 Reach around your dog's legs and secure the buckles on either side of the harness together. The straps should wrap around your dog's upper belly area.


Depending on the type of strap buckles your harness has, you may need to simply slide the two pieces together or push one piece through the other piece to secure the buckles.
 Step back and look at your dog in the harness. Does it look like it is pinching or squeezing her? Does it hang too low on her body? Use the adjustment points, or clips that are attached to the straps, to adjust the harness so it fits her properly.


It should be snug but also loose enough for you to fit two fingers comfortably between your dog and the harness at any point.
Test the fit of the harness before you attach the leash to the harness and give your pup a treat for a job well done.

