 This recipe makes use of store-bought pizza dough. However, feel free to use a homemade pizza crust, if you prefer. Using a store-bought crust, this pizza can be on the table in about 45 minutes. If you opt to make the homemade crust, you will need an additional hour and a half. The yield is approximately 4 servings.


Store-bought produce usually isn't pre-rinsed. Make sure to always wash your vegetables well before using them on your pizza.;
, Sprinkle flour generously onto a flat work surface. Remove the dough from your refrigerator and give it a light dusting of flour. Allow the dough to sit on your work surface for 20 to 30 minutes, so that it becomes room temperature. Dust your rolling pin with flour. Roll the dough into a circle that is approximately ½ inch thick.


Take the dough in both hands and pinch one of the edges, letting the dough hang down. Slowly work your way around the circle, pinching, until the dough is the size you want.
To prevent the crust from sticking, you'll need to grease the baking sheet with cooking spray/oil before placing the crust on it. You can also sprinkle corn meal on a baking sheet to prevent this., Place a strainer over a large microwave proof bowl. Dump the tomatoes into the strainer and crush them with your hands. Push the pulp into the bottom of the strainer so that the juices go through the sieve. Place the microwavable bowl full of tomato juice into your microwave and set them to cook on high for 20 to 25 minutes.


This will thicken the juice into a consistency much like ketchup. Pour the crushed tomato pulp into the thickened juice.
Allow this to cool down to room temperature.
If you prefer using the stovetop, simmer the tomatoes in a medium sized pan for about 30 minutes, stirring frequently, until it thickens.
 Chop the vegetables into your preferred size. Coat the chopped veggies with olive oil and season them with salt and pepper. Spread the vegetables out evenly on a hot grill or grill pan.


Grill them for about 10 minutes, until they are tender but still firm.Remove the vegetables from the grill and set them aside.
Feel free to customize the vegetables – omit or limit the use of any that you don’t like.
 Preheat the oven to its highest setting, which is usually between 500 and 550°F (260°C and 288°C). Spoon the cooled sauce over the pizza crust dough and spread it evenly. Top with the grilled sliced vegetables – arrange them however you like. Top with mozzarella cheese.


Bake the pizza for about 10 to 12 minutes. You'll know it's ready when the cheese is melted, bubbly and lightly browned on top.
Slice the pizza into wedges and serve immediately.

