 Anodizing converts the surface of a metal object into its oxide form. Anodized aluminum oxide is incredibly tough and resistant to corrosion. It is also porous compared to unoxidized aluminum, allowing it to absorb a variety of metal dyes.


The conversion process uses an electric current and a strong acid bath. The metal being anodized is connected to a circuit and placed in the acid bath where it acts as an anode (positive electrode). Negative hydroxide ions within the bath are attracted to the positive anode where they react with aluminum to form aluminum oxide.A scrap of aluminum is also placed in the bath, connected to the other wire. This serves as the cathode (negative electrode), completing the circuit.
Aluminum is the typical metal of choice for this method, but other non-ferrous (non-iron) metals like magnesium and titanium can also be anodized., You will want to start by finding a space that you can work without causing any potential damage. You can gather these items individually, or you can purchase a commercial anodizing kit that should include everything you need.


Select your metal. Any aluminum or aluminum alloy can be anodized. Other types of metal, like steel, won't work.
You will need three plastic tubs. Each tub should be large enough to hold your metal object. One will be used for the cleaning process, one for the acid, and one for the dye bath. Large, plastic paint buckets will work well for most jobs.
Get a plastic jug to hold your neutralizing solution.
For reagents, you will need sulfuric acid, baking soda, lye, metal fiber dye, and distilled water.
Find an adequate power source. You will want a power supply that is capable of producing a consistent flow of electricity up to a minimum of 20 volts. A car battery is ideal.
Get two power cables to connect the car battery to the acid solution. They should be strong enough to use to grip and lift the metal object in and out of the solutions.
You will also want a spare piece of aluminum to act as the cathode in the solution.
Have a large pot and stove to boil the metal object.
Always wear a pair of large rubber gloves. Since you are handling strong chemicals you will need to handle your materials safely to avoid contact with your skin at all times.
 The neutralizing solution uses a baking soda base as an alkaline to neutralize the pH of the sulfuric acid. You should keep a neutralizing solution handy to neutralize sulfuric acid in an emergency and to clean equipment. If your skin should come in contact with the acid, always use the solution to neutralize the burn instead of making it worse with water.


Add 2 cups (0.83 pt.) of baking soda to 1 gallon (3.79L) of distilled water.
 You can use any piece of aluminum alloy to anodize using this process. Put on a pair of rubber gloves before cleaning. Anything, even fingerprints, left on the surface can impact your results.


Clean the parts with water and dishwashing detergent.
Immerse the parts in a bath of water and lye. Add 3 tablespoons of lye for each gallon of water. Using your rubber gloves, lower the metal object into the solution for about 3 minutes.Rinse the object in distilled water. If the water does not bead, the aluminum is clean.
 Add sulfuric acid to distilled water in a plastic container at a ratio of 5 parts water to 1 part acid.Do not use a container that is breakable like glass.
Always add acid to water so the solution doesn't fizz. Adding water to acid can cause it to splash up out of the container.
 With the power supply off, connect one cable to the positive output and the other cable to the negative.


Connect the other end of the negative cable to the metal object and submerge it in a container of sulfuric acid solution.
Connect the other end of the positive cable to a scrap piece of aluminum and submerge it into solution without touching the metal object.
Turn on the power. The voltage you use will depend on the surface area of the metal you are using. Check the power supply. Start with a low voltage of about 2 amps, then increase the voltage up to 10-12 amps after a few minutes.
Anodize aluminum for 60 minutes. Negatively charged aluminum will attract positively charged sulfuric acid. You will notice a lot of bubbles around the piece of scrap metal, but very little bubbling around the metal you are anodizing.
 Be careful not to let any acid drip off the piece. You may want to the hold the container containing your neutralizing solution beneath the metal as you move it to the sink. Hold the metal beneath the water for several minutes while rotating to clean each side thoroughly.
 Prepare a solution of fiber dye and distilled water in portions to reach the color you want in a separate container. Follow any manufacturer instructions for the particular dye you have purchased.
 Depending on the desired color, you may only need to leave the metal in the bath for a minute or two. You can also gently heat the dye bath to help speed up the process. At first, you may have difficulty getting the precise color, so plan on trying out the process on a few practice pieces made of the same material first.


The dye can be reused several times, so if you want you can store the dye in a plastic container after you've finished this dyeing session.
 Heat the water in a pot. Then immerse the object into the boiling water. The process will seal the dyes, but it will also cause them to fade slightly.This is another reason why it's a good idea to do at least one test piece first.
 Remove the object from the hot water. Set it on a towel to cool for several minutes. Once the object is completely cool, the metal will be at its permanent new color.
 Rinse everything and be sure that none of the acid remains on anything that was in contact with it throughout the process.

