 The tap water in Pakistan is unsafe in most cities since the water treatment systems are poorly maintained.


Try to drink or brush from bottled or boiled water only. It is even possible that the bottled water you buy may be spurious!
If in doubt, boil the water for 10 minutes yourself. This will purify it.
Prefer bottled carbonated drinks (soda) or canned fruit juices to unsafe water.
Avoid ice if you are not sure of the water used to prepare it.
Eat freshly cooked, warm food. Avoid food which was cooked the previous day.
Do not ask for pork. It is prohibited in Islam. All meat served is halal (which can usually satisfy kosher requirements).
Avoid street food. Most street food is prepared in unhygienic conditions and can lead to bacterial or amoebic infections.;
, Many people have strong views about politics, specially the western view of the world and it is best to avoid controversial discussions or arguments.
 Although uncommon, you may be unknowingly talking to a person who may not take kindly to even the slightest disrespect (in his/her view) shown to Islam.
 Since many Pakistani men wear a beard, growing one before travelling can help you blend with the local crowd and not easy to identify or target. This is specially applicable for the northern and western tribal areas like FATA and Baluchistan.
 Always cover your body completely in public, especially if you are a woman. However, the dress rules are not as restrictive as in fundamentalist countries like Saudi Arabia, Iran or Kuwait.


Shorts, above the knee skirts, sleeveless dresses, tight or braless T-shirts or a low neck showing cleavage are deemed to be disrespectful according to the Islamic culture.
A hijab (head scarf) is useful. There is no necessity however for a burqa (face covering).
If possible, buy local clothes on your arrival in Pakistan. They are indeed quite stylish and comfortable if you stick to cottons.
If you visit a mosque or a home, leave your shoes at the gate. In the mosque, remember to wash your hands, feet and face before you pray.
 It is important for men to shake hands only if the woman initiates, not attempt to kiss an unknown woman on the cheek or hug as a form of greeting, common in the west and for men to keep out of women designated areas & vice versa. Pakistan has much greater gender segregation compared to the west with most homes having two living rooms, for male guests and female. Pre-puberty girls are exempted from this classification., Air travel by far is the safest and the most comfortable, trains being the worst. Avoid long intercity road journeys. If you must travel by road, try to choose reliable taxis from your hotel instead of hailing one from the road. Activate your GPS map to know your route. Most people you visit or meet will try to offer you a ride. Not all may be trustworthy., Most incidents of terrorism occur at crowded places like mosques, schools, sports arenas, markets and public gatherings. Avoid visiting places which have a large number of people. These kind of places are also infested with pick-pockets and petty thieves., Credit cards are not as widely accepted as in other parts of the world. United States dollars are the most widely accepted foreign currency, followed by Euro, British Pounds and UAE Dirhams. Always exchange at an official place like a bank or an authorized money changer rather than in the street (even if the offered exchange rate is higher) and take a receipt. Counterfeit currency is common. Preserve this receipt until you exit Pakistan.
 There are useful articles on wikiHow, such as Use a Squat Toilet and Use an Indian Bathroom.
 Even a few words like Assalaam-o-Alaikum (greetings), janaab (sir), mohtarma (madam) and shukriya (thank you) go a long way in warming up the discussion., Being an Islamic state, import of alcoholic beverages is prohibited. You can buy alcohol in larger hotels or certain wine shops in major cities by showing your non-Muslim identification such as a passport. However, avoid alcohol consumption in public places or going out of your hotel if you are inebriated.
 Pakistan has a rich culture of music. All kinds of music including traditional, classical, sufi, rock, jazz etc. is played widely and there are several performances on weekends in most cities you could attend. You can ask your hotel concierge or local contacts to arrange tickets., Resist the temptation to try drugs or firearms practice even though these may be easily available and tempting. You may be tested for both upon arrival in your home country. Drug residues remain in your blood for weeks and gunpowder traces can be detected from your skin/clothes for a long time. Stay away from prostitution even though widely available and cheap.
 Stay indoors with people you trust or in your hotel. Do not be tempted by offers of nightlife entertainment.
 No price in Pakistan is fixed and you can bargain everywhere, including hotel room rates.

