 Make a fist out of your hand. Your arm should be bent. Bring that arm out in front of you with your forearm facing out. Your arm should be about waist level and parallel to the ground. Now, raise the arm up, bringing it in front of your face and then up above your head. Your arm should now be just above your forehead with the forearm still out. Bring your arm back to the start.Alternate arms for 20 reps. Start out slow, and work up to a faster pace over time. You can add more blocks as you get stronger.
 Begin in horse stance. Make fists with both hands, and bend your arms at the elbow. The inner arm should be facing upwards. Move one arm out in front, flattening out to an open hand, facing downward. Your arm should be at about waist-height.Move your arm down, pressing a bit harder with the outside of the wrist as you hit the "bottom" of the movement. Move back to starting position.
Alternate between hands for about 20 reps. You can move up to doing more and doing them faster as you get stronger.
For horse stance, place your feet a bit wider than your hips. Your toes should be pointed outwards. Keeping your back straight, bend at the knees until they are just over your toes., Start in a high horse stance, meaning don't go as deep as you did in the downward blocks. You arms should be bent at the elbow and by your side, with the underarms facing upwards and fists clenched. Start by punching one arm forward.As you punch forward, rotate the wrist so your inner arm is facing down by the time your arm is extended. As you come back, rotate it back upwards. Punch straight out from the center of your body, rotating your torso back and forth to punch.
Move back and forth between arms for about 30 seconds.
To make it a bit more difficult, get lower in the horse stance.
 Begin in a push-up position. Lay face down on the ground with your toes holding your lower end up (you can also use your knees instead). Place your palms on the ground (or knuckles, which is harder). Lower yourself to the ground, then bring yourself back up, keeping your body straight throughout.Try ten reps, then stop. Using one arm to balance you in the center, stretch the other arm out straight up from your shoulder. Hold for ten seconds.
Next, jump your legs out, and turn your body towards the arm you have out, including turning your feet. Stretch that arm up into the air. Your face should be looking upward. Hold for ten seconds. Repeat the whole movement on the other side.
Do another five pushups.

