 Take note of any coughing episodes during the day. Record the severity and the duration of the coughing, as well as whether it was related to a specific trigger such as smoke from a fire or cigarettes.


If you are using the asthma diary to monitor your children, take note of whether the coughing is associated with active play. You should also take note of whether it is accompanied by a runny nose and clear mucus., If you feel a tightness in your chest at any point during the day, you should record it in your diary. Write down the severity of the symptom and how long it lasts.Tightness in the chest is a symptom of occupational asthma. Record whether it gets worse during the work week as well as whether or not it goes away on weekends.Chest tightness is a symptom of asthma in children., If you experience any wheezing during the day or night, you should take note of these episodes in your asthma diary. Observe whether the wheezing got worse in response to a particular activity such as exercise. Take note of the duration of your wheezing episodes.Occupational asthma involves wheezing at night.Recurrent wheezing is a symptom of asthma in children., If you wake up in the middle of the night or have difficulty falling asleep due to asthma symptoms, you should write this down in your diary.More severe asthma at night is called nocturnal asthma and is connected to more severe diseases. You should tell your doctor if you experience nocturnal asthma., Exercise is highly encouraged for people with asthma but it can also worsen symptoms.Take note of any of the following symptoms of exercise-induced asthma:Chest tightening.
Wheezing.
Shortness of breath during exercise.
Excessive fatigue during exercise.
Coughing during or after exercise.
If your symptoms get worse during or after exercise, you should record your experience and take appropriate action such as using your inhaler. If symptoms are severe, see a doctor.
 If your asthma symptoms caused you to make a major change to your everyday life, you should record the event. For example, you might want to record any of the following asthma related changes to your life:


Missed work or school.
Visit to the emergency room.
Doctor visit.
Missed social events.
Cancelled sports event.
 If you observe an increase in symptoms in your diary, you should visit your doctor. You may need to alter your medication to account for the shift in your symptoms. If your symptoms increase for two days in a row, you should be prepared for a possible asthma attack.A 20% increase in symptoms for two consecutive days is associated with an asthma attack 65% of the time.

