 Your soup cleanse has to start with your broth, which will be your soup base. You can start with a bone broth or vegetable broth. Add any vegetables to these broths. Vary the vegetables you include over your cleanse so you get a variety of nutrients and flavors.An easy way to make your own chicken broth is to place chicken pieces, water, celery, carrots, and onions in a pot. Bring to a boil, then reduce the temperature and skim the foam off the top. over the pot and let it simmer for two to three hours.Make chicken, vegetable, beef or even fish broth to add variety.
You can also buy vegetable, chicken, or beef broth. If you buy premade, buy 100% all natural with no additives and no added sodium. If at all possible, make your own broth.
Using or buying stock instead of broth means there is no added sodium (this is the main difference between a stock and a broth).;
, Greens are considered one of the best foods you can eat for your health. They have a large fiber content and tons of vitamins and minerals. Leafy greens have extremely low carbohydrate and sugar content, so they are one of the best superfoods you can eat. When doing a soup cleanse, incorporate a lot of leafy greens into your soups. The flavor goes with almost any other vegetable. You can use them in broth-based soups or make pureed soups.Kale is one of the most popular greens for a soup cleanse because it’s one of the most nutrient-rich foods. It provides a lot of vitamins A, C, and K, along with calcium, copper, folate, and potassium.
Turnip, mustard, and collard greens are other versatile, tasty greens that go great into soups for your cleanse. They pack the same nutrients as kale, but have a slightly stronger taste. If you buy turnip greens, you can buy the turnip too and have two vegetables for your soup at once.

Spinach is one of the most well-known greens. Spinach provides 839 milligrams of potassium per cup of cooked spinach, which is more than a cup of sliced bananas. It also includes vitamin K, vitamin A, manganese, folate, copper, vitamin B2, vitamin B6, vitamin E, calcium, and vitamin C. Spinach is also one of the best non-heme (plant-based) sources of iron.
Swiss chard and beet greens also make great nutrient-rich additions to your soup. They contain a lot of vitamin A and C.
Broccoli is another great, nutrient-dense green vegetable. Broccoli can be tossed into any soup, or pureed for a creamy broccoli soup.
When you are preparing your vegetables for the soup, keep all the leftovers. This includes stems, stalks, leaves, and any other part you cut off. Use the leftovers to make your own vegetable stock. You can put them in a bag and freeze them for later use.

Blanching vegetables before freezing will stop the enzymes that keep vegetables ripening to help them last longer in the freezer.
 Leeks are similar to onions, but usually much milder. They are great additions to soups, and provide a lot of nutrients for your soup cleanse. Leeks contain Vitamin C, folate, and potassium, along with containing antioxidants., You can add an array of spices for both health benefits and added taste. Try spices such as garlic, ginger, cumin, turmeric, fennel, curry, cinnamon, cayenne, and coriander.


Garlic and ginger are not only delicious spices to add to your soup for flavors. Both of these ingredients have a lot of nutritional value, too. Garlic is believed to help prevent certain cancers, have antibiotic properties, help with high cholesterol, and protect the heart.Ginger aids with digestive problems. This can be beneficial during your cleanse as you try to balance out your system.Turmeric is a powerhouse spice with many medicinal properties, along with promoting antioxidant support., Carrots are a highly nutritional food that will make a great addition to your soups. You can chop up or slice carrots to toss into any soup. You can also puree the carrots to make a tasty carrot soup.


Carrots are one of the best sources for vitamin A. They also have vitamin C, vitamin K, vitamin E, potassium, folate, manganese, magnesium, zinc, calcium, fiber, and iron. They are also a fantastic source of beta-carotene., Root vegetables make great soups. Beets, turnips, parsnips, radishes, onions, rutabagas, and sweet potatoes make great soups. You can chop them and place them in a larger soup. Or you can puree them for a singular tasty soup, like pureed beet soup or pureed turnip soup.


Root vegetables are great sources for fiber, vitamin C, B vitamins, vitamin A, and antioxidants., Butternut squash soup is a popular choice for a soup cleanse; however, other winter squashes, and even yellow-neck summer squash, can be nutritious and delicious ingredients. Try acorn squash, buttercup squash, delicata squash, pumpkin, or any other winter squash you find in the grocery store.


Winter squash has a lot of potassium, fiber, beta carotene, and vitamin A., Beans are a great way to get protein during your soup cleanse. Beans also contain a lot of fiber, which keeps you fuller longer. If you’re not feeling full during the cleanse, add some beans to your soups to help keep you full.Try kidney beans, pinto beans, black beans, white beans, navy beans, or cannellini beans.
Beans also contain a lot of antioxidants.
In addition to beans, try adding lentils to your soups.
 Tomatoes can help add flavor to your soups. You can make a stew or even use tomatoes with beans to make a detox chili.


Tomatoes contain a lot of nutrients. They are packed with antioxidants, potassium, and vitamins A, E, and C., Zucchini is a great food to throw into soups during your cleanse. The flavor of zucchini is mild, so it mixes well with almost every vegetable. Zucchini has a lot of vitamin C and fiber, along with potassium, folate, and vitamin A.Chunk the zucchini or cut it into thin slices and drop it into any soup.

