 If one of your dogs is uncomfortable, it will stare intensely at the other dog. The other dog may either return the stare, or lose interest. If both dogs are locked in an intense stare, be aware that tensions may be rising. To prevent a fight, you may want to separate the dogs., Certain dog movements--such as pulling their lips back, holding their head high or low, or baring their teeth—are meant to communicate a warning. If your dogs are acting this way towards one another, it may be best to separate them., If your dogs are making low, rumbly growls at one another, this can also indicate a warning. However, growls can sometimes be misleading. Look for the dogs’ body language and other behaviors whenever you notice a growl. If it seems like they might be posturing to fight, it is best to separate them.All dog growls will sound a little different.
It is important to listen to your dog and get a sense of the way it vocalizes.
 If your dogs do manage to get into a physical brawl, you may need to intervene to prevent injury. Try some methods that can be done from a distance, in order to best prevent yourself from getting hurt. Some strategies include:


Make a loud noise.
Spray them with water.
Use a barrier to split them up (such as a piece of wood).
Throw a blanket over them.
 After a fight has been broken up, it is a good idea to keep the dogs separated for up to 48 hours. In this time, you'll need to tend any wounds and provide comfort to each dog. You'll also want to be careful about how you reintroduce them.Tend wounds - Check both dogs for wounds. Any puncture can become infected, so clean any injuries and/or take dogs to the vet.
Provide comfort - Give plenty of affection and attention to each dog. They are likely to be shaky and nervous for a couple of days.
Reintroduce them - After a waiting period, ask to friend to help you reintroduce the dogs. Meet at a neutral space and allow the dogs to sniff each other while they are leashed. If there are no signs of aggression, the dogs have probably moved on. If they continue to be aggressive, keep them separated for a while and try again.

