 The only safe and 100% proven way to get blue eyes is to use blue colored contact lenses. Contact lenses are thin sheets of plastic you wear in your eyes, to cover up the natural iris and give the illusion of a different color. The nice thing about contact lenses is that they are cheap, and come in many different shades of blue. This makes it easy to test-drive multiple colors and types of lenses to find the right ones for you.


Keep in mind that certain contacts and certain colors may blur your vision and make it foggy.
You will need to learn how to put in your contacts. Depending on whether they are hard or soft, the difficulty of putting them in varies from person to person, not to mention the type of contact.
If you wear prescription glasses or contacts, you have the option of getting prescription colored contacts.
 If you wear makeup, you can change the colors you wear to either bring out natural blue undertones in your iris’, or add blue to your eyes if your eyes are dark. If you have some blue undertones in your eyes, look for a copper or gold eyeshadow. The warm hues of the bronze-y shadow will bring out the blue highlights in your iris’. If you have brown eyes, try wearing a cool blue eyeshadow; you’ll add the color near your eyes, which will create an illusion of blue-ish eyes from a distance.


Apply the eyeshadow using a shadow brush over your entire eyelid, and on the outer-corner of your lower lash-line.
You can use blue eyeliner for a similar effect.
 If you want to test out blue eyes to see what they would look like, or you’re just interested in making your eyes more blue in your photos, you can use photoshop to alter the color. Although this doesn’t technically change the color of your eyes in real life, it does give you the opportunity to show off baby blues in photos, and try on different shades to see if you like it.


You can use other photo editing programs outside of photoshop to change the color of your eyes.
 When you get angry, sad, or excited, your pupils will contract, which ‘enlarges’ the size of your iris’s. As a result, your eyes appear brighter and more colorful than they do when you’re simply contented. If you have any blue undertones in your eyes, working up your emotions will bring them out naturally. Plus, if you cry, your eyes will get slightly red which contrasts with the blue that might be present, giving your eyes more of a blue appearance.Any change in your hormones or pupil size will slightly alter the appearance of your eyes.
This technique will only make eyes appear blue if they’re green or hazel, and have a bit of blue in them already.

