 As you fall asleep, try to think of an image or concept that causes fear or anxiety. If you attempt this every night, you have a good chance of dreaming about the subject of your thoughts. You may be able to make your dreams or nightmares beneficial if you have a problem to solve that is causing you anxiety; your brain may continue to "work on" the problem while you sleep, possibly providing insight during a dream., While inducing a nightmare on a given night may be helped by moderate sleep disruption, repeating that day after day may greatly reduce the number of dreams you have. Stay well-rested, and you will spend more time in the deeper, restful REM period of sleep, in which most lengthy dreams occur.


REM is short for Rapid Eye Movement, which describes the behavior of people sleeping during this period of sleep.
 Instead of getting up immediately, lie awake and try to remember or "replay" your dreams. If nothing comes to mind, try to examine your own emotions.If you wake up anxious or exhilarated, focusing on those feelings may help you remember a nightmare.
 Every human dreams each time they fall asleep for an extended period of time, but many of these dreams go unremembered.Try to write your dreams in a notebook by your bed as soon as you wake up, before you forget them, to help them stick in your memory. Write down any dreams you remember, not just your nightmares, as the habit may help you remember later dreams.
 In a lucid dream, the dreamer is aware that she is dreaming. This often results in a more vivid or memorable dream, and sometimes, but not always, allows the dreamer to shape the course of events to some extent. While there are many ways to encourage lucid dreaming, you can start with two simple steps:


Focus on the concept of dreaming as you fall asleep, or about a particular topic to dream about. Choose the same topic each night for at least two weeks.
Look for "reality checks" during the dream and your waking hours. Many people find that clocks or text in dreams can't be read clearly, or will look different each time. Try checking the time or reading a sign throughout the day as a "dream check," and you may notice yourself doing the same thing to identify that you are dreaming.

