 Take into consideration geographic location and dialectal differences of the language, education level, proper tone and address, specialty of the text, etc.;
, Start by establishing a project manager, then the number of translators who will translate the bulk of the text, copy editors who will work with the translated text to ensure quality and consistency within the copy, and proofreaders to check for typos and format consistency.
 Examples include translation guilds and associations and well established Internet translator resource portals such as those listed below.
 This is to plan for reference materials that should be made available to all the members of the translation group.
 The guide must describe in detail: the defined target audience from step one, the format of the electronic files, submittal guidelines, and the writing style to follow (including the reference to a well known authority writing manual that the whole group should follow).
 Think technical examples such as boiler plates, repeating headers, unique concepts, etc. Decide with the project manager on fixed translations for all of these, and include them in reference lists that will be made available for the other linguists to follow.
, This includes detailing the scope of their responsibilities, a packet containing reference materials, style manuals, etc.
 Their translated copy should go to the editors.
Editors review for consistency, format and style and send their finished copy to the proofreaders.
Proofreaders check for typos and format mistakes working only with the translated copy and then by comparison with the initial copy in the origin language. Their finished copy should go back to the editors.
Editors review one more time to make certain that the copy is appropriate for the intended audience and that it reads as a text written originally in the target language and not as a translation.
Editors send their finished copy to the project manager who should consolidate all the copy and confirm its appropriateness for publishing and reach of the target audience.

