 Click on link or type into your web browser.;
, If you have a familysearch account, log in. If not, click "Join for Free" at the top right of the screen. Sign in is free and allows you to store information about your family for free (only deceased persons can be seen by anyone else). Once registered, the system will take you to a search screen.
 Start with what you know about a deceased relative about whom you would like to know more. Information about living people is protected by rights of privacy, so you have to start with someone who is dead. It helps to know the name, an approximate date of birth or date of death, and a place where the person lived. There are two separate databases you can search - Record Search and Tree Search.
 Start by filling out the boxes which you know (first name, last name, country, birthplace (at least country or state, if you know), and birth year range. If you aren't certain of the birth year, you can put in a range of years to be searched.


This will return you a list of records which may contain information on your ancestor. These include birth, marriage, death, census, church, tax, probate and other types of records. They are not records anyone sent in, but are government and church records which have been indexed by volunteers.
Look through the list of records to see if any might be your ancestor. If one looks promising, click on the name to see more details. The sample just above shows results which include both federal and state census records and a draft registration record for Albert Becker, who was born in Iowa in 1886, but lived in Minnesota.
 To search the Tree, click on "Family Tree" at the top of the screen. You will be asked to sign in if you are not already logged in. This presents a screen where you enter what you know about the person you are seeking. This search can search by event such as birth, marriage, or death or by relationship to another person (father, mother, or spouse).


Enter what you know and click "Find".
This will return names which have been submitted by others, such as the sample just below. Many of us are related, so someone else may have turned in information about your ancestor.

