 Having a solid daily routine may help your Pomeranian learn where and when to go potty. Make sure that you feed your Pomeranian and take him outside (or to his puppy pad or litter box) frequently — remember that puppies have tiny bladders and will need to go outside often. For instance, an eight- to 12-week-old puppy should be taken to the toileting spot every 30 minutes.If the puppy toilets, reward him and then give him another chance in 30 minutes. If he does not toilet, keep a very close eye on him. As soon as he shows signs of sniffing for a place to do his business, pop him onto the toileting spot.
 Taking your dog to the same spot every time you want him to go potty may help you to housebreak him as well. Use your cue word, such as “potty,” to let your Pomeranian know what you want him to do when you get to that spot. The repetition of going to the same place and hearing the same words will help your Pomeranian understand what you want from him.Remember to offer your dog lots of praise after he goes to the bathroom outside or on his puppy pad or in his litter box.
 Watching your dog for signs that he might be about to urinate or defecate in the house can help you to house train him. If your Pomeranian is prone to eliminating in places you don’t want him to, find a way to keep him in your sight at all times. Monitoring your dog’s whereabouts will help you to train him to go potty where you want him to go.


Try keeping your Pomeranian on a six foot long leash that is attached to you. This will prevent him from going off to another room to eliminate and it will also help you to observe his behavior and determine when he needs to go.If you cannot keep an eye on your Pomeranian during the day, you can use a crate or baby gate to confine your Pomeranian to a small area for short periods of time (less than four hours)., As soon as you notice that your Pomeranian is getting ready to urinate or defecate somewhere that is off limits, get his attention by clapping your hands together loudly. Do not yell at your dog or use physical punishment to change his behavior. Just clap your hands to get his attention and then lead or carry him to his potty spot (outside, puppy pad, or litter box) right away.


Be kind and encouraging to your Pomeranian as you lead him to his potty spot. If you yell or act like you are angry with him, he may begin to associate going potty with punishment., The smell of a prior mess can prompt your Pomeranian to want to eliminate in the same place again. The best way to prevent your Pomeranian from soiling an area again is to clean up his messes right away by using an enzymatic cleaner made especially for cleaning up pet messes.Don’t yell or punish your Pomeranian for going potty where he is not supposed to go. It will not do anything to discourage him and it may even lead to more problems by increasing his fear and anxiety., Positive reinforcement is the best way to teach your Pomeranian a new behavior. Make sure that you reward your dog with lots of praise after he urinates or defecates in his potty spot. You can also reward your dog by giving him treats, some playtime, or a walk.Give the praise, treat, or other reward right after he goes potty where you want him to go. This will help your Pomeranian understand that he has done something good.

