 Use a pencil to trace the outline of each cake pan out on a piece of thin foam board. Carefully cut out the rounds, following the outline as closely as possible., After the cake finishes baking and has cooled slightly, remove the cake layers from their pans and allow them to finish cooling on a wire rack. Once the cakes have completely cooled, place each one right side up on its respective foam board round. Wrap the layers in plastic and refrigerate for at least 6 hours or freeze up to 7 days.


If you freeze the cake, make sure to thaw it out so that it is cool but not frozen as you begin to work. You should thaw the cake out at least one day ahead of time.
 Steady the layer by placing your hand on the top and cut through it evenly, using your light outline as a guide. Remove the top half of each layer and leave the bottom half on the foam board.
 Use a cake decorating bag to pipe the filling onto each cut side or spread the whipped cream on thick using a knife. Re-join the cut halves by sandwiching the frosted sides together.
 Use a decorating knife to evenly spread a thin layer of whipped cream over the outer top and sides of each layer.
 Sit them in a refrigerator uncovered for 1 hour until the cream becomes firm. Afterward, cover the layers separately and chill up to an additional 24 hours until you are ready to work with them again.
 Once you remove the cake layers from the refrigerator, apply a second and final layer of whipped cream icing to the out top and sides of each layer. This second layer should be smooth and thicker than the first.
 Set the largest layer down on a flat, steady surface. Hold the middle layer directly above it, touching it lightly to the top of the bottom layer to create a guiding circle for your supports. Repeat the process with the middle and top layer to create a guide on the middle layer.
 Push four small wooden dowels into the bottom layer of the cake approximately 2 inches (5 cm) away from the circular guide. The dowels should be parallel to the layer's surface. Position a small piece of plastic wrap over the supports.
 Gently stack each layer on top of one another, following your circular guides.
 Use a cake decorating bag to pipe the icing around the base of each layer, hiding the cardboard.
 You can leave the cake plain, or you can decorate it with flowers and designs made of icing or fondant. You can also decorate it with real edible flowers.
 When serving the cake, lift off each layer and remove the plastic wrap and wooden dowels. For the bottom two layers, cut a circle 2 or 3 inches (5 or 7 cm) in from the side of the layer, and cut 2-inch (5-cm) wedges from this circle. Cut similar sized wedges from the remaining cake of the bottom two layers.

