 In most parts of the Helonia Coast map, there’s always conversation waiting for you to come across. The town of Helonia itself hosts four conversations within the borders while the other locations of the area hosting conversations are Bella’s Orchard, Silverash Shores, Windmill Cottage and the Emeralden Mountains.


Bella’s Orchard, due northwest of town, has two.
Silverash Shores, otherwise known as the beach south of town, has one.
Windmill Cottage just north of town has one.
Emeralden Mountains, in the furthest part of the map due north-east, has one right beside the portal to the next town.;
, You know how some NPCs have those large symbols floating above their heads? Usually, those symbols mean they have specific functions. A large potion bottle symbol means that they sell potions and alchemy items, a chef’s hat means they sell food, etc. NPCs with pre-programmed conversations have a large yellow speech bubble with an ellipses (...) in it hovering above their heads. Look out for them.
 Now, once you’ve found a conversation to eavesdrop on, click on the people and watch the scene unfold. You can’t earn the achievement until they finish the conversation, and sometimes, when your Internet connection is choppy or if someone else initiated the conversation, you won’t get the achievement at all and you’ll need to try again. Try and stay really close to the NPCs while watching the conversation so you can receive the achievement.


You’ll get some Loyalties from each conversation you eavesdrop on, which is one of the available currencies you can use to buy stuff from the online stores.
 Once you’ve listened to all of these conversations, your character will shine with the light of achievement. Notifications will also pop up in a red border, signalling that you received an Achievement and a Title.


For eavesdropping in all conversations, you will be awarded the “Helonia Beach Bum” title. This grants you +3 EVA (evasion) when you equip it. For those that like getting up close and personal in battle but dislike the ensuing pain, this boost would be small, but definitely appreciated.
Achievements are merely bragging rights, but Titles carry bonuses to your stats! You can equip titles through the Character menu, symbolized by a head wearing a helmet in your menu bar. Click the “Personal Title” tab and browse for the title you want to equip.
 Hidden Quests are special side quests where you have to deduce what to do when you trigger them. Also known as Oddities or Easter Egg Quests, you don’t actually have to finish them to get through the game, but completing them gives you a title per quest and some loot. Normally, you can spot them on the area map as green exclamation points. While you can repeat the quests, you won’t receive the quest rewards again, though some quests let you keep the resulting easter egg items.
 When exploring the beachside, you can find a conch shell on the ground. Pick it up, and head towards the northern exit of town. You’ll spot the Child King Ralph. Click him to initiate the conversation, watch the ensuing scene, and receive the “Pirate King” title, which grants you a +12 DMG (damage) bonus, letting you hit things harder!

, While you’re at the beach, head a bit north from town until you see a small house with a single lady in blue there. Talk to her and she’ll ask you to bring a silver coin.


Run northwards until you get to the pirate’s lair, then search for the Jar of Pirate Junk in the middle area of camp. Click on it, run back to the witch, and after a scene, you’ll be forced to battle.
It’s a pretty easy battle, and once you win, you get the title “Cursed Seafarer”! This will add a bonus 15 points to your HP, which lets you take a couple hits more than usual!
Make sure you’re around level 20 before you tackle the area, or be really good at running and escaping. All the pirates there are extremely aggressive and attack you on sight.
 Back in the beach, you’ll encounter a letter in a bottle at the furthest northern section of the beach. Run back to town and give it to Postman Gavin, who can be found in the middle “circle” of houses in town next to some NPC merchants. He’ll tell you to approach the old man Loma, found at the west of town, just below the exit. Loma is the old man in the green robes.


After talking to Loma about the letter, run right to Auntie May, a middle-aged lady in purple and yellow found near the southeastern exit to the beach. Talk to her about the letter, and you’ll be directed one last time to the Solitary Woman, who is a very old lady living in a small secluded house in an alcove east of Auntie May. Give her the letter, watch the scene, and receive the title “The Mail Carrier.”
This title awards you with 3 points to your CRIT (critical hit), giving you a higher chance of hitting much, much harder than you normally should!

, In town, you can spot an older man with the telltale green mark above him. He’ll ask you to measure the wind in the three exits of town and hand you an Anemometer to measure with. Place the Anemometer in your hotbar, then right-click or press the corresponding number to move automatically towards the three places and trigger the action. Once you’ve done that three times, run back to the old man, hand him the data. You’ll receive the title “Aerologist,” which gives you +3 EVA!

, At the southernmost part of the beach, there’s a box of fishing nets. Grab it, then run to Isaac, who is found near the western exit of the town, near Loma. Talk to him, give him the net, and congratulations, you now have the title “Extreme Fisherman,” which also gives you +3 EVA!

, If you head northwards from town, you’ll come across the Windmill Cottage, which is surrounded by bandit-looking people. One of them, differentiated by his color and his title of “Undercover Pirate,” is the one you’re after. He’ll tell you about his mission, and tell you to grab a costume from the box beside him. Take one, right-click it, then walk back to town. Enter the northern exit of town, speak to the Sneaky Villager, then run back to your undercover friend. After a quick scene and a painfully easy battle, reap your reward and receive the “Private Eye” title! This title will grant you an additional 12 DMG!

, Remember the lair you infiltrated for some coins? Head back up there, and at the innermost part of camp, around the northeast, is an Inconspicuous Box. Take the map inside, and right-click it. It will lead you to an area near the huge whirlpool northeast of town. Right-click the map again, and you’ll trigger a battle.


After beating your opponent, you’ll receive a small treasure chest. Open it, get your treasure, and congratulations! You now have the “Indiscriminate Looter” title! This title will grant you an additional +12 DMG.
 Back at the lair, near the middle of the camp, is a box of Crab Meat. Grab some Crab Meat, and head over to Bella’s Orchard and give it to Bella. After a short scene, you’ll get some Crab Meatballs.


Now head over to Perry, who is somewhere to the east of the orchard or directly west from the Windmill Cottage, and hand him the Meatballs. He’d greedily gulp it down, and after a short scene, you’ll receive the “Gourmet Chef” title, granting you a bonus +3 CRIT upon equipping.
 Head to the lair. At the east of the entrance, you can find an Empty Box. Grab it, click a “Catseye Parrot,” then right-click the Empty Box in your inventory to capture the parrot. Afterwards, run right back to Perry and a short, funny scene will play. Afterwards, you can now equip your brand-new title, “Best Buddy”! This title grants the player an additional 15+ HP.


Congratulations, you’ve completed all the Hidden Quests of the area!

, This last title involves being able to hunt down and defeat 4 powerful boss monsters found in the area. They have a unique icon in the map: a grayish purple horned head that vaguely resembles a dragon. The boss monsters are basically bigger versions of the usual monsters of their area, as well as more powerful. If you meet them head-to-head at the same level, you’re bound to win! Though it will be a bit challenging, they’re not as difficult as they seem.


You can keep beating these boss monsters and receive the reward multiple times, but you can only get the achievement and the title once. They respawn somewhat randomly upon being beaten, but they can always be found in their respective areas.
You don’t actually need to prepare anything special before fighting them. Players can normally beat them, regardless of Job Class, once they reach or pass the level of the boss. It is advised though to keep up-to-date with your level’s equipment restrictions and to carry Potions with you, just in case you’re hit by a critical or feel somewhat wary of them.
 Kalna is found at the beach, a little ways northward from town. He’s a huge red hermit crab with a brown shell and covered in green algae. When you’re at level 12, he proves a bit of a challenge, but it’s doable to beat him even at a slightly lower level, if you’re prepared.
 Next up is Beita! He’s a huge beetle found northwest, north of Bella’s Orchard. You should be at least level 14 to beat him, but like with Kalna, you can try and have a go at him if you feel sufficiently prepared.
 Wade is a massive golem, even more gigantic than the usual golems you find in the road just directly north of the Windmill Cottage. You can take him on at level 16 with only a little difficulty.
 Sloar is a massive purple slug found at the middle of the beach, and he’s the most powerful of the group. You should at least be level 18 before tackling him. However, like the other three, he’s not as challenging as he seems and can be taken down with only a little difficulty.
 After beating one of the boss monsters, you need to take the ensuing crate or urn containing them, then go to the northern exit of town and speak to the Town Guard, Chris. He’ll give you a reward chest, which you can open with right-click.


Note that you can only drag one urn or chest with you at a time, so you can’t treat it like a boss rush and beat all of them at once if you want to get the rewards. When you manage to hand Chris all four of these monsters, you’ll get the “Helonia Hero” title, giving you a +6 DMG boost when equipped.
Also make sure your inventory has at least one slot free to tote the urn or crate around, and that you hand it over to Chris before the 30-minute time limit on the urn or crate expires. What this does is remove the cart following you, and therefore, you’ll be unable to hand it in to Chris. While some of you won’t mind if you just repeated a battle with any of the four, it still means you’ll miss out on some items from the rewards.

