


Do a bit of research on acne scarring. Acne.org forums are a good place to start. Acne RX by James Fulton is also a good resource for information on the damaging effects of picking, as well as advice for treating acne.
Most types of acne will not cause scars if left untouched. It is the damage caused by picking, gouging, and irritating the skin that causes acne scarring.
Do a Google image search for "acne scars" to see what you may be in for if you continue to pick.;
,



Unconscious Picker - You casually touch and/or pick your face while using the computer, reading a book, or watching television. This is a very dangerous type of picking because you often won't realize you're doing it.

Bathroom Mirror Picker - You go in to grab the floss and end up spending fifteen minutes in front of the mirror, picking and popping.

Idle Picker - You pick while you're waiting for the bus, you pick while you're on the phone, and you pick while you're waiting in traffic.



Keep your hands busy. Do crossword puzzles or play video games while you're waiting for the bus. Give yourself a hand massage while you watch television. Start a knitting project to keep yourself busy at night.
Place signs that say "NO PICKING" up on your bathroom mirror, in your compact mirror, on the TV remote, or wherever you are likely to see them when you start to pick.
Wear Gloves. It may sound silly, but it will be impossible to pick your face while wearing gloves. You can wear them overnight, too, if you tend to sleep with your face on your hands. Just be sure to wash the gloves regularly.
If wearing gloves isn't an option, consider placing bandages or narrow strips of tape over your fingertips. This is a bit more discreet, and will make it very difficult to pick your skin.
Get other people involved. A close friend, parent, or roommate can be a very valuable asset. Ask them to gently scold you if they notice you touching your face.
Don't give up. Like any bad habit, you may not be able to quit picking overnight. Try not to become discouraged.
 Congratulations!

, Make sure that there is NO grime under your nails because most of the bacteria is there on your hands. Hygiene is very important, as you know fingers and hands are one of the dirtiest places on human areas.
 It's gross and there's plenty of bacteria inside your nose. Do you want those germs all over your face?

, To avoid this, stop using your hands, such as when sitting at the table. DO not put your hands on your face and use it for hand resting.
 While sitting down on a chair while in front of the table, lay your hands or hold your hands on the table or put your hands on your lap or put your hands right under your thighs and sit regularly on your hands. This may seem silly but it helps with the need to touch your face. You can do this during a job interview, or places like a simple restaurant.
