 To make your skin look as blemish-free as possible, start by applying facial primer evenly across your face. Next, put on your preferred foundation and blend it in. Apply concealer under your eyes and on top of any blemishes.








You can swap out the primer for facial lotion or a light moisturizer.
If you have naturally good skin, you can skip this step and only apply the primer.
To select the right foundation for your skin, dip a Q-tip into a container of foundation, then run the Q-tip over your jawline.
If you can't see where your skin ends and the foundation begins, this is the right shade for you.;
, Start with the eye shadow; apply a tan color across the lid of your eye, making sure to go from the base of the eye to the brow-bone. Rub a darker brown shade of eye shadow across the crease of the eye to define it.








Run the same shade of brown across the bottom lash line to darken it.
Curl your eyelashes with the help of a lash curler, then run your mascara wand over the lashes on both eyes.
Make sure to run the brush from the root of the lash to the tip of the lash.
Avoid eye-liner. Eye-liner is a great way of making your eyes stand out, but during the day it can look a little aggressive.If you don't like brown, look for eye shadow tones in bright pink, champagne, purple or peach.
Pair your eye shadow with a dark mascara to make your eyes stand out.
 Find an eyebrow pencil that is a similar shade to your hair color. If you don’t have a pencil, you can also substitute an eye shadow that matches your hair color and apply it by using a thin slanted makeup brush.








Outline and fill in the brow using the pencil.
Check your work to make sure the eyebrows are as even as possible.
 Start by smiling; the fullest, fleshiest part of your cheeks when you smile is called the apple of your cheeks and this is where you will be applying the blush.








Run your blush brush up the apples of your cheeks, towards your temples.
Use a cotton swab or some tissue to blend the color in.
Keep a light touch - it's easier to add more blush on later than it is to remove it.
If you do over-apply, don't worry! Instead, place some powder or liquid foundation on a sponge and use this to help blend the excess blush.
 Start with a lip color that is very similar to the natural color of your lips. Forgo lip liner and instead use the lip brush or tube to apply the lip color directly to your lips.








If you’re not a fan of lip color, try substituting Chapstick or a clear lip gloss instead.
Make sure to reapply the lip color periodically throughout the day.
If you're going to do a red lip in daytime, keep the rest of your makeup minimal.Don't feel like you have to stick to a matte lip - glossy is also fine.

