 While it could be anywhere in your garden, there are some key considerations:

Which part of the garden is free for adding bits and pieces to? Avoid using the fertile veggie patch for the fairy garden village.
Choose a spot that is easy to see. If you'd like family, friends and visitors to see the village, it shouldn't be hard to see or hidden away.
Consider your own comfort. Is the spot easy to access, are you okay to bend down to put things into it or would it be easier at a higher level so that you can work on it while sitting or standing?
Is it something you want viewable at nighttime? If so, lighting will be an additional factor to consider.
Does the village need to be kept out of the rain or can all the elements land upon it? This will definitely impact the location, for if you need to keep it sheltered, you'll have to put some sort of cover in place, or use existing cover. It is far easier to make an all-weather fairy garden village.;
, Start by sketching out your ideas for the village on paper first. This doesn't have to be exact, in fact the more flexible, the better. You never know what new addition you may wish to make to the fairy village over time. Things that you might wish to have in your design include:

What sorts of dwellings do you want for the fairies? Are you going to make them or purchase them? Are you happy for an eclectic mixture of dwellings or do you want this to look fairly uniform? It will be easier to make an eclectic village, especially if you're obtaining the items from all sorts of sources but if you prefer a neater looking one, you might consider purchasing a village set or making the houses all in the same way.
Will the village have other things than just dwellings? For example, you could add shops, a wishing well, a place of worship, a play area, a veggie patch just for the fairies, a dancing area, a magic mushroom circle, and so forth.
Consider having pathways. These can be easily made from pebbles or gravel and add a special extra touch to the village layout.
Little fences can be made using tiny sticks and string strung between the sticks.
Water bodies can be included––the easiest way is to use very small bowls and fill these with real water.
Will the fairies need lights? Little solar lights might make a fun addition to light up their world by night.
What sorts of fairies will you have in the village? Small ceramic fairies can be found in many dollar stores or charity shops, or you can make your own. Another alternative is making this for the invisible fairies, and making believe that the fairies visit when you're not about.
 If you're making the items rather than buying them all, it's useful to have an idea about how you'll do this. The best approach is to be very creative and to innovate as you go. The more you experiment with items you have from nature and your craft supplies, the more fun you'll have and the more unique the end result will be. Some suggestions to help you experiment include:

Borrow a book or two on making miniature houses, especially ones with a focus on using items from nature. This will give you a lot of inspiration for using different sorts of materials. Modify as much as you like––there is no need to follow the instructions exactly.
Use natural materials such as twigs, branches, rocks, pebbles, leaves, seed pods, nuts, straw, seeds, wood, etc. to make the dwellings, pathways and other features. The more natural the village looks, the more realistic it will be.
 If you don't mind mixing things up, the fairy garden village can benefit from having a mixture of purchased and handmade items. Or, simply stick to the purchased items if preferred. Things you can purchase include miniature fairy houses, ceramic fairies, ceramic pieces such as a well, a swing or a tower and doll house items of all sorts. The main thing is to only use items that can withstand being outdoors and getting weathered. Some suggestions for locating items include:

Visit charity, thrift and used goods stores. Many miniature items can be found in such places for a bargain price, and you can have lots of fun rummaging about for the best pieces.
Check out hobby or toy stores, including ones online. Look for fairy designed items and for doll house things.
See what crafters have to offer on sites such as Etsy, eBay and their own personal online stores. You might find some lovely items for sale that are just perfect for your fairy garden village.
 Follow your design ideas and begin putting the dwellings, other buildings, feature items and pathways in place. If what you planned on paper doesn't look as good when placed in the garden, continue to make adjustments until you're happy. Often the way that plants are growing, the level of the soil or the limitations of the site chosen will form part of how you assemble the items as a whole, so go with the flow and add things in the way that looks best.

This step is a great time to include your children in adding the items to the garden. In this case, just let them make the choices about where the little items will go––remember that their view of the world is much lower and more intimate than yours and they'll find this a very special and fun activity to do.
 It will be easier to see where they fit in best once the buildings, pathways and other features are already in their places., Take a photo and post it online for others to see. Then let the fairies get on with their business. If you're really lucky, you might spot one moving from the corner of your eye...