 Before purchasing materials or starting to build, you need a design plan, which you can sketch out on a piece of paper to determine your materials shopping list.There are several things to consider when designing your cat tree.


First, consider your space limitations. Determine where your cat tree will be placed, and what size will fit well into that space. It's a good idea to take measurements to ensure your finished product will fit the space.
You should also consider your cat's personality. If your cat likes to climb, consider building a tall cat tree with several perches. If your cat would like a private place to hide or sleep, consider building in a covered sleeping nook.
Finally, you should keep your carpentry skills in mind. If you are relatively inexperienced with building things and using tools, keep your design simple so that you aren't overwhelmed.
If you're at a loss for where to begin, there are several websites that have pictures of do-it-yourself cat trees you can use for inspiration, or even patterns for cat trees other people have made.;
, Use your design plan to determine which materials you will need. Plywood works well for horizontal platforms; dimensional lumber and cardboard or PVC pipe work well for vertical supports, and carpet is ideal for covering the wood.You may also need the following tools to assemble your tree:


A drill and some wood screws
An electric stapler
A table saw and a handsaw
A Hammer and nails
A carpet or utility knife
Wood glue or another powerful adhesive
If you want to create covered areas for your cat to perch, you may also want to pick up a concrete form tube. These heavy-duty cardboard tubes make great perches and tunnels for cats.These can also be cut lengthwise using a utility knife to create concave platforms or open-topped beds for your cat., Using your plan as a guide, cut all the plywood and lumber sections to size.


A simple hand saw works well for cutting dimensional lumber, while a handheld circular saw or table saw is better for cutting sheets of plywood.
Sand rough edges if desired.
 The tree needs a sturdy base, which should extend farther out from the center than any other platform or component of the tree in order to prevent tipping. To make the base, a good option is to cut 2 squares of plywood to size and glue them together for extra thickness.A 24" (60 cm) square works well for a basic cat tree,but the taller your tree, the larger you'll want to make the base, to ensure it is sturdy.
 Before attaching any vertical supports, it's best to cover the base with carpet or a thick upholstery fabric.


Cut the carpet to size, making it a few inches larger than the base on all sides. Then, wrap its edges over the edges of the plywood base, and staple it in place on the underside of the base with a staple gun.You may need to cut small notches in the carpet at the corners to make it fold neatly beneath the base., The vertical supports that will hold up your platforms can be attached to the base with screws, nails, bolts or wood glue.


Flip the base over so the carpeted side is face down. Then, drill holes through the underside of the base in the spots where you want the supports to be. Attach the supports by inserting screws or nails through the holes and driving them into the supports.You may want to cover the supports with carpet before attaching them, as this will be easier than doing it after they are already secured in place.
To make your cat tree double as a scratching post, wrap one or more of the supports in sisal rope, securing each end with wire brads or staples, placed where they will be out view and won't be scratched by the cat.If you use staples, you may need to tap them down with a hammer to make sure they don't stick out too much., The plywood perches can be attached using wood screws and/or gluing them to the tops of the vertical members.Wrap them in carpet or fabric after affixing them, so that the screws aren't visible through the carpet, and staple the carpet in place on the underside as you did with the base., Continue to affix each component, referring back to your plan for measurements and placement.


Adjustments to your design can be made as you go to account for stability issues, new ideas, or incorrect measurements.

