 Once your dog has calmed down and become less obsessed with the other animal, you can begin planning an initial introduction. Pick a nice neutral space that both animals are familiar and comfortable with. Be sure to feed and exercise both animals before the meeting so that they are both relaxed.If you have not trained your dog to respond verbal cues, you should do so before initiating an introduction. It will be difficult to control your dog without some training.

Introducing a new puppy to your cat may be slightly easier considering a cat can usually handle itself with a smaller dog. You may not need to be as cautious when introducing a puppy.
 Because your new dog will likely get excited and possibly attack your smaller animal, you will want to have it on a leash so that you can control its behavior. You should also put the other animal in its carrier or cage. These added levels of protection will ensure that neither animal gets hurt.If you are introducing your cat to a new dog, consider trimming your cat's nails so that it does not scratch the dog’s sensitive nose.
 Once you secure both animals, place them in the same space. Your dog will likely be very curious about the other animal and want to sniff it. If your dog is particularly excited, restrain it using commands or the leash. Try to limit the initial interaction to only a few minutes.Birds, hamsters, and rabbits may run away from a particularly rambunctious dog. You will likely want to keep them in their cages initially.Do not be surprised if your cat hisses at the dog.
Use verbal cues, like “sit” and “stay” to keep your dog under control.
You should never leave the animals unsupervised during introduction sessions.
Consider having a someone else hold the smaller animal during initial introductions. Controlling both animals may be difficult on your own.
 As the animals interact nicely with each other, provide verbal praise and treats. This is particularly important for reinforcing the dog’s good behavior. During the introduction sessions, it is also important that you maintain an even yet firm tone. This will help both animals stay calm.Constantly scolding your dog during introductions may lead it to become aggressive towards the smaller animal.
 In order to familiarize both animals with each other, you will need to hold introduction sessions regularly over the course of a month or two. Initially, you will want to keep these introduction sessions short. However, as the animals become more familiar with each other, you can increase the length.Go for multiple short introductions instead of fewer long sessions.
Try to bring the two animals physically closer together each session. If either animal is excited or fearful, move back a little and take a break.
 After a few sessions or when your dog calms down, let the smaller animal explore on its own. Use verbal cues, like “sit” and “stay” to keep your dog seated and calm. Reward the dog with treats and praise if it responds to your commands and plays nice with the other animal.


Make sure that the animal has an escape route in case the dog gets away from you.
 Once your animals have had consecutive days without an incident, you should let go of the dog’s leash. However, be prepared to grab it in case your dog goes after the smaller animal. After multiple sessions of good behavior with the leash released, take your dog off the leash and rely on verbal cues. Gradually increase no-leash sessions until there are no incidents and both animals are comfortable.This final step should not be rushed and pursued with caution. It can take weeks or even months to introduce your animals to each other.

