 Put together a set of cleaning tools for your child. For children under 10, include child-safe cleaners, like spray bottles with water and vinegar. Try to find smaller feather dusters, child-sized aprons and cleaning gloves, and make rags from brightly colored old clothes. Put everything together in their own cleaning caddy.Let them decorate spray bottles and the caddy.
Include their own handheld vacuum and other grown-up tools for an older child.
If you’re making cleaning products from scratch, let your older child find, measure, and mix the ingredients.
 Try the color game, where children have to clean things that are a color you shout out. For example, they need to pick up all blue toys and books when you call out “blue.” Play follow the leader, where the leader walks through a room dusting and putting things away while the other player(s) follow along and do similar tasks. Change leaders for every room you will clean., Give your child old socks and have them skate around hardwood floors to collect dust bunnies. Let them pull books out of the bookshelves and dust the shelves and then reorganize the books on the shelves. Hide stickers or treats around places you’ve asked your child to dust and let them collect all of the stickers or treats as they dust.Hide a gift card or money for a tween or teen to find.
Give your tween or teen a ladder and ask them to dust ceiling fans and other high areas.
 Tell your child they are your kitchen detective. Have an older child search for expired foods in the pantry and refrigerator. Next, ask them to sort them into garbage, recycling, or trash and to dispose of the expired food accordingly. Ask a younger child sort and alphabetize cans in the pantry or spices in the spice rack.
 Collect all of the old things you’re ready to get rid of after your spring cleaning. Decide which you should donate and which you can sell. Have your child help you make colorful signs for your sale and post them in your neighborhood. Ask your teen to post a flier online through social media if they use it.Price items together with your tween or teen.
Ask your child to help you display the items and put price stickers on them.
An older child can help collect money and make change.
Older and younger children can help demonstrate items to potential customers.
Reward your child with some of the profits, either as cash or with a trip to a restaurant, ice cream parlor, arcade, or other fun destination.

