 Start keeping a food diary to keep track of what you eat and how it makes you feel.You can use your food diary to identify the foods that tend to trigger your IBS symptoms and use that information to avoid trigger foods in the future.In your food diary include things like:


what you ate
how much you ate
when you ate
how you felt one to two hours after eating;
, These ingredients are more likely to produce IBS symptoms, so reducing your intake of foods that contain these ingredients should help to improve your IBS symptoms.Foods that you should limit or avoid include:


certain fruits such as apples, blackberries, apricots, cherries, nectarines, mangoes, pears, watermelon, or plums
canned fruits
fruit juice
dried fruit
certain vegetables such as artichokes, cabbage, garlic, lentils, cauliflower, mushrooms, asparagus, beans, onions, snow peas , and sugar snap peas
dairy products
wheat
rye
high-fructose corn syrup
honey

, Having an irregular eating pattern can also contribute to IBS symptoms, so try not to skip any meals or eat meals that are spaced too far apart. Maintain a regular meal schedule and try to eat about once every three hours during the day.Avoid eating large meals as well. Large meals may also contribute to IBS symptoms, so try to eat four or five small meals throughout the day., Staying hydrated can also help to combat some of the symptoms of IBS. Aim to drink about eight 8 ounce glasses of water every day. If you exercise or have an active lifestyle, then you may need to drink more.Steer clear of fizzy water and other carbonated beverages. These can make IBS symptoms worse.
 Alcohol and caffeine can irritate your digestive system. They may cause abdominal pain, diarrhea, or constipation. Try to reduce or eliminate caffeine and alcohol from your diet and see if your symptoms improve.For example, instead of having two cups of coffee in the morning, just have one. Or, instead of having a martini with dinner, have a glass of water.
 Processed foods tend to contain the types of sugars that are hard for your body to digest and may pass through your system without getting broken down.Eating these foods may cause your IBS symptoms to flare up.
 Artificial sweeteners that end in “ol” may make your IBS symptoms worse if you tend to get diarrhea, so it is important to avoid these. These sweeteners are common in chewing gum and diet products, such as slimming shakes.Get into the habit of reading labels to make sure that none of the foods you are eating contain these sweeteners. Some of the sweeteners to avoid include:xylitol
maltitol
sorbitol
mannitol

