 In a world where many people choose a junk food over an apple, you'll have to be the one who has the wisdom and willpower to choose the apple. In a world increasingly addicted to TV, you and your mate will have to come up with the willpower to go out on a nature walk or bicycle ride. Because you can't have a super love life unless you treat your body with love and respect. This is not a six-week diet, as you should consider a life-long program of better nutrition. This is not a three-month exercise program here to take off two inches from the waist; consider regular exercise every day of your life.;
, The Harvard School of Public Health reports that men who were physically inactive were 40 percent more likely to experience erectile dysfunction than men who exercised a half hour a day. A foundation of correct nutrition and regular exercise is necessary before we can begin to think about a super love life.
 Most of us do not realize how foods affect our moods, feelings, energy level, and behavior. When a person is "down in the dumps", one doesn't automatically say, "Gosh, I must not have been eating right." On the other hand, when we're feeling on top of the world we don't stop to think, "I'd like to feel this good more often." Many people do not relate how they feel to what they've been eating, but foods, vitamins, and minerals can make all the difference in the world between a so-so love life and the kind of love life that makes you smile every time you think about it. Many people who think they have sex problems are actually victims of poor nutrition. They don't have sex problems. They have food problems. And food problems can be solved.
 The physical effects of long-term stress include colds, ulcers, asthma, heart attack, stroke, and chronic fatigue--all ailments that can erode your health and your love life. Couples can de-stress together at the end of the day in more romantic ways, such as enjoying a lathery bubble bath for two, complete with scented candles, and a mug of warm milk and honey. Or just watch a movie together.

