 If you specialize in a particular kind of work, such as construction or administrative work, look for an agency with that niche.;
, You may be required to provide some information at the time you set up your appointment.


Ask if you should send a resume in advance of your meeting. Offer to email or fax it so the staff at the agency can review your qualifications prior to your meeting.
 You want to demonstrate a neat look that indicates how you will show up for the interviews they send you on.
 A driver's license and social security card will usually be copied.
 This may seem redundant if you submitted a resume, but most employment agencies require an application in addition to your formal resume.
 Discuss your past experience, what you liked about prior jobs and how you see yourself growing professionally.


Discuss whether you are looking for temporary work, full time permanent work, or part time opportunities. If you are open to any work, be sure to let the agency know that. Talk about any particular industry or field you are interested in as well.
Answer any questions about your job history, education and work ethic. The agency might want to know why you left your last job and what your relationship was like with former supervisors and co-workers.
 If you are looking for an administrative position, you may need to complete a typing test or computer assessments.
 Some agencies might pay you for the first weeks or months that you are employed, if they consider you their employee that they are contracting out to another company.
 The agency may be able to provide you with an idea of which positions they think would be a good fit for your skills.
 If there is a minimum you are willing to work for, make sure the agency knows that so they do not waste time sending you on interviews for jobs that do not meet your salary expectations.
 If they recommend changes, you should make those changes to make sure the right parts of your resume stand out to potential employers.



Discuss the leads with the recruiter at the employment agency. He or she should have details on the job description and salary range.
 There might be some back and forth over email or by phone to manage your schedule and that of the company.


Get a confirmed date and time as well as the name of the person you will be meeting with.
 The agency may have worked with this company before, and can give you ideas of how to prepare and what to expect.



Keep in touch with the employment agency. They might manage your time and pay, and even if they do not, it is courteous to keep them involved in how you like your job.

