 Before you begin to remove a dried paint stain with chemicals, you should attempt to remove as much dried paint as you can manually. Depending on the amount of paint that is on the fabric, you may be able to scrape some off with a blunt scraper like a putty knife. You may also be able to use a brass wire brush or a stiff nylon brush to remove some of the dried paint.


Be careful not to rip the fabric as you try to remove the paint. If none will come off, move on to the next step.
 Once you have removed as much excess paint as you can by scraping and brushing, you will need to soften the remaining paint with one of several alcohol-based solvents. Chances are you already have one of these products at home. Apply a small amount directly to the paint to begin loosening it.Rubbing alcohol, turpentine, and mineral spirits are all effective solvents for acrylic paint.
If you don't have any of these solvents on hand, you can try an acetone-based nail polish remover or even hairspray (as long as it contains alcohol).
If none of these products work for you, try visiting your local home improvement store and buy a cleaning product that is specifically designed for removing the type of paint you are dealing with.
For stubborn stains, you may have to let the solvent sit on the fabric for a while before you start scrubbing.
Solvents are very harsh, so be careful with delicate fabrics. Acetone will damage certain fabrics, among them, those made of acetate or triacetate.Natural fibers like silk and wool are also easily damaged, so always test the solvent on a hidden area like an inside seam before using it.
If your garment cannot be treated with solvents, take it to a dry cleaner to be professionally cleaned.
 Once the paint molecules begin to break down from the solvent and soften, scrub as much of the paint away as you can. Use a brush with stiff bristles for the best results.Once you've gotten most of the paint out, you can move the garment to the sink and continue scrubbing it with detergent and cold water.
 After you have finished hand-washing the stain, put your clothes in the washing machine and wash them in cold water with plenty of detergent.Remember to avoid applying any kind of heat to your clothing unless you are sure that the stain is gone.

