 Humans trade things of value for other things of value. People who don’t involve themselves in a fair trade may lack confidence or leach confidence from others.;
, However, you can learn to deal with people of all types. You may find more success in dealing with people than in trying to develop meaningful relationships with them.


Although this is more relevant in a business setting, it may be something to take away from certain friendships as well.
This process can also help you have more meaningful relationships with family members and friends who you do want to be close to.
 As many experts believe, if you want to rise to a high level in business or the community, you will have to try to build confidence in yourself first before you can lead others., Giblin believes these things are admiration, acceptance, approval and appreciation.
 Dealing with people is about giving them respect in any interaction. If you don’t think other people are important, they are unlikely to respect you in return.
 Notice people and listen to them. Take note about what is important and exceptional about them, and tell them when appropriate.


Avoid sarcasm. This is a way to undercut people before they feel the admiration that they crave. Positive methods are better than negative methods.
 Journal or think about your worth. Do things that bring you more in touch with what is valuable about you.
 Just like 12 steps advocates, you should accept the things you can’t change, and you may find you have more time to affect things that can be changed.
 Instead of being self-deprecating, thank people and accept their compliments.
 In other words, give thanks for what you have. Avoid being ungrateful of what others contribute to you.
 This is a central part of the process in dealing with other people. First, feed your hunger for acceptance, approval and appreciation, and then feed that hunger for other people.Another way to say this is that you need to accept your own need to feel important and be liked. Then, you can accept that other people are looking for the same thing.
 You should ideally spend half your time listening and half your time talking, so that you can address the other person’s needs as well. People are likely to mirror this attitude.
 People will also mirror your attitude. Understand that the attitudes you have influence other people.
 They are likely to appreciate the respect, admiration and appreciation this act gives them. Nod, acknowledge the importance of the topic and smile.


Body language is extremely important. Don’t cross your arms in front of you or frown at someone as they talk.
 Don’t volunteer personal information, but be ready to speak about yourself when asked.
 Enthusiasm is better than sarcasm.
 This is a way to express admiration and approval. Asking advice at the right time is a great way to deal well with people who might otherwise object or be confrontational.
 Remember to stay calm, respect your opponent’s turn to speak and speak your own side with confidence.It creates an environment of mutual respect that will help you deal with the most demanding people.
 It is likely to stick with the person, because you are feeding their need for approval. This leads the way to influence.

