 In order to obtain prescription birth control, you will need to see a doctor. If you do not already have a gynecologist (or a family doctor who can perform this service), search for a Planned Parenthood or women’s health clinic in your area, and make an appointment.


In some states (such as Utah and Mississippi), you must be 18 to obtain prescription birth control without parental consent. In most other states, if you are under the age of 18 and you understand the risks and benefits of birth control, you do not need your parents' permission.To check the laws in your state, check out this interactive map.
 Health insurance is not required to obtain prescription birth control, but it can significantly lessen the cost. If you already have health insurance, call your company to determine what they will pay toward your birth control, as well as which methods are covered. If you do not have health insurance, you may consider purchasing private health insurance, obtaining health insurance through the ACA, or applying for public insurance (Medicaid).
 Birth control pills are a medication that is taken orally at the same time every day in order to prevent pregnancy. The pill releases hormones (usually estrogen and progestin) that stop ovulation from occurring, which means there is no egg released to be fertilized by sperm.There are many different pills on the market. Your doctor can help you decide which one is best for your, based on a variety of health factors.


To maximize the benefit of birth control pills and keep your hormone levels stable, it is important that you take it at the same time every day. Set a reminder on your phone or make it part of your daily routine.
The pill can have some minor effects, including breast tenderness, spotting (bleeding between periods), and nausea. The pill can also increase your risk of blood clots, heart attack, stroke, high blood pressure, and some other serious conditions, though they rarely occur. It is important that you do not smoke while taking the pill, as this increases your risk for serious side effects.
Some health clinics will be able to fill your prescription for you.
Otherwise, you can fill it at your local pharmacy.
Your doctor should provide enough refills to get you through a few months or a full year.
Without insurance, birth control pills can cost up to $250 per month.
 Depo-Provera, also called “the shot,” is a hormonal birth control shot administered in the arm every three months. The appeal of this method is that you will not have to remember to take birth control every day, or insert a barrier every time you have sex.The shot is a progesterone birth control, which can have some side effects. You may experience irregular bleeding for the first six to 12 months. Your period may become heavier, or it may become lighter and stop completely. You may also experience less common side effects, including weight gain, depression, change in sex drive, nausea, or headache.Without insurance, the shot can cost up to $100 per injection.
 “The patch,” also called Ortho Evra, is a hormonal birth control patch that you affix to your skin. It uses the same hormones found in the pill — estrogen and progestin to prevent ovulation and thicken your cervical mucus, which can prevent sperm from swimming to the eggs. You use a total of three patches per month (one per week, and the fourth week you do not wear one). The patch is an effective form of birth control that doesn’t involve taking a daily pill.In the first two to three months, you may experience side effects such as nausea, breast tenderness, and spotting.The patch, like the pill, can also increase your risk of blood clots, stroke, and heart attack. It is important that you do not smoke while using the patch.
Some evidence indicates that the patch may not be as effective in women weighing over 200 lbs, so overweight women should consult their doctor about this option.
Some health clinics will be able to fill your prescription for you. Otherwise, you can fill it at your local pharmacy.
Without insurance, the patch can cost up to $80 per month.
 A vaginal ring, or “NuvaRing,” is a small, flexible, plastic ring (containing hormones) that you insert inside your vagina, like a tampon. Like the patch, you use three rings for a month (one ring each week, and the fourth week you do not use one). The ring releases the hormones estrogen and progestin, like the patch and the pill, and also prevents ovulation. This an effective method of birth control that you do not need to act on daily.The ring has similar side effects as the pill and patch, such as spotting, breast tenderness, and nausea. It may also cause increased vaginal discharge, vaginal irritation, or infection and may affect your sex drive. Serious, though rare, side effects include heat attack, stroke, blood clots, high blood pressure, jaundice, and more. Again, do not smoke while using the ring.
Some health clinics will be able to fill your prescription for you. Otherwise, you can fill it at your local pharmacy.
Without insurance, NuvaRing can cost up to $80 per month.
 An IUD, or inter-uterine device, is a small T-shaped device inserted into the uterus. There are four types of IUDs on the market, and these are divided into two types: copper IUDs (ParaGard) and hormonal IUDs (Liletta, Mirena, and Skyla). The ParaGard uses copper (which sperm hate) to prevent pregnancy and can be used for up to 10 years. Hormonal IUDs use hormones to prevent pregnancy and can be used from three to five years, depending on the brand.


Discuss with your doctor which type of IUD you should get. You may experience pain when the IUD is inserted and for a few days after, as well as cramping. In the first three to six months you may also experience spotting, irregular periods, or heavier periods and worse cramps.Rarely, the IUD may come out (fully or partially), you may get an infection, or, in some very rare cases, the IUD may push through the wall of the uterus and need to be removed surgically.Without insurance IUDs may cost up to $1,000.
 Your doctor can place birth control under your skin in the form of a hormonal implant (a matchstick-sized rod placed under your skin). The most popular brands are Implanon and Nexplanon.A common side effect of this is irregular bleeding, which is also the most common reason it is removed early.
Without insurance, this implant can cost up to $800.
This implant lasts up to four years.
 Diaphragms and cervical caps are both barrier methods that block sperm from entering your cervix. These come in different sizes, so you must be fitted by a doctor. Both diaphragms and cervical caps are used in conjunction with spermicide.The cervical cap cannot be used during your period and it may be moved out of place by certain sexual positions, some penis sizes, or heavy thrusting.Without insurance, a diaphragm or cervical cap can cost around $75, and can be used for up to two years.

