 If you want privacy in a room that you share with others, you have to establish ground rules so everyone knows what to expect. For example, you might discuss what the policy for having visitors in the room is with your roommates and whether overnight guests are acceptable. It’s also a good idea to discuss whether you can borrow each other things, such as clothing and computers.Be honest with your roommates about the type of privacy that you need to be comfortable, and be sure to listen to the boundaries that your roommates require. Everyone should feel at home in the room.
If you’ve just met your roommates, it may be hard to bring up the topic of privacy and room boundaries with them. You might say, “I’m excited to live with you and get to know you, but my privacy is very important to me. Do you think we could talk about how we’re going to handle that in the room?”
When it comes to having overnight visitors in the room, you and your roommates might agree that they’re allowed as long as you inform each other ahead of time.
If you are willing to allow each other to borrow items from one another, it’s usually best to agree that you must get permission first.;
, If you want to have private time in your dorm room, it helps to discuss each other's schedules with your roommates. You’ll want to know when they’ll be at class or work, and they’ll probably want to known the same about you. That way, if you need some time alone, you’ll know when the room will be free.If you and your roommates are usually out of the room at the same time for classes, work, and other activities, you may want to create a schedule that allows you each to have some alone time in the room each week. For example, you might agree to go to the library for a couple of hours on Monday evenings so your roommate gets the room, while they agree to head to the gym for a workout on Wednesday nights so you can have some alone time.
You may also want to discuss whether you and your roommates tend to stay up late or wake up early so you can be respectful of one another’s schedule.
 Hopefully, you’ll be able to trust your roommates so you don’t have to worry about your things. But if you’ve only just met them, you may not be sure that they’ll respect your privacy. That’s why you should make sure to enable passwords on your phone, computer, tablet, and any other electronic devices that you keep in the room. If you have other items, such as clothing, jewelry, or books, that you don’t want them to have access to either, you may want to invest in a trunk or footlocker that you can lock.Make sure that you don’t share your electronic passwords with anyone. Don’t write them down on papers that you keep in the room either.
If you have a trunk or footlocker with a lock, keep the key in your wallet or book bag so you know it’s always with you.

