 Tap its icon on your Android mobile device to launch it.;
, Type in “Chikka” on the search field, and tap the “Search” button.
 Once you locate the correct app, download it by tapping the “Install” button. It’s totally free. Once the app begins downloading, you can see the progress through the progress bar.
 Locate the app on your mobile device by looking for the icon that has an orange background, and with a mobile phone and a computer mouse on it. Tap on it to launch Chikka.
 Once you’ve keyed in your mobile number, tap the orange “Next” button. The app will send out an activation code to your mobile number. This should be the one being used on your Android phone. Chikka needs to verify your account, and link it with your phone.
 Input the activation code that Chikka sent to you in the next screen. Tap the orange “Sign In” button to proceed. Once verified, you will be logged in.
 There’s a header menu at the top portion of the screen. Look for the Profile menu, the one with the ID icon. Tap on it to get into its menu.
 If you want to put up, change, or remove your profile picture, tap the pencil icon on the photo box ,and choose the appropriate option. You can use your phone’s camera to take your picture or upload one from your gallery. Your picture will be then updated.
 Your username will be right under the photo box . To edit it, just tap on the pencil icon beside it. Type in your new username, and tap the “OK” button. Chikka doesn’t check for duplicated usernames since its primary identifier for its users are the mobile numbers.
 The next item you can edit under your Profile is your current status message. To set it, tap the pencil icon under the Status Message section. Type in your status message, and tap the “Save” button. You have a maximum of 200 characters.
 One benefit of doing so is for easier signing in as you don’t need to remember your Chikka username and password anymore. You can integrate your Facebook, Twitter, Google+ and LinkedIn account into Chikka by tapping on the appropriate icons.


The corresponding integration process owned by the social networks will be triggered. Just follow the usual protocols to proceed with linking them.
 At the top section of the screen is a header menu. Look for the Contacts menu, the one with the people icon. Tap on it to bring up your contacts.
 Your list of contacts will be displayed. Scroll up and down to browse through your existing contacts as their their names and mobile numbers will be displayed.
 At the top right corner of the Contacts list is a plus icon. Tap on it to bring out the Add Contact screen. Input the name and mobile number of the new contact.


Tap the check icon on the upper right corner to save his or her contact details in your Chikka address book.
 Select the contact you’d like to modify by tapping on it from your Contacts list. This contact’s details will then appear, with his or her photo, name, mobile number and status message.


At the top right corner of this screen, tap on the pencil icon, and an Edit Contact screen will appear where you can edit the name and/or the mobile number.
Tap the check icon on the upper right corner to update your address book.
 Tap the “Settings” button of your Android device to bring up a short menu.


Tap the “Delete” item to go to the Delete Contacts screen where all your contacts from your address book will be listed with a tick box beside each of them.
Tap the tick boxes of the contacts you’d like to remove. Once you’re done selecting, tap the Delete button on the lower right corner.
After confirmation, the selected contacts will be off your address book.
 At the top right corner of the Contacts list is a magnifying glass icon. Tap on it to display the Search field.


Type in the name or the mobile number of the contact you’re searching for. The Contacts list will automatically be filtered to match your search criteria.
Select the contact by tapping on it.
 At the top part of the screen is a header menu. Look for the Messages menu, the one with the text balloon icon. Tap on it to access your inbox and messages.
 You’ll see your inbox with all the messages you’ve received. Scroll up and down to browse through them.
 Tapping on one message will open it, similar to the message inbox in your phone.
 At the top part of the screen is an icon with a box and a pencil on it. Tap on it to start composing your message.
 Before you type your message, select your recipient. A list of all your contacts from your address book will be listed with a tick box beside each of them.


Tap the tick boxes of the contacts you’d like to send the message to. Once done, tap the “Add” button on the lower right corner.
You can only send messages to people in your contacts list.
 You will now be brought to the message composition screen. Write your message in the bottom box as the top box is reserved for the related message thread.
 Once you’re done, tap the right-pointing arrowhead beside the message box to send your message.


This won’t cost you a thing. The recipients, however, might get charged for receiving the message, depending on their service providers.

