;
, Show the world your musical affiliation.


Dress like a metalhead, but don't be excessive with studs. wristbands and belts are okay. Avoid spikes.
If you wear spikes into a mosh pit, chances are you'll stab somebody. Slipknot shirts and accessories are available on the Internet and most punk inspired stores such as Hot Topic.
There's no such thing as a poser. If you like the music, you like the music. If you don't, you don't.
 Incorporate them. You're a Maggot, so bring Maggot to school. But don't let your grades fail because of your taste in music. Do good in school.
 Understand that hardcore metalheads will call Slipknot 'fake' metal. Be better than them and listen to all music (yes, even Electric Six).
, Don't just choose Paul because you both play bass, Or Mick just because you think he has the most badass mask.
 Drums and guitar are the most popular, but that doesn't mean that they're right for you.
 What a better way to become a Maggot?

,, There are masks for sale on the Internet for around 35 dollars. You could also be creative and buy a Halloween mask and make it to match your personality.


For example, Jim wanted a Jester mask to symbolize that part of himself, but also to remain scary.
 Unless it's a police officer or person of authority, in that case you should do everything they tell you to do.
 Be open and easy to get along with or people will avoid you. There are people who don't tolerate difference. Don't always be a tough guy.
 If you see another maggot walking down the street, give him or her a nod. Maggots are a cult-like following of the band. Treat all Maggots as your friend.
 Disturb the peace and cause old people to roll their eyes. Remember, don't get discouraged by the thought of Slipknot dying. Even if they break up, their spirit will always remain.
 Read their biographies. Explore websites. Know your band. Collect all the music. Try to find rare videos, hidden tracks, unreleased songs, and other mysterious things.
 We are one big family!

