 Place your front foot on the board just behind the nose and push off against the ground with your back foot. Give yourself three or four strong pushes to get moving at a decent speed. Set your back foot on the board. You should now be cruising along, aimed straight ahead.It’s recommended that you get comfortable with the basics of skateboarding before attempting to learn how to turn.
Strap up with the proper protective gear—a helmet, wrist guards and knee and elbow pads—to safeguard yourself against scrapes, bruises and more serious injuries.;
, Rest your lead foot right above the bolts that attach the board’s trucks to the deck. Slide your back foot forward until it’s in the same position over the rear trucks. This will ensure that you’re in the most stable position to keep your balance while turning.Your feet should be lined up straight across the deck to create the leverage needed to generate the turn.
Keep your feet away from the nose and tail. Putting too much weight on either edge will lift one set of wheels or the other off the ground.
 Decide whether you want to steer to the left or to the right. If you ride regular (left foot up front), initiate a mild left turn by leaning your weight back over your heels, so that more pressure is put on the rear edge of the deck. Right turns can be performed by leaning over the toes.The general idea is to simply lean in the direction you want to go. The fine-tuned mechanics of the skateboard will take care of the rest.
These directions should be reversed for goofy riders (those who place their right foot up front)., As the deck tilts, all your weight will be over the wheels on one side of the board. This will cause them to veer in the direction you’re leaning, resulting in a smooth, gradual turn. Bend your knees and lower your center of gravity slightly as you steer to keep from being forced off balance by the motion of the turn.


If you find yourself falling off to the side of the board, you’re probably leaning too hard. Don’t be too heavy-footed. Try repositioning your weight delicately at first and working your way up to wider curves.
 If you find that it’s difficult to perform leaning turns on your board, it may be because your trucks are too tight. Use a crescent or socket wrench to take a little tension out of the nut that secures and tightens the trucks. This will enhance their range and ease of motion, allowing you to glide into turns effortlessly.Looser trucks will make leaning turns easier, but will reduce the overall stability of the board, as the deck will be able to move around more freely of the wheels.Play around with different levels of tightness in the trucks to strike the right balance between stability and ease of movement.

