 This will determine what type of staple gun to purchase. The types available include:


Hand/manual staple gun. This is useful for small projects that don't require repeated use, especially for around-the-house projects, such as repairing screens, sticking wires to skirting boards, fixing upholstery. It can also be used for craft projects, including stapling fabric or canvas to screens/frames.
Powered staple gun. This runs on electricity and can be light or heavy duty, depending on your needs. This is good for stapling carpet, heavy upholstery (leather, vinyl), adding trim and moldings, etc.
Compressed air powered staple gun. This is for heavy duty, repeated work, such as on a building site. Such guns use staples in various types and sizes. If the gun does not have a depth/power control, then you need a good add-on air regulator to keep the air pressure to the best pressure and keep the crown from being "countersunk" (cutting right through roofing paper, underlayment or deep into shingles), ruining or damaging and weakening materials that may more easily rip loose and fly away in a high wind.;
, Whatever the purpose you need a staple gun for, it should come from a reputable manufacturer and be of excellent quality.


Check the construction to make sure that it is welded together properly, that there are no loose/missing/crooked parts, etc.
Check for rust resistance and durability.
Is there an easy way to tell whether the staple magazine is full, partially loaded or needs refilling?
Ask the store assistant for a test demonstration. How does it feel to hold? If you have any issues with your hands or wrists, check that the staple gun feels comfortable and is adequately ergonomic for you. This is vital if you will be using it for long periods at a time.
Ask about the warranty provided.
 Home-use staplers use lengths up to 5/8 inch (15mm). There are also staples with a specially curved crown that can fix thin cables on to walls or skirting boards.
Builders and roofers may use staplers that fire wide-crown roofing staples of 1 inch (~ 2.5cm) crown and depth up to 1.5 inches (3.75cm).

