 Powdered cat milk replacer (such as Cimicat) can be purchased from the vet clinic, major pet stores, or on the Internet. Another good milk replacer is KMR. This is the cat equivalent of infant formula, with the same composition as queen's (mother's) milk. The milk replacer has guidelines as to how much to feed in each meal.


Do not feed cow's milk to the kitten as the lactose is likely to upset the kitten's stomach. If you have no milk replacement and a hungry kitten, offer some cooled boiled water in a dropper or syringe until you can get to the vet clinic or pet store. The water keeps the kitten hydrated and won't upset her tummy., You can purchase this at a vet clinic, a major pet store, or on the Internet. In an emergency use an eyedropper or a small syringe to drip the milk replacement into the kitten's mouth., You do this much as you would a baby: hold the kitten up straight against your shoulder, or place one hand under its belly. Gently pat and rub its back., Before and after each feed, wipe the kitten's bottom with a paper towel or gauze pad soaked in warm water. This stimulates the kitten to go to the toilet, which otherwise she would not do.Hold the kitten over a litter box and use the towel to rub the kitten's genitals and anal region after every meal. Continue to do this until the urination and defecation is over (when nothing else is coming out).


Rub in just one direction–rubbing back and forth is irritating.
Cotton balls or pads are not recommended because they shed., Urine should be pale yellow and odorless, and stools should be yellowish-brown, formed in tiny logs. Dark, pungent urine is a sign of dehydration; green stool may be a sign of over-feeding, while white stool could indicate malabsorption, a serious problem. Call your vet if you have any concerns.


If the kitten does not urinate for 12 hours, take her to the vet's immediately.
Most kittens poop once a day, but individual schedules vary. Take her to the vet's if she hasn't pooped in more than two days., In the first two weeks of life the kitten feeds every two to three hours around the clock. The kitten will tell you she is hungry by crying and wriggling around as if hunting for a nipple. A full kitten often falls asleep while suckling and has a rounded belly. After two weeks, the feeds can be stretched out to to every three to four hours, with a gap of six hours overnight., Neonatal kittens (under two weeks of age) cannot regulate their body temperature and usually keep warm by snuggling up to their mother. You can simulate this situation by keeping them on a heated pad designed for puppies or kittens. Avoid putting them in direct contact with the pad: if the kitten is in direct contact with the heat pad, she might be at risk of either local burns or overheating. However, these pads usually come in a fleece cover so it shouldn't be a problem, except for when you remove the cover for washing, in which case substitute a towel.


As the kitten gets older (over two weeks), she is able to move away from the heat if she gets too hot., If a kitten's body feels cold, you need to warm her up gradually. A kitten is cold if her ears and/or the pads of her feet feel chilly to the touch. Put your finger in her mouth: if it feels cold, the kitten's body temperature is too low, which can be life-threatening. Warm her up slowly by wrapping her in a fleece blanket and holding her next to your body, rubbing her gently with your hands for one to two hours., You can start with this article. Contact a veterinarian for information and suggestions. Your vet can also provide vaccinations against common diseases and deworm the kittens.


Orphaned kittens may be dewormed starting at two weeks, and, depending on their situation, can be vaccinated starting anywhere from two to eight weeks. They may have weaker immune systems because, unlike other kittens, they don't get the antibodies from their mother's milk.