 Make sure the camera is turned off before you start detaching the different components. Remove the camera battery and take off the camera strap if there’s one attached. Press the lens release button located on the camera body at the base of the lens to detach the lens., A blower is a small, rubber device that puffs air out of it when you squeeze it. Open the film chamber and turn the camera so the film chamber is facing downward. Angle the blower so it’s pointing inside the film chamber and then squeeze it to puff air out and blow away any particles.You can find a blower at most stores that sell cameras and camera equipment, or online.
 Go around the entire exterior of the camera with the blower, blowing away any dust or particle buildup. It’s important to do this before wiping down the camera with a cloth, as any leftover particles could be dragged across the camera’s surface when you’re wiping it down, leaving scratches., Use a cleaning solution and a cloth specifically designed for cameras. Make sure the cloth you’re using doesn’t have too much solution on it; you don’t want liquid dripping onto the camera and seeping into the cracks.


If you don’t have access to a camera-cleaning cloth, use a cotton swab or wrap a toothpick in a cotton pad., Gently rub the eraser on any stains or grimy buildup on the camera body. Beware of eraser crumbs; you may need to use the blower or a lens brush to remove them after you’re done cleaning with the eraser., If your camera has ground glass inside of the body, you can access it by lifting the small latch behind the lens mount. Once the ground glass has dropped down, wipe it down using a cloth or cotton swab with cleaning solution.If you notice any particles on or around the ground glass, use a blower to blow them away before you wipe it down with a cloth.
 Dampen the cotton swab with cleaning solution and wipe it across the surface of the viewfinder, making sure to wipe away any smudges or grease on the glass., The mirror is located behind the lens mount. Using cleaning solution, wipe a cotton swab across the surface of the mirror. Let it dry and check to make sure there aren’t any streaks before you put the lens back on., Give the blower a few squeezes away from your lens in case there’s any dust inside. Then hold the blower close to your lens and squeeze to puff out air and blow away any particles.Avoid using your mouth to blow air onto your camera lens. The saliva from your mouth can coat and damage the lens.
 Use a brush specifically designed for camera lenses to avoid damaging your lens. Lens brushes have fine brush hairs that won’t scratch or damage glass. Move the lens brush in a circular motion on the lens until you’ve eliminated the remaining particles., Use a cloth or tissue specifically designed for lenses to avoid scratching your lens. Avoid using facial tissue or your t-shirt to wipe your lens down. For the best results, use a cleaner designed for camera lenses. You can also use reagent-grade isopropyl alcohol or de-ionized water.Always apply your lens cleaner to a cloth or tissue and not directly on your camera lens. Applying a lens cleaner directly to your camera lens can result in liquid getting into your camera’s body., Move the cloth in concentric circles to avoid streaks. Don’t apply too much pressure, just enough to remove any smudges or grease from the lens.
 Camera lenses are durable pieces of glass, but over-exposing them to cleaning chemicals and physical contact can lead to unnecessary damage. Avoid touching your camera lens when you’re taking photos so you don’t have to clean it as often. Don’t clean your lens every time you see a few specks of dust; some dust is OK and will not impact the quality of your images., Use a case specifically designed to hold a camera. Keeping your camera and lens in a proper storage container will keep them dry and prevent any dirt or grime build up.When you’re traveling with your camera, carry it in a travel case as opposed to carrying it in the same bag as your other belongings. This will prevent your camera and lens from getting dirty or damaged.
 Lens caps are relatively cheap and you can find them in most stores that sell cameras. A lens cap snaps on the front of your camera lens so no dust or dirt gets on it when you’re not using it. A lens cap will also protect your lens from drops or impacts.