 Is it going to rain? Pack a rain suit or something that can get wet and dry quickly. If it is going to be hot, pack shorts. Don't forget a bathing suit if it's warm or if there's a pool.
 This will help you decide how many pieces of clothing to take. Too much and you will regret carrying everything. Remember you can always buy a cheap t-shirt or a pair of shorts at your destination. You will regret it if you pack too much, but if you pack too little you can always compensate for it. Remember probably every town you have ever been in has had a laundromat.


Over-packing will also leave less room in your suitcase for purchasing gifts and souvenirs.
 Always put heavier or larger items at the bottom of the suitcase. This will make it easier to find items in your suitcase.
 This will work well for both hot and cold weather, as you can add more if you're too cold, and take some off if you're too hot.
 If you need more space in your suitcase and aren't worried about the weight, roll your clothes (as this will take significantly less space than folding). If you do not need as much space and want to keep the weight down, fold your clothes.


Roll items as tightly as possible in order to achieve the space saving effect.
Rolling does not necessarily make your clothes more wrinkled, you simply need to be careful that when you roll clothes, you do not roll in any wrinkles. Roll the item as flat as possible. Folding the item along its natural seams first will help.
Elastic items will be easier to roll without introducing wrinkles.
If you aren't very good at rolling, avoid rolling items which wrinkle easily.
Rolled items will need to be packed tightly, which is why this method should only be used if space is at a premium. Rolled items not tightly packed will cause them to unroll and wrinkle.
 Stuff your socks inside your shoes if there is no other room for them (it will also keep the shoes shape). If you have any other small trinkets, you can put that in your shoes, too.
 This will help distribute the contents.
 This way, they are less likely to be broken. If possible, don't bring anything fragile.
 Put dress shirts on top so that you can remove them easily for hanging and ironing. This should also allow them to lie flatter.
 This is so that after you wear them, you can put them away without damaging any other items or making them dirty. You can use a grocery bag or a shower cap.
 Fit the underwear and socks down the sides once the case is full. This will make sure that you don't fill up valuable space in the middle.

