 To be eligible to apply to the SSA for disability benefits you need to meet certain criteria. You must be 18 years old, or older, as well as not currently receiving any benefits on your social security record. You have to be unable to work due to a medical condition that is expected to last at least a year, or to result in death.


You cannot apply again if you have been denied disability benefits within the past 60 days.
If this is the case, you can request a review of this decision and the medical determination through the Internet Appeal., The information you need to collect for the application process can be broken down into three main areas: information about you; information about your medical condition; information about your work. The information about yourself you will need includes your date and place of birth, and Social Security number.


If applicable, you will also need this information about your current and any former spouse.
You also need to know the dates and places of marriage, divorce, or death.
You will also need to submit your bank account information, including your bank's Routing Transit Number, so you can receive payments electronically.
 The information you will need on your medical condition and history includes detailed information about your illnesses, injuries, or conditions. This will include names, addresses, phone numbers, patient ID numbers and complete dates of treatment for all the doctors, hospitals, and clinics you have been treated by.


You must disclose the names of any medicines you are taking and who prescribed them.
You must also submit the names and dates of relevant medical tests and who ordered them.
You will be asked to supply the name, address, and contact number of someone who knows about your condition and can assist with your application., Finally you will be required to collect detailed information about your work which will be submitted with your claim. The information you need includes the amount of money you earned last year and this year, and the name and address of your employer(s) for the those years. You must also submit your Social Security Statement, as well as the start and end dates of any military service before 1968.


You must draw up a list of the jobs you worked in the 15 years before you became medically unable to work. The list should only go up to five jobs, and should include the dates of your employment.
You are required to submit full information on any workers' compensation or similar benefits you have received in the past or plan to apply for., There are certain documents that you may be required to provide when you apply for disability benefits, so it's a good idea to gather all of these together before you start the application. You may be asked to produce a birth certificate and proof of US citizenship, or lawful alien status. You might also be required to submit military discharge papers if you had military service before 1968. You will need W-2 forms and/or self-employment tax returns for the last year. Further documentation you might need includes:


Medical evidence already in your possession, such as test results, medical records, and doctor's reports.
Any proof of temporary or permanent workers' compensation benefits received, such as pay stubs, award letters, or settlement agreements.
Note that photocopies of W-2 forms, self-assessment tax returns, and medical documents are generally accepted, but for everything else it is likely that you will need to provide the original document., Before you apply complete the Adult Disability Checklist you can download from here: https://www.socialsecurity.gov/hlp/radr/10/ovw001-checklist.pdf to ensure that you have all the necessary information and documentation. Once you are satisfied, you can apply online by visiting https://www.socialsecurity.gov/disabilityonline. Applying online enables you to complete the application when it is convenient for you.If you prefer to apply over the phone, call 1-800-772-1213 from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m, Monday through Friday. The deaf or hard of hearing should call TTY 1-800-325-0778.
You can apply in person at your local office, but will need to call ahead and make an appointment first.
If you live abroad, contact the nearest US Embassy or Consulate.