 One way to get moving is to add 10 minutes of moderately intense activity to your daily routine, starting today. This shouldn’t be overwhelming, and can get you on the right track. Even an hour to an hour-and-a-half of exercise weekly can cut your risk of heart disease by 50%.Do this for two weeks, then add 10 more minutes a day of activity. Keep building up until you hit your target goal.


If you’re new to working out, for example, you can spend the first two weeks taking a brisk 20 minute walk (quickly enough to get your heart pumping faster). Every two weeks increase how far you go or how fast you go.
 Aerobic exercise raises your heart rate, gets you breathing heavier, and uses big groups of muscles. Basically, aim to break a sweat. This is a different kind of exercise than weight lifting, which will tone muscles but do little for overall cardiovascular health.Swimming, cycling, and even brisk walking are good options. Play a sport like soccer, tennis, rugby, roller derby – anything that really gets your heart pumping (as long as it’s a safe choice for you). You can dance, do jazzercise or pilates, or anything you enjoy that’s aerobic. The American Heart Association suggests that even yoga can boost heart health!Talk to your doctor about your cardiovascular goals, and ask what your target heart rate should be. Ask, "For my age, weight, and height, what's my target heart rate to improve my cardiovascular fitness?" Consider getting a device that measures your heart rate while you exercise so you can aim for your target heart rate.
If you feel dizzy, lightheaded, or nauseated during your workout, stop and rest right away.
Stay hydrated while exercising by taking a short water break every 20 minutes.
 Exercising sporadically won’t do much for your heart; you need to do it regularly. Aim for 30 – 40 minutes of aerobic activity on most days of the week, with a goal of at least five days weekly — this is how you get conditioned to good cardiovascular health. You can do this all in one go, or if time is a factor try it 10 minutes at a time through the day.Use your journal to track your progress, or try using an app for that reason.
 When you start your workout, don’t jump into intense activity right away. Start with a five-minute warm-up to lessen the stress on your body. You’ll feel better, be less sore, and get more flexible. Try gentle stretching, some yoga or tai-chi, or starting your regular workout at a slow pace, such as five minutes of walking before your jog., Like the warm-up phase, your cool-down will help your body regulate blood pressure and heart rate so that you feel good and get maximum benefit from your workout without feeling dizzy. After your 30 – 40 minutes of conditioning exercise, gradually decrease your activity level. Slow down from running to walking, or return to your yoga or stretches from your warm-up. Spend at least five minutes cooling down.Do not immediately stop your workout at the end or just sit down. The goal is a gradual, not abrupt, decrease in activity.
Be sure to stretch the muscles you used during your workout to avoid excess soreness and cramping.

