 A commercial cleaning business requires more investment than a residential one. You'll need larger equipment like buffers and power washers, more cleaning supplies, and a sizable work crew to clean large commercial buildings. Use your savings, personal loans, or loans from family and friends before applying for bank loans.
 Commercial institutions differ in their needs; for example, a hospital may require different schedules and services than a school or office building. Starting smaller by targeting small offices and businesses will require fewer employees and less capital, but may not be as profitable. Your target market goals will help determine your investment, equipment and marketing activities., Compare them to the costs of starting from scratch. A franchise may require a bigger investment, but you'll have access to marketing tools and administrative guidance right from the start., Find out what they charge and what services they offer. This will help you set rates and find a niche that sets your company apart. Remember to account for the costs of your materials and expenses when setting prices. Be sure to gauge the scope of a job before making a commitment to avoid a project that takes more hours or staff than you budgeted for., You'll need coverage for company vehicles and liability coverage for damages on cleaning jobs. Bonding and criminal record checks assures your customers that you and your employees can be trusted., Talk to your local government offices to get information about local and state licensing. Meet with an attorney or accountant to find out how to start a janitorial company, form your business structure, and register with the IRS., You'll need to cover administration, scheduling, customer service and accounting. A payroll program for paying employees and taking the necessary deductions will be necessary too. Outsourcing your payroll or buying a full payroll software package are some options to make it easier., You'll need a space for storage of equipment and cleaning supplies as well as an office area. renting a small office space can help build a professional image and ensure that you have enough space. You'll also need vehicles to transport employees, cleaning supplies and equipment., Have business cards, brochures and letterhead printed. Create a logo that can be used in print and on the web. Get uniforms from a uniform supply source. Consider having them embroidered or printed with your company name., Buying professional cleaners in bulk will save money. Look into low toxic or natural cleaning products as a way to set your company apart from the competition.