 One of the biggest differences between jaguars and leopards is their physical size. Leopards are generally smaller than jaguars, though size discrepancies exist within each species.Jaguars can grow up to 6.25 feet long (1.9 meters). Adult jaguars can weigh up to 211 pounds (96 kilos) and stand 25 to 30 inches (76 centimeters) tall at the shoulders.Leopards can grow up to 6.3 feet (1.92 meters) in length and weigh up to 198 pounds (90 kg).Leopards are taller than jaguars, with adult leopards standing up to 31 inches (78.74 centimeters) tall at the shoulders.;
, Another physical distinction between jaguars and leopards is the size of each animal's head. Jaguars typically have much larger heads than leopards, which makes sense given the overall body size difference between these two cats., The size and patterns on each animal's tail can be another distinguishing feature. The tail of a jaguar is typically shorter than the tail of a leopard. A jaguar's tail patterns are also unique: the rosette patterns on the tail may appear to "merge," forming a band around the tail., Though jaguars and leopards have very similar-looking coats, there are some noticeable differences between the two. Close examination of the patterns and coloration can often reveal which animal is which.While both animals have rosette patterns on their coats, a leopard's rosettes are solid. A jaguar's coat will have spots inside the rosettes, setting it apart from those of a leopard.
The rosettes on a jaguar's coat are usually much larger, whereas a leopard's rosettes are typically very closely-spaced together.A jaguar's base coat color is usually a shade of yellow, but it can also be reddish-brown or even darker. The throat, outer legs, underbelly, and lower flanks are usually white (though they may have spots).Both animals can have an all-black coat, but a black leopard will still show a rosette pattern on its black coat. A black jaguar's coloration can also appear more like a mix of blue/black and purple.