 This will determine the information you should provide. For example, journalists will need media contacts, news releases, and images. Investors may want company financial reports and industry overviews.;
, Use a professional to design your navigation so that search engines can easily find your site and link to and from locations on it.
 Consider URLs such as www.companydomain.com/News, news.companydomain.com, media.companydomain.com, or newsroom.companydomain.com.
 Must-have materials include:


Contact info

Do not make this section a form. Offer direct contact information so journalists can reach your media contact quickly. List direct email, physical address, and phone number. Include your cell phone if your industry requires time-sensitive responses.


News releases
Articles and white papers
Corporate information ("About Us")

, Other sections to consider:


Resources

This could include analyst research and other appropriate links to relevant industry information


Awards
Calendar of upcoming events

Show any seminars or trade shows you're hosting or attending


Videos and podcasts

Podcasts are a great way to talk directly to your audience on timely industry topics


Specialized media kits for specific trade shows and events
"In the News"

This section would include links to your materials on third-party websites (an article in a trade publication, for example).
 Place material under distinct labels such as News Releases, Articles, White papers, and Podcasts. Don't lump information together. If you have various types of visitors, create different sections such as "For Journalists" and "For Investors."

, Some visitors may want to find information quickly through search. Make sure a search function is available that catalogs not only your written materials but your images, videos and podcasts, too. Adding a tag cloud is also a good way to help visitors search through your material.
 Share. Share. Use an AddThis tag to allow visitors to easily share your news through RSS feeds, Digg, Myspace, Facebook, and more.
 Add feeds from your corporate blog and/or Twitter account to keep all your social media efforts connected.
 When you send press releases include links to your newsroom and to the release and image downloads. Send an e-mail blast to your investors and customers letting them know this resource is available. Send a similar blast to your prospect database to invite them to visit for more information on your company.

