 If you have a double boiler, fill the bottom half with 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of water. If you do not have a double boiler, choose any old, large saucepan and fill it with 1 or 2 inches (2.5 or 5 cm) of water, instead.


The pot should be large enough for a second, smaller pot or metal bowl to sit inside.
Never expose beeswax directly to the heat source. Doing so can cause the wax to melt unevenly and may result in scorching or fires.
Since water boils at 212 degrees Fahrenheit (100 degrees Celsius), using a double boiler also makes it difficult for the wax to exceed this temperature, making the process much safer.;
, Place the large saucepan on the stove and heat it on high until the water reaches a steady, rolling boil.


Do not keep the pot on the outer edge of the stove. Hot wax is dangerous, so to prevent it from accidentally getting knocked over, keep the pots on one of the inside eyes of the stove.
Use an electric stove or hot plate when possible. Gas stoves are usually safe, but if your wax does manage to reach its flash point, the vapors may find the gas flame of your stove and ignite.
 Place the top half of your double boiler inside the bottom half. If you are not using a double boiler, simply use a smaller metal pot or bowl. Lower the heat so that the water reduces to a gentle simmer.


Only use a metal bowl. Do not use plastic or glass.
Ideally, the top half should rest on the lip of the bottom half so that the bottom of the top half does not touch the bottom of the lower half.
If your top half does have to rest on the bottom of the lower half, place a metal cookie cutter or similar metal utensil inside the bottom of the lower half and set the upper bowl on top of the cookie cutter. The cookie cutter elevates the bowl enough to protect it from the heat source., Carefully lower the block of beeswax into the upper bowl or pot. Make sure that no water can get inside the bowl containing the wax.


To speed up the process, consider cutting the wax into smaller chunks before placing it in the double boiler. Smaller pieces of wax melt faster than larger blocks.
 Allow the block of beeswax to melt slowly. Depending on how large your pieces of wax are, this could take anywhere from 30 minutes to several hours.


Never leave the wax unattended as it melts.
Use a thermometer to monitor the temperature of your beeswax as it melts. Beeswax should melt around 145 to 147 degrees Fahrenheit (63 to 64 degrees Celsius). Do not allow it to exceed temperatures beyond 160 to 170 degrees Fahrenheit (71 to 77 degrees Celsius), since beeswax can take on a dark hue and lose its aroma past this point.Add water to the lower pan periodically as the original water starts to evaporate away. Do not allow the double boiler to become completely dry at any point during the process.
 Once the wax melts down, you can use it in molds or as otherwise called for.

