 Your boss is your superior and has more authority in the company than you do. Behave in a respectful manner toward your boss. Be conscious of your tone, word choices, and attitude.Your boss has earned his or her position. Acting disrespectful toward your boss will only hurt your relationship and threaten your job security.
A good rule of thumb is to pause briefly before you blurt something out. This pause will give you the opportunity to adjust your tone and the way you are going to respond to your boss.
Instead of saying with a snippy attitude something like, "that's not part of my job description," when your boss asks you to do something new, try saying, "I will try my best with this new task."

, Do what you say you are going to do. If you fail to complete an assignment in the time that was allocated, own up to your failure. A boss will respect you much more if you are just honest verses always having an excuse on handIt is better to under promise and then to over deliver instead of the opposite.
Don't take on more than you know you can handle in an attempt to impress your boss.
Instead of saying, "I am late because there was traffic," try saying, "I apologize for my tardiness today, and I will leave earlier for work from now on."

, By asking for feedback, you are showing your boss that you are open-minded, willing to improve, and truly invested in your job. Feedback from your superior will only help you do your job better.
 Lending a helping hand when one is needed, even when it is by doing something that is not part of your job, will demonstrate to your boss that you are a team player and not lazy., It is far more professional to make requests and offer potential solutions opposed to just venting about things you don't like or don't think work. Be part of the solution, not the problem.Complaints come off as whiny and childish.
Requests come off as solution-focused and respectful.
Instead of saying, "I can't stand working with the marketing department! They are so inefficient!" Try saying, "I would like some help trying to figure out how to communicate more efficiently with the marketing department."

, Getting involved with office politics, drama, and personal conflicts in the workplace is a surefire way to show your boss how unprofessional you are. Do not do anything that causes tension or makes the workplace unpleasant. If you find yourself in a situation where you are involved in sort of conflict, discreetly discuss and end the issue with the person or people involved and more on.