 Look for any slot on the sides or in the battery bay of the device. These are the places where SD cards are mostly mounted on.


You can also check it on your device. Simple go to your device’s Settings and go to the Storage section. Your SD card information will be displayed here. If you don’t see any section about memory cards, then your phone might not support or doesn't have one mounted on.;
, Most Android phones and tablets often come with a file explorer app by default. These kinds of programs give you access to your device’s files and documents, much like how you navigate between folders on a computer. Look around the installed applications on your phone and see if there’s one installed.


If you don’t have a file explorer app on your device, you can download any of the several similar apps on Google Play. Get one and have it installed on your Android. All of these apps can be used pretty much the same way.
 Tap on its icon on the app screen to open it.
 Some file explorers simply display your device’s memory as “phone” or “tablet” memory. If not, it can be displayed as “/storage”.
 Your photo’s location depends on what app you used to take it:


Most third-party photo apps creates a folder of its own to save pictures; these folders are commonly named after the apps that created it, so it won’t be hard to find.
Photos shot with your device’s camera are stored by default in a folder named DCIM, right on the main folder of your device memory, so it isn’t that hard to spot too.
, The location of the menu and Move may vary depending on the file explorer app you’re using, but the function is mostly similar with third-party explorer apps.
 Like with step 2, most file explorer labels the SD memory as it is or as “External Memory.”


For other apps, look for the location that has an “ext” with its name (i.e., extmem).
 Look for a folder or create a new one (file explorer apps allows you to create folders too).
 Once you’re in the desired directory, open the app’s menu and use its Paste option to move your photos from Android to your SD card.

