 This is a normal part of the process of breaking up. It is usually not healthy to put a deadline on grieving, it's just something that "is", so be careful not to rush your grieving time simply because you want to be over this person quickly.;
, Whatever this person meant to you before the breakup, you are worth too much to keep feeling hurt for the sake of this person. Remind yourself that your needs matter most now and that feeling normal again is your immediate aim.
 Whether you broke up with them or it was the other way around, this is all about incompatibility. When someone doesn't want to be with the other person anymore, the compatibility is broken and it's for the best that you don't try to kid yourselves that it'll work. Consider how realistic it is to keep wanting to be with this person––if it's clear that you're not going to be a good couple or good friends, then it's not realistic.


If this person was a negative influence in your life, then you're better off without them.
 This isn't something everyone likes to do, as it just keeps on reminding you. However, it might help you to take off any rose-colored glasses if all you can do is remember how great this person is. Write down all the cons to the person; do this in a diary or somewhere secret. Rewrite the cons ten times each hour, and you will start to notice those cons more and more. You won't like them as much when you keep reminding yourself what didn't work about being with them.
 Block them on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. When you can't keep reading their updates, you will no longer be reminded of their presence and you'll care a lot less about what they're up to.
 Distraction is a time consuming activity, which will make it ideal for not thinking about this person. Things you can do include:


Start a new hobby
Go out with friends
Volunteer somewhere.
 Now that they're out of the picture, focus on you. Yes you, reading this, you're beautiful!


Focus on the people in your life that love you for you. Let the people in your life positively influence you onto the path of happiness. Although you shouldn't count on anyone for your happiness, its nice when being around others you care about makes you happy.

