 Note that there are many different types of heavy equipment, and many different manufacturers, but most, if not all, are provided with a basic service manual or owner's manual. Often this is the best place to start.;
, Regardless of where you begin looking for parts, you will need to be able to identify the manufacturer, the model year, and the model number. Having the serial number can often be critical to assuring you get the correct part the first time. Usually the manufacturer's name is on the machine, as well as the model name, example: Case (manufacturer) 580K (model) Backhoe (type of equipment). The serial number is usually on a data plate affixed to the frame or on the cab. Armed with this minimum of information, you should be able to locate a dealer or find an online after market source for a service manual with a parts identification guide and break down. These type manuals contain a great deal of technical information, and usually cost between 50 and 100 dollars, but to identify the exact part it should be considered money well spent.
 When you identify the part name, and hopefully model number, a search of the phone book yellow pages, or an internet search engine should connect you with a supplier. From personal experience, manufacturer dealer outlets offer the most complete line of parts, but usually they are more expensive than "after market" replacement parts which often meet or exceed OEM (original equipment manufacturer) specifications.
 If you choose to deal with an internet supplier or catalog type sales business, always take shipping into consideration. A bulldozer muffler, hub assembly, or even battery can weigh over one hundred pounds, so shipping can actually run the price up and make local dealer parts a better bargain.
 Scheduled service parts such as lubricants, filters, and other parts may be offered at discounts in quantity, and shipping costs are often waived on large enough orders.
 If a particular bearing or belt wears out and has to be replaced, write down the part number, price, and installation date, in the event it breaks again, and particularly during the warranty period.

