 In a salt scrub, the salt is used as an exfoliant that scrubs away dead skin and leaves your skin soft and smooth. There are a number of different salt types you can use, including table salt, sea salt, Himalayan salt, Dead Sea salt, kosher salt, or Epsom salt.


Sea salt and Epsom salt are some of the most common salts used in these scrubs. The type of salt you use isn't as important as the grind. For a salt scrub, choose finely ground salt over coarse salt, because fine salt is better at exfoliating.
You can also combine different types of salts together in one scrub.
You can also substitute white sugar, brown sugar, coffee, oatmeal, or ground nut shells for all or part of the salt called for in the recipe.;
, The carrier oil is the base that will keep the salt scrub together, but it will also moisturize your skin. You can use specialty oils or oil you have on hand in the pantry. To prevent slips in the shower, choose a thin- or medium-consistency oil that will be washed away easily:Grape seed and jojoba oils are thin and have very faint aromas
Sweet almond oil has a medium consistency and a mild aroma
Vegetable, olive, and canola oils are medium and have little aroma
Coconut oil is medium and has a very strong, sweet aroma
Peanut, walnut, and hazelnut oils are thin to medium and have nutty aromas
Castor oil is thick and difficult to wash off

, A salt scrub doesn’t need anything other than salt and an oil, but you can add fragrances and essential oils if you want to change the aroma of your scrub. You can pick fragrances that you like, that suit different seasons, or that are holiday-specific. Be sure they are suitable for use on the skin.


Citrus oils like lemon, orange, and grapefruit are fresh, energizing, and great for spring- and summer-themed scrubs.
Flower oils like ylang-ylang, rose, and geranium are sweet and summery.
Peppermint and cinnamon are invigorating oils that are also great for Christmas and winter scrubs.
Lavender, vanilla, chamomile, and frankincense can be very calming fragrances., Find a glass jar with an airtight lid to store your scrub. Pour the salt into the container, followed by the carrier oil. Finally, add some drops of essential oils or fragrances until you achieve an aroma and strength you like. Stir the mixture well before using., When you’ve finished with your salt scrub, put on the airtight lid. Store the scrub in a cool, dry location, such as a bathroom cupboard. Because salt is a preservative, the scrub could last anywhere from one to two years without going rancid.Sugar is also a preservative, but a sugar-based scrub will only last for a few months.
 Citrus scrubs are great for the morning because they're fresh and invigorating. They're also nice for after a workout or nap. To make a citrus scrub, combine in a glass jar:The fine sea salt
Sweet almond or jojoba oil
Zest from an orange, lemon, lime, or grapefruit, or a combination

, Coconut oil is cooling and moisturizing for the skin, so it makes a nourishing oil to use in salt scrubs. Combine the coconut oil, Epsom salts, and 8 to 10 drops of essential oils in a glass jar and stir until you achieve a smooth consistency.Good essential oil pairings for this include:


Vanilla
Patchouli
Orange
Rose
Geranium

, A degreasing salt scrub is great for washing your hands after cooking, working in the yard, or doing maintenance in the garage. The liquid castile soap in the recipe eliminates the need to use soap, and the salt works to scrub away dirt and grime.Combine the salt, grapeseed oil, and soap in a glass jar. Add 12 drops of essential oils. Stir to combine, and store the degreasing salt scrub at kitchen, bathroom, laundry, and utility room sinks.
 A coffee salt scrub is another great way to start your morning, and is an alternative to the citrus scrubs that people often use. To make this scrub:Mix together the salt and coffee.
Add in room temperature coconut oil (it will be soft and easy to stir)
Stir to combine.
 This multicolored salt scrub is great for the holidays, and makes an excellent gift. To make this scrub, combine the salts, oil, and six drops of peppermint oil in a mixing bowl. Stir to combine, and then divide the mixture in half, pouring one half into a second mixing bowl.Use the red food coloring to color one batch red. Stir to distribute the coloring evenly throughout the mixture.
Use a spoon to add a layer of the red scrub to the bottom of a glass jar. Pack the layer down. Spoon a layer of white over top of the red. Continue alternating like this until the jar is full or you run out of salt scrub.
Other colorants you can use to dye salt scrubs include FD&C water-based liquid dyes for vibrant colors, or pearlescent mica powders for shimmery and pale colors., Draw a bath or run a shower. Hop in for a few minutes and get your skin nice and wet. This will make it easier to spread the salt scrub over your skin.


To scrub just your feet or hands, fill a bucket or bowl with water and soak your feet or hands for a few minutes.
You can also use a salt scrub on your face, but be very gentle, and avoid your eyes. Fill a sink with some water and use your hands or a face cloth to wet your face.
 Open the jar of salt scrub and use a spoon to stir the mixture. Spoon out a tablespoon (15 g) of salt scrub and place it in your palm. Gently rub the salt scrub into dry or rough areas of skin, such as your hands, feet, and elbows.Rub in a circular motion for one to two minutes to exfoliate and remove dead skin.


If you use a salt scrub on your face, be very gentle when rubbing your skin. Do not get the salt scrub in your eyes.
It’s important to use a spoon for the scrub, otherwise bacteria, soap, and water from your hands may contaminate the mixture.
 After gently rubbing the scrub into your skin, rinse the salt scrub off under running water. If you're in the bath, dip the scrubbed area under the water and rinse the salt away.


For normal skin types, don’t use a salt scrub or exfoliate your skin more than twice per week.Over-exfoliating can lead to dry, red, itchy, and sensitive skin.
For oily skin, use a salt scrub two or three times per week.
For dry skin, only use a salt scrub once weekly, or as needed to remove dry skin.

