 In many jurisdictions this is now obligatory and there will be precise measurements for height provided by your local municipality. In addition, the fence should have a child safety gate, that can only be opened by older children and adults. If your jurisdiction does not yet regulate pool fences, build your fence to at least 1.5 metres /5 feet in height and ensure that it does not enable access to the pool without using the gate.;
, Once you have these in place, ensure that there are no deficiencies and that the fence and gate are working as they should be. Make regular checks (at least monthly) to ensure all is well.
 Young children and pets may be tempted to use anything that looks like stairs or a climbing aid, so never leave anything leaning against the fence.
 At all times, no matter what and no matter who is in the vicinity of the pool, keep the gate shut. Older children cannot be expected to remain aware of a toddler wandering into the pool area whilst they are playing around, shouting and having fun. They are too distracted, so ensure that the gate is closed. A self-closing and self-latching gate is your best option.
 Although there should be a no-running rule, accidents do happen and it is better to try to guard against slipping by using a good surface.
 Any child under 3 should wear a life jacket in the pool and any child unable to swim should also be in one unless under the direct supervision of a responsible person assisting them to learn to swim.
 A poolside littered with toys, floats, noodles and other objects can be alluring to a small child. Always put these away to avoid encouraging their use when nobody is watching.
 Make a set of behavior rules for the pool and ensure that the whole family is aware of them. For example:


No running, no throwing objects
Never prop open the pool gate; always leave it shut
Never let children swim without adequate supervision from a responsible, mature person
Always remove objects from the poolside or near the fence when not swimming

, Keep a first aid kit, rescue buoys, a long pole etc. in a handy location (not accessible by small children) that can be used in a hurry if needed. It is also crucial to know how to resuscitate, so attend first aid courses and keep your knowledge up-to-date.
 Children and pets might be attracted to pool chemicals, which are highly poisonous if swallowed. They should be locked away at all times and kept out of the reach of children.
 Don't ever leave the pool area unsupervised when it is accessible. If you must leave, secure the area or bring the children/pets in the home with you. If a child or pet is suddenly out of sight, always check the pool first. Drowning can occur in minutes, without any splashing or noise whatsoever. If they are drowning, every second counts, so check the pool first.

