 On a daily basis, read inspirational quotes. Surprisingly, they can have a massive positive impact on the pessimist seeking optimism, in other words, they make you feel happy and maybe even fill you with elation. Believe in them, they are words of someone who has suffered like you.;
, Think back to all the happy times in your life, maybe even when your mum said you're pretty, the birth of your first child or when you met your partner, these all make you ecstatic. Write these down. They can be funny times too, like when you saw the most humorous meme in your life, etc. Talk to friends, they can also lighten your mood. Socialising is a huge step in becoming a happy, lively person.
 Think things like, "I guess my eyes are beautiful," or, "Only I could have scored that triple hat-trick!" Write these down and refer to them every day. You are you, no one is a copy, not even a twin of yours! Take part in things you do best, and beam when someone praises your win or efforts. This will make you not only a stronger being but a bigger, more optimistic person. Think, do you really want to spend the rest of your life in misery?

, Go on trips with your friends, your family etc. These days out, weekends away and short breaks will distract you from life's problems and make you feel good. Enjoy life as it is! Forget all your worries and don't refrain from talking to and meeting new people. Also, maintain good hygiene, this will actually affect your mood. Drinking water may make you feel amazing, it's scientifically proven that you'll die without water.
 Have people told you that you can play the violin really well? Well, why not give it a try? Everyone has talent, for some it just takes longer to find. This will give you hope and maybe even pave a way for you in life, it has for many successful people today. If you feel up to it, why not go in a competition designed for your talent, like a football tournament or spelling bee or go for that promotion. Ask people what they think you're good at, look back at school levels, and incorporate your very own feelings too. This will help you find your talent quicker.
 Hide from thinking about dark things such as death, loneliness, demons etc, even if you've been diagnosed with cancer, you can have good vibes, everyone can! Rather, ponder on about friends, that day out, love etc. Maybe, don't watch or read as many horror movies or read so many sad sagas. Replace them with comedy. This will give you a happy feeling and erase away any scary ones about divorced bankruptcy, a loved one dying, being made redundant, not getting into the college or university you were banking on etc.
 If someone/thing is bugging you and making you feel nervous, angry, sad or scared, tell someone! Make sure you trust them, and they know what they're doing. Sort it out as soon as possible, this will stop the negative feelings boiling and bubbling up inside you. Make good friends and stick with them.
 Got invited to a party? Go there and let loose! Don't hang back unless it's for a reason like it's not safe etc. Talk to the guy in front of you on the train seems like he's reading the same book as you. This is how friendships start, so make them start! Don't talk about sadness, talk about lively things.
 Good vibes are felt by others when they feel accepted. If you know that something is wrong with someone else, do not push it on them instead make them feel at ease. Acts of kindness go a long way in clearing any negativity on your path and in your vibes.
 There are many people who hurt you and leave you reeling in pain. If you think of them more often then you stand a chance to disturb your sense of peace and seem aggressive. Seek forgiveness for your mistakes and don't hesitate in forgiving those who wronged you in any way. A kinder and forgiving heart opens the doors to clearing your vibes. Moreover, you look more approachable and kind-hearted.

