 Being creative requires letting yourself try new things without censoring your own ideas. Expressing yourself creatively through art, music, or another medium is a great way to free your mind from the limits perfectionism imposes. Instead of worrying about being perfect, the goal is to be original. Try something as simple as drawing your pet cat or making up a new tune to sing in the shower to get your creative juices flowing.


There is no one right away to be creative. If you are uninhibited by the concern for creating something correct, your natural output will always produce a creative result.Often the best pieces are imperfect. Humans are naturally imperfect, and often the best artists leave mistakes present on purpose. By obsessively desiring to make something live up to a standard we have in our heads, we scrub away what made the work special in the first place.;
, Perfections are often driven by a desire to please others.When you purse an activity at which you don't excel, positive feedback isn't a given. The only way to get better is to let go of perfectionistic tendencies and allow yourself to try and fail. Pursuing activities you are not very good at will help you begin to evaluate success differently; you’ll learn to measure success not by others’ reactions, but by your own benchmarks.


Have you always wanted to horseback ride, but know you’re not very good at sports? Sign up for lessons, anyway. Jumping into a new skill that requires a different type of thinking might help you discover more about yourself.
If you notice yourself still looking to others in order to evaluate your progress, try practicing alone. You can set your benchmarks at any level.
Try to pick an activity that isn't competitive, so you won't worry as much about keeping up with others' pace.
 Widening your experiences can help you widen your value system, so that you begin to see success and failure under a different scope. Instead of worrying about things being perfect, you open yourself up to enjoying experiences for what they are, without judgement. Try something as simple as taking off your shoes to walk across the lawn in bare feet. Instead of thinking about the germs you might encounter, focus on enjoying the feel of soft grass between your toes.


Stepping outside of your comfort zone opens you up to a new level of anxiety and stress, but not all stress is bad: healthy stress can motivate us to growth.Stepping outside your comfort zone also has added health benefits. Engaging in new activities, learning new skills, while also maintaining a social network can help your brain stay mentally sharp as you get older.If you step out of your comfort zone and things don't go as planned, that's okay: applaud yourself for even trying. Stepping out of your comfort zone is not about being successful, its about merely putting yourself out there in the first place.

