 Your bedroom and another room or nook should be devoid of all electronics.;
, When a device needs to be charged, leave it in a room. The sounds and vibrations from a charging device can interrupt an otherwise calm experience.
 Don’t bring your phone, tablet or TV inside. Blue light has been shown to interrupt sleeping habits.


Most people don’t get enough sleep anyway because of their constant engagement with these gadgets.
 Waking up on your own several days each week may help you feel more satisfied. If you don’t get enough sleep, fill 1 hour of time you would normally spend on the Internet.


People who get 7 to 8 hours of sleep per day have less stress and are healthier. Lack of sleep can actually reduce the function of your immune system and increase anxiety.
 You may be overusing the electronics because time passes so quickly when you are absorbing information.
 Pour a coffee or glass of wine and read in the bath. Dim the lights and light a candle to relax and enjoy homemade hot tub., Have an outdoor barbecue., Getting out in nature has actually been shown to improve problem-solving skills and calm the brain. Pack your smart phone deep in your backpack (for safety) and don’t touch it during the hike.,, Tell work, family and friends that you will not have your phone. Make a nice meal, read a book or do a craft.
 During an hour every week, arrange to meet without cell phones or computers. Having companionship in your quest to disconnect will make it easier.
 If you can’t name 2 or more hobbies that you enjoy inside and outside of the house, then the Internet may have replaced your healthy outlets for creativity and stress relief.


Start a craft or take a class.
 Prepare for the vacation well in advance, so that someone will take on problems that occur when you are away. Return the favor when they go on vacation. , If you use the Internet more than 30 hours per week, you may consider talking to an addiction counselor. People who use the Internet for their social interaction for more than 30 hours per week are at higher risk for suicide if they cut off their Internet use. It is especially bad for people who are forced to stop using the Internet. , If you work more than 40 hours per week, suggest that your entire team has an off-call night when they don’t check emails or take work calls. , Don’t force them. By forcing teenagers to quit using electronics, you will encourage defiance, so just get out of the house and ask your kids to put their phones away when they are outside of the house. , Go there a few hours a week and enjoy forced disconnectivity. , Set it every night before you leave the office, so there isn’t a pressure to get back on your phone to answer personal or professional emails.


Pick 1 or 2 nights each week when you attend to personal emails.

