 Before committing to an online fundraising campaign, you should consider why you are choosing this option to raise money versus more traditional methods, like a local fundraising event or dinner for a charity, or asking for loans from family or the bank for a business venture. Think about the advantages and disadvantages of crowdfunding as they apply to your project.


Crowdfunding involves setting up a convincing online campaign that invites a large number of small donors to contribute money to a project. In return, these donors receive a product, ownership equity in the business, or, in some cases, a small gift of appreciation for their donation.Crowdfunding can be an incredibly effective way to raise money. You're able to reach a huge market of potential investors or contributors, avoiding the hassle of trying to convince one major investor or a bank that you're worth the trouble of lending money to. It also provides a certain feeling of engagement in your contributors or customers, which may lead to contributions on future fundraising efforts.
However, crowdfunding also requires you tell an engaging story to your backers. If you can't provide them with a compelling reason to invest in a few quick paragraphs and a video, odds are you won't get many backers.
In addition, if your backers expect to see some sort of progress, or a product, in return for their contribution. If you underestimate your budget or fail to deliver, you risk being sued.
Finally, there are certain benefits to traditional types of investor-seeking, particularly for businesses. Startups gain from the knowledge and guidance of angel investors and institutional investors in starting and running their businesses. A crowdfunded business doesn't have these advantages.;
, People generally don’t like giving to a “general fund,” so establish a goal you’d like to achieve. Describe your project as specifically as you can. Your project can be a charitable cause, new product launch, or a creative project. Be specific about what you hope to attain and what the final product will be. Above all, make sure to have a well defined message that drives backers to give money.For example, don't just tell people you're raising money to feed the homeless in your city and ask for contribution. Instead, start by explaining the need for your campaign. How many homeless are in your city? How many of them are underfed? Then, explain exactly what you will do to fix the problem and how. Say where the money is going, and be specific. How much of what type of food are you going to provide? And for how long?

, Tell people how much you are looking to raise. Make sure to raise only as much money as you actually need. Any more will make it difficult to reach your goal and any less could leave you struggling for more money halfway through your project. Try splitting your project into parts and assessing how much each one will cost. Add those together and leave a little bit (about 10% extra) for a cushion. As a business, you should only try to fund one initiative (like one product) at a time with crowdfunding.Try suggesting a donation amount. However, don't demand a certain amount of money from each person. Instead, use a phrase like, “If everyone gives $25, we will be able to purchase hospital beds for our elderly by March.”
Crowdfunding websites often make it very easy to set up a minimum contribution amount, or even insist that you do set one.
 If you are a charity, one way to encourage people to give is to give a product to anyone who has contributed. This gift doesn't have to be much, maybe a t-shirt or sticker if the donor gives over a certain amount. You can also have tiered gifts, like a t-shirt for over $30 given but something more if you donate over $100.


Another option is to offer what are known as impact-driven rewards. These are rewards created as a result of the borrower's financing, for example hats woven by indigenous people the campaign helped or letters from children fed by the project. Rewards of this type have been shown to increase donations., PayPal is a good option for running a simple donation campaign. A PayPal payment button can be easily added to your website or blog and used to accept donations from anyone. The service allows people to donate to non-profits or private individuals through your email address.


PayPal takes a fee out of each transaction. Donations received or sales within the US are subject to a 2.9% fee plus a $0.30 transaction fee. Qualified nonprofits may be able to lower that fee to 2.2% and $0.30 per transaction., The most widely used sites are Kickstarter, Indiegogo, RocketHub, and Quirky. These websites handle large volumes of crowdfunding campaigns. For example, over one billion dollars has been pledged to Kickstarter’s projects. With these websites, you can take advantage of their brand name recognition to lend credibility to your campaign.


Projects for websites, brick and mortar businesses, music albums, books and inventions are commonly posted on these sites.
Donors can search by location, type of project and popularity of projects.
Be sure to examine the terms of each crowdfunding site and what services they offer. For example, some sites will help you create a convincing campaign, while others don't. Some will charge you based upon your earnings, while others charge a flat fee. Finally, some will not give you any money unless you reach your initial contribution goal, while others allow you to have any money raised.
Look at these terms before signing up for an account on the website and consider which terms will be best for your project. For example, Kickstarter is best for creative projects, like art installations or a new product, but not for business crowdfunding or charities. In contrast, Indiegogo is more general and can be used for almost anything (except for equity crowdfunding)., If you're raising money for education, consider using a website that focuses on this type of fundraising, like DonorsChoose. This website is specific to teachers and educators trying to fund projects in the classroom. Projects less than $400 have the best chance of being funded.Compare Causes or Givlet if you are a 5013C non-profit without promotion funds. These two sites charge the least per transaction and don’t charge a monthly fee.
 If you are a small business looking to raise money for startup costs online, you may want to use a website specific to startups, like Crowdfunder, Somolend, or Invested.in. Somolend is a debt-based system, rather than a donor based system, so you might qualify for a loan to start your business.
 Check out appbackr if you have an idea for an app and you want to make it a reality. This is a niche site for mobile app creation., Compare Crowdrise, DonateNow, Givezooks, Qgiv, or StayClassy if you want a fundraising tool with social media, website and other tools. If you don’t have an outreach department and you have enough to fund a monthly fee, this may be a better choice.


For non-profits who will make most of their money locally, the monthly fee is unlikely to be worth the money.
 Not only do most of the crowdfunding sites require it, but it will also encourage people to donate. As you get closer to the deadline people can get caught up in the excitement of meeting a goal. You can also make your deadline more compelling by saying that your project needs to be done by the deadline for a certain reason or to get a specific outcome., To get the project off the ground and reach a larger audience, you'll have to rally people you know to your cause to act as promoters and initial supporters. They can share a link to your cause on social media and post about their own donations. This is important because people are more likely to donate when they see that other people are already donating., If it’s a local project, use zip codes to target your audience. If not, you can place targeted ads on these websites using keywords related to your charitable cause. That way, when users search for similar things, they will see a link to your fundraising page., Have it at the top of the website pages, on Facebook and other social media accounts, on email signatures and on printed information., Set up partnerships and ask your partners to send out emails and requests online. Get your key group of supporters to post the link on as many social media platforms as they can., Keep your reputation intact by reporting your donations, giving gifts and sending “Thank You” letters. You can also thank donors by posting directly onto their social media pages, including them in a public list of donors, thanking them personally in a donor appreciation video, or any other creative or meaningful way that you can think of., To be successful, your product must be targeted towards to a particular group of customers, maybe people who enjoy a certain hobby or work in a particular field. Identify who these people are and tailor your campaign to them., The most successful crowdfunding campaigns include a video that shows exactly where the idea for the product came from, how it is being developed, and who is working on it. In other words, backers need a story in addition to a great product. However, you should also be sure to quickly introduce your product and exactly what is does so that you don't lose your potential backers' attention. You can then include an expanded version of the information in the video, complete with diagrams and pictures, further down the fundraising page., Contact relevant blogs, websites, or magazines that may be interested in showing your product to readers and see if you can get an article published with them. Make sure to explain how your product connects with what they specialize in and describe exactly what it is and how it will be used., You should offer backers of different amounts different types of products or rewards in exchange for their donation. This can be used in many different ways. For example, you might choose to do a limited, early backer special that offers the finished product at an earlier date/lower price than the general release. You can also offer high or low backer level rewards, like a sticker or special thanks to backers who don't donate enough to get your product and a trip to your headquarters or a customized product to those donors who give above and beyond the standard amount., Keep your backers informed of any progress or setbacks that you experience during and after funding. It's important to let them know that their money is actually being used for what they paid for. Make regular reports through your crowdfunding platform and also make sure they are posted on the fundraising page.