 The skimpier it is, the more area you will be able to get tan.









If your back yard is private, consider tanning in the nude. Nothing's sexier than no tan lines!

, Get a towel, some music, a magazine, sunglasses, a hat, a glass or bottle of water, and a friend. The more you have to keep yourself occupied, the longer you will want to stay out there. It is very important to keep yourself hydrated, since you will be sweating out your body liquid.
 This will promote a safe and healthy tan, and let you stay out longer without burning.









Don't use tanning lotion below SPF-15. Prolonged tanning without some protection from UV rays is very bad, and is a major cause of skin cancer.
Apply the oil about 20 minutes before you go out into the sun, and repeat every hour or so—or if you go into the water. This holds true even if your sunscreen is waterproof.
 Lying on the ground is extremely uncomfortable and not very relaxing either.









Find a chair that lets your skin breath, and wicks away moisture (sweat) for the most comfort.
Bring a towel outside with you to cover parts of your body you don't want to tan.
 To prevent burns (which will not help you tan evenly), avoid tanning during the peak hours—from 10 am to 4 pm. The less you wear, the more you want to pay attention to this rule. The last thing you want is a burned bum!









Lay out for 2-4 hours, reapplying your tanning oil hourly. If you get hot, run through your sprinklers or jump in the pool.
Remember that the longer you're outside, the greater chance the sun will damage your skin. Be smart and go inside if it feels like you're getting burned.
 You won't have that golden glow in one day, but if you spend a little time in the sun every day, you will have a great tan in about a week.
 Once you're burnished like a fine bronze goddess (or god), keep your skin hydrated to maximize the time that tantalizing tan will stick around.









An aloe-based moisturizer will not only keep your tan in place, it'll also keep your skin moist and soft.

