 Low-waisted flares, also known as hipster jeans, feature an extremely low waist that starts just above the pubic bone and button or zip several inches below the navel. Hipster flares were a very popular look in the early 2000s. Flared jeans are definitely making a comeback, but not the low-waisted hipster versions, which can look dated. Go for high-waisted flares that sit above the hips and button above the navel.Look for flares that have clean lines and fit comfortably around your waist.
As a bonus, high-waisted flares can elongate your legs. If your legs are on the shorter side, try this look to add a little length.;
, Long flares used to be fashionable, but the new silhouettes are cropped or hit just above the ankle.If you’re unable to find a pair with the length you want, hem them yourself or have them tailored for you. Avoid the super-long flares that “puddle” on the floor.Avoid buying flares that overwhelm your legs. You want them to be fitted at the knee and then gently flare out.
A few designers have created lines of “petite” fitting flares, which feature a much-shortened bottom hem and a re-working of the classic shape to flatter small frames. Allison Izu is one such designer., When flares were first popularized in the 1960s, embellishments like patches, jewels, eye-catching stitching and frayed hems were popular, and they came in every wash under the sun. The flares being reintroduced into fashion today are no-frills – they aren’t overly “retro” and have little to no embellishment. The favored washes are “clean,” which means there’s no fading or distress on the material and the shade of denim appears uniform.Look for flares with clean washes in classic true-blue and dark indigo.
If you prefer lighter washes, just make sure the color is uniform. For example, icy “rinsed-out” looking hues are popular right now., While denim is probably the most popular material for flared pants, they are certainly not the only choice. Trouser flares are essentially dress pants made with fluid materials and a very light flare that begins at about the calf. These can be worn and styled to create a business casual feel that would be appropriate at the office.


Try trouser flares with a button-down shirt, a pair of slingback shoes and a fitted blazer.