 Start your massage using light strokes and avoiding too much pressure (a technique called effleurage). Start from the shoulder and move down the arm to the small muscles in your wrist and fingers.


Apply effleurage for at least 30 seconds to each section/muscle between your shoulder and hand. This will prepare the muscles for a deeper massage.Use the palm of your hand and your thumb and fingers to apply the massage.
You can concentrate on the muscles and tendons on the wrist but because carpal tunnel syndrome is rarely strictly a wrist problem, massaging the muscles in the arm and shoulder area may also be beneficial.Optionally, you can use massage oil to reduce friction.;
, Friction technique accelerates the return flow of lymphatic and venous drainage and relieves edema. It also works in the treatment of scar tissues and adhesions. Apply deeper pressure using long, gliding strokes with your thumb.
Start at the wrist area by pushing into the muscle in the center of the wrist, while gliding up to the elbow at the same time.
Return back down the upper arm, into the elbow, forearm, and wrist.
You can use your knuckles to provide more pressure without straining your hand. Apply enough pressure to feel the effect in the deep tissues but not so much that it causes severe pain.
Also, massage your fingers and the palm of the hand by using light pressure and gentle stretches.
Do at least 60 seconds of friction massage on each section/muscle, concentrating on the wrist but also working the knots and adhesions in the shoulder, arm and hand.
 The kneading technique, also called petrissage manipulation, causes the metabolic residues that have accumulated in the muscles and under the skin to join back into the circulation. Kneading may also improve the tonus and elasticity of your muscles. Use the palm of your hand to apply kneading technique to the muscles in your shoulder and arm, and your thumb and fingers to knead the muscles in your hand and wrist.
Do at least 30 seconds of kneading to each section/muscle, concentrating on the wrist area.
 Shaking manipulation is shown to have a pain-relieving effect, while strengthening your atonic muscles. Extend your fingers and use the side of your hand to gently strike the muscles.You can also use the tips of your fingers or the heel to apply the technique.
Do at least 30 seconds of shaking massage to each section/muscle, again concentrating on the wrist.
 The massage should start and end with light massaging (or effleurage). Effleurage technique helps relax muscles and calms the nerves.Do at least 30 seconds of effleurage manipulation to each section/muscle to finish the series of massaging techniques.
After you have completed one hand, repeat the massage to your other shoulder, arm, wrist and hand.
The number of massaging sessions you need varies depending on the severity of the carpal tunnel syndrome. Sometimes you may see a relief in just one session, but often times you should see improvement between five and 10 sessions.If the symptoms persist or become worse, consult a doctor or a physical therapist.
 Acupressure spots, or more commonly known as trigger points or muscle knots, can refer pain to the carpal tunnel area. These spots can also be found in the neck and shoulder area. To fully get any benefit, it's important to see a health professional that is trained in trigger point or acupressure treatments.

Rest your forearm on a table, palm-up. Apply pressure to the muscles near the inside elbow — press down and see if this recreates your carpal tunnel pain. If it does, press gently for up to 30 seconds; the pain should gradually reduce.
Move down the length of your forearm, testing for spots that recreate the carpal tunnel pain, then applying pressure for 30 seconds.
Turn your arm so that it is palm-down and perform similar pressure on any tender spots you find between your elbow and wrist.
Perform this exercise daily.

