 Dr. Alwin Lewis, says that drinking plenty fluid is an important part of his diet: It will help you to keep feeling full and hydrated.Even if it’s diet soda, it’s okay – just keep those calories to a big fat zero. .


He recommends a breakfast every morning of a big cup of black coffee and a "juicy" multi-vitamin. His school of thought points out that the body goes into a fasted mode at night, and the longer you can extend this state, the more weight you’ll lose.;
, This is where it comes down to you, as this is a modified fasting technique. You could eat 5 bites of lettuce, 5 bites of lobster Thermidor, or you could eat 5 bites of a Snickers bar (Dr Alwin explains that a Snickers is the easiest way to set your 'hungerstat'). To see the most healthy success, vary these five bites as a meal – three bites of a hamburger, plus two bite of an apple, for example.

Bite sizes will vary per person- General rule of thumb, if your bite takes more than 1 swallow it is too big of a bite.

Taking a multivitamin daily will help your body receive the nutrients you might miss from eating less food. On average people do not get the recommended daily vitamins, so taking a vitamin is always best!
Make sure that you have at least one bite of protein a day.
 Dinner has the exact same stipulations as lunch: 5 bites of any variety of foods. One of the goals of this diet is to make your choices fairly monotonous, eat your five bites and move on. Find other activities to fill your time. Your stomach will adjust to the amount of food you are now eating, your hungerstat will be set!, .


One of the reasons people tend to like this diet is that it allows anything. You could eat five bites of cheesecake, cookies and ice cream, if you so desired, as long as you stick to your 5 bites per meal!

, Dr. Lewis acknowledges that the low amount of food does not furnish your body enough of the vitamins and mineral micro-nutrients it needs to maintain and to function, especially over a long period of time. Because of this, he advocates that all dieters take a multi-vitamin every day. To keep going, this stipulation needs to be adhered to.


This may seem like an unnecessary part of a balanced diet, but ‘’do not’’ skip it.
A gummy vitamin is delicious and can seem like a sweet treat amid the pangs of hunger – as an additional, free bite, if you will.
 Making sure a few of your bites are loaded up with protein. Get about two bites of protein food every day (a medium sized Snickers has several grams of protein for instance). It is far too easy to get all of your calories from carbohydrates and fat –


The easiest way to do this is with nuts, meat; chicken, turkey, beef and fish are – all jam-packed. Tofu also has some protein.
 Dr. Lewis does say that 12 bites total per day is fine; so, if you’d like, you can have a bite of something between meals. , This diet allows for rapid weight loss without the complications of surgery.


This is not meant to be a lifestyle change, but a rapid way to get the unhealthy weight off as quickly as possible. The idea being that the risk of staying overweight (and added health complications that arise from extra weight) is WORSE than limiting your bites.

Realize that the only source of energy in the body is glucose sugar, meaning no matter what you eat your body turns it in to this 'fuel' so whether it is 5 bites of ice cream or five bites of a protein bar your body will use both for fuel equally. The goal is to turn the body into a lean mean fat burning machine. .








After you’ve reset your 'hungerstat' you will find that you get full quicker on a limited amount of food.
 You can modify the diet to add more bites, start by counting how many bites you take at a normal meal, then throughout a whole day. slowly start limiting yourself per meal/day until you reach 5 bites per meal.
 .The idea being that it is better to be right at a perfect weight for your body (even on the low side) than to risk being higher and suffering the complications of excess weight.


Visit theslimmingstation.com for personalized advice from Dr. Lewis as well as forums. Also check out Facebook for any motivation groups.
Dr. Lewis' book is available at Lulu.com in digital format. 'Why Weight Around'

, Keep your bites as evenly sized as possible to eliminate 'stretching' out your stomach 1 tablespoon is often equal to 1 bite for most.


Taking larger bites or 'binging' will stall or slow your weight loss progress. This is not a lifestyle change but a rapid way of losing weight

, Or chicken broth if you are feeling light headed or weak. It is not recommended to exercise heavily while on this diet


Eat your bites and throw away (or give away!) or food. Do not try to stretch your bites out- eat your meal and move on! The better you adhere to this diet the quicker you will lose the weight!

, By only taking 5 bites you are forgoing spending $5+ on lunch and dinners.

The first two days will be the roughest. After the 3rd day- if your bites have stayed constant- it will become easier. Your body gets used to ingesting less food and the stomach shrinks. The more and more you do it, the easier it will be.
Find new activities to occupy your time! Take a walk around at lunch time, pick up a new hobby to stay busy.

