 It will usually be simplest to portion out your rice in whole cups. For example, two people sharing a cozy meal may only eat two to three cups of rice, whereas a larger meal may require six to eight. Working with even quantities will make it much easier to figure out exactly how much water you need to produce perfectly cooked rice. Using a dry measuring cup to scoop your rice will help you avoid any troublesome guesswork.
For best results, only prepare as much rice as you plan on eating. Leftover rice doesn’t reheat well.;
, Place the brown rice in a mesh strainer or sieve and run it under the faucet, circling the strainer beneath the stream. This will rinse away most of the starch, which will prevent the grains from becoming sticky when cooked. Continue washing the rice until the water runs clear.You may notice that the water draining out of the rice has a slightly milky appearance. This is normal.
Shake out as much excess water as you can before cooking the rice.
 Place the newly washed rice in the bottom of the cooker and spread it out. When preparing a lot of rice at once, make sure it’s properly distributed so that it will cook evenly.Don’t add more rice to the rice cooker than it can hold at one time. If you need to prepare an especially large amount, do it in batches.
 A good rule of thumb when making brown rice is to increase the recommended amount of water by 50%. Therefore, whereas you would normally use one cup of water for every cup of rice, you’ll want to use one-and-a-half cups to account for the difference in texture. Since brown rice is tougher than white rice, it needs to cook longer.Unlike white rice, brown rice grains still have a natural fibrous bran layer. As a result, they don’t absorb water as easily and take longer to cook to the ideal temperature.The amount of water you add to the rice is directly correlated to the overall cook time. When all the water has evaporated, the internal temperature of the rice cooker will rise, signalling it to shut off.Though not a necessity, soaking the brown rice for 20-30 minutes before cooking can also help it get more done. Should you decide to soak your rice, only use one cup of water for every cup of rice., Make sure the cooker is plugged in and ready to go. Then, hit the “cook” button and call it a day. The cooker will automatically take care of the rest!Most rice cookers only have a couple of settings: “cook” and “warm.”
If the model you’re using is more sophisticated, be sure to program it to the appropriate setting before cooking the rice. Consult the owner’s manual to find out what settings are recommended., Once the rice is finished, give it a little time to achieve the right consistency. Holding off on uncovering the rice for a few more minutes will allow it to absorb any remaining steam and begin cooling off to an edible temperature. Leave the lid on the cooker as the rice sits.Undercooked brown rice will often be crunchy and unappetizing.
Don’t skip this step. It can be tempting to dig in right away when you’re hungry, but the full flavor and enhanced texture of the rice definitely make it worth the wait., Stir the rice from the edges inward with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula. Use the edge of your utensil to break up any large clumps you come across. You’ll now have a batch of perfectly cooked, velvety brown rice ready to be paired with a vegetable medley, savory stir fry or piece of seared fish.Never use metal utensils to fluff or scoop your rice. This may leave permanent scratches on the inside of the rice cooker.A shamoji can come in handy for those who make rice on a regular basis. Modern version of this traditional Japanese utensil are molded from soft plastic and are designed specifically for mixing and serving rice., This will both lower the internal temperature of the appliance and give you a head start when it comes time to clean up. As heat continues to escape, it will dry out the sticky residue left behind in the cooker. Afterwards, it can be scraped away with little difficulty.Don’t handle the rice cooker while it’s still hot. Wait until it has completely cooled off before attempting to clean it.By the time you’re finished with your meal, the rice cooker will be

, Run the edge of a spatula (or simply use your fingers) along the walls and bottom of the cooker to dislodge crusty rice remnants. Dump these directly into the trash or down the garbage disposal. Take off as much as you can by hand—all that will be left to do then is give the cooker a good wipe-down.Rice cookers are usually coated in a slick nonstick finish that makes them a snap to clean.
Again, stay away from sharp or abrasive tools and scrubbers. The effectiveness of these types of items isn’t worth risking the damage they may do.
 Wet the cloth with warm water to help dissolve stuck-on starch. Any lingering film or loose particles should come right off. Let the interior of the cooker air dry, then replace the lid and stash it away until the next time you need it.If you need a heavy-duty solution for bigger messes, scrub the cooker with a soft-bristled dish brush or the green side of a kitchen sponge.To be on the safe side, unplug the rice cooker before applying water anywhere in or around it.
