 After joining a server or creating your own, your character will spawn at random areas of the map. You can find the status bar at the lower right of your screen. At the top part is where you can find your health. A very simple text of “Health: 100.”


You can reduce the amount of damage you receive by wearing armors.
Health can be restored by eating cooked food.
If your Health reaches 0, your character will die, and then a window will appear, making you choose to respawn (respawn near the place you died or in random part of the map) or go back to the camp.
When you die, all the items in your inventory will be dropped, including the basic tools you have when you first started the game.
Players who killed you can loot your body.
Aside from players, you will be facing wild animals as well, so be careful during your travels.;
, Just like in Minecraft, 7 Days to Die, and other multi-survival game these days, food has become a necessity. Calories, found under your health, determines the food and water satisfaction of your character. Your max calories is 1,500, and then this then gradually decreases as your character moves.


Once your calories reaches 0, your health will slowly decrease until your character dies.
To simply put, calories is your hunger meter.
When it turns night, and you do not have any type of clothing, your character will have a cold effect. In this state, you will lose calories faster than normal.
If you couldn't find any clothing, the best way to fight off the cold effect is by making a campfire. Standing near the campfire will give you the comfort effect, which makes your hunger to deplete slower.
To have clothing, you can either craft it or loot it from enemies or supply boxes around the world.
 Rads can be found at the bottom-right corner of your screen, just below the calories. Rads displays the amount of radiation you have absorbed. Radiation can be noticed by a Geiger counter sound (rapid clicking).


Once your character is exposed to radiation, your hunger will go down faster.
Once your character reaches +500 rads, you will gain radiation poisoning. You will start to lose health until you reach 1 HP.
To deplete your radiation level, leave the irradiated zone or take anti-radiation pills or food with anti-radiation properties, which can be obtained from loot.
 Gathering materials is easy since you already have the basic tool for hunting. Wood is one of the vital resources for your survival since it is used to make campfires, houses, storage containers, and many others.


Your main tool to gather wood is the Rock. To use the Rock, simply press 1 or the assigned shortcut slot for the item, which can be found at the bottom of your screen.
To gather wood, simply approach the nearest tree with the Rock equipped, then start hitting the trunk by right-clicking. You will then receive message on the right side of the game window notifying the number of wood you have gained.
Once the tree is depleted, another message will appear, stating that there's no more wood for you to gather. When this happens, simply move to another tree to gather more.
This is the easiest way to gather wood but not recommended. Your calories burn with less wood since per hit, and you only get 1 wood each.
Pile of wood is scattered around the world. This is the fastest way to get wood and also burns a small amount of calories. Pile of wood gives many more pieces of wood per hit than trees.
 This can obtained by breaking mineral rocks, which can be found around the world. You can use the Rock tool to mine until the resources is depleted.


These materials are required to create gunpowder and weapons.
Stones are also used for building campfire, which is why it's advisable that you gather stones as you search for any pile of wood.
 If you're willing to kill and loot players, then you have the option to become a bandit. Anyone can be a bandit by their choice, killing new players and then taking all the loot they have. This path can be fun, but needs a lot of preparation, such as having the proper weapon and decent armor.
 To hunt for fresh meat, you need to find an animal and then kill it. Using the weapon you have, you can use the starter weapon, kill the animal with it. Once your target is dead, swing your weapon at the corpse to get all the loot.


Rust is a developing game and still in their alpha. With that said, keep in mind that all meat you receive, regardless what animal you have killed, drops chicken meat.
You can gain cloth (which is useful for medicine kits, beds, and even creating a bow.), leather (from bears), blood (from wolf or bear), and many others.
If you don't have a decent weapon, kill rabbits with the Rock. It only takes two hits to kill it.
Chicken are easy targets as well. They run slower compared to rabbits.
You can also sneak behind the animals to prevent them from running. Simply hold left+ Ctrl.
 You can scavenge for canned food or rations from crates. You can also search for items and weapons inside the building, but while doing this, be cautious about your surroundings for many bandits camp nearby to kill new players in order to loot their items.


Most areas with buildings are irradiated. Proceed to your searching if you have enough anti-radiation pills.
 Shelter stands as your camp in the game. It will protect your storage and other items inside the house from thieves and bandits.


There are two ways to create a shelter; the first one is the basic wood shelter with 1,000 HP. It’s a small house that can be crafted using only wood. Though quick and easy to set up, it can be broken down by melee hits or grenades.
The basic shelter is great for new players that are still gathering materials for a better home.
To make a wood shelter, simply press Tab to open your inventory and then click the crafting button found at the upper part of your screen. This will enable the list of crafting items. Click the wood shelter to see the requirements.
You will need 50 wood to craft this.
After you crafted the shelter, simply equip the item and then choose a leveled ground for it to build.
 The second way to build a home, and much more tougher compared to wood shelter, is by building it using wood planks. Building a structure requires a lot of materials since 1 wood plank requires 10 wood. Compared to wood shelter, you will be crafting each part of the house to build it.


Wood foundation - You will need this before you can install the pillars. Wood foundation requires 8 planks.
Wood pillar - These are required to place a window, doorway, wall, stairs, and even ceilings. You can only build wooden structures between the wood pillars. You can craft wood pillar with 2 wood planks.
Wood wall - This requires 4 wood planks to create. Walls can be destroyed with 1 to 3 explosive charges. Walls do not take melee damage.
Wood doorway - This is where you can place your door. Before leaving a server, make sure to install a door for other players may place their own and claim the house you built. To craft a doorway, you need 4 wood planks.
Wood ceiling - In the current game, wood ceiling are not destructible. To make a ceiling, you need 6 wood planks.
Now that you have a shelter, you can start storing your items inside your home. It will be safe there. If your character dies, all the items inside the storage will remain, so make sure to put gathered materials inside your shelter before leaving to do more hunting or gathering.
 You are now set to survive longer compared to the other players in the game, but before you head out to kill players or do what is needed to be done, you must make a sleeping bag.


Sleeping bags give you a spawn point. If your character dies, you will be given an upon to respawn somewhere or spawn back in your camp (where you placed your sleeping bag).
To make a Sleeping bag, you need 15 cloth to build. Simply place it inside your home to activate the spawning point.

