 Watching something can be a great way to relax, decompress, and veg out. If you have Netflix, or any other similar streaming service, there are plenty of quality shows and movies to help you fill that hour. Take a bit to browse through the thousands of titles online, which itself may take an hour! If you want some suggestions for shows or movies, check these out:


Arrested Development: a quirky comedy about an incredibly dysfunctional family.
Mad Men: a serious period piece about ad executives in the changing social scene of the 1960s.
Toy Story: a classic Pixar movie about childhood toys come to life. Both of the sequels are excellent too.
King of the Hill: an animated comedy about life in suburban Texas. It is surprisingly heart-warming and hilarious.
If you want to be exact, watch the show 60 Minutes.;
, You can easily waste away an hour browsing various social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram. This is a great way to catch up on what your friends are doing. Try not to spend much more than an hour browsing social media as it can lead to depression. Here are some good social media platforms (note that you will need an account for these):


Facebook: the largest social media platform. View statuses, photos, interesting news articles, and anything else your friends have liked. You can also chat with your friends through Facebook's built-in messenger system.
Instagram: view photos that people you follows share. These photos are usually more artsy. This is a great platform for following celebrities. The simple User Interface makes it easy to browse through tons of photos
Twitter: view shorts statuses from friends and interesting people. This is also a great platform for tracking up-to-date news.
 Forums are places where anybody can post about a topic. Some forums have specific topics like literature or philosophy, but others accept any posts. Chances are that if you can think of a topic, you can also find a forum related to that topic. This is also a great way to make online friends since you know you will both already share an interest. Check out some of these forums:


: a large aggregator of different forums and interests. Most anything can be found in different sections of this website, called "sub-reddits." It is incredibly easy to waste an hour on this forum
: general forum with excellent design. This site attracts people who like to talk about fashion, design, and art.
: for the more adventurous. This is another general forum which attracts people very invested in internet culture. Beware that there are some dark areas of this website.
 YouTube has endless amounts of information and new content is constantly being added to the site. Poke around for a while to find some good channels and then subscribe to them.

