 Find one with sufficient strength, preferably at least 3x to 7x magnification. This will allow you to see the coin up close and to notice all of the little details that are important in discerning its grade., Some books provide information about which parts of coins wear first so that you know where to look for signs of wear or damage that may affect the coin's value. A recommended book is “Official ANA Grading Standards for United States Coins” by Kenneth Bressett because it shares the official standards of the American Numismatic Association and provides the foundation for other coin grading books., This is a skill that takes a great deal of practice and experience to master. But you can start right away to begin making progress and you will soon be able to roughly estimate a coin’s grade.Coins in poor (P), fair (F), about good (AG), or good (G) condition generally aren’t fine enough for collectors. These coins have a somewhat legible date and mint mark, but a good deal of the design is indistinguishable. However, they can be used to hold a place in a collection until a finer specimen is found.
Coins graded very good (VG) show a worn design but are generally attractive and free of gouges or other mutilations.
A fine (F) coin is highly legible, and the design is clear but a bit worn. These coins are attractive and desirable to collectors.
A very fine (VF) coin has only light wear with a very clear mint mark, date, and design.
An extremely fine (XF) coin has wear only on the high points of the design.
About uncirculated (AU), uncirculated (U), choice uncirculated (CU) or gem uncirculated (GU) coins are beautiful coins that range from very little wear to completely without wear.
 The American Numismatic Association developed a 70 point scale in the late 1970’s to help create more specific, universal standards for coins. This in-depth scale helps take out some of the guesswork in determining coin grade.Grades 1-15 are for coins with significant wear and are not very valuable.
Grades 20-45 include coins from Very Fine (VF) to Extremely Fine (XF) and only have light wear.
Grades 50-58 are considered About Uncirculated (AU) with very little wear and a good deal of “mint luster.”
Grades 60-70 are in Mint State (MS) and do not have any signs of wear. MS-70 means the coin is perfect, and this is nearly impossible to find in older coins., Find a sample coin at a dealership or coin show that is already graded. Try to find one that is a popular grade, such as MS-63 and study the coin with a magnifying glass. This will help you to get comfortable with a particular grade and be able to recognize it., The more you practice, the easier it will become. It takes time looking at many, many coins to develop a frame of reference and to be able to distinguish the intricate variations between coins. You don’t have to buy them all, but anytime you are at a coin dealership or show, spend time looking and asking questions about their grades. Fellow coin aficionados will likely be more than willing to help.
 Carefully turn it around while holding it at an angle for optimal light reflection. Look for any damage or signs of wear on the coin. Hold it under your magnifying glass and find any scratches. Take your time to thoroughly examine the coin., You can find pictures of coins of each grade online or in a book of coin values. Alternatively, you can ask for photographs from a dealer who is willing to teach you to grade coins., Based on the information you have, give your coin an estimated grade. It doesn't have to be exact, just in the ballpark. This is important because if you determine that your coin is less than Very Good (VG), your coin is likely not worth very much and having it professionally graded will likely cost more than your coin is worth. On the other hand, if your coin is in good condition, it might be worth a lot. You will especially want to get a professional grade on coins that are in Mint State (MS).

