, There are two types of gas pistols, blowbacks and non-blowbacks. A blowback pistol has its slide blowback, just like on a real gun, and therefore are cooler looking, but use up more gas. Non-blowbacks are more gas efficient and cheaper than blowbacks, but are usually lower in quality. A gas pistol can use green gas or CO2 cartridges. Green gas pistols are around 300 fps and are affected in cold weather, while CO2 pistols can get up to 400+ fps and aren't affected by cold weather, but are generally more expensive. Keep in mind that green gas costs around 11 bucks per container.
 The best gun for this price is probably the Well R8 G3 A3 on airsplat.com. Another good gun is the Galaxy G5K M5K, although it has been known to sometimes contain quality issues. If you don't like either of those guns, search Airsoftstation.com and Airsplat.com. They have a good selection of sub 100 dollar AEGs. Be careful though, make sure it has a metal gearbox and not a plastic one

, When it comes to good quality, durable gun you can never go wrong with CYMA's AK variants. If possible, get a AK without fake wood. The plastic they make for the fake would isn't very durable for some reason. I would personally recommend the CYMA cm.031 AK 74 on weaponblender.com. It is one of the best quality AK and also one of the cheapest. Stay away from any M4s, they may look cool, but at this price range, aren't good quality.
 In this range there's a lot of durable guns made by a variety of brands. The CYMAs AKs are still reliable. Another good, reliable brand is JG and their G36s. I'd say the best gun you can get in this range is the original JG G608 G36 on weaponblender.com. It has a nylon fiber body, making it really durable, while the foldable stock allows it to become compact and small, perfect for close combat while the 375 fps gives it nice range, and it has quality internals, all for just $135. You can start getting m4s in this range, but look at good review to see how good quality one is.
 They provide more density, which allows them to fly further and they also prevent damage to the gun's internals.
 A good 5000 round bag or box of .20 gram bbs costs about 12 dollars. Shipping prices are always only 5 dollars per order on weaponblender.com, and vary on airsplat.com and airsoftstation.com.

