 These items will change over time, and they may depend on the season, too. Make sure to include a diaper or two, a small unopened package of baby wipes, some burp cloths, a pacifier or two (with an attached pacifier holder), baby bibs, diaper rash cream, diaper pins (if cloth-diapering), changing mats, a first aid kit, a bottle warmer (if needed), and 1-2 extra shirts, pants and socks.


The list of things may grow over time. As you shop for baby items, think about what you could place in the bin that won't go bad in six months. Remember, this drawer is for emergencies only.;
, Make it easy to reach, so that you can grab items from the drawer easily when you need them. Make sure the drawer isn't in the driver's way; most often, these drawers can be located underneath the passenger seat of the car or in back of the driver's side. Look for seatback pockets (if available); they can sometimes carry some of these necessary items. If nothing fits as to an emergency underseat drawer, you can pack a secondary "emergencies only" diaper bag or backpack with the necessary items.


Avoid keeping these supplies in the trunk. Items stored there will be too hard to reach in an emergency.
 The idea of this pack is that you won't take it in and out of the house like your regular diaper bag. All these emergency items should remain in the vehicle, so don't plan to include items that you need inside regularly.
 Is this summer or is this winter? Clothing can be a major consideration here for what will fit and what you will need. Will you need a pair of shorts, or will you need a pair of two of thermals? Is it so cold that you need to bring a blanket, or do you need to stick with light clothing because of the heat?

, Will you need daywear or is most of your travel doing to be done at night? Do you need any blankets, blanket sleepers, or onesies?

, Although a baby's emergency kit will probably include diapers, a toddler's might not, once they're potty trained. Change the contents as needed.
 Some of the items can be stored directly underneath the seat, but others are best kept in a bag or carrier. Try using a medium-sized backpack or a secondary diaper bag.
 Look for things that have no expiration date or won't expire for a long time. Formula and any food items, for example, expire at some point, so if you're going to keep them in your emergency kit, you'll need to restock these items once they go bad.
 This is just an emergency kit, not a lifetime's supply. Figure out how many of each item your kid might need on your average trip, and don't pack more than you need.


Change the set of diapers in the drawer to suit your baby's size. Children tend to outgrow diapers every few months (and some even sooner than that). Keep up with the times to ensure your child will still fit into the necessary clothes when they need them. Check the drawer regularly to ensure the items are still current and they will still fit in a pinch. Once items are used or outgrown, replace them immediately.
 A spit up rag made from a cloth diaper or from ripped fabric shirts or towels makes for a great cleanup option. Also, look to keep some baby wipes and baby bibs on hand, as well as one or two disposable absorbent mats (such as those made by Huggies Goodnites that are available at most grocery stores in the US).
 For example, you might want to include a small writing pad of paper and pen. If the child has a toy or second favorite teddy bear, it's okay to pack one of those into the bag.


You might also want an extra USB auto-adapter cord or an extra car charger in the drawer.
 Put them all in a pile. If you have a clean laundry basket, that can be a great temporary storage location as you assemble the kit.
 Place them on an orderly pile. You may end up placing the very thickest items aside to pack outside the drawer, but ideally you'll fit everything in your kit, with the bulkiest items on the bottom of your drawer.
 Your smallest items are likely to be the ones you'll use the most often, too (like diapers, pacifiers, baby bibs, changing mats, baby wipes, bottle warmer and first aid kit).
 Place it next to your piles of emergency items.
 Try to put the larger items in first and then the smallest things (such as the diapers) on the top of the bag.


Don't put away the pacifiers directly into the bag; you'll add them to your kit later.
 Stash the baby bottle warmer in the cup/bottle holder, if your bag has one. Put the first aid kit in an outside pocket. Baby bibs and changing mats can generally go into the side of the main part of the diaper bag.
 These keep the clothes and items seeming fresh.
, Never just stuff the pacifiers into the bag itself, as loose items like this can get lost very easily.


Put a clean Ziploc bag over top of the pacifier to keep it fresh until it needs to be used. The Ziploc bag isn't going to completely close, but if left untouched it will close most of the way and keep the pacifier clean.
 Now you're ready for whatever your baby or toddler needs!

