 If your child gets lice, you should call your doctor to find out if the type of lice is regular lice or super lice. If the lice is a resistant strain, your doctor may prescribe a prescription drug or an alternative remedy.If your area is not affected by super lice, you can use an OTC product to get rid of the lice.;
, If your child has lice, you should wash all the sheets, towels, blankets, and clothes that may have had contact with your child’s hair. This helps remove any bugs or eggs so they don’t reinfect your child.Wash the linens in hot water. This can help kill the eggs and bugs.
 In addition to washing the linens, you should vacuum all surfaces. This includes carpet, rugs, furniture, car seats, and pillows you can wash. This helps remove any bugs that have fallen off your child’s head.Vacuuming can also remove any eggs that have stuck to surfaces.
 If you can’t get rid of the lice, or you don’t have time to comb through your child’s hair, you can take your child to a lice salon. These are establishments where someone will comb through your child’s hair for you. They may also use heat to kill the bugs and eggs.These salons may be expensive and not available in all areas.
 Catching the infestation of lice at the beginning is one of the best ways to get rid of it. This helps you stop more eggs from hatching before they get too bad. Check your child’s hair once a week for signs of eggs or lice.


Use a metal comb that is fine-toothed. The space between the teeth of the comb should be small enough to pull out the tiny eggs or bugs in the child’s hair.
Separate your hair into small sections. This helps you get a good look at your child’s scalp and hair in case they only have a few nits or eggs.
 Your child catches lice from other children who have lice or eggs in their hair. Teach your child not to share anything that touches the head, like combs, brushes, hair accessories, hats, helmets, or anything else.Use caution when placing head items, like hats, helmets, or scarves, in communal spaces. If you leave your hat in a closet, drawer, coat check, or hat rack at a party, you may put you and your child at risk for lice.
Tell your children to use caution when playing. Touching other children’s hair and putting their head to another child’s head can transfer lice.

