 A healthy brain starts from within, but maintaining a healthy social life helps keep the mind sharp. Regular, friendly engagement with others may help boost short-term cognitive function.Try activities that require you to think about another person's mental processes. Games that involve strategy, including video games and role-playing games, are good options.
Get to know a new person. Engaging in brief, amicable conversations with someone can boost your brain function. Try talking to someone new, or learning a new thing about an old friend.
Have dinner with friends or family. Talk about your day, and allow others to share with you.
Worry less about what you do and more about who you do it with. Times where people actively talk with their friends are the most beneficial for the brain, so spend a little time each day talking to people you truly like.
 Some studies suggest that volunteering may help maintain healthy brain function. One Johns Hopkins University study found that older adults tutoring children delayed declining brain function.No one quite knows what volunteer activities are best for brain function, but some professionals speculate that stimulating activities such as teaching, tutoring, or reading may be the most beneficial.Pick a cause you care about. A 2012 study found that only people who volunteer for truly altruistic reasons get the health benefits of volunteering.Call local schools, community centers, and youth groups to see if they need help teaching or tutoring.
Check with your local animal shelter to see if there are volunteer opportunities available walking animals or at adoption events.
Ask your local seniors center about teaching a continuing education course for the senior community.
Food pantries and soup kitchens often lack volunteers after the holidays season. Ask about their year-round opportunities.
 Pets, particularly dogs and cats, do wonders for their owners. Not only do pets help heart health, they also reduce stress and improve your mood, both of which help make your brain stronger.Call your local animal shelter and ask about the pets available for adoption. Schedule a visit to meet the animals.
Make sure you have the resources to properly take care of a pet. Ask the shelter “does this animal have any special needs?” and contact a local vet and ask about pet health plans.
Talk to the shelter about a proper setup for the pet. Ask “what type of food does this pet need?” and “how much activity should this pet get?” Make sure to talk about the pet’s schedule so that you know what it needs daily, weekly, monthly, and annually.
Set aside time daily to play and bond with your pet. That helps both of you stay mentally strong and happy.

