 Don’t just choose the first attorney you find. Instead compile a list of potential attorneys from the sources mentioned above. Contact each of the attorneys on your list and set up a consultation.While most attorneys do consultation appointments for free, some may charge a small fee for a consultation.
 Before meeting or having a phone consultation with the attorneys on your list, you should prepare for the appointments. Remember that you are interviewing the attorney for a job, and treat your meeting like a job interview, wherein you are the employer.


Before calling you should research each prospective attorney online and write out a list of questions for the attorney. You have a limited amount of time with each lawyer, so make each question count. Some questions you should ask include:

Does the attorney know your spouse?
How long the attorney has the attorney been practicing family law? You should look for someone who has practiced for at least three to five years.
How many divorce cases does the attorney handle per year? You want to hire someone who spends at least 50% of his or her time doing divorce work.
Is the attorney familiar with the area’s family law court judges? Knowing the judges who will handle your case is a plus - the judges will be more likely to like the lawyer and trust what he or she says.
Also ask any questions related to your specific situation. The attorney should not have any problem answering any questions you may have, and should not sound hesitant or unsure. However, if your particular issue is complicated or extremely rare, it is possible that some attorneys may have to research the specifics of domestic relations law in your state and how they would apply to your case.
 If any of the attorneys asked you to bring certain documents or information to the meeting, gather it together ahead of time in order to be sure that you can locate it on the day of the appointment.
 Meet with and/or talk to each of the lawyers on your list. Feel free to take notes while talking to each divorce attorney, so that you can remember later what each attorney said and what your initial impressions were.Aside from experience and strong knowledge of family law, choose an attorney who you think that you would get along with and like working with.
If the attorney makes you uncomfortable in any way or seems dismissive of your case or your situation, you should choose someone different to represent you.
If more than one attorney has the qualifications you are looking for, you should choose the one that you feel the most comfortable with.
 Depending on your budget, you may need to consider what the attorney will charge to represent you in your divorce.


Usually, if the divorce is not complicated and will not be contested, you can negotiate a flat fee arrangement with your attorney. A flat fee is where you pay the attorney an agreed upon price for the whole divorce, regardless of the actual number of hours the attorney spends.
On the other hand, if you think that your divorce will be contentious, or if you and your spouse have lots of property that must be split up, your lawyer may want to charge you by the hour.
If you think that you will struggle with paying an attorney, check out Wikihow’s guide on hiring a lawyer when you have a low income.

