 Peel off the skin of the papaya and dice it into 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) cubes. One medium green papaya will usually yield around 2 cups (500 ml) when diced.

Peel the skin off the papaya, then cut off the stem end.
Slice the papaya in half and use a spoon to dig out the seeds. Dig away the fleshy white skin beneath the seeds, as well.
Use a sharp knife to cut both halves into slices, then cut each slice into small cubes.
 Pour 4 cups (1 L) of water into a 4-qt (4-L) or larger saucepan. Bring the water to a boil over medium-high heat., Once the water reaches a boil, add the chopped papaya. Turn the heat down to medium-low and allow the papaya to cook for 3 minutes.

You only need to cook the papaya long enough to blanch it. It should not become tender or mushy during this time.
Leave the saucepan uncovered while the papaya simmers.
 Turn the heat off completely and remove the pan from the burner. Allow the papaya to sit in the hot water for another 5 minutes.

Cover the saucepan as the papaya continues to soak.
The papaya should become semi-transparent after it soaks. If it still looks opaque, continue soaking the papaya for another few minutes before proceeding.
 Pour the blanched papaya through a colander to drain the water.

After draining the water, set the papaya aside until the time comes for you to add it to the syrup.
 Combine 2 cups (500 ml) of sugar with 3 to 4 cups (750 to 1000 ml) of water in a medium or large saucepan.

For best results, use a saucepan with a minimum volume of 4 quarts (4 L). You can use the same saucepan initially used to blanch the papaya, but you should quickly rinse it out with running water before doing so.
 Boil the sugar mixture over medium-high heat on your stove until the sugar appears to dissolve.

You'll know when the sugar is dissolved based on the appearance of the mixture. If the mixture is still cloudy, the sugar hasn't dissolved yet. Once the mixture becomes clear, the sugar has been dissolved.
 After the sugar dissolves, add the strained papaya cubes to the syrup. Mix well to combine., Reduce the heat the medium-low and allow the papaya to simmer in the syrup until the syrup thickens.The syrup must reach a "one thread" consistency. To test the consistency, remove a small spoonful of syrup and let it cool slightly for a few minutes. Pinch the syrup in between your thumb and index finger, then pull your fingers apart. A single thread of syrup should form between your two fingers and, if you pull your fingers apart gently, that thread should not break.
 Turn off the heat and remove the saucepan from the stove. Add the vanilla extract to the contents of the pan and stir well to combine., Ladle the papaya and syrup into three separate bowls, measuring the mixture out in relatively equal proportions.

The measurements don't need to be exact, but they should be fairly even if you want to have an equal amount of each color. You also need to make sure that the papaya pieces in each bowl are covered with a fair amount of syrup.
Glass bowls work best for this. Avoid plastic bowls since they may get stained by the food coloring.
 Add one to four drops of green food coloring to one bowl, one to four drops of yellow food coloring to the next, and one to four drops of red food coloring to the last bowl. Mix well to disperse the color evenly.

It's better to start with a small amount of food coloring (one or two drops). Stir the food coloring into the syrup and papaya mixture. If the mixture seems too light, you can add a few more drops of food coloring at that time.
 Cover all three bowls and allow them to sit out at room temperature for 12 to 24 hours.Choose a relatively cool location that is out of direct sunlight.
If the bowls you use do not have lids, cover them with aluminum foil or plastic wrap.
As the papaya cubes soak, the food coloring you just mixed in should dye the fruit, causing the cubes to take on a bright hue. The papaya should also absorb more of the syrup, becoming sweeter in the process.
 After the papaya has been allowed to soak, pour the papaya and syrup though a colander or strainer. Discard the syrup and reserve the papaya.

Keep a plate or several layers of paper towel beneath the wire rack to prevent the syrup from staining your kitchen counter.
Alternatively, you can spread the papaya out on plates covered with multiple layers of paper towel and allow them to dry that way.
 Spread the papaya cubes over a wire net cooling rack. Allow them to dry for several hours, or until they no longer feel sticky to the touch., Mix the different colors of tutti frutti together in an airtight jar. Seal the jar, then store and use when needed.

At room temperature, the tutti frutti should be good for several days to one week. If you want to store the tutti frutti for a longer period, you should refrigerate it. When sealed and refrigerated properly, tutti frutti can remain edible for several months.
Tutti frutti is often used in fruit cakes and Indian desserts like dil pasand. It can also be used in muffins, ice cream, cookies, breads, or other baked goods.

