 Check with the Humane Society to see what training courses they recommend. The Humane Society can provide you with positive and ethical recommendations for effective online trainers and courses. The Humane Society also offers their own courses for professionals as well as dog owners.If you are unsure where to start, try contacting the Humane Society by phone or email. Ask questions like, “I’m trying to find an online training course for my dog, do you have any recommendations?” or “Which online training course would you recommend for novice trainers?”;
, Your vet will likely have recommendations about online trainers and courses. Consulting your vet will also help determine what training courses might be most effective in dealing with a particular behavior or treating a medical issue.


Ask your vet questions like, “What type of training would you recommend for my dog?” or “Are there any courses that I should avoid?”

, Asking other dog owners for training recommendations is an effective way of getting first hand accounts and responses to online training. Ask other dog owners for recommendations on trainers or which types of training to avoid online.


Reach out to other dog owners online if you don’t know any who have gone through an online training course. There are many blogs and websites devoted to reviewing online trainers and courses, like E-Training for Dogs.Ask questions like, “Which online dog training course did you enroll in?” “How effective was the training?” or “Where did you find your online training course?”

, There are many different types of training courses available, from learning training basics to dog park etiquette. Select a course based on what you would like your dog to learn or what behaviors you would like to change. The more basic the course the more general it will be. If you would like your dog to learn more complex skills, like tracking, you will likely need to start with an elementary course first to introduce your dog to the fundamentals of training. Be sure to consult with your trainer about course caps and registration as the caps and registration times vary from course to course.Online training courses also come in pre-recorded videos as well as live webinars. Be sure to check the course description or contact your trainer to decide which framework might be best for you and your dog.Contact your trainer to ask about course availability and skill level.
Look for course examples on your trainer’s website, or look at other online dog training websites to get an idea of what classes are offered online., Most online trainers and courses will have other’s references easily available on their website. If they do not, ask your trainer to provide you with a few references of past customers. Look for customer reviews about the effectiveness, difficulty, time commitment, and cost of the training. Try using dog training resources, like canine journal, to read reviews of online trainers and courses.Most dog trainers rely on references to establish a good reputation. If your trainer or training course does not have any references this might be a sign of a course or trainer to avoid.
 Positive reinforcement is a training method that involves withholding treats or rewards from your dog until they behave accordingly. Positive reinforcement is generally the most versatile method as it can also help dog’s learn less conventional behaviors, like operating a switch. A trainer who uses positive reinforcement will also be less likely to use fear as a means of training your dog.Avoid trainers who use physical punishment or fear as apart of their training practices., Finding a trainer who listens well and delegates training will help you get the most out of your dog training. Online trainers should be able to provide you with feedback on your training techniques and the progress of your dog’s behavior. Seek out trainers who do not attempt to control the training process but rather empower you to fully train your dog.Remember, you are the one who will be doing the training. Your trainer is there to guide you and provide you with information.
 Live webinar training courses are courses that are regularly scheduled to be streamed live. Enroll in a live webinar course if you more hands-on training that allows for direct communication and response with both the trainer and other dog owners enrolled in the course.


Webinars will also require your schedule to be regular, meaning that you won’t be able to train at anytime you would like.
 Enrolling in training courses that rely on videos will allow you flexibility and the opportunity to choose the pace at which you train your dog. Videos can be re-watched over and over at anytime, which can provide you with the flexibility you need to fully engage in your dog’s training.


Remember that courses that rely on videos will often mean that you will be corresponding with your trainer, which means their responses or directions may not be as immediate as a webinar.
 No good trainer will promise or guarantee you a specific outcome after training. Training your dog is a process and much of it depends on your consistency as well as the dog’s age and behavioral history. If you are suspicious of your trainer’s claims look on their website for client references.


Some guarantees might include promising that your dog’s bad behavior will never resurface, like “I 100% guarantee that your dog will never leash-pull again.”

