 Look for salt made for horses at your local pet store or feed store and buy it in bulk. Check that the salt is not a mineral salt blend, such as red salt, or salt that is meant for de-icing roads. If you are introducing your horse to a salt lick, start with plain white salt or iodized table salt.The type of salt that is best for your horse will depend on his nutritional needs and his current diet. If your horse only needs sodium and chloride, table salt is a great option. Some horses may do better with iodized salt or trace mineral salt if they are not getting enough supplements in their diet.
If you are giving your horse commercial feed or a vitamin/mineral supplement, he does not need iodized salt as he is already getting enough iodine in his diet. A build up of iodine in your horse can lead to other health issues.Always talk to your vet before you give your horse any homemade products, including a salt lick.;
, Start by giving your horse two tablespoons of salt a day for a few days in his feeder. Gradually build up to a full dose of four tablespoons of salt a day so your horse can get used to the taste of the salt.If your horse lives in a very hot climate or sweats profusely every day, you may want to start with two tablespoons a day and up the dose to five to six tablespoons a day over a period of one to two weeks.Most horses will regulate their own salt consumption and only consume as much salt as they need. If your horse appears to be salt starved, start with a controlled amount in his feed to help his body adjust to the salt intake slowly.
 If you would rather allow your horse to consume salt of his own accord when he feels salt deprived, you can fill a bucket halfway with granulated salt and hang the bucket in an area that is easy to access in your horse’s stall. Look for a location that will protect the bucket from the weather.This is a good option for horses who are just starting to get used to salt in their diets, as free-choice salt consumption may be more inviting than licking a salt block that will be rough on your horse’s tongue.
 Giving your horse lots of fresh, clean water will help the salt to circulate properly in his body. As well, the water will help your horse flushes out any excess sodium and chloride from his system.


If your horse is getting too much salt, and not enough water, he may drink an excessive amount of water and urinate more often than usual. As long as you provide enough fresh water in his stall, in addition to salt lick, he should be able to balance his salt intake with his water intake.

