 You need to study the manual because it will contain the rules of the road, as well as general information about operation of a motor vehicle.


You can obtain a copy of the Oklahoma driver’s manual by downloading it online at https://www.dps.state.ok.us/dls/okdm.htmlor visiting an office of the Oklahoma Motor License Agency (known as Tag Agents).;
, Before you can get a learner’s permit in Oklahoma, you must be at least 15 1/2 years old. You are allowed to begin studying and preparing before that, but you must wait until you are 15 1/2 to apply.If you are over 18, you may apply directly for an intermediate license and skip the learner’s permit., To get your learner's permit, you will need to take two forms of identification and your social security number to the Driver License Exam site. For most people, the first form of identification will be a birth certificate or U.S. Passport. Foreign nationals or permanent residents may produce a foreign passport and an I-94 card, or an alien registration card issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service. The second form of identification is to prove your age and identification. This may be a second (non-duplicate) item from the primary list, or one of the following:For someone under 18 years of age, an affidavit signed by the parent or legal guardian, attesting to age
A photo ID card issued by an Oklahoma public or private school
A gun permit, pilot’s license or hunting/fishing license issued by the state of Oklahoma
An Oklahoma voter ID card
A social security card
A high school diploma
A military identification card
An Oklahoma tribal photo identification card

, If you are under 18 years old, you need a letter or other documentation from your high school that attests that you are a currently enrolled student and have passed the eighth grade state reading test.If you cannot get a school letter, you may provide a copy of a high school diploma, proof of earning a GED, proof of enrollment in a GED program, proof of current home schooling, or proof of employment that shows that you are working at least 24 hours per week.
 If you are applying before your 16th birthday, you must bring proof that you are enrolled in a driver’s education class, either at your school or through a private agency. If you are over 16 and have completed such a course, the proof is not required but you are encouraged to bring it along., When you have all the documentation prepared, visit a convenient Driver License Exam site office. You must apply for a learner’s permit in person. There is no online substitute.A parent or guardian must accompany you, if you are under 18 years old.
You can find a complete list of Driver License Exam Sites at http://www.dps.state.ok.us/dls/exam_sites.php.
Take the written test and vision test. The written test will cover information from the Oklahoma Driver’s Manual. The test consists of questions related to Driving safety and courtesy, signals, signs and markings, intersections and turns, lane usage and maneuvers, and inclement weather driving.
You can find practice tests online at DMV.com, by following the links to information for Oklahoma.The written test includes 25 questions. You must get 20 right to pass the test.
Pay the required fee. The state charges a $4.00 application fee each time you take the written test. When you pass the written test and obtain your learner’s permit, you then must pay a $33.50 license fee.
For example, if you pass the test on your first try, the total fee will be $37.50 ($4.00+$33.50). If you fail the written test once but pass on your second try, you will pay $4.00 each time you take the test, so your total fee will be $41.50 ($4.00 + $4.00 + $33.50).
 After you pass the written test and vision test, you will have your photograph taken and you will receive your learner’s permit.


Your learner’s permit allows you to drive with a licensed driver over 21 years old in the car.