 Before you start looking for a manager, you have to make sure your career is worth managing. Take an honest look at what you’ve accomplished so far and what you’re looking to accomplish. If your music career brings in $1000 or less monthly, it might not be the right time to look for a manager.If your career isn’t needing a manager yet, start by managing your own career. Managers typically network for you, negotiate deals and help you hire the right partners.Try your hand at these different tasks, and you’ll known which you really need a manager for.
Managers aren’t the only ones who can help you expand your career. You can look into partnering up with publicists, writers and designers.;
, If you’re going to try contacting a manager, you need to be able to show them your musical ability. Ideally, you need quality recordings of your music, especially your best songs. While recording studio sessions can be expensive, the resulting recordings are crucial for your career’s future.


In addition to studio recordings, you should have footage of any live gigs you’ve performed. This will give a potential manager a better idea of your presence on stage, as well as showing them what type of performer you are.
If you currently have a record deal, working on your record will give you what you need to show a manager.
 Before you start looking for managers and agencies, start by reaching out to friends and family. You might be lucky and know someone who has the right skills and believes in you enough to work for free (at least for a while). Make sure this person can be straight with you; if they can’t be completely honest with you, they won’t be able to manage you properly. When you think “right skills”, think of the following:


They must be trustworthy. You need to make sure you choose someone who isn’t just going to use you as a ticket to fame and fortune. Before you decide to hire them, have interactions with them to determine if they’re trustworthy.
Choose someone personable. This is especially important if you lack skill in this area. Your chosen manager must have the people skills necessary to talk you up and get you the right gigs.
They have to be responsible. Avoid people who tend to deflect blame. If there are any hiccups in your career, you need someone who’s willing to take responsibility and do their best to help you past them.
Choose a business-minded person. Your musical career needs to be run like a business. The manager you choose needs business skills to help you navigate this side of the industry.Depending on the person you choose, and how your career develops, this may be a temporary setup. If you consider this partnership temporary, make sure the person you choose understands this.
 If you don’t have someone in your social circle who can manage your career, expand your search. One of the best ways to do this is to be constantly networking. When you play a gig, build relationships with other musicians and venue owners. If they know you’re looking for a manager, they might point you to someone they trust.
 If you don’t yet have the right connections, the best thing to do is to contact as many managers as you can. Do your research beforehand, making sure you only contact managers that are qualified and have a good reputation. Send emails, make phone calls and reach out over social media. Don’t be desperate to get representation; get the right representation.


The internet is the best place to find people to call. Using Google will help you find agencies and managers in your area, as well as their contact information.
The best way to cold call is to be honest about why you’re calling. Say that you’re a musician who’s looking representation. Be honest about what your career is like at the moment, don’t try to make your career sound bigger than it is or brag.</ref>https://www.engageselling.com/articles/060120article_coldcalling</ref>
Your cold calling strategy could take a few different forms. You can use the phone to gauge interest, speaking to managers before sending your music. Otherwise, you can use email and social media to send samples of your music, so managers can see what you’re about.

