 While cleaning vinyls can make them sound better, over-cleaning them can actually be bad. The constant rubbing and wiping you do to clean them can eventually cause scratching and warped grooves, which can even make a vinyl unplayable.  The best way to tell if your vinyl should be cleaned is by taking one finger and swiping it gently around the record one time. If you see any dust or debris on your finger tip then that means you probably have to clean it.;
, You will need glass cleaner, a couple microfiber rags, wood glue, and, of course, a dirty vinyl. One important thing to make note of when buying wood glue is to find a bottle with a good pouring tip and that it is free of urea-formaldehyde. This type of glue works best because it dries faster at room temperature than other types of glue, and it is much easier to remove.
 One or two sprays should be enough, putting too much on can flood the grooves on the record will cause it to dry much slower.
 Be sure to only go in one direction when wiping; it while cover the whole surface of the record, front and back.
 Do this on each side for about fifteen seconds. Then let the record sit on a soft surface to dry completely for ten minutes before the next step of the cleaning process.
, Use a spoon or popsicle stick and mix the glue vigorously for about two minutes; this will help thin it out before applying it. However, if it still feels too thick you can apply a tablespoon of water and mix it to thin it out a little more. Once it has the viscosity of honey, it should be perfect to start using.
 Take the record and place it on a sheet of wax paper; this will prevent scratching during cleaning. Take your bottle of wood glue and shake it before finally squeezing it out. Then put the tip of the bottle and place it on the outermost groove of the vinyl. Slowly squeeze the bottle to apply a consistent stream of glue as you go along the groove from the outside all the way to the very middle.
 Let the record sit for four hours to ensure that the glue has dried completely.
 Test to see if it completely dry by tapping on it with a couple fingers. If it feels soft at all it is best to let it sit for at least another hour.


 Attempting to remove it before it dries can permanently damage the record. When it is finally dry you can move on to the final part of the cleaning process.
 Then go around over and over, carefully lifting the dry glue from the vinyl.  You want to make sure that you remove it all in one piece, if  you see it ripping just  slow down and be more careful. Once you have completely removed the glue, wipe it down one more time and repeat the last two steps on the other side of the vinyl.

