 Start by changing those things that seem easier to you and adopt more changes as you move forward.


In general, these guidelines will increase the amounts of omega-3 fatty acids, B-vitamins like niacin and vitamins and minerals in your diet.
 Select bright colored fruits and vegetables for the highest level of antioxidants. These include:


Berries (blueberries, raspberries)
apples
plums
oranges and other citrus fruits (Vitamin C is an excellent anti-oxidant)
leafy green vegetables
winter and summer squash
bell peppers

, Corn-fed beef contains much higher levels of omega-6 (pro-inflammatory) fats, so it is best to avoid red meat if you want to adopt an anti-inflammatory diet. If you do have red meat, make sure it is grass fed and has no added antibiotics and/or hormones and limit it to 2-4 times a month. Grass-fed meat has the more natural ratio of omega-3 and omega-6 fats so it does not cause as much inflammation.Eat skinless poultry that is free-range and antibiotic-free to reduce your intake of unhealthy fats and additives.
 Fish is good quality protein and has good amounts of the healthier omega-3 fats. You can also get omega-3 fats from plant sources. Excellent sources of omega-3 fatty acids can be found in the following fish, shellfish and plants:Salmon
Tuna
Sardines
Herring
Mussels
Rainbow trout
Flaxseed
Chia seeds
Walnuts
Tofu and soybean products
Brussel sprouts and cauliflower

, Make sure you include only complex carbohydrates in your diet. The industrial processing breaks down the carbohydrates into the simple carbohydrates, which cause inflammation and may contribute to chronic pain.Limit your intake of processed and prepackaged foods to limit the additives and preservatives even further.
Go for less processed carbohydrates such as whole grain breads, brown rice and whole grain pasta.
Avoid foods with added sugar and sugar substitutes. Sugar is an inflammatory substance, so it may contribute to chronic pain.
Try using the herb stevia as a sugar substitute if you have a hard time giving up sweets.
You can still have a treat now and then, just try to limit your intake of sugar to a few times per week.
 To reduce inflammation, it is crucial to increase your intake of water. Stay away from soft drinks and alcohol because these drinks may increase inflammation. Substitute water, green tea, fruit juices, and herbal teas instead., To reduce inflammation, you should reduce your overall fat intake. Eating lots of fruits and vegetables should make it easier to consume less fat. If possible, avoid all fatty foods, such as fried foods, baked goods, fast foods, and junk foods.Limit your total fat intake to about 25-30% of your total daily calories
Use anti-inflammatory oils for cooking, such as olive oil and canola oil.
 The current recommendation for fiber is 25-30 grams per day, but many people only get 10-12 grams. Naturopaths and other holistic practitioners often recommend that people eat 40-50 grams of fiber a day. This has many health benefits in addition to reducing inflammation, such as regular bowel movements, reduced risk of colon cancer, weight management, and blood sugar control.Foods that are high in fiber include:


Brans including oats, wheat, corn and rice brans
Beans and legumes
Berries
Whole grains including barley, oats, rye, wheat, quinoa, brown and wild rice and millet.
Leafy green vegetables
Nuts and seeds

