 You should familiarize yourself with common symptoms of infantile eczema. Use your health journal to record any symptoms. Look to see if your baby's skin often has any of the following common eczema symptoms:Scaly
Cracked
Red
Tender
Dry
Leathery
Thick
Itchy
Crusting
Red patches
Small blisters;
, If you notice your baby having an eczema flare up in response to particular irritants, you should record them in your health journal. Ask your doctor if there is a connection to your baby’s eczema. Possible irritants and allergens that could make your baby’s eczema worse include:Cow’s milk
Dust mites
Woolen and synthetic fibres
Heavy bedding
Animal dander
Pollen
Dust
Mold
Dry air
Harsh soaps
Harsh detergents
Strong shampoo
Chemicals in bubble baths
Hot or cold temperatures

, You could try taking probiotics during breastfeeding in order to reduce the chance of baby eczema. Although more research is required, there is some indication that probiotics during pregnancy may lower the chance of your baby getting eczema. You could take probiotic supplements or eat more yogurt that contains live active cultures.Breastfeeding itself can reduce the occurrence of baby eczema compared with formula feeding.
 It can be hard to keep track of all of the treatments you try for your baby’s eczema. To keep track of your baby’s symptoms, your doctor’s prescriptions and any home remedies you try, record everything in a health diary. For example, consider recording the following:Eczema flare ups
Symptoms
Irritants
Topical or oral medications used to treat your baby's eczema
Details from trips to the doctor such as date and prescriptions

, Since hot water can remove too much oil from your baby’s skin, you should bathe them in lukewarm water. You should also avoid excessive amounts of bathing.Give your baby a ten-minute bath about 2-3 times per week., Many cleansers and soaps have additives that irritate or dry out your baby’s skin, which will make the eczema worse. Instead, look for soap products that are unscented and with few additives.For example, you might try a natural product, like Burt’s Bees Baby Bee Shampoo and Wash, an unscented product, such as Dove Sensitive Skin Unscented Beauty Bar, or another dermatologist recommended product, such as Aveeno, Cetaphil, CeraVe, or Eucerin., Your doctor may recommend bleach baths if your baby has moderate or severe eczema. Bleach baths will help control the bacteria on your baby’s skin. If your doctor recommends a bleach bath, put one or two teaspoons (15-30 milliliters) of bleach per gallon (4 liters) of water or add 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) to a half-tub of water. Use lukewarm water, and bathe your baby for ten minutes.Make sure your baby does not touch their eyes while in the bleach bath.
You should only do the bleach bath two or three times per week.
Within three minutes of leaving the bath, you should moisturize your baby’s skin.
 Apply a thick layer of moisturizer to your baby’s skin two to three times per day. Every time your baby gets out of a bath, you should immediately moisturize their skin. Generally, ointment based moisturizers are best because they contain the most oil. If you cannot find an ointment, creams are also good. Lotions have less oil and don’t hold in the moisture as well, so pick an ointment or cream instead., Eczema creams have ingredients to reduce the itching and moisturize the skin. You should consult your doctor before using any steroid ointments and always follow the directions when using them. If used appropriately and according to your doctor's directions, topical steroids are a safe and effective treatment for infantile eczema.The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends topical steroids alongside an action plan for families that addresses bathing as well as moisturizers.If you use doctor prescribed steroid ointments or creams, you should use the lowest strength possible.Some creams use a mild hydrocortisone or colloidal oatmeal to control itching.
You should avoid aqueous cream because it contains detergents that may irritate your baby’s skin., If you need to apply a steroid ointment or cream, you should apply a small to moderate amount and use a mild steroid, unless your doctor recommends you use a stronger steroid for a period of time. Try to avoid applying the steroid ointment to the groin, armpits and other creases in your baby’s skin. It should only be applied to the area affected by the eczema. Once it is applied, you will need to apply a layer of moisturizer., Your doctor may recommend an antihistamine to help control your baby’s itching. The antihistamine may make your baby drowsy, which may help if they are having a hard time with itching at night.Common antihistamines include Benadryl, Claritin and Zyrtec. Ask your doctor before using any of these products., A dermatologist may prescribe stronger creams or ointments for your baby's eczema, or in some cases oral medications or antibiotics if the eczema was caused by an infection. Your dermatologist can also use light therapies to treat your baby.

Wet wraps usually help with severe flare-ups. To use a wet wrap, soak your baby in warm water. Then apply the prescribed ointment or cream. While the ointment or cream is still wet, soak the wrap in warm water and then apply it over the cream. Finally, wrap a dry bandage over the wet cloths. You can remoisten the wraps by spraying water on the wet cloth. Wet wraps are usually used for a few days, but follow the specific recommendations of your doctor.Do not use a wet wrap unless it's recommended by your doctor.

