 During mediation, you and your spouse will meet with a neutral third party, the mediator. You will explain your dispute to the mediator, who will help you find areas of agreement. To find a mediator, you should do the following:search on the internet for “mediator” and your city
check your phone directory under “mediation” or “dispute resolution”
call your local or state bar association
contact your local court to see if they maintain a list of mediators or have a mediation program you can use

, Each mediator works in different ways, but there is a general approach most take. For example, many mediators will start out by calling you in order to get background information. The purpose of the call is to figure out the areas of dispute.A mediator is not a judge, so you won’t win anything by trashing or badmouthing your spouse.
Instead, when the mediator calls, try to describe your dispute as objectively as possible. For example, you and your spouse might be disagreeing on child custody issues but have reached an agreement on division of property.
You don’t need to explain to the mediator why your spouse disagrees with you. Instead, your spouse can tell the mediator in his or her own words.
 The mediator should describe the process and then ask you and your spouse to make short statements. The mediator will then ask you questions to clarify unclear points or to get additional information.You should certainly be honest about what you want and why you want it. However, mediation does involve some give and take. If you want mediation to work, then you should be open to compromise.You will also be more successful if you actually try to listen to what your spouse is saying. It can be easy to shut down emotionally and get defensive. Nevertheless, your spouse might be more willing to compromise if he or she feels that you are truly listening to their concerns.
 You probably won’t mediate your entire divorce in one meeting. Instead, you might have to break in order to get more information that will help you and the mediator resolve your disagreements.


For example, you might not know the value of all of your property. The mediator might send you home to gather this information before the next session.Mediated divorces typically take 4-10 sessions.However, if you do not feel that you are getting closer to an agreement, then you may want to talk to your lawyer about abandoning mediation and going to court.
 You will generally always meet with the mediator in your spouse’s company. However, sometimes the mediator will “caucus” with each spouse individually in separate rooms.The mediator will then shuttle between the rooms.


The mediator might choose to caucus in order to relieve tension. The mediator might also think talking individually to each spouse will help advance the mediation process.
You might enjoy caucusing because you can be comfortable sharing your feelings without offending your spouse.
 The mediator should help you draft the divorce settlement agreement, which you will need to sign and then submit to the court.


With your settlement agreement in hand, you can stop by the court clerk’s office and get the paperwork for an uncontested divorce. Your court should have “fill in the blank” forms for you to use. You will then attach your settlement agreement to the forms when you submit them to the judge.

