 Before you can be tolerant towards others, you need to first acknowledge your own viewpoint. Acknowledging that you have your own personal viewpoint and perspective on issues will ensure you are being honest during the discussions and conversations you have with others. You may acknowledge your viewpoint during a conversation you have with someone else or to yourself on a daily basis as a way to check yourself so you know where you stand.You should also consider how your viewpoint affects your actions and decisions. You may align yourself on a certain side of an issue because of your viewpoint. For example, if you were raised Catholic by traditional parents, you may not approve of sex before marriage. Alternatively, if you were raised in a non-traditional household and are in a relationship yourself, you may have no issue with sex before marriage nor feel it is necessary to marry your romantic partner.;
, Once you have acknowledged your own viewpoint, you should also focus on being an active listener when you are discussing an issue with someone who has a different viewpoint from you. Listening to the person’s perspective does not mean you have to shift from your own viewpoint or change your mind. But it does show that you are willing to tolerate different perspectives than your own.When the person is speaking, listen respectfully and do not interrupt them, though you may not agree with what they are saying. Once they have finished speaking, you should acknowledge that you appreciate their position and understand what they have said. Only then should you respond to them by expressing your own viewpoint.
Do not use conversations with others as a way to show you are right or to prove your viewpoint is better. Rather than view the conversation as a competition, think of it as a way to listen to others and have a healthy, respectful dialogue with others.
 During the conversations with others, you should maintain a positive demeanor and demonstrate open body language so the person feels comfortable speaking to you. This means maintaining eye contact with the person and turning your body towards them. You should also keep your arms relaxed at your sides and nod as they speak to indicate you are listening. This will show the person that you are engaged and willing to listen, even if you do not agree with what they are saying.Modeling open body language could also encourage the person to be more engaged when it is your turn to speak or share. Showing the person the courtesy of an interested audience is a big step towards tolerance.
 Avoid shooting the person down or disregarding what they have to say. Focus on how you can better understand the person’s viewpoint by asking interesting questions and responding with interest. Tolerance does not mean you have to accept everyone’s viewpoint or perspective on an issue. But it does mean you should strive to be inclusive towards all viewpoints and stay open to ideas that are different than your own.For example, maybe you are discussing marriage with a co-worker and she tells you that her viewpoint is no couple should have sex before they are married. You may be shocked at this viewpoint, but rather than shut her down or disregard her viewpoint, you may engaged with her by asking her questions. You may say, “That’s an interesting perspective. Why do you feel this way?” or “Can you tell me more about why you feel this way?”
You should then listen when she responds to your questions and answer any questions if she asks you about your perspective. This will foster open discussion and a productive conversation that demonstrates tolerance.
 Rather than try to “win” the discussion or convince the person your perspective is right, be prepared to accept that you may not see eye to eye with the person. It’s okay if you both agree to disagree, as this means you have both listened to each other’s perspectives and have realized that you are not in agreement. But you can still both respect each other and support each other’s right to have a certain viewpoint.Agreeing to disagree also means that you have both engaged with an issue and expressed your thoughts honestly. Often tolerance is mistaken for neutrality or simply accepting that every viewpoint is valid. In fact, tolerance is more about engaging with someone else and being willing to entertain viewpoints that are different or contrary to your own.

