 Curry rice is a versatile dish that lends itself to many recipe variations. For instance, it's not difficult to add plenty of vegetables to make something resembling a stir fry. Simply chop the recipes and add them to the "Basic" recipe above with the onions and garlic. Then, proceed with the rest of the recipe as normal. Note that "hard" vegetables (carrots, broccoli, etc.) require a little more cooking time, so you may want to add them a few minutes before the onions, garlic, etc.


In the ingredients list above, tomato, eggplant, and okra are recommended because they taste great with curry rice and cook quickly. You can use others, however — don't be afraid to get creative.
 Paprika is an excellent choice for this dish — its smokey, spicy flavor complements the curry naturally. Try adding a teaspoon or two with the curry powder to blend the two seasonings together. Alternatively, use paprika for its rich red color by sprinkling it over the finished rice.
 Coconut milk is a common ingredient in many curries for its smooth, sweet flavor. Try substituting half of the water for coconut milk when you add the liquid to your rice to get a strong coconut flavor. If you want a more subtle flavor or a dish that's less rich, substitute only a quarter of the water for coconut milk., Many rice dishes from the Middle East and Central Asia use almonds and raisins. Cashew halves sometimes substitute for almond slivers. If you're not used to the combination, it can seem a little unusual, but it's delicious to palates that are accustomed to it. To add these flavors to your dish:Add the raisins to the rice mixture right before you add the water and start to boil.
Stir in the almond slivers right before you serve.
 The recipes in this article aren't especially spicy. If you want something with a little more "kick," simply add cayenne or red pepper flakes to taste. Stir these spicy ingredients into the mixture with the curry powder to give the ingredients a satisfying level of heat.


If you accidentally add too much heat, try stirring in a little plain greek yogurt when the dish is finished to neutralize the spiciness. You can also simply dilute the flavor by adding more rice.