 Take a good look at what you're good at and what you enjoy. By focusing on your skills and passions, you'll be more effective in your attempts to improve the world. If you’re unsure of where your talent lies, try asking others or taking a personality or career test online.You can also consider your past work experiences to help you determine what you might enjoy doing. For example, if you enjoy working with people, then you might want to consider jobs and volunteer opportunities that will provide lots of social interaction.;
, Helping professions are those that have a direct impact on people’s lives. To join a helping profession, you may need to return to school for some additional training. Consider your interests to determine if a helping profession is right for you. Some helping professions you might consider include: Social work
Teaching
Occupational therapy
Counseling
Art therapy

, If your skills and/or talents are not in a helping profession, you can still have a career that will serve the greater good. Non-profit organizations hire employees to do many of the same things that for-profit businesses do, such as bookkeeping, customer service, and publicity.


If you want to work for a non-profit organization, then try searching for jobs with non-profit organizations that you believe in.
 Keep in mind that you do not have to work for a non-profit organization to make a difference. Instead, you can volunteer at a non-profit organization for a few hours a week. Consider what type of organization you would like to volunteer at, and then look for an organization in your city or community where you can volunteer your time.


Sites like Volunteer Match allow you to input your location and your interests to find volunteer options that are both interesting and near to you.For instance, if you’re interested in animals you can volunteer at your local ASPCA. Or if you enjoy teaching, you can volunteer to tutor children in your spare time.
 Whether you sew a dress for a Make A Wish patient, or you write a hit song to raise awareness about a social issue, your talents can make a difference for one or many.Think about how you could use your other talents to make a difference.


For example, if you’re a good writer, start a blog on sites like Blogger or Word Press to help spread information.
If you’re a gifted musician, you could write socially conscious songs that you can post on YouTube and share through various social media outlets.

