 Visit the App Store (iOS) or Play Store (Android), type "Google Duo" into the search bar, and tap "Get" or "Download" on the app as it appears in the results.;
, From the home screen of your phone, tap on the Google Duo icon to open it.
 After reading the terms of service, tap the "I Agree" button to proceed.
 This will allow you to be notified when another contact is calling you in Duo.


If you do not wish to see these notifications, tap "Not Now."

, This will allow you to make video calls where your contacts can both see and here you - which is probably what you want, since it's a video call app, after all.
 A verification code will be sent to the number, which will be used to verify your identity and will allow you to start using the app.
 Open your messages and look for the SMS containing your verification code. Enter this code into the field provided in the Google Duo app.


If the code expires before you are able to enter it, request to be sent a second code.
 This will allow you to view a list of people with and without the app.
 All of your contacts will appear.


Contacts with the app will appear first. You can video call any of these contacts.
If you'd like to increase the number of people you can video call in Duo, tap "Invite friends" and tap on the friends you'd like to request to join the app. Then, tap "Send" in the SMS window that appears.
 When they answer, the call will begin and you'll see a thumbnail of your screen in the bottom-left region of the call.


You may receive a notification that both parties have enabled "Knock Knock," a feature that allows your contact to see your video streaming while you wait for them to answer their call. If you do not wish to have this feature on, check the section below.
 Tap on it again to revert it to your original camera.
 This can be especially helpful if you're in a noisy area and are having trouble hearing the person on the other end, who may be receiving feedback from your end of the call.
 The call will terminate immediately.

