 There are a myriad of activities and games that you can engage your toddler in. Make these games count and be sure that these activities are fun for her. Equally important is that you have fun too. Despite the fact that you have a lot going on, make sure that you are genuine when playing with your child; if you are bored, you child will be able to sense it.Remember that you are the ultimate playmate; your child will find any activity more fun and enjoyable when you are playing with her.
While playing, talk to your child about what she likes, her interests, and what she finds fun.
 Until your child is old enough to understand that toys are not for eating, make sure to buy toys that are larger than her mouth to prevent her from choking. Don’t pick toys with cords or strings that are longer than 12 inches (30.5 cm). These strings or cords could strangle your toddler.


Always supervise your child when she is playing with a new toy for the first time.
 You may not even realize that something, like a paintbrush, could pose a hazard. If that paint brush had come into contact with lead paint however, it could be a health threat. Read labels on toys and keep safety in mind when letting your child roam around you house and pick things up.


Generally steer clear of items with lead, mercury, arsenic and other chemicals.
 As a parent, you should try to be realistic about your child’s age and maturity; follow the “recommended age” sign written on the toy’s box. Toys with little parts cannot be given to children less than 8 or 10 years old because they might put these parts in their mouth, nose or ears.., Some of the toys that are well suited for toddlers 13 to 18 months of age are those that imitate life because kids love to pretend play. These toys might include:


Push and pull toys like wagons or cardboard boxes.
Stuffed animals.
Boxes and rings to stack.
Bouncy balls.
 Toddlers 19 to 24 months of age will show a bit more independence in their actions. Toys for your toddler at this time are basically still the same as when she was 18 months old, but can be bigger; this includes bigger blocks and bricks, or bigger balls alongside the smaller ones. These larger toys provide the opportunity to develop her perception skills. Other toys for this age group include:

Toy instruments.
Puzzles.
Art supplies.
Toys like train sets that can be linked together.

