 In the Old Testament, the primary passages on the end times are in


Isaiah through Malachi (including Daniel where there is much more that you can read).

The Resurrection was predicted in the "TNH or Tanach," Hebrew Bible, with the same content as the "Old Testament," by the prophet Daniel: "Multitudes who sleep in the dust of the earth will awake: some to everlasting life, others to shame and everlasting contempt.", It features celebration, and also shock and awe.It is foretold that Israel will enter into a binding covenant with a global peacemaker for a term of seven years.

The prophet Daniel gives details of this Daniel 9:27.
Moses warned the "covenant people" of YHWH-God that their disobedience leads into tribulation in the latter days. This prophecy is recorded in Deut.4:29-31.
Jesus Himself spoke of "His people" entering into covenant with one who would come in "his own name" (not Godly). This is recorded in John 5:43.


About this, here are the prophet Joel's words to God's people about seeing this happening. Joel 2:15 - 17.


15 "Blow the trumpet in Zion, Consecrate a fast, Call a sacred assembly;
16 Gather the people, Sanctify the congregation, Assemble the elders, Gather the children and nursing babes; Let the bridegroom go out from his chamber, And the bride from her dressing room.
17 Let the priests, who minister to the Lord weep between the porch and the altar; ..."



, It will be a day of combined celebration and alarm to those knowing/believing the prophecy.
,


Every and any setting of the date of the end has been wrong, so far, but 2012 -- who knows. It's not in the Bible, ie:

the Bible does not set a particular day or hour (and any month or year is speculative: call it guesstimating). Why should one expect 2012 to be the end, but expect great piles of books and TV shows, and movies concerning that about "planet alignments" in or near 2012, and about "planet X" existence and passing and even a "polar shift" 2012. It may involve mostly dollar signs and question marks and may be comparable to the Y2K (year 2000) paranoia, but that doesn't prove anything about the present time.



70 years 10 X 7 (10 "Sabbaths of years"), so look at the implications of 1948 + 70 = 2018. So why do some consider adding 70. Compare that to the destruction of the Temple by the Romans, that occurred 70AD. The Birth of Jesus until that destruction was about 70 years. Then it is thought by some that that would suggest the re-birth of the nation of Israel in 1948 + 70. Some use a scripture about the End of Time within one generation as Jesus said: "I tell you the truth, this generation" (including the re-birth of Israel) "will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened." Realizing that the length of a man's life is up to around "120 years" according to Genesis 6:3 may suggest that a reference to a generation may be longer than 70. ,