 Planning is a simple yet crucial step on the road to success, but there is a right way to do it. Make sure your schedule or organizational tactics are realistic. Several small, specific goals that can be achieved in short amounts of time (such as "emailing the teacher by Wednesday" or "finishing half of your project a week before it's due") will help you organize your time and give you the positive feeling of having met your goals. Setting lofty goals that may take the whole year to complete (such as "getting a high A in math" or "studying better") won't keep you on track every day and may discourage you when they're not easy to reach. It's the difference between setting the goal of "studying Biology for thirty more minutes each day for a week" and "getting an A on the next Biology test"; choosing the first goal will lead to the second, and it is more specific so it is easier to achieve. Prioritizing and planning go hand in hand; sometimes certain projects are just more important than others.;
, You will accomplish nothing if you do not follow through on what you have planned, so actually do what you said you were going to. Don't be too hard on yourself if you don't finish every single assignment perfectly. Be quick and efficient in performing your planned tasks. Even though some of us believe in perfecting our assignments over and over until the last minute, it is most advisable to sit down, write it up, proofread and simply submit it. Remember, getting the assignment in on time is more important than writing the greatest report of your life.
 Include time in your plans for fun things to do, such as going to movies, spending time out at the beach, or playing video games. Rewarding yourself with activities you enjoy (because heaven knows homework isn't one of them) will help you unwind and stay fresh for the next round of work, and will help you maintain a healthy social life. Because who know how long it is before the IB apocalypse turns you into one of them zombies, functioning on caffeine and modafinil.
 Procrastinating is what happens when you know what your next step is, but put it off in favor of doing something less important. It's different from prioritizing, which is putting something off in favor of doing something MORE important. Obviously, you will waste a lot of time if you procrastinate. As painful as it sometimes is, stick to your schedule and don't let yourself slack off. If you don't have discipline, consider asking someone else to help you. For example, if you know you're going to ignore the alarm you set for yourself, ask a parent to burst in and hassle you until you get the important things done.
 Don't isolate yourself on an raft of sleep deprivation in a sea of stress-induced tears. Staying connected with your friends and classmates will help you stay afloat when you have too many things to do and not enough time. Talk to them about homework, due dates, and anything else that you might have questions about. They can remind you about deadlines and give you time saving tips of their own. Occasionally talking with your parents about schoolwork can keep them off your back so you don't have added pressure from your parents (since you have more than enough pressure from school).

