 Go online and check out the tourist bureau sites specifically aimed at encouraging travelers to come and see the sights. Consider which things appeal most to you and start noting them down.;
, Which are the most interesting things that have come from your research? Write a list of these places; if you like, you can call this your Wish List.


You could note down the places by city or town, state or province, region or area. Or, choose features, such as mountains, fall leaves, rivers, beaches, good walking trails, winery trails, great antiques shopping opportunities, sporting events, etc.
 Decide which times of year they are best to visit. Also decide whether they're doable in one trip or whether you'll need various different trips at different times of the year.
 Without this, you won't go far! Figure out how much money it will cost to pay for things such as gas, hotel fees, food, and expenses for the places you want to visit.


Look for discount vouchers, coupons and offers. These might be online, available through tourist offices or through travel agents.
Check out package deals for the destination too. One might just be suitable for your needs.
Be careful not to mistakenly choose deals only offered to international travelers. Sometimes special rates only apply if you have a foreign passport and you're traveling from overseas.
 If you want warmth, hate rain or love the snow, be careful about when you choose to explore your country. Check out the average weather pattern for a year to help you decide when it's best to go. Obviously, you'll also need to match activities to the right time of year too, such as snow for skiing, warm weather for snorkeling and fall for leaf-peeping.
 Traveling with children, elderly people or the frail can present numerous challenges. However, since it's your own country, you have the benefit of still being covered for health costs, ready accessibility to the medicines and other things needed, as well as knowing the basics about how your country's systems function. That said, things can differ across states and provinces, so it pays to know ahead any information that might make your trip easier.
 There's nothing like a plan to travel to encourage you to put away money on a regular basis. But don't just save, also consider earning extra funds in different ways, to add to the exploration fund.


Sell unwanted items online or through car boot/yard/garage sales.
Make crafts and sell them online or at local markets.
Do some fundraising activities. There might even be someone else who would be willing to help out.
 Consider whether you need to hire a car or book plane tickets. Also be aware of accommodations issues; while you might be able to rock up spontaneously and stay in places sometimes, other times you might find that the hotels are all booked out because a rodeo is in town or it's wedding weekend. As part of your booking process, find out what might be happening in the places you want to visit and that will guide you as to whether or not you should book.


Even some campsites require booking, as they're so popular. Inquire ahead of going to the sites.
, This will be determined by a range of factors, including distance, proximity and whether there are festivals, events or shows occurring that you'd like to catch while they're still happening.
 If you're going with a partner, make sure to include that person's wishes too. It can be a sore point if one of you does all the directing and the other person feels left out.
 You'll want to remember the trip when you return and digital photos are the ideal way to remember everything, from scenery to meals and favorite b&b's.
 If you like writing, it can be nice to keep documenting your exploration each day. Journals are best filled in during the quiet times, such as during a pit stop, just after dinner or just before bed.


Keep ticket stubs, stickers and other memorabilia for the journal.
 Unless you've determined it's a race, it is best to take the trip at an easy pace. You will want to enjoy what you are seeing and experiencing rather than whizzing through it.
 Everywhere you go, there is the potential for friendship and learning new things. Be open and receptive to meeting people, talking and learning what they think about things. You might discover new ways of seeing your own country.
 Enjoy what the region is famous for. In a large country, this will vary quite considerably, while in a smaller country, there will still be locally famous restaurants and cafes to try out. Ask the locals for advice.

