 Some games, such as chess, checkers, or Monopoly, require other players. If you don't have anyone around, many phone apps and gaming consoles allow you play with your friends online. You can also go online and find games to play. Many people play card games online, for example.Try some card games. Some can be played solo, such as Solitaire. Others, such as Uno or Slap Jack, require more people.
Use your smart phone. Maybe all your friends have been playing a Trivia Game via your smartphone. Try seeing if any friends want to play right now.
Reach out to friends via your game console. Many video game consoles allow you to play interactive games with other players.
 If you have people over, play games with them. If you don't have any supplies, not all games require a board or a stack of cards. Some games require only your voice and a little bit of imagination.


You can play a game like I-Spy, Truth-or-dare, or 20 Questions
Try telling a story together. Have each person add one line to the story. This can be verbal or written.
Play improvisation games such as charades.
Try finding shapes in the clouds (or rocks, if you are in a rocky, mountainous area). This is a simple game, and exercises the creative mind.
 If you're feeling lonely and bored, get out of the house and meet up with someone. See if a friend wants to grab coffee. You don't have to spend a ton of money to simply chat with your friend over a cup of coffee, and good conversation can be a great means to lessen boredom.If no one's around to meet up, hit up a local coffee shop alone. You may find someone else hanging out solo and you can try striking up a conversation. This can both alleviate your boredom and help you make a new friend. You can make a comment on the shop. For example, "Wow, I really love the atmosphere in this place."

, If you're hanging out with people around your age group, try finding some old movies or DVD's you have lying around. Re-watching childhood or adolescent favorites can be a great way to indulge in some nostalgia while lessening boredom. If you don't have any old DVD's online, you can stream many movies for free through services like Netflix and Hulu.If you don't have people around to watch old movies with, see if a friend wants to watch the same movie you're watching and chat about it via text. This can feel like having someone over.
 Oftentimes, people feel bored with friends because they lack the funds to do something. However, you don't need a lot of money to go shopping. If you're bored, but a little broke, hit up your local thrift store. You can find a variety of new clothing items for a relatively low price.Even if you don't end up buying anything, it can be fun to simply try on funny outfits you find at a thrift store.
 If you and your friends can't think of anything to do, pretend you've never been to your town before. Plan a day seeing all the local attractions and eating at local restaurants. This is a chance for you and your friends to revisit places in your town you may take for granted.Think of things to do that tourists frequently do in your town. Go to a local museum or go hiking on local nature trails.
Is there a staple restaurant or diner in your city? Try hitting that up for something to eat.
 If you and your friends can't think of anything to do, put on some fancy clothes and makeup and have a photo-shoot. You can use a camera or smart phone to take pictures of you and your friends in a variety of poses. You can even go outside and take fun outdoor pictures.You don't have to do a serious photo shoot if you're not in the mood. You can take funny pictures to laugh at later.

