 If there are few defenders, sprint past them. But if there are a large amount of defenders, try doing some tricks to get by them..


You could try to fake a shot and then quickly run by them.
You could kick the ball through the defenders' legs, and run behind them to take the ball.
You could juggle the ball past the defenders.

You could take the shot from where you currently are by kicking the ball lightly over the defenders' heads and hopefully gravity will lower the ball from the air and allow you to score.
You could dribble past them by running until you are two feet away from a defender, and kick the ball through his legs if you can, or you can quickly pull the ball to his side and run past him. Remember that this must be done smoothly and swiftly, otherwise you will be unsuccessful.
Perform the "Stop and Go". For this move, the key is simply a change of pace. Jog slowly with the ball almost to the point of stopping. Usually it is best to do this as a defender is alongside of you and suddenly as you are jogging, burst past the defender. You can magnify the effect if you also put the sole of your foot on top of the ball for a second when you stop the ball, and then push it forward with your instep when you break off to perform the dribble again.
Perform the "Fake Shot".Look up and towards what would be your target. Bring your leg back as though you are going to shoot to freeze the defense. Draw your leg back as though you are going to make a pass or take a shot, and then stop this motion just in front of the ball. You can then move the ball to the left or right to set up for your next play, since the defender thought you were going to shoot.
"Scoop" it! Tempt the defender into diving for the ball, and lift the ball over the defender's foot just as he or she dives in. This is usually done while feinting one way and then scooping the ball the other way, just over the defender's planted foot. Make sure to take off with a burst of speed after you lift the ball over the defender's foot. Often, you'll want to scoop or lift the ball over the defender's foot onto your other foot, so that your body will be between you and the defender after you make the move. Have the ball on your right foot and scoop it over the defender's foot to your left foot. Your body is then between the ball and the defender. This move is usually done when you're in an almost-standing position, and the defender is rushing at you, or you're suckering the defender in and then lifting the ball over his or her foot as he or she comes towards you too fast.
Try the "Okocha". Begin by taking a touch a few feet in front of you and smoothly put your right foot on the ball. Spin 180 degrees to your left and pull the ball with your left foot as you complete the rotation. You should have your back to the defender. With the sole of your right foot, pull the ball back onto your left foot, close to the inside of your big toe. If you simultaneously lift your left knee, you will pop the ball up around one or two feet off the ground. At this point, begin to rotate 180 degrees to your left. Halfway through the rotation the ball should be at its peak. Hit the ball with the outside of your right boot up and over both you and your defender and finish the move by completing the rotation and exploding off your left leg past the defender.
Do a Rainbow. Kick the ball in front of you about 2 yards (1.8 m), run onto it, step over it with one foot and use your other foot to hold it in place against your other foot. Then move your foot on the back of the ball up and kick up with your first foot. If you do it right it will sail over your head and over the defender. sprint around him and explode down the field to score. WARNING-When you try to do a rainbow, you will most likely fail, don't let it get to you! Try again again until by some miracle you manage it!;
, If you practice playing soccer with both of your legs, you wouldn't have to follow this step because both of your legs would have the same strength.
,


If not, shoot to the low corner because that is where the goalkeeper will have the most trouble defending.
