 Use the top of a box that is taped close on one side to tuck the flaps into the box. The extra cardboard will give the outer edge of our dollhouse more structural support.


Tape the flaps to the inside of the box.
 You can use any size box you’d like to create your dollhouse. A larger box will give you more space to create rooms inside the house.Write down the measurements and determine how many rooms you’d like your house to include.
Divide the width of your box by the number of rooms you want to have on each level of the house. This number is the width of each room.
 This number is the height of each room

, Cut the cardboard a few inches longer than the width or height of your box.


You will use the extra length to create a flap to attach the walls and floor to the inside of the large box.
 Fold a flap of about one inch on either side of the piece of cardboard. Glue the flap to the inside of the large box to create the floor for the second story of your dollhouse.Reinforce the floor by adding “L” shaped braces to the underside of the floor. Place them in the corners and spaced about every six inches around the edge of the floor.
Glue the reinforcements to the floor and wall of the dollhouse.
 Create a slit halfway through the floor you just glued in. Cut a similar slit in the middle of the wall pieces to allow the wall pieces to interlock with each other.
 Use glue to attach the walls to the interior of the box. Slide each wall on to the slits cut in the slit you cut in the floor.


Fold a flap on the top and bottom portion of the wall to glue the cardboard to the ceiling and bottom floor of your dollhouse.
Glue along the edges where the wall meets the sides of the box.
Glue along the slits cut in the floor and wall pieces of cardboard.
 Cut out windows and doors between rooms.


Use a razor knife to cut squares from the exterior of the house.
Cut doors between rooms by cutting a three sides of a rectangle and leaving one tall side attached.
 Attach a large piece of cardboard folded in a “V” shape to the top of your dollhouse.


Cut a rectangle that is an inch deeper than your house and 8-12 inches wider than the house.
Fold the cardboard into a “V” with a crease in the middle.
Attach the roof with a hot glue gun to the outer walls of the dollhouse.
Fill in the eaves under the roof above the ceiling of your house with a triangle piece of cardboard cut to size.
 Add color to the exterior of your house with acrylic paint. You can also paint the interior of the rooms and floor to make each room special., Use your imagination to decorate the bedrooms, living room, bathroom, and kitchen of your dollhouse.


Cover the walls with wallpaper made from wrapping paper. Glue or tape the wrapping paper in place.
 Be creative to fold and connect pieces of cardboard to create beds, tables, chairs, and more. Use old fabric to cover couches or make rugs.