 It’s not always easy, but trying to stay on the bright side keeps the anxiety from getting worse. This technique is called reframing and suggests you refocus any negative thoughts you might have as positives instead.Teens tend to automatically personalize problems and jump to conclusions. Instead of making it about you, take a step back and look at the reality of a negative event and try to see it as an opportunity. For example, If someone cancels a date, don’t automatically assume it’s because he doesn’t like you – that is, don’t personalize it because maybe something came up with his family. Try to think instead that now you have extra time to work on your essay that’s due next week., Another automatic reflex when things go wrong is to look at it in terms of black and white, either/or, and all or nothing. If you fail a test at school, for example, this would mean you might see yourself as a complete failure and this only increases your anxiety. Instead, try to remember that life is all about the in-betweens and no one is a complete failure or completely perfect.Allow yourself to be in the middle ground. You don’t have to be perfect but remember the good, too, instead of mistakenly thinking you’re a total failure. We are complex people in complex situations and nothing ever goes perfectly according to plan.
 You might be filtering if all you can think about are the mistakes you’ve made, the silly things you said, or the negative aspects of a situation. Filtering increases your anxiety.Remember the good, too! If a girl you like talks about how cool your outfit is one day but also offhandedly teased you that your hair was a mess, filtering to just remember the hair comment would increase your anxiety. Remember she liked your outfit, instead!

, Putting images in your head to help you relax and calm down is called visualization. You can also visualize yourself succeeding at something like a test or a presentation to help you be more confident.Daydream. Life can be hard but you deserve some time to think about the good things you wish for. Allow yourself to dream and hope.Take a vacation in your head. Imagine yourself in your happy place or somewhere peaceful. Really imagine it – think of the sights and sounds and smells associated with that place. If you love the forest, listen to the birds and crickets chirping, see the green of the fir trees waving in the breeze, smell the pine needles., Focus on the here-and-now, in the moment. Being mindful of your present surroundings will help you ease an anxious and racing brain.Being mindful stops you from stressing about the future and things you cannot control – which is one the biggest sources of worry we have.
Try the three senses technique. Breathe slowly and observe 3 things you see, 3 things you hear, and 3 things you feel. If you’re at school, maybe you see the girl in front of you doodling on her paper, hear the clock ticking, and feel the hardness of the chair underneath you. Focusing for a few minutes on what's present keeps you from worrying about other things.
 Toxic friends - people who complain, insult, argue, and fight - can draw a lot of energy out of you and exhaust you mentally and physically. You don’t have to be around constantly happy people, just avoid those toxic friends when you’re feeling anxious., If you find yourself thinking you’re a “bad” kid or that you’re messed up, give yourself a break. Labelling yourself won’t help. Don’t let others do it to you, either. Know that everyone worries and gets anxious and you’re not doing anything on purpose to make life harder for anyone, including yourself.Know that it’s ok to be imperfect. Everyone makes mistakes, everyone gets embarrassed, and everyone feels the need to impress others.
Engage in positive self-talk. Tell yourself that you are a good person and you can do it!, Be aware and know yourself so you can mentally prepare. If you know that public speaking makes you anxious, you can mentally prepare to deal with it and have some tricks up your sleeve to cope with the anxiety in the moment.Make a list of your triggers and fears so you can work on a plan of how to face them. Break the plan down into small steps, such as just going up to someone new and saying hi to deal with your fear of meeting new people.
 Talk about your anxiety. Make efforts to face your fears. Take reasonable risks and get involved. Your confidence will increase, as will your ability to deal with anxiety inducing situations.Don’t avoid school or social situations that make you anxious. You’re just delaying the inevitable. Instead, leave your comfort zone and push yourself a bit.Tackle things that are making you anxious. If you’re nervous before a test, be sure to study enough or get some extra afterschool help.