 Have a perfect elevator pitch that you can confidently give anyone. This 30-second business pitch should be one of the first things you make. Give the pitch to anybody who will listen. Talk about your business constantly, and always look to share your vision. Your confidence and enthusiasm will spread and hopefully attract investors and strong business allies.


Be careful not to go over the top with your self-promotion. This can easily become obnoxious. Be tasteful with your pitch.
Practice your elevator pitch in a mirror. Perfect it, and constantly add to it as your business changes. Keep it short and concise, but convey as much information as possible. Make it compelling and interesting. Remember, you're trying to sell your business!

, Choose your co-founders and employees carefully. As a rule of thumb, hire slowly but fire fast. You should trust your business team entirely, and they should be highly competent and share your passion and vision for the company.


For your first partners, trust is the most important factor.
Communication is key. Maintain open lines of communication with everyone on your team.
 These relationships are among your most important. Keep in contact with them and be as friendly as possible. Always follow up with your clients after a meeting. Make them feel wanted and part of the team, and they'll give you their full support in return.


Remember, the customer is always right. Bend over backwards to give them what they want.
Keep in touch with your clients. Let them know when you're making a big business decision or if you're changing the direction of the company. Ask for their advice make them feel like they're an integral part of the company.
Your first clients are your most important. Treat them like it. Give them the VIP treatment, and they'll stay loyal to you and your company.
Get to know your customers. Spend time with them outside of a business capacity. Become their friend, and they'll become loyal customers.
Remember that no matter how good your product is, no matter how strong your business team is, and no matter how hard you work, your business is nothing without clients. They always come first.
 Every person you meet is a potential investor. Build strong relationships with people who sound interested in your business, especially those who are industry professionals and known investors. Network constantly to build your pool of potential investors.


Prove your business works. Even if it isn't profitable yet, show that your idea is sound. Build off small successes to build support. People are much more likely to invest in an established company than an idea.
Remember, investors invest in people. If they trust you and like you, they're much more likely to invest.
Establish a diverse pool of investors. If all your investors are the same kind of person, your company is built on shaky ground. Aim to diversify.
Inspire confidence and positive thinking in your investors. Your company is sure to face challenges. You want investors who can weather the storm, not investors who jump at the first sign of trouble.
 You may start your business from home, but eventually you need a real office. Your work space should impress clients and investors, and it should give you a comfortable work environment.


Aim to be as professional as possible. The more legitimate your business looks, the more likely you are to be taken seriously.
Organize your office. This helps it look professional and it helps your business' efficiency.
 A fledgling business with two employees can compete with a behemoth company by using technology wisely. Make use of the internet and a variety of apps to be as efficient and competitive as possible.


Don't be afraid to invest in building a strong technological infrastructure. Buy top-notch computers and industry products to keep an edge on the competition. Just be careful not to blow money on flashy but unnecessary equipment.

