 The program allows adoptees and their birth parents and siblings to access each others' contact information if both parties have submitted consent forms. Once you submit your consent form, you will have to wait to find out if or when the other party submits a consent form. Neither the California Department of Social Services (CDSS) nor the agency that handled the adoption is allowed to contact the other party and ask for their consent. In short, the Mutual Consent Program can only help if both parties are trying to contact each other., There are three forms available for different types of applicants, depending upon whether they are an adoptee, birth parent, sibling, or step-sibling; and whether the applicant is an adult or a minor under the age of 18. The forms are available online.


Form AD 904, available at http://www.dss.cahwnet.gov/Forms/English/AD904.PDF, for adult adoptees and birth parents.
Form AD 904 A, available at http://www.dss.cahwnet.gov/Forms/English/AD904A.PDF, for adult adoptees, adult siblings, and adult step-siblings.
Form AD 904 B, available at http://www.dss.cahwnet.gov/Forms/English/ad904b.pdf, for minor adoptees, minor siblings, and minor step-siblings.
 Each form requires you to enter some identifying information, such as your name, address, and any other names you have used. Your signature must be witnessed by a notary public, CDSS representative, or a licensed adoption agency representative. For this reason, do not sign your form right away.
 For Forms 904 A and B, a sibling must attach a copy of his or her birth certificate. Step-siblings must attach a copy of a birth certificate and either a copy of a marriage certificate or a divorce decree for the marriage between his or her birth parent and step-parent.
 Before you sign, take your form to a CDSS representative, a licensed representative of the adoption agency that handled the adoption, or a notary public. A CDSS or adoption agency representative will complete Part B of the form. If you take your form to a notary public, he or she will complete Part D.


If you are able to deliver the form in person to the adoption agency or a CDSS office, you can have your signature witnessed at the same time you submit the form. If you need to mail the form, you should have it notarized instead.
If you are a minor completing Form 904 B, you will need to have your parent or legal guardian sign the form in the witness's presence as well.
 To turn in your form, send it to the adoption agency which handled the adoption, if known, or to Central Office: Adoptions Support Unit, Department of Social Services, 744 P Street, M.S. 8-12-31, Sacramento, CA 95814. If necessary, CDSS will return your form to you, with the correct address of the proper adoption agency for you to submit your form. Once your consent form reaches the proper agency, the agency will file the form and alert you if and when another party submits a consent form.