 They will do what's right for you, and they know how to help you. Make a plan, take a deep breath, and talk to your doctor. If you just can't bring yourself to talk, write a letter or an e-mail and be brave and send it.


If you are having suicidal thoughts, get medical help right away. Your pain is not forever, and you deserve help. Call a suicide hotline, type at Crisis Chat, or go to a hospital. Ask a loved one to help you if you're scared. They would much rather accompany you through a crisis than go to your funeral.;
, Plenty of strong and good people need medication in order to function well. You may find that lithium reduces or gets rid of mood swings, and that anti-anxiety medication can help with post-traumatic stress symptoms. Give it a try and see if you become happier and more productive.


Pay attention to any side effects.
It may take several tries to find an effective anti-anxiety medication. This is normal, and nothing is wrong with you. It's brave to keep trying.
Ask family members or close friends if they have noticed an improvement in how you're doing. They may notice things you don't.
 A therapist can help you learn how to react to PTSD triggers, how to stay safe during a bipolar episode, and how to lower stress in your life for better long-term outcomes. You can learn many practical skills for adjusting well to the world.


Try several different therapists and then choose the one who seems like the best fit for you. If you have insurance, see if your insurance company has recommendations.
 Even if you feel alone now, it may surprise you how many people care about you and want to help. Explain that you're going through a tough time, and ask them to help—by hanging out with you, by accompanying you to doctor visits, or just listening to you vent. A support network can help you, and you don't need to face this alone.
 You may seek a spouse, a parent, a relative, or a close friend. Choose a resilient person who loves you very much and is ready to ride out everything with you—the good days and the bad. Ask if they can be your go-to person when you're having an emotional crisis. Their support may make a world of difference.


Ideally this would be a person who is not going through many issues of their own.
Remember, you are not selfish or weak for leaning on others.
 Try rating your mood from 1-10 (1 being unbearable sadness, 5 being neutral, 10 being uncontrollable mania) and inputting it into a graphing program. This can help you notice trends and see if you're getting into a bad zone.
 What techniques worked for them? How did they feel, and how did they react to those feelings? You can get practical advice, but also emotional support, and you can feel less alone.
 Fight sadness by doing things that are important to you—playing with your siblings or kids, volunteering, helping people or a cause that matters to you, and using your skills to make the world a better place.


Be careful not to overwork yourself. You need energy for managing your illness!
Try volunteering online, such as by writing and editing for wikiHow. This involves minimal commitment and no travel.
 Read about relaxation techniques such as breathing exercises, visualization, EMDR, and more. Also try warm baths, reading, snuggling, hobbies, and plenty of time with loved ones. Figure out what works for you so you can reduce stress in your life. Your mental health comes first.

