,


The school districts collaborate with the colleges but do not set the requirements. They are decided by the state education agency in coordination with the state teacher colleges.
During the usual alternative certification, you will not do practice teaching because you will already be working as a full-time teacher (you will avoid the traditional, college undergraduate teacher training program that would have been required while the student was a junior and senior in the traditional collegiate training).
In some states, for example in Texas, there are state credentialed teacher training companies that are setup under state law as organizations to recruit and prepare already degreed persons to receive alternative certification, without going back to college. The candidate must pass state required general and subject-area (content) teacher tests. Every time you pass a content test it makes you Highly Qualified (HQ) in that subject-area. This is an important step in qualifications for getting hired and certified. There are options, for the candidate, for the required training from the company "online" or a combination of "face to face and online". The initial cost in the program is a small down payment to the training company, then after being hired by a school district and working as a teacher you must pay the balance on an installment plan.One option is for one year training while teaching full-time. Then the candidate receives a state probationary certificate in that program, and the company will provide training for additional cost after being hired by a school district and working as a teacher. You may pay the balance on an installment plan.
A second option is "Clinical Training", where the candidate can get certified in one semester by doing student teaching in the program.


Vocational education teachers do not need much or perhaps need no college coursework or only a state certificate in the craft or skill for teaching technical crafts and trade class subjects in general -- but they would be licensed and certified in their field of crafts and skills such as in the building trades and automobile mechanics and other similar areas and courses of training, work and study.
 When there is a vacancy for availability to be hired -- then you would be asked to schedule for an interview to be hired.
 There may be several candidates, and the interviews may be crucial in your being the one chosen/accepted by the principal of the school and hired.


Dress and behave professionally; be pleasant and calm.
You will be asked on the application and during interviews:

Why do you want to be a teacher.
What are your long term career goals.
How will you handle classroom discipline, and similar questions.


Be ready to explain your system of classroom management with consistent teaching practices, "firm but fair discipline (treating everyone as equals, but as individuals where applicable)", such as: a "progressive discipline" process -- first post and explain 5 or 6 rules; then for instance speak to an offender (and make a record ), next-time schedule a before or after school detention for 5 or 10 minutes in your room , next make a phone call home. Only plan to send a student to the principal/or assistant principal, if you can not reasonably handle the difficulty, but never letting it get out of hand (very rarely a student might need to be escorted from your room by office personnel, or a hall monitor).
,,,,


You might in some cases be allowed to try again on a probationary basis to pass the test by a certain date while teaching, or reassigned until your pass the test, if the local district needs or wants to keep you.



To be eligible for consideration for such teaching you would be required at least the minimum grade average and number of college credit hours, for example: some states require at least being classified as a senior in good standing with a GPA (grade point average) on a 4 point scale "C+" (2.5), or "B-" (between 2.5 and 3.0) average in college, and possibly require a "B" (3.0) average in your teaching field subject such as math or science.;
,


A teaching field may be similar to taking a minor in a subject: some states require 18 or 24 approved college hours including 12 advanced level credit hours to be completed to become "permanently/or provisionally" certified.
While your degree may be earned in any valid degree subject, and most degree subjects are potentially teaching fields, yet some may not be taught in the schools, yet you may still be hired for teaching a needed subject, if you possess the minimum qualifications.
Teaching fields become classified as "needed" teaching fields as determined by the school district -- depending on their needs and state law.

