 Perhaps the primary benefit of forming an LLC is the financial protection it affords the owner of the business. An LLC means that the owner is not liable for a business’s debts, or any judgements against it. It gives the business owner protection while not making it necessary to incorporate the business, as well as offering some tax advantages.The “owners” of an LLC are known as “members.”
In an LLC, all profits and losses are “passed through” the business to each member, who then report the profits and losses on their individual tax returns.
This means that the LLC is not taxed as a separate business entity.;
, The first step of forming an LLC is choosing a name for your business. You have to follow a few basic rules when you choose the name: It must be different from all existing LLCs in the state; it must clearly indicate that it is an LLC; you should avoid certain words which are restricted, such as “bank” and “insurance.”To use these words will require further paperwork. You cannot in any circumstances use words that might confuse your LLC with a federal or state agency.You can search the Arkansas Secretary of State website to see what names are not available: http://www.sos.arkansas.gov/corps/search_all.php

Try to get a name which will look good and work with any marketing strategies you have.
Be sure to check online to see if the relevant URL is available and find out what comes up when you search for it.
Claim your social media presence early on, as soon as you have decided on a name., To form an LLC in Arkansas you will need to nominate a registered agent to officially receive and send papers, including the annual state filings. The agent must be a resident of Arkansas, or a corporation that is authorized to do business in the state. You can choose somebody from within your business, and you can choose to be the registered agent yourself.You can hire someone to act as your registered agent if you want somebody else to handle the sending and receiving of legal documents.
Some registered agents can provide additional services including compliance management, filing annual reports, and other document management services., If you are forming a domestic LLC in Arkansas, you will need to file some paperwork known as the Articles of Organization. You can do this online, or through the mail. If you elect to do it online, you can fill in the form on the screen and it will be sent to the Secretary of State when you have completed all the fields. Access the online application here: https://www.ark.org/sos/corpfilings/index.php?form_id=13.


If you prefer to fill out a hard copy and mail it in, you can download the PDF of the form here: http://www.sos.arkansas.gov/BCS/Documents/Corporations/LL-01.pdf.
The form is only two pages long, and requires the name of your company, the principal business address, and name and address of the registered agent.
There is a filing fee of $50 payable to the Secretary of State., Once you have filed your papers to form the LLC, there are a number of further actions you can take to strengthen your business. Although it is not required for an LLC, it is good practice to create an operating agreement. This is a legal document that details your LLC’s ownership and operating procedures.A good operating agreement will help you to develop and maintain strong and structured financial and working relationships with your co-owners (or members).An operating agreement will often include percentages of interests, the allocation of profits and losses, and the rights and responsibilities of each person.You can access sample operating agreements online., Turning your business into an LLC makes it into a separate entity, so it is important to open up a separate business bank account for your company. A business account will keep your company legally distinct from any individual people, ensuring you are protected from liabilities and maintaining the LLC structure.


Having a separate account will also make it easier to calculate and pay all the necessary business taxes.
Keeping a business account will also you help you appear more professional and organised.If you do not take proper steps to maintain your business's distinct identity, a court may make you liable for the business., As your business is becoming an LLC, you will need to obtain an EIN, which is the equivalent of your business’s social security number. You will need an EIN to open a bank account for your business, to hire employees, and for federal and state tax purposes.You can get an EIN for free from the IRS after you have formed the business.
You can apply for an EIN online here: https://sa.www4.irs.gov/modiein/individual.jsp.
You can also print and complete the form, and then mail it in. You can download the documents and instructions from the IRS website here: https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/fss4.pdf.
 Depending on the size and nature of your business, you will also be required to register for all applicable state and federal taxes. If you have any employees you will need to register for state tax. You will also need to register if you are selling physical products that require sales tax in your state.In Arkansas, LLCs may be taxed by the IRS as corporations or partnerships, depending on their structure.
LLCs have to file annual franchise tax reports with the Arkansas Secretary of State.
LLCs also have to file information returns with the IRS and the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration., Once you have registered your business, you need to ensure that you have obtained all the required regulatory clearances. You must comply with federal, state and local government regulations, but these will vary from business to business. For example, a restaurant will need all the food safety and hygiene certification.You can use the US Small Business Association’s online tool to determine which licences and permits your business requiresYou can also contact your local Chamber of Commerce to ask for guidance on the regulations you must adhere to.
Be sure to look up both state regulations and federal regulations.