 For health and safety reasons don't give out any personal information unless you 100% sure. Don't send pictures of yourself unless you TRULY know the person. Call them to see if their voice is right, because it could be an impersonation.;
, There are some people who will use fake pictures and even create a whole identity pretending to be that person. One of the easy ways to spot this is if the person has very few pictures of themselves. The more difficult fake profiles to spot are the people who will actually use pictures of friends they know or pictures they find off the internet. Don't assume that just because the person has pictures of a night out with their friends or family that it is 100 percent that person. Until you see them on webcam at the very least, there is always that chance you could be misled.
 Let them know that you're thinking of them at random times. Be wary of giving out any information to the person that they can use to find you before you both decide to meet up in person. Texting allows you to keep communication open with the person while at the same time you're letting them know that you're not just sitting at home waiting for them to go on Facebook or MSN during your every spare minute. Have fun with the texting, send each other pictures of yourselves.
, Even if its online you will be able to flirt but not to the full capacity as you would in real life.
 People use Facebook for different reasons. Ask the person if they mind if you write flirty messages on their wall. Some people have co-workers or family members that may not be so understanding to read about how much you love hearing how their voice gets 'breathless' when you chat on the telephone for example.
 This could make it easier to help make your decision and get to know the him features like laugh, smile and voice.
 For example make your messages be more emotional, or show him/her that your interested in them.
, You don't want to waste your time getting romantic feelings for someone who never plans on meeting you in person at a later date because you both live too far apart.
 If you're not able to use something like Skype or MSN and you want to do it on Facebook, try inbox a message that will show that you really care and love for him/her. Or you can do this on the chat but you will need to build the conversation up before asking them out because this can be make you look weird and it can possibly make it awkward.
 Remember, you don't want to feel like you're dating someone you've never even met.

