 Depending on the severity of your complaint, HR might appoint an investigator to gather more information. You may need to sit down for an interview. Also provide supporting documentation promptly.

Although you may be told that the interview is confidential, you should expect many other people in the organization to know what you have written.
You may be disappointed with the resolution HR reaches. For example, don’t be surprised if management is let off the hook with only a slap on the wrist., Human Resources might have a mediation program you can use to resolve disputes. In mediation, you and the person you are having problems with will meet with the mediator, who is a neutral third party. The mediator isn’t a judge. However, they can help each side talk and listen to each other.The purpose of mediation is to resolve the dispute voluntarily so that each side can walk away feeling good.
If the harassment has been severe, you shouldn’t feel compelled to mediate a dispute with your employer. Instead, you should find an attorney and discuss next steps.
Your employer might offer “conciliation,” which is like mediation. However, the conciliator is more involved in decision-making than a mediator, who lets the parties decide a proper resolution.
 The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) investigates claims of workplace harassment. You can file a complaint (“charge”) with them. You may also complain to a state agency that investigates harassment.

Avoid delay. You have 180 days from the date of the harassment to file a discrimination charge with the EEOC.Your state agency may give you more time.
Generally, federal EEOC law cover most employers. But some smaller employers might only be covered by state law. If your employer has 15 or fewer employees, you may need to complain to your state agency. Use the Assessment System at the EEOC website to check whether you should direct your complaint to a state agency: https://egov.eeoc.gov/eas/.
 You need expert assistance to protect your rights. A lawyer can help you if your employer retaliates against you, continues to harass you, or refuses to pay owed wages. Contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral. Visit the American Bar Association to find your nearest bar association: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/abagroups/divisionforbarservices/barassociationdirectories/statelocalbarassociations.aspx.

Ask for an employment lawyer. When you call to set up a consultation, ask how much the lawyer charges.

Prepare for your consultation by gathering helpful documents, such as a copy of your complaint letter to HR.
At the consultation, you will discuss whether you have a legal case. Not all harassing conduct rises to the level of legal harassment. For example, one off-color joke probably doesn’t qualify.

