 The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) offers a number of programs to assist single mothers in finding adequate, low-cost housing. You can access these programs and other resources on the HUD website. Start here if you're a single mother trying to find government help., On the HUD site, you'll find a link for privately-owned, subsidized housing. Once you click on this link, the process for finding low-rent housing is simple.


Choose what state you live in.
Enter your city, county, or zip code.
Specify the type of apartment and number of bedrooms you want.
You'll then get a list of government-subsidized apartments in or near your area.
 The HUD site will also link you to publicly-funded housing in your area. After clicking on this link, you can find public housing close to you.Click on your state on the map.
Scroll down the list to find your town or city.
When you find your town, you'll see phone numbers of public housing programs in your area. Use these to contact programs and find affordable housing.
 In addition to federally-funded housing, the HUD site will also link you to programs your state and local governments may offer. If you can't find a federal program to take care of your housing needs, you can try your local governments.Click this link to find a list of the states.
Click on your state and you'll be brought to the HUD page for your state.
On the state HUD page, there will be options for what you're looking for. The two links that will probably be most helpful for you are "Get Rental Help" and "Subsidized Apartment Search."

, Since housing assistance is often managed by the states, the process may be slightly different depending on which state you live in. However, most housing-assistance programs will require certain information, including the following.The name and date of birth of everyone who will occupy the dwelling, as well as their relationship to you.
You'll need a current address and telephone number so housing offices can contact you.
You'll have to answer certain financial questions, since government-funded housing often has a maximum income for eligible occupants. You also may have to provide employer and bank contact information so the housing administrator can verify your income.
Contact information for past landlords.

