 Special events and dates, such as anniversaries and holidays, can be very difficult and emotional if you are separated from your family either by distance or emotion. To keep yourself in a positive state of mind during these times it may be helpful to take on extra hours at work. Or, maintain a full schedule of social activities. Being busy will remind you that you are a productive person with a good life.If your coworkers or friends learn that you will be alone over the holidays, they might invite you to spend the time with their family. Carefully consider your emotions before you accept this offer as it may trigger negative feelings for you, such as jealousy.
If you live with your family, you might arrange to spend part of the holiday at a friend’s house enjoying their celebration. Make these plans well in advance and, if getting to your friend requires a bit of travelling and you can afford to do that, even better.
 Whenever you are dealing with personal conflicts certain days will be better than others. Try to assess your state-of-mind on a weekly, not daily, basis. Don’t beat yourself up if you feel down one day. Honor your sadness that day by journaling about it, allowing yourself to cry, or talking to a trusted friend. This is a part of the healing process. Then, try to find a way to make the next day extra special. Go to your favorite restaurant, for example.


It may also be helpful to tell your friends if/when you have a bad day. They may spring into action to lift you out of your funk and provide a positive distraction. Make sure to return this favor when you have the opportunity to do so.
If you are in school, keep a close eye on your participation grades (and grades in general) during bad periods with your family. If you have a tendency to focus on yourself and get quieter, make a point to speak up and get those points.
 If you’ve been surrounded by dysfunction and negativity for your entire life, you may need to take a bit of time to observe and understand positive and supportive ways of treating people. Pick up some reading material on healthy interpersonal relationships. Be patient with yourself and expect to make a few errors on your way.


For example, you may want to figure out when it is appropriate to say, “thank you,” for something and how to best express that sentiment. Do you write out a full card or simply send a brief test message? You will need to experiment to find out what is comfortable for you.
 If you are a young adult, look around you to find other people who you can respect and follow. They can be someone who you already spend a lot of time around, such as a teacher. Or, they can be a person who you do not know personally, such as a professional athlete.


Try to learn more about your role model, including why they make particular decisions. For example, if your favorite football player is always volunteering you may want to follow that model.
 When you first wake up each morning, whisper a simple, positive phrase to yourself. You might say, "Today is going to be a good day.” Or, “You will do great today!” Just keep it memorable and mix it up when the phrase loses its punch or effectiveness.You can also take a moment and visualize your day going really well.


At the end of the day, you are your own best cheerleader. Figure out a way to keep yourself on the positive track, whether it be through repeating mantras or practicing deep breathing.
Journaling positive affirmations and reviewing these can be helpful, as well as keeping positive phrases posted in a place you see often, such as on your mirror or computer monitor.
 You can’t control the past, but you can shape your future. Sit down and make a list of immediate and distant goals for your personal and professional life. Post this list somewhere visible, like on the wall in your room, and celebrate each time that a line is marked off.


A personal goal might be to hit the gym at least three times a week. Or, perhaps you want to watch one movie each week and revel in your downtime.
Break your goals down into steps that are small and achievable so that they are more likely to happen. This will reinforce your progress and keep you motivated.

