 There are many things that can cause or trigger narcolepsy. If you can identify the underlying problem, you may be able to more effectively manage your symptoms.

For many people, narcolepsy is caused by a lack of hypocretin (orexin) in the body. This could be caused by a genetic problem or by an autoimmune response, wherein the body attacks the parts of the body where hypocretin is produced. You may be able to boost hypocretin/orexin in your body.
Narcolepsy is occasionally caused by an infection (such as swine flu), brain condition (such as brain cancer or encephalitis), or a head injury. In these cases, you will also need to treat the underlying condition.;
, As there is no exact cure for narcolepsy, doctors recommend patients ease symptoms of fatigue by better managing their sleep schedules. Try to develop solid sleeping habits to help minimize the excessive daytime sleepiness and sudden muscle collapse (cataplexy) associated with narcolepsy.


Stick to a regular sleep schedule. Try to get up and fall asleep around the same time each day, including weekends. Your body's circadian rhythm may start to adapt to the schedule you've set and you'll eventually start to feel tired naturally around the same time each night and may wake up with less fatigue in the morning.Practice some kind of relaxing bedtime ritual each night. Pick low key activities, like reading or taking a warm bath, that will calm your mind and body in preparation for sleep. Avoid activities like watching television or using electronics, however, as the blue light from screens has a stimulating effect that can keep you awake.You may benefit from wearing amber-colored glasses at night. These may be able to block out the disruptive blue light from screens.You can download an app on your phone that will help you track your sleep quality. Some may even provide exercises to help improve your sleep., While napping is generally not advised for coping with sleep problems, people with narcolepsy tend to benefit from daily naps. Scheduled, brief naps throughout the day can help manage the fatigue associated with narcolepsy.


Schedule 20 minute naps throughout the day, focusing on the times you're most likely to feel tired. If you tend to have flare ups mid-afternoon, for example, try to fit in a short nap around this time.While 20 minute naps work for most people, you may need to sleep more or less depending on your symptoms. You might have to experiment with sleeping in different intervals for awhile until you find a routine that works for you.Keep track of your naps in a journal or with a sleep-tracking app. Make sure to record when you fell asleep, how long you slept, the quality of the sleep, and how you felt before and after. This can help you create an effective nap schedule.
 Having a good environment in your bedroom can help promote restful sleep. Making certain alterations to your bedroom can help with your sleep.]


Make sure your mattress and pillows are supportive and comfortable. If you consistently wake up with a sore neck or sore back you may need to replace your pillow or mattress. Make sure linens, comforters, and other bed supplies are free of allergens that might disrupt sleep.Try to separate your waking life from your sleeping life. Laptops, televisions, and phones should be kept out of the bedroom area.If you live in a noisy area, consider putting a white noise machine in your room to drown out unwanted sounds.Make sure your room is cool. The ideal temperature for sleep is between 60 and 67 degrees Fahrenheit. If your room is usually warmer than this, consider lowering the temperature in your room or turning on a fan. If you do not have an air conditioner, you may want to consider installing one.If too much light is coming in from outside your window, you may want to install blackout curtains. These are useful if there are street lights outside or if you live in a northern locale with long days in the summer.

