 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit or 180 degrees Celsius. Place paper cases in a cupcake tray or spray it with non-stick greasing spray.
 Using a hand or electric blender, cream the butter and sugar until smooth and fluffy in a large bowl. Gradually crack in the eggs and blend again until well-combined., In a medium-sized bowl, sift the flour, cocoa powder, salt, and baking powder. Sift until the dry ingredients are light and fluffy., Pour the dry ingredients with the wet ingredients and blend on slow speed. Mix until blended properly and there are no more flour streaks. Add the milk to make the batter smoother. Blend again until the batter is glossy and resembles a chocolate brown color., Using a cutting knife, slice the strawberries into bits and add them into the cupcake batter. Use a rubber spatula to incorporate the strawberries., Using a mini ice cream scoop, scoop the cupcake batter into the cases of the cupcake tray. Avoid over-filling each case or the cupcakes will spill out while baking., Place the cupcakes in the oven to bake for about 15-18 minutes, until the edges are slightly brown and the cupcakes rise. To test if a cupcake is ready, poke a toothpick in the center of one of the cupcakes. If it comes out dry, they are ready to be removed, but if it doesn't, place them back in the oven for an additional 5 minutes., Remove the cupcakes from the oven and have them cool for about five minutes before you frost or decorate them. If you decorate them while they are still hot, the frosting and toppings could melt off the cupcake., Cut a small hole in each cupcake and fill it in with strawberry jam. Avoid adding too much - about a teaspoon is enough of jam. Do this to all the cupcakes., You can use either strawberry or chocolate frosting. Fill a frosting pipe with the frosting and frost each cupcake. You want to be able to cover the holes you cut when inserting the strawberry jam., If desired, sprinkle chocolate chips or chopped strawberries on top of the cupcakes. Get a cupcake and serve on a serving dish.,