 Before you begin CPR, you should check the baby's mouth to see if the object they were choking on has become dislodged. Lie the baby on their back, on a firm, flat surface.


Use your hand to open the baby's mouth and look inside. If you see something, remove it using your baby finger.
Even if you can't see anything, proceed to the next step.
 You can do this by using one hand to tilt the baby's head back slightly and the other to lift their chin. Don't tilt their head back too far, it takes very little to open a small baby's airway., Before proceeding with CPR, you should check to ensure the baby is not breathing. You can do this by placing your cheek very close to the baby's mouth, looking towards their body.If they are breathing, you should be able to see their chest rising and falling slightly.
In addition, you may be able to hear breathing noises and feel their breath on your cheek.
 Once you have confirmed that the baby is not breathing, you can begin CPR. Begin by covering their mouth and nose with your own mouth and blow two small rescue breaths gently into their lungs.


Each breath should last for about a second and you should see the baby's chest rise as the air goes in. Pause between breaths to allow the air to escape.Remember that a baby's lungs are very small, so you shouldn't blow too much air or blow too forcefully.
 Once you have performed the rescue breaths, leave the baby lying on her back and use the same technique you used earlier for the chest thrusts - that is, using two or three fingers to firmly compress the baby's chest by about 1 1⁄2 inches (3.8 cm).Press straight down on the baby's breastbone, in the center of the baby's chest, slightly below the nipples.
The chest compressions should be performed at a rate of 100 compressions per minute. This means that you should be able to get through the thirty recommended compressions, in addition to the two rescue breaths, in approximately 24 seconds., Repeat this cycle of two rescue breaths, followed by thirty chest compressions, until the baby starts breathing again and regains consciousness or until emergency services arrive.Even if the baby starts breathing again, they will need to be examined by a healthcare professional to ensure that they have sustained no further injuries.

