 What is the problem or issue and why is it bothering you? Try to figure out the core problem of the situation. What is bothering you? Sometimes it is not quite easy to figure this out. It may take hours, days, weeks, or even months in some cases depending on the issue and the relationship with the person you have. But that is why it is important to retrace your steps. What was the initial point that hurt or irritated you? What offended you? It is important to know the exact problem and matter that ignites the emotions of distress, anger, or sadness or combination of all three emotions. The disagreement that you had with someone and why you had it is important for your own knowledge and understanding as well.;
, See the matter from the other person's perspective. Try to see their point of view, be open-minded about their opinions or criticism. Were you really right or wrong? It’s easy for a person’s ego to feel wounded after being told they are wrong about something. It is also easy for a person to be only concerned as to what the other person did or said to them. You have to clarify what you said and did to the person as well. You have to slice through the issue in a logical and strategic manner to fully see why you are still thinking of the issue. If you still feel the same as you did before, you know for a fact that you must resolve the matter, especially if you don’t know why you have an issue with the person, or why the person has an issue with you.
 All the things you want to say good and bad, anything you felt or did not feel, immediately write it down. Vent if you have to. Let it all out, the emotions, the anxiety, and the frustration. Let yourself feel. Don’t restraint yourself or numb yourself. Feel the hate for the person if you have to. Collect all the memories you had with the person, both good and bad. Think of the good things they did for you too, as you don’t want to make it worse when you confront them. You want to confront the person in a civil manner. You want to be able to talk it out without resorting to yelling, fighting, or cursing. But this exercise is to help you release the constraint of the person’s impact on you. Don’t let that person’s opinion control your thoughts or influence your daily routine. Instead just use a moment or a day in collecting your thoughts. Finally, create a sound and simple decision in confronting the person.
 Don’t wait and don’t beat around the bush. Simply discuss the exact matter or situation. Think of yourself as a judge and how a judge has to be unbiased and get through many legal and illegal matters as a job. A judge will try to contemplate who is right or wrong and what the proper form of justice for each individual is. Be straightforward. “You said this or did this. I feel this or think this.” Be honest with yourself and tell the person to be honest with you. Be civil and don’t let your emotions get in the way of the confrontation. As soon as you confront the person you will feel an instant relief in your chest, in your mind, and in your soul. You can finally breathe and stop holding your breath. After the confrontation the only outcomes left are either:


a.) The person will discuss the matter and therefore resolve the issue.  For example: They will talk it out and willing to reconcile. No hard feelings, you will say sorry to each other and all is well in the world again.
b.) The person will discuss the matter and not resolve the issue. For example: They will talk it out with you. But they won’t want to associate with you anymore. They would want to remain distanced and have no interest in keeping in touch and don’t say sorry to you.
c.) The person will refuse to discuss the matter but is willing to resolve the issue. For example: They will not want to talk about it or discuss any of the issues you both had. But they are willing to let it go and move on from it. They will accept the issue as it was not trying to change anything about it.
d.) The person will refuse to discuss the matter and also refuse to resolve the issue. For example: They will not want to talk it out with you, or discuss it, and they don’t want to associate with you or resolve the matter. Basically you are back at where you left off. It is like visiting the past again. No means no and they are strict or holding a grudge about the matter. They want nothing to do with you.
e.) The person still stands by on their beliefs but is willing to resolve the issue by respecting your opinions and differences. For example: They will have more information and opinions on the issue and add more thoughts on the matter, and more thoroughly elaborate their beliefs. They will also give you the chance to state your opinions and beliefs of the matter. They will understand the different point of view and appreciate your perspective. They are willing to move past the issue and want to move on from the matter. There won’t be an apology but they will want to associate with you.
f.) The person will add on to the issue and not resolve, creating more issues than what you started with. For example: They will create a new issue and they will try to argue or fight. They will complain and be stubborn or hold a grudge on you. The person may apologize or may not. At that point, you should proceed to step 5.
 Apologize anyway no matter what the circumstance may be. Make amends on your part. Don’t think about your ego or pride. Don’t feel that you are being weak. In cases that you may not even remember the issue or conflict or to feel frustrated over something from the past is silly to you, you just want to move on and have a clean slate with the other person. Apologize to the person even if you weren’t wrong. As the infamous song from the movie Frozen goes: “Let it go! Let it go!”                  


Do what you have to do on your part in reconciling the issue with the person. If, even after you apologize, the person refuses to budge or to compromise or to resolve the matter, you did all you could. Don’t waste more time or effort and don’t lose your own dignity or self respect.
 That person is probably not worth being in your life if they cannot let the past be the past and move on. People like that are not healthy to have around and will only pull you down with them. 


You cannot please everyone and if you had to think about every single instance that might make the other person uncomfortable then you may never be able to move on from the matter.
Realize that the concern is usually about the jeopardizing of a relationship, it could be a job, a friend, again a family member. But to be honest with oneself is much more important than to have a fake bond with a friend or family member. To stay quiet only will create bitterness or resentment towards the person you had conflict with. The aftermath of what happens with you and that person is the real result of where that person lies in your life. If that person really cares about you, they will be willing to resolve the matter.
 Their reaction will tell you whether the person is worth the trouble of keeping in your circle of friends, or whether to keep trying to get closer to a sibling, or a parent, or trying to prove to a coworker or boss that you’re ambitious. You can put a stop to the efforts and thoughts you put into the relationship once you confront the person. You will be able to decide if you want that person in your life or not. The most important fact is that you can put a stop on the constraints in your life.

