 The type of fondue pot you need will be determined by the type of fondue you are preparing. The right fuel is determined by this, as well.


A cheese fondue pot will have a wide mouth and space for alcohol or gel fuel.
Dessert fondue pots are smaller and shallower than cheese fondue pots, and they only have space for a tea light candle instead of fuel.
Broth and oil fondue pots have a smaller mouth and are made with steel or copper. They are heated with alcohol or gel fuel.;
,


Make sure that the alcohol burner is completely cool before filling it.
Never overfill the burner.
Remove the burner and take it to a kitchen counter or kitchen sink. Carefully pour the alcohol into the burner, stopping once you see the liquid approaching the holes or mesh along the sides.
Wipe off any fuel that may have spilled onto the outside of the burner and place it, unlit, below the fondue pot.
Strike a match and bring it to the air holes in the burner. Make sure all the air holes are completely open, and put out and discard the match once the fuel lights up.
 You must still exercise caution when lighting a gel burner, but is less likely to spill than liquid alcohol, so it can be a little easier to stay safe with it.


Remove the metal mesh canister usually used for fuel and insert a gel cartridge into the remaining metal casing. Replace the top of the burner when done.
If using pourable gel instead of a cartridge, you should still remove the mesh fuel canister. Pour the gel into the bottom of the burner and replace the top.
Open the air holes and bring a lit match to them. When the fuel catches fire, put out the match and discard it.
 Most dessert fondues require very little heat to keep the fondue in a liquid state, so a small tealight is the only source of fuel you need.


Melt the ingredients in a double boiler on your stove before transferring it to your fondue pot.
Place an unscented tealight candle below the fondue pot and light it with a match or lighter. Put the match out and discard it when done.

