 When you don’t like someone you work with, you might be forced to interact with them more than you like; however, whenever you have an ability to influence your situation, try to avoid working directly with them. This might be an active choice that you are able to make or a request you may have to put forward in order to create a better working situation for yourself.If you get to choose what projects you work on at work or what groups you are in at school, actively choose an option that doesn’t involve the person you don’t like.
If you are placed on a team with someone you dislike, you might consider respectfully asking your boss to move you to another team. But make sure you keep the focus on your work/productivity, not just on your personal feelings. Try saying something like, “I think I could be much more productive if you would consider placing me on a team with Sam instead. We have already proven to be an effective team when working together.”;
, While it is true that socially you aren’t obligated to have long conversations with anyone you don’t want to, sometimes this isn’t the case at work or school. You may be required to interact with people you don’t like in a professional setting.In cases like these, keep conversations as brief as possible. Don’t engage in small talk or ask questions about the person’s personal life.
To end a conversation gracefully, have an exit line ready. Try saying, “I’ve got a lot of work to do, so I don’t have time to talk right now.”
When possible, choose to correspond via email or over the phone rather than face-to-face.
 One way to avoid people you don’t like is by being proactive about knowing where that person will be at certain times. Figure out what their schedule is and adjust yours so that you will cross paths as little as possible.Before you start rearranging your life to avoid someone, take some time to evaluate what is important to you. Is it worth it to rearrange your schedule just to avoid this person? If you cherish every last second of sleep in the morning, ask yourself if it's worth sacrificing that time to go in early just to avoid someone annoying. Think about if there is a respectful way you can assertively deal with the person that doesn't require you to alter your entire schedule.
Start coming in to work a little early so you can finish your day a little bit earlier if it will help you avoid them.
Try to find out what classes they are taking and choose different classes.
 If you are encountering someone you don’t like during activities at school, you might want to try some different activities so that you can avoid this person without causing a scene. This is a respectful way to remove yourself from the situation without making it obvious that you dislike the person.


This may be a good idea if you are already looking to branch out and try other things, but before you stop your activity, you need to consider what you are giving up to avoid this person. Are you willing to sacrifice a hobby or activity you really enjoy? If you start avoiding all the things that you enjoy in life to get away from a temporary discomfort/dislike, you may end up creating a life that is unfulfilling. Carefully consider what is worth giving up just to avoid this person. Consider taking a more assertive approach rather than avoidance.
If you are in the same yoga class and you want to avoid the person, try going to Pilates instead. If you both go to the same trivia night at the local bar, try trivia night at a different spot. If you are both rushing for the same sorority or fraternity, consider joining a different one.
 One reason you keep encountering a person you dislike could be because you hang out with the same people. If this is the case, consider expanding your social circle to include new people so that you at least have an outlet away from the person that you don’t like.


If you are in the same study group, try to expand your social circle and find a new study group to join.

