 If this is a relatively new habit, start by thinking harder about when you're about to bite. Figure out what feelings lead to the impulse. By being more aware of what you're doing, you might be able to catch yourself before you bite. Next time you raise your finger to your mouth, stop and think.


Ask yourself what you're feeling in the moment you raise your finger to your mouth. In most cases you'll feel anxious or bored. Other signs of anxiety include shallow breathing, a faster heartbeat, and sweating.
Next time you have that same bored, nervous, or anxious feeling, you'll consciously realize what's going on. You can put down your finger before you bite.;
, If you're having trouble catching yourself before you bite, try using bandages on your fingertips. Wrap an adhesive bandage around each fingertip to completely cover it. Wear the bandages throughout the day so that each time you bite, you get a mouthful of bandage,( yuck!),
For a more discreet option, try using clear tape. You could also cover just the fingertips you tend to bite most often.
You could also wear gloves to cover your fingers.
 This works for nail biters and finger biters alike. Get a bitter tasting nail polish, also called a "nibble inhibitor." Paint your nails with the product. Use a generous amount and allow it to cover the skin around your nails as well. When you put your fingers in your mouth, the bad taste will repel you.You could also try a different bitter substance, like vinegar or lemon juice.
Or rub your fingertips with a mixture of coconut oil and cayenne pepper. Just be very careful not to touch your eyes.
 If your fingers and mouth are otherwise occupied, you won't be able to pursue your habit. Keeping your fingers and mouth busy is also called the "competing response technique." After using it for a few weeks, your impulse to bite your fingers should go away.To keep your mouth busy, chew gum, eat breath mints or hard candy, or carry a water bottle that you sip every few minutes.
To keep your fingers occupied, try doodling, knitting, folding your fingers together or sitting on your hands.
 Some biters find it helpful to focus on keeping one finger "safe" at a time. Choose the finger you're most likely to bite. Consciously focus on not biting that finger. You're allowed to bite the others, but that one is safe. After a week or two, you'll see what a difference it makes to leave one finger alone.


Your safe finger will not be swollen, bloody or otherwise damaged. It will look healthy in comparison to the rest.
Seeing this difference can be motivation to stop biting all of your fingers.
One by one, keep more of your fingers "safe" until you're no longer biting any of them.

