 Place the piece of paper stock (80lb to 100lb paper recommended)that will serve as your folder horizontally on the table in front of you. With a ruler, begin at the bottom left-hand corner of the paper and draw a horizontal box that measures 1 1/2" high by 7" long.
 Use a pair of scissors or an Xacto knife to cut out the horizontal box you just measured. Discard this piece of paper.


The longer "flap" of paper that's left on the right-hand side will fold up to become your pocket.
 With your paper back in place in front of you and the cut-out space in the bottom left-hand corner, you'll work from left to right to make your folds. Measure in 2" from the left and create a vertical fold. Measure 5" from that fold (7" from the left-hand edge of the paper) and create a second fold.


Use a paper scorer or folding bone to create sharp folds in your paper.
 Measure up an 1 1/2" from the bottom edge of the long "flap" of paper on the right-hand side and fold to create your pocket. Glue the pocket into place.
 Use your computer and home printer to print out the text of your invitation. The final, cut size of your text should be 4 3/4" wide x 6 3/8" tall.


If you find it easier, you can print "corner guides" around your text box to give you the proper dimensions and help you cut your paper to the proper size.
Use a glue stick to glue the invitation text to the middle panel of your pocketfold.
 Print out the text for the inserts that will sit in the pocket of your invitation and cut them to size. A simple guideline is to make the inserts just a little smaller than the pocket. In this case, make them just under 4" wide and a little less than 6 1/2" tall.


Inserts could include directions and/or a map; if this is a wedding invitation, they could also be a reception card, information about local accommodations or an RSVP card and envelope.
Plan to stagger the height of your inserts. You can go with what looks good to your eye or standardize the height of your inserts, perhaps making each one 1 1/2" shorter the one behind it in the pocket.

Whatever you decide about the height of your inserts, be sure to give each one a title that'll show when the invitation is open. Place the copy for each insert so that it falls below the edge of the insert that gets layer on top of it. In that way, the overall look of the invitation won't be cluttered, and readers can simply pull each insert out of the pocket in order to read the information.
 Place the inserts in the pocket; the tallest goes in first and each progressively shorter insert is placed in until the pocket is full.
 Fold the right-hand pocket side of your invitation closed and then fold the left-hand flap over. Tie a piece of decorative ribbon around the invite to hold it closed.

