 Hold the camera level with your face and take the picture straight-on. Have a partner take your picture if your camera isn't conducive to taking self portraits.


Resist the temptation to smile in the picture. You want to be able to figure out your face's shape in its most natural position, and smiling might make it harder to tell.
If you don't have a camera, stand in front of the mirror and use an old lipstick or a dry erase marker to trace the shape of your face. You should trace around your chin, past your ears, and around your hairline.;
, Examine the picture you took, or the outline you drew. What shape does it most closely resemble? Is it round, square, heart-shaped or oval? Everyone's face is different, of course, and you may find that yours doesn't closely match one of the most common shapes. Answer the following questions to help you figure out which one comes closest:


Is your face as wide as it is long? You're probably a square or a circle.
Is your face longer than it is wide? You come closest to an oval.
Is your chin angular and squared off? Most people with square-shaped faces have angular chins.
Does your chin come to a pretty point? Your face may be heart-shaped, especially if you also have a widow's peak.
 Bring out the best in your softer, round features by contrasting them with some edge. Go for sleek lines and tapered ends, and avoid bulky hairstyles.


Consider a medium-length cut with layers that frame your face. Have the styles make your shortest layer fall below your ears. Your longest layer should fall a few inches below your chin.
Longer cuts look great with round faces because they tend to lengthen the features. Consider long wavy layers to contrast the roundness.
Asymmetrical styles can be a bold, beautiful move for people with round faces. Long, layered bangs create edgy angles that offset round features. An angled bob is another great choice.
Consider a pixie cut to bring out your apple cheeks and make your eyes look larger.
 Square faces look beautiful with haircuts that call attention to the strong jaws and bold lines. Alternatively, harsh angles can be softened with cuts designed to bring focus to the eyes and mouth, rather than the face's edges.


A tousled chin-length bob makes the perfect frame for a square jaw, highlighting its angular beauty.
Long curls and waves can offset severe angles.
Long, straight hair provides an interesting contrast to a square face.
Avoid extremely short cuts, which may draw too much attention to the lower portion of the face, making it look larger.
 Oval faces tend to look incredible with a wide range of haircuts. Layers, bangs, curls and waves can help offset longer faces. Keeping an average hair length, rather than a very long or very short one, can also make the face look less long.


Blunt, straight bangs are a pretty choice for oval faces. They bring out the eyes and contrast with a defined chin.
Long, soft waves are a classic look for people with oval faces.
Shoulder-length bobs bring attention to the jawline, bringing out the best in an oval-shaped face.
If you want to go short, try an angled cut with some longer pieces, rather than getting a pixie cut.
 Medium and long-length hair is a good choice for heart-shaped faces; it provides balance to the face by filling in the area around the chin.


Accentuate cheekbones on a heart-shaped face with bangs or layers that end right at the cheeks.
Side-swept bangs bring out the eyes and downplay the forehead of a heart-shaped face.
A pixie cut with bangs can be a wonderful choice for a heart-shaped face, since it highlights the elegant chin and makes the eyes look larger.
 Browse through the thousands of resources available online to look at different people's face shapes and the cuts they chose. When it's time to go to the salon, print out some pictures of your favorite cuts, so the stylist knows what you have in mind.


Kirsten Dunst and Ginnifer Goodwin have round face shapes.
Salma Hayek and Lucy Liu have square face shapes.
Jada Pinkett and Megan Fox have oval face shapes.
Reese Witherspoon and Christina Ricci have heart face shapes.
 Your stylist is very familiar with what cuts look best with what face shapes, so his her or him as a resource. Don't be afraid to ask for advice - just make sure you don't get talked into a cut you don't really want.
 If you adore pixie cuts and simply have to try one even though your face is square, get a pixie cut. If you wear it with confidence and flair it will look good - and if it doesn't, just wait until it grows out and try something else.

