 In the immediate aftermath of your death, people might forget about your cat. In fact, it’s not uncommon for days to pass before someone goes to your home and finds your pets left behind. To prevent this from happening, choose two people who can immediately go to your home if you die or become incapacitated.Give them keys to your home so they can immediately find your cat.
Provide them with a list of feeding instructions, as well as your vet’s name. If your cat takes medicine, provide a list of medicines as well.
Also give your neighbors the names of your emergency caretakers so they can call if necessary.;
, You’ll need someone to take your cat and love them during the remainder of their life. You should find someone who has already met the cat and is good with animals.If this person has cats, make sure your cat gets along with them.


Some people automatically assume their family will take care of their cat.However, you should talk to them first and explain your expectations for your cat’s care. They may be too busy to take care of your cat in the manner you expect.
Always name at least one backup in case the original person changes their mind or otherwise can’t take care of your cat.
If you don’t know anyone who can take your cat, you might be able to name a pet sanctuary or pet retirement home to take care of your cat. Make sure you visit first to check that animals are properly cared for.
 Ideally, you aren’t expecting someone to pay out of their own pocket to take care of your cat. Instead, you should set aside a sum of money to provide for your cat. Look up your cat’s breed online and check their average life expectancy. Then calculate how much you spend each year for your cat, realizing that expenses increase as your cat ages.


Use this website to estimate lifespan: https://www.petcarerx.com/article/the-average-lifespan-of-a-cat-breed-by-breed-chart/1698. For example, an American Shorthair lives until 15-20, whereas a Siberian lives about 11-15 years.
Don’t forget to leave payment for your cat’s guardian. It’s only fair to compensate them for taking care of your cat when you are gone.
You aren’t required to leave money. However, you can expect a better future for your cat if you do.
 You can’t leave your pet anything in your will. However, you can provide that your cat is taken care of by drafting either a pet trust or a pet protection agreement. They are different documents, so analyze your situation to see which is best for you:


You can leave detailed instructions for taking care of your cat in both a pet trust and a pet protection agreement. However, you can also name a “trustee” for a pet trust. This person can check in on the person taking care of your cat.If your caregiver is not following your directions, the trustee can sue them in court. Choose a pet trust if you want this added protection.
Pet trusts are more complicated to draft. Accordingly, it may cost $1,000 or more for a lawyer to draft a pet trust. If you don’t have this money, then a pet protection agreement is ideal. You can create one yourself.
If you are leaving a substantial sum of money, a pet trust is better. The trustee can manage the assets so that they last as long as possible.

