 Only give your number to friends who are trustworthy and unwilling (or unable) to blab. Make sure that no tattle-tale siblings or cousins know what's up. Maintain plausible deniability: never tell anyone where you keep the phone, so that you can deny it if your parents confront you.
 Don't give your parents any reason to be suspicious. If you need to call someone, excuse yourself for a walk, or go to a friend's place if possible. Make up a plausible excuse, and stick with it. This way, if anyone asks, you were at your friend's place playing video games, or hanging out at the park – not making a call. Get a friend to corroborate your stories, to provide better protection. If you play it right, no one should look too closely.


Keep up normal habits. Don't disappear into your room and text/call friends for hours on end when you are at home, or someone will suspect that something is up.
 If your phone rings or vibrates loudly around your parents, you won't able to hide it anymore. Keep it on vibrate, or off, and ensure you take care of it both at school and at home. Make sure that it isn't going to interrupt anything and blow your cover.


Keep in mind that there is no possible situation where you would truly need the cell to ring loudly. Don't tell yourself you will just turn it off again afterwards. At some point, you will very probably forget about that – and then you're in trouble.
 Keep it hidden somewhere that your parents won't look: in a purse or a backpack, or packed into your underwear drawer. Don't leave it laying around your room or your house, or else your parents will be more likely to notice it.


Never charge it overnight or when your parents are at home and you aren't – at least not in easily visible places.
 if you get a call while your phone is off/on vibrate, don't answer it straight away. Wait until you're in a safe place, and be sure that you aren't being watched. When you're sure that you're safe, take out your phone and reply. Keep all conversations quick, and be careful that you aren't spotted. Keep the phone with you at all times, or leave it in a safe place.


Treat the phone like something transient. If anyone sees it, it disappears. Don't have it out texting all the time.

