 If you hear a friend, family member, or acquaintance complain that they have been personally wronged by political events that are remote, listen carefully. 80 percent of future lone wolves are known to take politics personally, and claim that they have been wronged enough that violence would be justified.An example of an irrational claim would be: "Because we have a black president, a white man can't get a job in this country."
This is not to be confused with someone who has been directly affected by a law and is rationally disappointed. For instance, a small business owner who has experienced a tax increase might say "I'm angry that our senator did not fight harder to protect my ability to compete with the big box stores." So long as this complaint is not followed by a threat, there is no sign of terrorist intent in this statement.
 Report any messages on social media, any personal messages, and anything that is said to you that suggests an individual is contemplating violence. This can include suicide threats as well as threats against others. Watch out for anyone espousing the belief that violence is rational or necessary.It is extremely common for a lone wolf to make public announcements when an attack is imminent.
Combinations of political and personal complaints that are followed by veiled threats should be reported immediately.
An example would be: "My girlfriend left me because women these days are too free. They think they can just get an abortion or a divorce whenever they want! I think somebody needs to send a strong message and really put them all back in their place."

, Many lone wolves speak admiringly of white supremacist groups, anti-abortion groups, foreign terrorist groups, or southern segregationist groups., If you know someone in your community has an illegal store of weaponry, report them. If someone you know has assault rifles and other weapons built to kill large groups of people, even if they came by all those weapons legally, keep an eye on them or file a report.Any signs of someone building or assembling explosives should be reported.
 Most lone wolf terrorists are single, unemployed white males with a criminal record. Signs of mental illness are also common, as is isolation from society. Not every lone wolf fits this profile: go on behavior before you go on these traits. However, if you do choose to report a suspicious individual for stockpiling weapons or broadcasting intent, make sure to mention if they fit the profile of a lone wolf terrorist.