 Wet a washcloth with hot or warm water and lay it over the afflicted area. A wet cloth is preferable to directly applying warm water to hardwood or car paint because the cloth traps heat and moisture, rather than simply running off or possibly causing water damage. Leave the spot to soak in the moisture from the cloth.
 Once the bird droppings have softened, treat the spot directly with a wood or car cleaner. If the smooth surface you’re cleaning is vinyl or something similar, an all-purpose cleaner should be fine, or you might even have success with the warm washcloth alone. Spray or blot just enough cleaner onto the spot to cover it; avoid getting excess cleaner on unaffected areas of hardwood or paint.A wash-and-wax cleaner should do the trick on cars. Wash-and-wax solutions are formulated to clean dirt, oil and grime off of cars and leave the topcoat of paint with a freshly-waxed shine.Purchasing special cleaning products is recommended for treating temperamental surfaces, but assuming you don't feel like dropping a lot of money, you can also go the homemade route. A gentle, natural wood polish can be whipped up out of hot water, olive oil and lemon juice, while dish soap diluted with warm water makes a basic but effective solution for cleaning car exteriors., Hardwood and car paint are surfaces that are easily damaged, so only leave the cleaner on the spot for a few moments to give it time to set up. Otherwise, the cleaner made bleed through the spot and stain your hardwood floor, or eat into your top coat of paint. There’s no need for the cleaner to sit for a long period of time on the spot because hard, smooth surfaces are non-porous, and therefore the cleaner won’t have to soak into the material in order to clean it., Take another clean, damp towel and wipe away as much of the bird droppings as you can. Broad, gentle strokes will work best here. Try not to scrub in a back-and-forth motion or apply too much pressure, as this may weaken the surface’s finish. After all remnants of the spot are removed, dry the area by dabbing it with a dry towel.


Microfiber towels are extremely soft and their fibers let them lock in the dirt and water that they soak up, making them ideal for most gentle cleaning jobs.Take special care to dry hardwood floors quickly, as allowing moisture to sit on wood can cause it to warp and splinter.

