 Learning and studying shouldn’t be stressful. Being stressed out can actually make it harder to learn and remember things. Think about the reasons why you’re stressed out and try to resolve those reasons (remove them from your life).For example, if you get stressed out about assignments because you leave them to the last minute to finish, create yourself a study schedule. Build enough time into the study schedule so that you finish your assignments well enough in advance of the due dates to eliminate any of the stress you were feeling.
 If the grades you’re receiving aren’t that great it can be easy to let negativity take over. Bad grades are disappointing, but the mere fact that you’re looking for ways to improve your grades means you’re trying to think positively.Acknowledge to yourself that your grades aren’t that good, but you’re going to do something about it. Start thinking about how you’re going to make things better, rather than concentrating on where you are right now.
 If your grades are lower than you want or are expecting, chances are you’re not doing something you should, or you’re doing something you shouldn’t. The best way you can fix whatever is wrong is to first figure out what is wrong.If you already know what you might be doing wrong — great, you’re on the right track!
If you aren’t sure what you’re doing wrong, take a ‘deep dive’ into your study history and grades. Look for a pattern or a sudden change.
Were your grades always not-so-good, or did they start to decline after a specific time period?
Is there a specific subject or task that you seem to have the most trouble with, or does it seem to be an overall problem?
Are there any reasons, other than school, that might be the cause of your problems? Is there anything else going on in your life that may be impacting your grades?

, Learning may not seem like a physical process, but it can take a physical toll on your body. If your body and your brain are telling you to take a break, then take a break. Restart whatever you were doing once you feel better.If you’re tired and find you can’t concentrate on what you’re learning, take a nap. Taking a 10-45 minute nap can actually improve your ability to learn.