 The program should give you the student’s contact information prior to their arrival. Begin communicating with them before they arrive! The sooner you get to know the student, the better.Ask about any allergies or dietary restrictions they may have so that you can provide appropriate food.
Ask about birthdays and other special events. Celebrating these in your home will help your student feel more at home.
 If you have the space, give your exchange student his or her own room. S/he may feel more comfortable having his or her own space, especially in the beginning as s/he adjusts to her new home.


Exchange students do not have to have their own rooms. However, you must provide your exchange student his or her own bed. If s/he must share a room with your own child, your child must be the same gender as your exchange student. The children must also be within 4 or 5 years of the same age., Your student will need a quiet space to study and work. Attending school is an integral part of the student exchange program experience, so give them the resources they will need to do well.Many students will have spending money to purchase things they need. However, providing some basic school supplies, such as pens, binders, and paper, will be a nice way to show your support of the student’s academic goals.
 One of the reasons students from other countries participate in foreign exchange programs is to learn about a new country and culture. Providing meals that represent your cultural background will give the student a “taste” of their new culture.


Make sure that you’ve gotten information from the student about any allergies and dietary restrictions.
Respect your student’s traditions. For example, if the student is an observant Muslim, avoid serving pork and other restricted foods.If you do serve a food that is prohibited by your student’s traditions, make sure that they have options they can eat.
Encourage your student to share their food traditions with you! You will discover some delicious new foods and they will get to feel like they are contributing to their new home life., Students may feel homesick, especially at first. Giving them ways to contact their family and friends back home will help them feel connected to their loved ones. This will make it easier for them to adjust to their new home with you.


Skype and other internet services offer ways to place video and phone calls, even overseas, at affordable rates (or even free).
Give the student access to the internet so that s/he can email home.

