 Ask yourself a series of questions identified by researchers to help assess whether you may be experiencing imposter phenomenon. Read and record your responses to each of the following questions. Don’t think too much about your response, simply write down the initial thought that comes to mind.How do you feel about the accomplishments in your life?
How do you feel when you make a mistake?
What sort of thoughts do you have upon succeeding at something?
How does constructive criticism make you feel?
Do you ever feel as though you’re fooling other people?;
, Look at your responses. If you tended to downplay your own accomplishments, doubt your abilities, worry about making mistakes, or struggle to receive criticism constructively, you may be experiencing imposter phenomenon.For example, if you ever feel as though you “got lucky” or that your accomplishments are “not a big deal,” this indicates that you may be ignoring your own success.


Further, if mistakes make you feel as though you “didn’t prepare enough” or “didn’t do a perfect job,” you may be demonstrating some perfectionist tendencies. These sentiments often coincide with imposter phenomenon.
If criticism of your work or ideas makes you feel like you’re performing poorly, and makes your distraught, this can also indicate imposter phenomenon.
If you ever feel as though you are “fooling” those around you, and worry about being “discovered” or “found out” as a “fake” or “imposter”, you are likely experiencing imposter phenomenon.
Note that, though it is not considered to be a medical condition, these collected symptoms are often referred to as imposter syndrome.
 If you’re still unsure about whether your thoughts and sentiments amount to imposter phenomenon, there are more direct questions you can ask yourself. For instance, respond to the following questions honestly with yes or no answers.Do you ever feel like you don’t deserve the accomplishments you’ve achieved?
Do you worry that people will find out that you aren’t worry of your position?
Do you dismiss success immediately as a matter of luck or timing?
Do you ever feel like you are tricking people?
Do you think others think too highly of your personal accomplishments?
How many times did you say yes to these questions? If your answer is two or more, you have likely experienced the effects of imposter phenomenon.

