 The entire story won't scare you; there's most likely one specific part or a couple specific parts that actually scare you. Think about the part/parts over and over again. It may sound dumb, but get it into your head so that you can know what to focus on when trying to forget about it.
 Obviously, years from now or a while from now it'll come back and maybe scare you again, but probably not half as much. Take a deep breath and take the time to notice that almost every single scary story out there isn't actually possible., A lot of the spooky stories out there are most likely about a young child going insane (such as like a 5 year old or something). There's the completely fake doll stuff, and then there's paranormal things which wouldn't exist unless it were a robot designed to do evil, murderous things., Those include as terrorists, real knife-killers, real insane children, real robots created to destroy human beings which are created by insane people and controlled by insane people, and more things.

However, there are ways to stay away from scary influences in the world. List the things you know could never actually happen, and list the things that may not be your everyday-thing that could happen. Take a moment and think about the odds of the situation.
 Most of the time, they are merely stories. Tell some friends the story how you remember it, or search it up and show them it. It sounds pretty stupid to make someone else afraid, but the point is that you're not alone in being scared. Talk to them about it and suggest how to make it better and more realistic.

With the help of your friends, a parent /older family member, or just anyone you want to do this step with, ask them how they think it can be recreated better.
Add more realistic steps such as: Instead of the little girl becoming a ghost when she dies, how about she doesn't get killed and she goes to the hospital and ends up getting the police to kill the person who tried to kill her? Or: How about the person ends up saying sorry for everything they've done and goes to jail?


, For example, if it includes a ton of blood with scary figures showing up, haunting people forever, gushing out eyes, scratching faces off, etc, don't include those parts. Change up the evil person/creature/doll/whatever they are in the story. Include some funny parts so that people, and yourself, can know that even bad things can have a stupid side to them., Put yourself into their shoes; imagine what you would do if you were them and you were about to make an evil decision. Decide to write a story about this too. Make yourself change your mind about whatever you were about to do, transform into a not-so-scary figure by either plastic surgery or being magical in the story. Then say sorry and let the person live with a happy life., Laugh at all the ridiculously completely fake parts. Make a video about it and show it to people. If you have a Youtube Channel, post it there. You'll most likely get more views & likes if you walk in other people's shoes (meaning you're being the same as them- being scared) but also stepping out of those other people's shoes at the same time (meaning laughing at the whole thing and at yourself and at everything). Watch your video many times to remember how stupid the whole thing was., Next time someone tells you something you find extremely horrifying, laugh at it by saying stuff like: That is SO fake it's not even funny. Actually, it is funny! Don't laugh at serious issues, such as the death of people--that's cruel.

If you have a YouTube Channel, post videos there of all the stories you've read and poke fun at them on specific parts by showing the viewers exactly what you mean. If you just wanna show your friends, go for it. If you prefer to poke fun at it with your friends without a video, or just in your head to keep to yourself only, go for those too!

, Trick people by saying it'll be a scary story. For example, use: This is the scariest thing you'll ever hear...... Once upon a time, the end.This is always funny, plus it makes you realise that even the things that seem spooky will end up being just a stupid little joke over time., They probably don't even bother you much anymore because time goes by quickly., Try not to bring up the story or anything bad when you're talking to people.

If you're in a group and they decide to tell scary stories or events, ask them not to and tell them you're going through a hard time with scary stories. If they decide to try and force you into it, leave them. If they walk after you, jog away. If they jog after you, then run away. If they run after you, sprint as fast as you can away from them. They'll get the idea you don't want to hear it and they'll forget about it.

