 As you prepare to practice or play a game that may strain your ACL, be sure to warm up fully. This should happen about 10–15 minutes before activity. Warm up with a series of stretching and exercises intended to enhance blood flow and bring oxygen to the knee joint muscles. These will also increase the flow of lubricating synovial fluid, which helps your knee joints function smoothly.Increase coordination via active stretching with exercises such as:


Moving knee pull-ups: While making your way across the gym floor or other area, flex at the hip and knee and pull your knees up towards waist height. Do approximately four sets of 10 with each leg.
Moving butt kicks: Jog across the gym floor for about 20 feet while extending at the hip and flexing the knee. This will keep your hamstring engaged. Move your feet towards your rear in a “cheerleader” style maneuver.
Traditional jumping jacks.;
, Physics that play a role in ACL injury are “ground reaction forces” (GRFs). These refer to the pressure that must be absorbed by the body when the front of the foot hits the ground. With normal walking, GRFs are equal to our body weight. When an athlete lands after a jump, the pressure may be between two to eight times his body weight.Know the proper landing technique, especially if you are a basketball player, in which you may be jumping and landing often. Our bodies will naturally assume the proper landing technique, except at those times in competition where it is not easily accomplished due to opposing team members and high stress. Practice appropriate landing techniques so that these will be second nature to you when the adrenaline is flowing during a game.


Landing on the wrong foot or landing flat-footed can increase the GRF you experience, thus increasing your chances of ACL injury. Both can increase the ground reaction force that is transmitted from the ankle to the knee. Be sure to land on the balls of your feet., Target the muscles located on the front of your thighs in order to support your knee joints. Squats and lunges will build strength in your quadriceps and will keep you on top of your game.


Squats: Stand with your feet slightly more than shoulder-width apart. Flex at the hip with your rear somewhat extended as though you're going to sit in a chair. Extend your arms out in front of you at shoulder level. This will help you balance. Squat down, holding at the terminal end of the squat for a period of two to three seconds, then return to a standing position. Do four sets of ten reps each.
Lunges: Stand with your feet together. Take a giant step out with one foot, flexing at the hip and knee. Lean deep into this until the knee on your back leg almost touches the ground. Hold this position for two to three seconds. Then, alternate with the other leg. Repeat for three to four sets of ten reps each.

Keep your body in proper alignment when performing a lunge. This means that a straight line should bisect your hip and run parallel to your flexed knee.
In addition to working your quads, lunges also work your glutes and hamstrings.
 Hamstrings, or the muscles along the back of your thighs, also require strengthening in order to protect and support your knees. Lunges are good hamstring exercises, as are floor exercises.


Lunges: Stand with your feet together. Take a giant step out with one foot, flexing at the hip and knee. Lean deep into this until the knee on your back leg almost touches the ground. Be sure that your forward knee does not extend beyond the toes of the foot. Hold this position for two to three seconds. Then, alternate with the other leg. Repeat for three to four sets of ten reps each.
Kneel and place your palms on the floor. Extend one leg back and flex your leg up at the knee. Lift your flexed knee just a small but significant movement toward the ceiling. Keep your foot flat and parallel to the ceiling. Perform 10 reps on this leg and repeat twice. Switch legs and repeat the exercises.
 Calf lifts, or calf raises, will strengthen your calves, in turn giving your knees added support. To do calf lifts:


Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Press your toes into the ground and lift your heels off the ground. Use a wall to balance yourself.
Lift your body weight for a set of 10 repetitions. Repeat two to three times.
Stretch each calf muscle by sitting with your legs spread and extended.
You can also do calf lifts with a weight lifting machine, especially if you need more resistance.
 You may find it useful to consult a personal trainer to learn how to protect your ACL. This person can be especially useful during your initial training so that you can learn proper form when doing exercises. Personal trainers can be expensive, but you can often get an initial consultation that may be enough to demonstrate proper technique for you.
 Wrapping your knees with braces can potentially help you prevent ACL injuries, but you shouldn’t rely on this exclusively.Consult with a personal trainer or physical therapist before wrapping your knees.
 A basic understanding of physics will allow you to better understand the forces at play that result in an ACL tear. Movements during sports such as basketball and soccer, where sudden deceleration, landing and pivoting maneuvers are common, increase the anterior shear “loading” forces on the ACL. Take care when playing these types of sports in order to avoid ACL injuries.
 Female athletes are over twice as common to sustain an ACL injury as compared to their male counterparts.This is because females have different knee positioning and alignment than males., People over the age of 40 are more prone to experiencing ACL injuries. This is due to overall age-related weakening of muscles in the body. If you are over 40, make sure you take special care to warm up and strengthen your leg muscles., There can be environmental conditions that impact how stable your feet and legs are in a game. For example, some types of artificial turf have been known to increase risk of injury among football players.You may also experience increased risk on uneven playing surfaces or in cold weather., Studies show that sleep is essential to improving coordination and performance in athletics. Most adults need seven to nine hours of sleep each night, and athletes often benefit from as many as 10 hours of sleep per night. , Excessive weight throws off balance and coordination. You may also experience decreased reaction time if you are overweight.Aim for a body mass index (BMI) of less than 27.
 Hydrate your body by drinking plenty of water every day so that your muscles will work properly and don’t fatigue too soon., An ACL injury can be caused by a number of different actions, including landing improperly, twisting your leg, changing direction suddenly or rapidly, or getting hit by someone or something, among others. With an ACL injury, you may experience a range of symptoms. These may include:Pain
Swelling within 24 hours
Instability of the knee
Unable to use your leg’s full range of motion
Tenderness at your knee joint
Difficulty walking

, The knee joint is comprised of the femur, supporting the thigh or quadriceps muscle, and the tibia and fibula, which are located in the lower leg. There is also cartilage that cushions the knee joint. This cartilage, called the meniscus, is sandwiched between the upper and lower leg bones. Multiple ligaments support the knee and provide stability from all angles, with the ACL playing a critical role.


Ligaments join bone to bone. The ACL is formed in a cross-like structure, functioning to join the femur to tibia. This prevents the femur from sliding backward on the tibia. It also prevents the tibia from sliding forward on the femur.
 The ACL can be strained, torn, or severely damaged. If strained or torn, the ligament is stretched beyond its usual capacity. This results in small or large tears that compromise the integrity of the ligament. Consequently, the knee joint is less stable. In addition, you may suffer a microvascular injury that results in bruising and swelling of the knee.


At the other end of the spectrum, in cases of more severe trauma, the ligament may be entirely ruptured, resulting in significant knee instability. This type of injury is also usually accompanied by severe swelling and bruising as a result of the internal damage to blood vessels in the region.
 ACL tears may occur in conjunction with other ligamentous or meniscal injuries to the knee, or even a fracture of the tibia or fibula. Fractures are more common with “contact” ACL injuries such as a car accident, while “non-contact” injuries occur most commonly in sports like basketball and soccer.

