 Allow it to heat for 5 to 10 minutes.


Most broilers only have one setting. If yours has separate "low" and "high" settings, though, use the "high" setting.
 Sprinkle with salt and pepper as desired and evenly brush or drizzle the oil over the chicken.


Use approximately 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) salt and 1/8 tsp (0.625 ml) black pepper if you do not have an established preference.
Marinating can also be overnight if desired.
 Make sure that there is space between the rack inside the pan and the bottom of the pan.


It is important to use a broiler pan with a rack inside, rather than a baking pan. The rack inside a broiler pan keeps the meat out of the hot fat and oil that drips off the chicken, which helps prevent fires from breaking out.
It doesn't matter which side faces up when using boneless skinless thighs. If you use bone-in thighs, however, make sure that the bone side faces up. If you're cooking chicken with skin, it often tastes better to put the skin side up, too, so that it can crisp up a little.
 Do not cover.


Place the broiler pan 4 to 5 inches (10 to 13 cm) under the top heating element of the oven.
Carefully turn the chicken over after 10 minutes pass. Brush this side with oil and continue cooking an additional 10 minutes.
Thick thighs or bone-in thighs may need to be cooked for a total of 25 to 35 minutes, instead.The skin or meat surface should be medium browned and glossy. If it is fully cooked before the interior is done, finish by baking normally at lower heat such as 300 degrees Fahrenheit (149 degrees Celsius) to diffuse heat into the interior without unnecessarily drying or scorching the outside.
 Pull out of the oven once the chicken thighs are thoroughly browned and at an internal temperature of 180 degrees Fahrenheit (82 degrees Celsius).


As a rule of thumb, the juices should also run clear and the meat should no longer be pink.Check the temperature with an instant-read meat thermometer. Stick the thermometer into the thickest part of the thickest piece. If using bone-in thighs, make sure that the thermometer does not touch the bone.

