 Nothing quite beats the sound of an authentic piano, but many digital keyboards can replicate the sound of a piano, as well as mimic other instruments. They are also lighter and cheaper., Size matters when it comes to pianos. The bigger the piano the better it will sound. You hit a key on the piano. It triggers a mallet that strikes a chord in the piano. A bigger piano means that there is more room for the chord to vibrate. More vibration equals richer tone.


Consider the amount of space you have. There are two kinds of pianos — upright and grand. Uprights save more space than grand pianos. You might not have room for a grand concert piano at home. Uprights come in different sizes and can range from 35” all the way up to 52” tall. Grand pianos are not as tall as uprights, measuring around 36" to 48" tall and up to Fazaioli's 10' model.Consider how often you move, when determining the size of your piano. Remember that when you move, you’ll have to move the piano too. This can get expensive., Are you or your children classically trained? Or are you a novice? Some people buy beginner pianos and then upgrade later on. This is a safe bet, because many people lose interest in playing the piano over time.


If you decide to buy a beginner piano, purchase an upright piano. They are cheaper. They sound great. They save space. In general, they are ideal for people just starting out.
 Do you want a wood grain finish or a painted exterior? Figure out which finish you like and how dark or light you want your piano to be. Most people only consider the piano, its size, and its sound quality. They often forget to think about how the piano will look with their other furniture.
 Every piano company is different. Some feature more contemporary designs, while others retain classical flourishes. Look at examples of each piano design on the manufacturers' websites. This is a good way to get a feel for the prices of most pianos.
 Upright pianos cost between $5,000 and $15,000 on average. Grand pianos normally cost anywhere from $10,000 to $50,000. Of course, these are average prices. You can find pianos at wildly different ends of the price spectrum. Pianos can be pricey to purchase and they also have additional maintenance fees like tuning costs. Expect to tune your piano at least once per year. This can cost between $100 and $350 depending on where you live.


Set aside an allowance of $250 to $1000 for initial repairs and transportation.
Consider the climate you live in, and set aside money for keeping your piano in good condition. Pianos are generally made of wood and wire, both of which expand and contract slightly with temperature changes. Climate can affect the frequency of tunings.
Unlike other big purchases , pianos depreciate in value very little over time if kept in good, working condition. Buying a piano might be a good investment. 