 Gradually seeing the person less often might be happening naturally, or you might need to consciously apply these steps. This is a good way to let someone know you don't want to be friends without verbally explaining it to them.This method is appropriate for casual friends who you don't really know very well.
If the person is a new friend, this method is less leaving a friendship than it's simply an acknowledgment that you never really became friends.
It might take a longer time to leave a friendship this way.
 One way that you can start to minimize contact with the person is by declining invitations to do things. This may require you to tell a little white lie now and then to get out of something.For example, if the person asks if you want to go see a movie sometime over the weekend, then you might say something like “That sounds cool, but I already have a ton going on this weekend, so I really can’t.”

, You may bump into the person while you are trying to build distance between the two of you, so you will need to know how to deal with those situations. Ignoring the person could lead to hurt feelings and awkwardness, so instead try to give polite excuses for why you can’t stay and talk.


For example, you could politely say hello to the person and then say something like, “Sorry I can’t stay and chat. I am already running late. Maybe some other time!”
Try to be as polite and considerate as possible. Even if you do not want to be friends with the person anymore, you never know when you might bump into each other again and keeping things civil will reduce the chance of an awkward run-in., If your attempts to politely and gradually end the friendship do not help, then you can also try telling the person that you don't want to be friends anymore. You may just have to be direct and say something like, “You are a great person, but we are just too different. I wish you all the best, but I think we should stop spending so much time together.”


Try to avoid the strategy called “ghosting.” Ghosting is when you cut off all contact with the person. For example, you would need to ignore the person’s texts and emails, stop returning phone calls, and unfriend the person on social media. Ghosting can lead to hurt feelings, anger, and concerns about your well-being, so it is not ideal.