 For a better quality, efficient, and modern room you will need a bunch of money that ranges from $250-$600 Canadian dollars.;
,, Sort everything into four piles: keep, trash, give away and to decorate with. Keep everything you want to keep, trash junk, recycle papers, give stuff away to family/friends, and donate the other stuff to Goodwill or the Salvation Army. This is a pretty essential step, because it will help declutter your room as well as get rid of clothes that you don't want. Empty your room of any unwanted toys, games etc. so you don't have to re-clean your room after.
 This could include your bed, dresser, desk, drawers.
 The best quality paints can typically be found at home improvement stores such as Lowe's or Home Depot. Color really helps change a room. If you don't want to repaint your room, your parents won't allow you to paint your walls, or if you can't afford paint, that's okay. Move on to the next step. If they will, then get stuck in!


Pick a color that you like and that goes well with a lot of other things that are in your room.
If you want, you can paint all of your walls the same color, but it can be even more interesting to paint a few different colors; this will provide variety. Or, go nuts and paint each wall a different color, and have no theme whatsoever. Do whatever you like! Whatever you do, let your personality shine.
If you and your parents are struggling to decide what color to paint your room, compromise. Do your parents want you to paint your room light pink, but you want to paint it black (or vice versa)? Compromise by painting your room light pink and use black as an accent.
Tape the paint samples to the wall when you get them, so you can get an idea of how they would look in your room.
Look at the wall that your 'future bed' will be and make it a darker shade, if you want to give your room some definition.
 Do you really want that ABC dresser in your room? No way! Go out and get some new furniture. You'll need a bed (of course), a dresser, a bookcase, a bedside table, and a desk. Try buying all of your furniture in the same color so that your room doesn't look too crazy (unless that's your intention).


Look in thrift stores for bargain furniture finds. Just check there is no insect infestation before dragging it home though; if you're not sure, take a flashlight along and do a close inspection. This is more of an issue in some places than others, so ask your parents for advice.
Consider repainting old furniture for a completely new look that matches your color scheme.
To brighten and modernize your room a little, don't just buy a bed, dresser, desk etc., but a small couch and bedside table too. Look at the color of the furniture that you want to buy and think of how it would look against the color of your room.
 When your friends come over and hang out, you don't want them to sit on the floor. Buy some chairs so that you and your friends have a comfy spot to sit. You can buy some beanbag chairs, or a moon chair. Even an ottoman would work well, especially if it has storage space inside. Try to keep your furniture within your color scheme.
 Give it to a charity, or if you want some profit, sell it online on websites such as Amazon, eBay or one of a small number of third-party sellers online., Put the bedside table by your bed, The couch on the opposite side of your desk etc., If you have a carpeted floor, this may not be as necessary, but a cool rug or two is never a bad thing to have in your room. If you have hardwood floors, rugs are a really good thing to put beside your bed so that when you get up in the morning your feet don't freeze on the hardwood floor. Remember, choose rugs that express your personality, and have fun with the designs and patterns.


Buy a fuzzy rug, some flourishing curtains for the windows, a lamp for the bedside table, and more!

, Buy some bed sheets and pillows for your bed. If you want a really girly-looking bed, buy some blankets and a bunch of toss pillows to put at the head of your bed. If you want a more simplistic look, just stick with the bed sheets. Do whatever you want. Just because you're a girl doesn't mean that you have to be a 'girly-girl'.


Buy some funky blankets with some adjoining cushions for your bed.
 Mirrors aren't just for girly-girls. If you love makeup, a good mirror will be handy when you're putting your makeup on. You can buy a full-length mirror so that you can see your outfits, too. Buy a mirror that has a cool frame, such as a mosaic with different colors of glass.
 Cork boards are really cool, because you can display photos of your family, you, your friends, your pets, as well as other things like concert tickets and postcards. If your cork board is ugly, paint it a color that goes with your room, but not a very dark color, or put some cool fabric over it. You can also buy cork boards with fabric over them already.
 Put up posters of your favorite bands and celebrities. Put up pictures of your family and friends. Put in stuff that you like and that gives your room personality! Art projects, sketches, whatever you want. If you're the artist type put up your drawings, or paintings. Make it yours; after all, it is your room.
 Add lamps and maybe some dangling lights, such as butterfly or fairy lights. Fairy lights can be improved by sticking on motifs in the intervals between the lights., Use space in your closet or make another spot in your room for keeping your stuff out of the way. Buy some storage bins and slide them under your bed. This keeps all of your stuff organized.
 Shelves are a must to display stuff like sports trophies, pictures, books, etc. Buy some shelves and have them put up in a place that you like, such as over your bed or near your desk.
 They can be donated, go into storage or be disposed of. Unless they mean a great deal of value to you, having such things hanging around can cause you to keep living in the past; now is the time to move on. If you have anything you wouldn't use again or isn't special to you, donate it to a charity shop.
 Play some slow music from your iPod on your stereo, and pour a cool glass of lemonade. Grab a book or magazine and sit back and relax on your bed.

