 You will need to order a replacement screen for your iPod. Replacement screens can be ordered online for about $30 USD. Make sure to order the display for the 4th Generation iPod or Photo, or the display will not work.
 Make sure that the iPod is turned off and locked with the Hold switch toggled on before opening your iPod. This will ensure that you don't accidentally turn it on while working on it.
 A set of iPod opening tools is recommended for getting into the seam of the iPod to disengage the tabs. You can use a thin flat-head screwdriver if you don't have an iPod opening tool.


Start by inserting your tool into the seam at the top of the iPod, near the headphone jack. Run the tool to the corner, creating an opening. Leave the tool inserted to keep the gap open.
Move the second tool down the seam on both sides, releasing the tabs that hold the casing together. There are two tabs at the bottom near the dock connector.
 Once you've separated the halves, gently open the iPod like a book. You will notice a cable connecting the iPod's logic board to a small board on the other half. This is the headphone connector, and needs to be removed to continue. Disconnect it from the iPod side by gently pulling the connector straight up.
 Hold the hard drive with one hand and pull the cable out from the bottom. You may need to wiggle the cable slightly to get it loose. Remove the hard drive and set it aside.


Peel the tape off covering the hard drive cable's connection to the logic board. Flip up the black connector with your fingernail and pull the cable directly out. Set the cable aside.
 On the bottom corner of the logic board you will see a small, white connector. Gently pull this connector out, making sure that you are only grabbing the connector, and not the cables.
 On the opposite side of the battery connector, you will see a small connector with a black tab. Up the side you will see another, larger connector with a black tab. Flip up both of these so that you can remove the ribbon cables from the connectors.
 There are six Torx screws located around the edge of the logic board. You will need to remove each of these to separate the logic board from the front panel. Carefully remove the logic board by gripping the edges of the large end.
 After you remove the logic board, you will see the display panel. Pull this straight out to remove it. It may have some adhesive, so you might have to wiggle it a bit. Replace it with your new screen, and then follow these steps in reverse to close up the iPod.