 Her Q is a medium-ranged spell that shoots out a column of light that will root 2 people if it hits them. This spell is very good for setting up Q - E - Ult combos, since the enemy cannot move. This root is very good in midlane, where many champions depend on moving around to cast abilities.
 Her W is her wand that shoots out, then returns. Both times they hit Lux, she gains a shield., Her E is a circle which thrown out, slows everyone it hits. Activating the ability will do damage to everyone inside of the circle. Once you hit a Q, you can E and deal slows and damage to the enemy. Her E is also good for farming., Lux's ult is one of the most interesting in the game. After charging for 0.5 seconds,(a red line will appear where her ult will shoot) she fires a laser in a straight line, dealing massive damage to enemies in a line.Her ult has a very long range, great for finishing off enemies or dealing massive damage during a teamfight., Midlane is a tight lane that is often ganked (google "ganking league of legends" if you don't know this terminology), full of assassins and high dmg fighters. One false step, and half your health disappears. However, Lux has a lot of CC in her spells, allowing her to land dmg quickly and easily. (CC means Crowd Control, which is stuns, roots, and slows.), With support, all you have to do is land CC and then sit back, and let your ADC (Attack Damage Carry) get the kill. Just land 1. JUST 1, skillshot, root the enemy, then your job is done. Support is so easy!, The 2 reasons  ADCs fall behind are: 1) The enemy ADC is too good, and keeps killing yours. 2) You get ganked and the jungler keeps killing your ADC.

To counter #1, get a better ADC.
To counter #2, ward the jungle so you don't get ganked. Good warding locations for Blue team include the tri-brush and the  river. Most gank locations come from the river, Red side or Blue side, so that is an important warding location. Sometimes you will want to buy a pink ward to place in the river, because pink wards are permanent wards, and they won't be destroyed until someone on the enemy side sees it, and this will usually be the jungler, so you know they are there. Another item is SightStone, which gives you 3 sight wards to place, which makes warding WAY easier. Look at some warding guides to get more help.
 He/she is your best hope of killing the enemy team. Without an ADC, you have very little damage, and the enemy can easily kill you (unless the enemy is a support, then try to outplay them. You could get on a highlight reel.) Your ADC will farm, clear the minion waves, and generally take care of the mechanics of the game. Just sit back and relax; for while you are helping your ADC, the ADC is also covering you! If you are attacked, they will come to your aid (usually, not guaranteed)., While in the lane, he/she is going to take dmg. With Lux, your W is great for healing the ADC, as it gives them a shield to block damage. Though the W is a good ability, try getting Q first to be able to stun before healing with W.