 Sites like the long-running MP3.com offer a selection of constantly-updated songs for free download every day. At MP3.com, simply hover your pointer over “Free Music” at the top of the page and select a genre you're interested in. These sites tend towards obscure and little-known artists, but occasionally feature more popular acts.


DatPiff.com is a site for hip-hop mixtapes, which are whole albums or EPs made by remixing preexisting back beats and samples, and then rapping over them. DatPiff allows its users five free downloads per day, not counting special promotional downloads. The community there is very active, so it's easy to find highly-rated mixtapes from talented up-and-coming rappers and producers.
Jamendo.com is a site that features music exclusively released for free by independent artists. It's a wide mix of sounds that tends towards mainstream genres like folk, rock, and pop. The site runs very slowly, but there's tens of thousands of songs available completely for free, making it a great choice for a foray into new and unknown music.
 Keep your eyes peeled on Amazon.com and the iTunes Store for free music, as well. Both services periodically provide free tracks, and occasionally even free albums. These tend to be fairly obscure, but at the price they're asking, you might as well take a chance.


Sometimes, these services will also run member promotions allowing you a few dollars of MP3 credit at no cost, which you can spend on whatever songs you want. Keep an ear to the ground; such promotions don't happen often.
 Many bands maintain an active online presence to cater to their fans and promote merchandise, upcoming tours, and other such things. Visit the websites of bands you love and join their communities by signing up for e-mail updates, becoming a fan on Facebook, and so on. Periodically, you'll get access to bonus tracks, demo tracks, and live session recordings for free!


Use a service like Last.fm or Pandora to find artists similar to ones you like, and become a fan of those artists, as well. If you follow enough of them, you could be snagging great, new, free music on a weekly basis.
 There are a few free, nonprofit sites on the Internet that provide totally legal free music simply for the public good. These sites feature a lot of music across all different genres, including artists you've heard of and many you haven't yet. They're a great way to safely and securely find new music or fill in your collection of a favorite artist with rare live tracks and other cuts.



Free Music Archive is a new site that aims to collect all publicly released free music under one roof. It hosts growing collections from the likes of indie radio giant KEXP (which posts all of its live session tracks), and WFMU New Jersey, the country's longest-running free form radio station, which has uploaded over 20,000 tracks to the archive to date.

The Internet Archive is a massive collection that aims to record all of the information ever posted on the Internet. Its Audio section features thousands upon thousands of completely free tracks from both the past and the present.

