 If the payment plan offered interest-free from your orthodontist is out of your reach financial reach, you can use a third-party, such as a bank. The upside to getting a loan or a payment plan through a bank is that you can spread the cost over a greater period of time, sometimes over five to seven years. The downside is that it will come with interest, adding to the total cost.Talk to your orthodontist about third-party payment options. Many are offered through the orthodontist office itself.
Alternatively, you can contact your bank and ask about their dental financing options.
 An HSA is a Health Savings Account. They are accounts in which a certain amount of money from your paycheck goes. The HSA can be used to be for qualified medical expenses, and its primary selling point is that it's not subject to federal income tax, and unlike a FSA (flexible savings account), HSA funds roll over from year to year.In order to get an HSA, you first need a HDHP, or a High-Deductible-Health-Plan.
In order to use your HSA to pay for your braces, your orthodontist must believe that braces will help you prevent gum disease. You can't use an HSA to cover cosmetic expenses.
Contact your insurance company about whether you qualify for an FSA and how to apply.
 An FSA is a Flexible Savings Account. They can be acquired without having a a High-Deductible-Health-Plan and the expected amount of the current year's contribution is available at the beginning of the year. These are two benefits of an FSA over an HSA. An amount of your paycheck is withheld to make up the FSA. So you get to pay for the braces in full upfront at the beginning of the year, then make the payments through your FSA without interest over the year.Contact your insurance company about whether you qualify for an FSA and how to apply.
 If your work offers a dental plan, check with your benefits department to see what orthodontics are covered and the details of the discount. Often times, dental insurance will cover anywhere from 25% to 50% of the cost.If you don't have dental insurance, you can search for a policy through websites like http://www.dentalplans.com/. This option involves paying an annual fee in order to get discounts at participating orthodontists.

