 The pressure immobilization technique is thought to hinder the movement of venom from the bite site into the circulation. Make plans to reach medical personnel while treating the bite wound.Some research has shown that very little venom reaches the bloodstream if pressure is applied over the bite and the limb is immobilized, but this is still unproven.Go to places known to have poisonous snakes with at least three people. One can call or go for help while another treats the bite wounds., Keep the person and the injured limb as still as possible. Do not promote movement of the venom into the bloodstream. , Let venom be evacuated from wound. Letting the wound bleed while keeping it still will help to keep the venom out of the circulatory system.

During this expulsion phase, try to keep the limb lower than the heart to encourage the blood to expel the venom, rather than take it into the body.
 Use a flexible material like ace bandages or pantyhose, if available. Improvise and create a bandage by cutting or tearing something soft, like clothing or towels, into strips., Continue up the limb to cover the area of the bite, at minimum. Go up the limb as far as possible. Let only the amount of bandages limit you.Start wrapping on the foot and cross the knee for bites anywhere on the leg. Start wrapping at the fingers and cross the elbow for bites anywhere on the arm. Bites located on the very upper arm and thigh will be challenging to cover; you may have treat them like they are on the torso.This upward wrapping may squeeze a little venom towards the circulation. But it will be more comfortable and the injured person will tolerate it longer. The pressure dressing should be as tight as you would apply on a sprained ankle., Take care to cross the joint to maximize the restriction of movement. Do not allow the victim to move the limb to help apply the splint.Use any rigid object such as a branch, a tool with a handle, or rolled up newspaper. Wrap these objects with the same soft and flexible materials used to compress the limb before using them as splints., Loosen the dressing if there are no pulses; the dressing is too tight.You want the pulse to be strong and normal.


Check the pulse on top of the foot when the pressure dressing is on the leg. Check the pulse at the wrist near the thumb when the pressure dressing is on the arm., Venom can travel into the circulation if the limb is kept above heart level. Swelling can occur if the limb hangs below heart level.Lie the victim flat on her back with her arms at the side. She should not be moving anyway.
 Wad cloth or bandages and apply manual pressure over a bite on the torso. Take care not to restrict breathing. Do not give any first aid if the bite is on the head or neck. Keep the patient still no matter the bite location and seek medical assistance immediately., Do not remove the pressure dressing until right before the antivenin will be being given at a medical facility. Prompt treatment with antivenin will decrease the likelihood of morbidity (serious long-term side effects) and mortality (death) from the snake venom.Antivenin contains antibodies (the blood cells your body uses to destroy anything foreign) against specific poisons found in the venom of snakes. It is made from the blood of horses or sheep exposed to the specific venom.Do not listen to old wives’ tales about how to treat a snake bite. Do not apply mouth suction. Do not cut into the bite site. Do not apply hot or cold packs. Do not apply a tourniquet. Do not delay treatment trying to kill and bring in the snake.Treat the bite like it is from a venomous snake if you cannot identify the type of snake., Help him deal with any symptoms as they arise. Encourage him to stay still. But, antivenin therapy is the definitive treatment which will combat the poison(s) in the snake venom and help the victim feel better.Expect general signs and symptoms such as swelling and redness around the bite, pain at the bite site, difficulty breathing, vomiting and nausea, blurred vision, sweating and salivating, numbness in the face and limbs, and decreased level of consciousness. Each snake venom has different side effects and you also could see convulsions, low blood pressure, and paralysis.