 No one will know what kind of person your crush is looking for better than his friends. Get to know them and you’ll find out more about him, like where he tends to hang out. On top of that, if they get to know you and are impressed, they’re more likely to want to help you with your crush. If the two of you have mutual friends, they are the perfect people to talk to. Think of the following examples when subtly trying to find out more about your crush:


If you want to know where he skates, ask about parks in town: “Where do people usually skate around here? Who goes to that park?”
If you want try and know whether your crush is single: “How come he doesn’t have a girlfriend/boyfriend?”
Ask about their friendship with him: “How did you guys become friends? What do you do together?”;
, If you want to understand your crush better, don’t be afraid to learn about skater culture. Like any other culture, skateboarding culture has a set of values, norms and ideals. The best way to find out more is to talk to skateboarders about why they skateboard, and what it brings to them. You can also find many interviews on YouTube, where skateboarders talk about the culture. This can give you a great idea of how your crush thinks.
 Beyond understanding the culture, you’ll want to learn a bit about skateboarding itself. You don’t necessarily need to know all the tricks or professional skateboarders by name, but knowing a bit about your crush’s passion will give the two of you something to talk about. Simply knowing what an ollie is (jumping with the skateboard), will show that you care about his passion and he’ll be impressed when it’s time to talk to him.
 Skater guys tend to spend most of their free time at the skatepark of their choice with their friends. Give yourself the opportunity to “bump into him” by hovering around his favorite hang out spot.
 First impressions matter; it can take only three seconds for your crush to make up his mind about you the first time he meets you.There are two main ways you can introduce yourself, depending on how quickly you want to make your intentions known:


You can be extremely casual if you don’t want him to know you like him just yet: “Hey, what’s going on, mind if I hang out with you?”
You can be completely blunt and honest. This lets you know right away if he’s interested in you, and you can put a comedic twist on it as well: “Hey, I like you. Want to hang out?”

, People love to talk about themselves and their passions. Asking questions shows that you have more than just a passing interest in what he has to say. Some questions you might want to ask him include:


”How long have you been skateboarding?” This shows your interest in what he does and learning more about him.
”How often do you hang out here?” Not only will this tell you how passionate he is about skateboarding, but gives you a chance to know when you can next bump into him.
”What do you do when you’re not skateboarding?” This gives you a chance to find out about common interests the two of you might share.
 Even if you’re not interested in skateboarding, you should still pay very close attention to what your crush is saying. Active listening means you’re paying attention to what he’s saying, asking important questions that show you’re listening, and absorbing the information he’s giving you. It might sound strange to do this at first, but people definitely appreciate someone who isn’t on their phone while they’re trying to have a conversation.
 Not only will being positive and supportive bring him up and let him enjoy spending time with you, but it actually makes you more attractive to him.Try to see things in a positive light and avoid nagging about your insecurities. There’s nothing wrong with having insecurities, but don’t let them affect your actions.
 Skaters, by nature, like to play around, goof off and take risks.Get in touch with your playful side to reel him in: it shows that you don’t take yourself too seriously, and will make you irresistible.Be willing to step out of your comfort zone and let your your rebellious side out. Think of the following examples:


Don’t always play it safe. Skateboarders like to take risks; try doing the same, within reason. Try an extreme sport or explore an abandoned building.
Experiment. Leave your comfort zone and try things you were too scared to try. Conquer your fears and be adventurous. Go on spontaneous road trips or try a new hobby.
Playful teasing. There’s a fine line between mocking someone (“That trick really sucked.”) and teasing them (“Is that the best you’ve got to show me?”).
 Style is all about making the clothes work for you, and skater guys respect confidence. Don’t feel that you have to dress up or dress down just to impress him, but keep in mind that if you’re hanging out with him at the skatepark you may need more functional clothing. Think jeans and sneakers, but you can wear jeans that flatter you and you find stylish.
 No one likes a poser, especially not a skateboarder. Being yourself will give you an infectious confidence that will get him to pay attention. Use these steps to guide you into bringing out qualities you already possess; don’t try to become someone else because you want to impress a guy. He’ll see right through you if you try to be something you’re not.
 This is a great way to gain some shared experiences with your crush and get the opportunity to hang out with him. Ask him if he’ll show you how to skateboard sometime. You might even like skateboarding, giving you something in common with him. If you already skateboard, even better! Take the opportunity to ride with him, showing off the tricks you can pull off in a friendly competition.

