 You can refill a bic lighter fairly easily with a pushpin. If you want to save money on new lighters, you can use this method and keep one Bic lighter for a long period of time. In order to refill a bic lighter, you will need some butane, a pushpin, and three rubber grommets. You can purchase butane and grommets at most hardware stores. You may also want to have a pair of clippers and file on hand, as you may want to file down the pushpin after you fill the lighter., If you turn the lighter upside down, you will see a small circular indent on the bottom. This is the lighter valve, which needs to opened with a pushpin for you to refill the lighter. Place a pushpin in the hole and then place the base of the pin on a hard surface like a table. Push down. This should open the bottom of the lighter. You can now remove the pin. 







, Some fluid may spray out when you remove the pin. You want to make sure you empty any excess fluid before refilling the lighter with fresh butane.
 When you remove the lid of the butane container, there should be a small nozzle on top. You need to prepare the butane container's nozzle for use. Rubber grommets are small circular rubber devices with a hole in the middle, shaped sort of like a donut. Take your grommets and place all three of them over the nozzle of your butane container. The rubber should come just past the tip of the nozzle. The grommets keep excess butane from spilling out when you refill your lighter.
 Hold the lighter upside down. Place the nozzle of the butane container into the hole at the bottom of the lighter. Then, gently push down on the butane container.








The rubber will muffle the sound so you may not be able to tell that the lighter is being filled, but it is.
Wait about 5 seconds. That's about how long it takes the lighter to fill.
 Once you've filled the lighter, you need to remove the butane container to keep it from overflowing. The fluid will spray out if you don’t cover the hole, so place your thumb over the hole as soon as you remove the nozzle.
 Do this as fast as you can to prevent butane from spilling out. This will remain in the valve to seal it. You will be unable to reuse the factory valve, so you'll have to use a pushpin to seal it.
 It can also be a bit cumbersome to store the lighter if the full pushpin is attached. You can file down the edge of the pushpin, too.








