 Send two of your starting Peons to gather gold, two more to gather lumber, and make the last Peon create an Altar of Storms.;
, Make them build Burrows so you can support a larger population.
 The mine near your base can only have 4-5 Peons at a time gathering from it, or else it will become backed up by Peons. Send the rest of the Peons to gather lumber, except for one or two of them.
 Start summoning the Blademaster hero. While the Blademaster is being created, send your last Peons to build a few Barracks. While this is happening, upgrade you Great Hall. If you have any Peons left over, start creating a War Mill and a few Watch Towers. A War Mill allows you to upgrade your units.
 From the Barracks, create a few Grunts to protect your town. At your War Mill, select any of the upgrades. Make sure you check back often to keep upgrading. Now select your Blademaster. Upgrade him so he has the ability 'Windwalk'. This allows him to be invisible and run faster for a short time.
 When enemy reinforcements arrive, make your Blademaster cast Windwalk. Run away from the area. Check to make sure the enemy soldiers are gone. If they are, keep killing their workers. If they aren't, go to another enemy town. Start killing their workers.
 Upgrade him so he has Mirror Image. He can now create illusions of himself for a short time. When enemy reinforcements arrive, cast Mirror Image and make the illusion Blademaster attack the troops while the real Blademaster kills as many workers as he can. When your illusion Blademaster dies, cast Windwalk and run away.
 Start to upgrade it again. You also have more buildings such as the Beastiary and Spirit Lodge. Send two Peons to build one of each.
 Keep using Mirror Image and Windwalk. When he gets to level 3, upgrade him with Critical Strike. This gives him a chance to deal extra heavy damage. At level 3, he should be able to take on small amounts of enemy reinforcements. Keep killing and using Windwalk when he's about to die. At level 4, upgrade his Mirror Image. Your Blademaster can now make 2 illusions of himself. At level 5, upgrade him with another Mirror Image.
 Upgrade him with Bladestorm. Your Blademaster can now deal extreme damage. Keep killing enemy workers until almost dead. Then use Windwalk.
 Create a few Shamans and Raiders. During all of the attacking enemy workers and killing enemy reinforcements, your enemies should be very weak from lack of resources. Send your small army to kill the enemy bases, one at a time.

