 Kartoffelpuffer is a basic name for a potato (Kartoffel) pancake make in a pan. They are a favorite food in Germany from fall to spring, and are often a food seen at festivals such as Oktoberfest or at Christmas markets.Kartoffelpuffer are usually served with an herbed sour cream called Kräuterquark or applesauce, though you could even put ketchup on them.There is no one standard recipe for Kartoffelpuffer, with different variations among families and geographic regions.
Kartoffelpuffer are also known by different names within Germany including Erdäpfelpuffer and Reiberdatschi in Bavaria, Dotsch in the Palatinate, and Kartoffelplätzcher in Hesse.
 Before you can make Kartoffelpuffer, gather the ingredients you need. The recipe is quite simple and you may already have everything at home. If not, the ingredients are available in any supermarket.


For enough Kartoffelpuffer for eight people, you’ll need the following ingredients: 3 large russet potatoes (about 2 1⁄2 lb.); 2 medium yellow onions; 1⁄3 cup all-purpose flour; 3 eggs; kosher salt to taste; ground white pepper to taste; canola oil for frying.Kartoffelpuffer are usually served with applesauce or an herbed sour cream called Kräuterquark. You could even put ketchup on them., You’ll need to prepare your ingredients before you can fry them in a pan. It’s important to follow the preparation directions exactly so that you get the best results on your Kartoffelpuffer.


Peel the 3 large Russet potatoes potatoes and 2 medium yellow onions and then finely grate them with a box grater.Place the grated potatoes and onions in a colander over a separate bowl. Let the mixture drain, squeezing it until it is dry.Once the potato mixture is dry, transfer it to another bowl.Slowly pour the liquid from squeezing the potatoes. Once you reach a milky starch at the bottom of the bowl, save it and pour on top of the drained potato mixture.Add the 1⁄3 cup all-purpose flour and 3 eggs to the potato and onion mixture.Season with salt and white pepper and fold the mixture until it is evenly combined.Set the mixture aside for a moment.
 You’ll need to prepare the pan in order to cook your Kartoffelpuffer. You can use any kind of pan or skillet, but one that is approximately 8” will work best.Heat 1⁄4 cup canola oil in the skillet over medium heat.
You’ll be working in batches, so prepare a few Kartoffelpuffer while the oil heats up.
To make the Kartoffelpuffer form, measure 1⁄2 cup potato mixture, flatten it into a 4-5" pancake with your hand.Once you have a few raw Kartoffelpuffer formed, add them to skillet and fry. Flip them once until they are a golden color and cooked through.
It will take about 8 minutes to finish each batch.Transfer finished Kartoffelpuffer to a paper towel-lined baking sheet or plate to remove excess oil.Repeat the process with the remaining mixture until with more oil, as needed, and remaining potato mixture. Serve pancakes with applesauce on the side.
 Add the topping of your choice to the Kartoffelpuffer. The time has come for you to enjoy your Pfannkuchen!


Kartoffelpuffer are usually served with applesauce or an herbed sour cream called Kräuterquark. You could even put ketchup on them.