

Asthma.
Type 2 diabetes.

Sleep apnea.
Fatty degeneration of the liver.;
, Children who are obese can suffer social discrimination. The stress caused by this can lead to low self-esteem. This in turn can slow down intellectual and social performance. These debilities may carry over into adulthood.
 The following steps will help you bring about the changes your child needs to defeat obesity.


Develop Healthy Eating Habits
Limit the eating of sugar and saturated fats, and especially trans fat.
Make available a generous supply of vegetables, fruits, and whole-grain products.
Advocate drinking more water and less sugar-sweetened drinks.
Serve appropriately-sized portions. Remember how small your child's stomach really is.
When possible, use low-fat or non-fat milk or dairy products as appropriate. In some cases low fat milk is not appropriate.
Select lean meats, poultry, fish, and beans for protein.
Make healthy changes to old recipes.
Replace high-sugar high-fat foods with healthy alternatives.
Remove unhealthy temptations.


Increase your child's physical activity. It is recommended that children and teens get an hour of moderate intensity physical activity daily. A few examples include:
A brisk walk
Jump rope
Swimming
Playing soccer
Dancing
A game of tag


Limit the time your child spends watching TV, playing video games, or surfing the Web. A two hour limit of sedentary time is a good goal. If your child can’t control his or her time on the Internet on his own, consider buying a software-based computer timer such as Ez Internet Timer. With this program, parents can easily enforce time limits.
 Reward your child with things other than 'treat' foods so they grow up feeling chocolate, cake, cookies, chips, fizzy drinks etc are not something they deserve or a form of consolation. Avoid them forming a habit of comforting eating, if possible. It's easy for parents to feel they are depriving their children if they deny them what their peers are enjoying. You're being a good parent if your child has a healthy, balanced diet, however much the child may whinge and whine, that, "Everyone else is allowed candy for breakfast".