 The most common injuries incurred during seizures are bruises and fractures. Take steps ahead of time to pad hard surfaces and prevent trips and falls.Cover hard flooring with rugs or carpeting.
Keep stairways free of obstructions.
Place a very soft rug or carpet at the bottom of stairs in case of a fall.
Make sure there are no trailing cords or wires you could trip over.
Use cordless devices whenever possible.
Keep your bed low to the floor and/or place cushions around your bed in case of fall.;
, Seizures can occur while cooking, standing near a radiator, or blow-drying one’s hair. Take steps ahead of time to prevent burns, scalds, and other heat-related injuries.Use a microwave instead of a gas/electric cooker.
Make sure there are no cords trailing from heated appliances.
Place guards on heaters and radiators.
Avoid using heated appliances (such as hair-dryers) when you are alone.
Ensure that all smoke detectors are working properly.
 The bathroom can present a number of risks to a person with epilepsy. Fortunately, you can take some steps to make your bathroom a safer place.Take a shower instead of a bath.
Ask someone to stay in the bathroom with you, or wait outside the door and listen.
Put an “occupied/vacant” sign outside your bathroom door instead of using locks.
Have a bathroom door that opens “out.” This way if you fall against the door, you will not block anyone from coming in.
Make sure bathroom fixtures fit as close to the wall as possible, to reduce the risk of hitting your head.
 It can offer both safety and peace of mind to install alarms in your home. These devices can let someone (either someone at home with you, or someone in a remote location, depending on the alarm) know if you’ve experienced a seizure. These devices come in a variety of types for a range of prices.Here is a sample of what is available:


Baby monitors and other “listening” devices
Visual monitors
Fall alarms (which can be set off if someone hits the ground)
Telephone alarms (which can be operated by remote control if someone needs help)
Smart watches (which can let someone know if you’ve had a seizure).

