 In the Things You'll Need section you will find a list of necessary items and equipment. Most of this you will be able to find at a hardware store. Some items may require shopping online. Be sure to have everything together and set out before beginning. Be sure to wear your safety gear at all times.;
, Cook the batch of kelp on the cooking tray above the burner. Be careful to pile the kelp so that it stays on the tray while it is cooked. Ensure proper ventilation exists as the burning process may cause enough smoke to set off an alarm.
 Pour the water into a beaker to be boiled. Remove the kelp ash from the burner. Deposit the ash into the beaker and stir.


You will need about a dozen 50cm lengths of kelp for this step.
Pile your kelp so that air can flow into the pile. This will help with evaporation and speed up the process.
 Allow the solution to heat until it boils.
 Secure the filter with a rubber band. Pour the still-hot solution into the second beaker slowly. Allow time for the water to filter into the second beaker. When you are finished, remove the coffee filter and rubber band.
 Do this very slowly to avoid splashing. Because you are using a diluted solution, splashing should have minimal effects but should be avoided nonetheless.
 This is about 1.6 moles of hydrogen peroxide. Mix the solution briefly with a stirring rod. As the hydrogen peroxide oxidizes the iodine ions you will see the solution turn brown.


Be careful as you procure the 20 volume hydrogen peroxide. Many health and beauty stores that stock different volumes of hydrogen peroxide do so for dying hair. These hydrogen peroxide solutions may not be pure, and they may contain conditioners in addition to the hydrogen peroxide.
 Make sure the bottom is closed off tightly. Place the separating funnel over the sink to drain with running water later.
 Close the separating funnel with a rubber stopper in the upper opening. Shake the funnel and mixture for about 30 seconds. Replace the funnel. Remove the top stopper briefly to release any pressure. When the solution separates open the lower valve to drain off the water.
 Move the dish into a fume cupboard. This will limit your exposure to toxic fumes released during evaporation. As the solution evaporates, iodine crystals will form in the evaporating dish.


There is no need to heat the solution. The evaporation will take place properly at room temperature.
 Place the crystals in an airtight container promptly. If you wait too long, the iodine crystals will turn into gas (i.e., sublimate).

