 You can do this by clicking on "Create a Stupeflix Account."



Create a username. You will need a username to access your Stupeflix account. Try using your name, and something you like, such as creating and sharing videos. If you can't think of a username to create, try using a username generator to get ideas. Username generators can generate usernames based on categories you choose. You can also try inventing a new word as part of your username.







Choose a password. It is recommended that your password is secure, to prevent password guessing and keep other people from hacking your account. Do not choose passwords like "password" "password123," and "123abc," as these are the passwords hackers first guess when trying to hack your account. Try using uppercase letters to make your password more secure. After you choose a password, try writing it down and having it with you every time you log into Stupeflix so you don't forget it.






Type an email address. This is not required, but is needed for password resets, in case you forget your password.






If you don't want to create a Stupeflix account, you can log in with Facebook or Google. Just type in your login information, and you'll be logged in.





;
, There are many options you can choose from the directory of themes. Here are some things you might want to choose:


Choose the Scrapbook theme if you want to create a scrapbook video. Examples include what you did during the holidays, your travels and memories of a time in your life.






Choose the Party theme if you want to create a video of a party. Examples include a birthday party and a party for the holidays. Creating a video of a party is another good way to create memories.






Choose the 1901 theme if you want to make an old-timey silent movie. Videos and photos appear in black and white, and you can tell a story using text insets.
 This will direct you to the video editor, and there will be two options: "Get a Plan (this is a paid thing that allows you to create and download as many videos as you want)" and "Try Stupeflix (this gives you 1 HD pass)." Choose whatever option appeals to you.
 Your video will consist of elements, such as pictures and title slides.


Import pictures to your video. Try uploading them online. You can also import them from Facebook, Instagram, Flickr, Picasa, Dropbox, the web or record them from a webcam. Click on one of the options under "Add Pictures" and follow the required instructions.






Import audio to your video. A video is always better when there's sound in it! You can import audio from Stupeflix's music lounge (the genres are Pop/Rock, Electronic, Jazz, Folk, Orchestral, Urban and World). You can also upload an audio file from your computer (just click on Upload Audio, then Upload an Audio File), keeping in mind that the maximum file size is 40 MB. Another thing you can do is try text to speech, but this requires a paid Stupeflix plan. You can also try text to speech in the video editor for free, but a Pro or Reseller plan is necessary for you to export the video.






Add a title slide to your video. Just enter the text to show as a title slide, and click on Done. The title slide will then show up in your video.






Enter a map in your video. Just click on "Map," under "Add More." Type a map location, and drag the map marker around until you're happy with your map.







Be sure that the elements you're adding fit the theme of your video.
 Get a Pro or Reseller plan if you don't have one already, since exporting and sharing your video requires a paid plan. Just click on "Subscribe," next to "Pro" or "Reseller," and enter your billing information.

