 Friction from clothes rubbing against your skin is a common cause of nipple soreness. This is common among athletes, and the condition is often nicknamed "runner's nipple." If this is the case, you'll probably notice the following symptoms.General pain or tenderness.
Redness.
Dryness.
Cracks or fissures.
Bleeding.;
, Like with any skin injury, an abrasion on your nipple can cause an infection. To prevent this, wash the area carefully with mild soap and warm water. Dry thoroughly after.When you dry your nipple, air drying is best. If necessary, pat it with a towel. Rubbing will increase the irritation and pain.
Using an antiseptic like alcohol will probably make the inflammation worse.
 Lanolin is a product designed to protect the skin. It moisturizes the area, soothes pain, and heals cracks and abrasions. Creams with lanolin should be available at pharmacies and supermarkets.Alternatively, you could also apply petroleum jelly to the area. This will lock in moisture and prevent the area from rubbing against your clothes., If you're in pain from the chafing, you can apply an ice pack to relieve the area.


Whether you use a commercial cold pack or a bag of ice, be sure to wrap it in a towel. Ice applied directly to the skin can cause frostbite.
Do not leave the ice on for longer than 20 minutes. This can damage the skin. If the area is still painful, allow the skin to warm up before reapplying the ice.
 Once you've treated your sore nipples, you can take steps to prevent future problems.Wear a loose-fitting shirt during athletic activities. Also wear a shirt made from synthetic material instead of cotton, since cotton can be abrasive.
Moisture-wicking materials will also keep sweat away from the area and help prevent chafing.
Women should make sure to wear a sports bra that fits properly. A loose-fitting bra will allow too much movement and cause the nipples to rub against the bra.
Apply Vaseline or petroleum jelly to your nipples. This will help protect the area and prevent chafing.
Cover your nipples with a specialized product like NipGuard. Alternatively you could use a band aid to cover your nipples, but removal may be painful, especially if you have hair on your chest.
 With proper care, nipple abrasions should clear up in a few days. If the area doesn't heal, you should consult your doctor. There may be another condition causing the irritation, like eczema or psoriasis, or an infection with staph aureus.