 There are three basic types of flowers you can place into your arrangements. When you are putting together an arrangement, the focal flowers should be the ones that are showcased, while the accent and filler flowers help make strengthen the arrangement.


Focal flowers are the larger flowers that are the focus of your arrangement. These can be anything, but are often lilies, roses, peonies, dahlias, and Gerber daisies. In a store bought bouquet, there are usually less focal flowers than others because they are larger and rarer.
Accent flowers are the other flowers that finish out your bouquet. There are more of these flowers in the bouquet, and they are generally smaller than the focal flowers. Commonly, they have multiple blooms on them. They may include limoniums, zinnias, and astilbe.
Filler flowers are small wisps of flowers with tiny blossoms. They act as accents. An example of a filler flower is baby's breath.;
, Try arranging your flowers by separating them by color. When you place them in the vase, put the flowers of the same color together. This means you may have yellow on one side of the bouquet and red on the other side.This creates clusters of color that pop and gives your eye something to focus on.
 When you get home, remove the wrapping from around your store bought flowers. Separate the flowers by size. Place all large flowers together, and then the medium. Set small flowers, greenery, and accents to the side.Place all the large flowers in your hand. Arrange them in a pleasing way for you.
Take whatever fillers and small flowers you like and place them in any gaps or thin areas in your bouquet.
Place it in an appropriately sized container. Make sure to trim the stems to fit the container.
 If you have a bouquet that has greenery, a large flower, and smaller cluster flowers, you can arrange the bouquet by adding one part of the bouquet at first. Start with the greenery. Cut the stems so the greenery starts right at the vase line. Cut the greenery so it doesn’t extend too far above the other flowers. Place around four pieces of greenery in the vase.Place a large flower in the center of the vase. Then, place four more large flowers on each edge of the vase. If you have additional large flowers, increase the number of large flowers in each of the five places.
Take the smaller flowers and place them in any holes or gaps. Trim the stems so they are the same height as the large flowers.
 Arranging flowers when thinking in groups of three can help give your arrangement a uniform and cohesive look. Start with three layers. This will include the large, focal flowers, accent flowers, and filler flowers or greenery.You can also group your accent flowers in groups of three. Consider grouping three accent flowers together to place in a gap.

