 This is where most people fail as contrary to popular belief, skipping meals will not help you stay healthy and toned. In fact, it will mean your body will be missing out on important nutrients that keep you strong. Also missing breakfast creates low concentration levels, increased risk of heart disease and extra weight will be harder to lose. Eat all of your meals, especially breakfast, as it boosts your metabolism for the rest of the day, and without it, your metabolism will just be low and you'll burn less fat when you do eat.;
, Rather than skipping meals, just cut down your food intake and spread it out over the course of the day. For example, have a nice-sized breakfast, then a small snack at about 10 AM, then lunch, then another small snack at about 3 PM, then dinner. Eating less food at once, but eating more often will cut down your crazy cravings, and keep your body's energy up.
 When you eat, rather than eating lots of food, eat a few things that really fill you up. Foods that are very filling include porridge/oatmeal, soup, potatoes, eggs, pasta, oranges, beans, salad, avocados, apples, nuts (peanuts and almonds) and bananas. Eating those will fill your body up faster so that you consume less calories. Another food that helps fill you up is popcorn, which makes a great snack.
 Admit it, we're all lazy nowadays, and would much rather grab a chocolate granola bar out of the cupboard than cut up some fruit. However, spending more time making healthy food will save you so many calories! If it's easier for you, chop up fruit and vegetables the night before school/work, then keep them in the fridge in Tupperware containers or plastic bags so that they're easy to grab when you're hungry. When you need a snack, always reach for fresh fruit or veggies (carrot sticks, anyone?!) Dried apricots are good as well, as they're surprisingly filling for their small size.
 For lunch, fill yourself with fresh salad (none of that oily canteen stuff)! Instead of having a burger, try grilled chicken inside a whole-wheat tortilla! Wraps are great for lunch, because they're easy and quick to make. For dessert, instead of having calorie-packed chocolate fudge ice cream, go for a healthier option such as vanilla yogurt.
 Never force yourself to finish your dinner. Just wrap it up and throw it in the fridge (or take it home in a doggy bag if you're at a restaurant). Don't wolf down your meals - give your body time to digest the food and let you know that you're full.
 Yep, that means exercise. But it shouldn't be a chore, go easy on yourself. Instead of making exercise a chore, just incorporate it into your lifestyle. Little things make a difference! For example, when you're watching TV, instead of flopping down on the couch, stand up. Even if you're standing still, you'll burn more calories that way. During commercial breaks, do sit-ups or walk around your living room.
 Before you do anything in the morning (except from waking up, of course), quickly do 50 sit ups while still groggy and in bed. The mattress will be less stressful on your back, and being tired will make you less aware of the pain. Build this up to 100. This fires up your metabolism before you've even eaten anything.
 If you live near school/college/work then walk or bike. Don't use cars or buses if you don't have to. When walking, walk quickly. This speeds up your metabolism, and will instantly give you more time.
 If you have an office job, take a break every hour or so, get up, and walk around your cubicle for a minute or two. During your lunch break, go for a walk around the block. If people are giving you weird looks, ignore them or say you're going to get coffee.
 It doesn't mean you have to join the gym, unless you want to. Instead, take up dancing, aerobics, or a team sport. They're more fun, and burn way more calories than prancing about in a Lycra pant suit. Plus, they'll give you a chance to meet people and make friends. Also, for a toned stomach, visit the swimming pool. And actually swim a few lengths while you're there.
 Running or jogging is a great way to burn calories and keep you in shape. You can go out on your own with your iPod, or grab some friends and start a jogging club. Running can be fun, and it'll help you get the beach body of your dreams.
 Whenever possible, park far away from your workplace or college. This will force you to include plenty of walking in your day's activity. Alternatively, walk or ride your bike to work, instead of driving.
 The US government recommends that adults exercise at moderate intensity for at least 2 hours and 30 minutes every week, and recommend 5 hours if you're looking for major benefits. Children and adolescents should exercise for one hour every day.It's usually more effective to spread your exercise out throughout the week, instead of sticking to one or two days.
 Sleep is essential for your body's rest, and for it to repair itself. It'll make you livelier in the morning anyhow, and you'll be more willing to exercise. It is suggested that you get 7-10 hours of sleep a night at minimum, so set yourself a bedtime, even if you're an adult. For half an hour before you go to bed, calm your body down by reading a book, drinking some green tea, or listening to relaxing music. This way, it'll be easier to fall asleep once your head hits the pillow.
 Don't go crazy and never eat chocolate again, and then run for four hours everyday. Do things in moderation. Eat chocolate every other day, or once a week. Run for half an hour each day. Don't drink too much pop because that just gets your blood pressure higher then normal

