 Take a few toys or blankets that have been touched by the puppy and place them throughout your house. You can also wipe down your couch or other furniture with a towel that you used to rub on the puppy. Animals communicate through scent and this will provide an introduction before the two even meet.Whenever the puppy moves in you can continue this process by placing scented towels, from both animals, in the food or play areas of the other one. This will not generally trigger territorial impulses but will increase familiarity instead.;
, Don't try to introduce them when friends or many people are around. Avoid times when you are stressed, such as right after you come home from work. Animals can sense your stress and they can also behave differently due to stress as well. When you finally bring the puppy into your house make sure that you haven’t recently moved or undergone any other major life change too., Place your new puppy in a separate room or living space (blocked off by baby gates) for a few days. Put their kennel and food/drink in the same place. This will allow your cat to get to know the new arrival without the stress of meeting face-to-face. Observe the reactions of both animals to gauge how a final introduction might go.Even after the two have met, it is a good idea to observe all interactions closely. Your puppy, depending on its size, may be able to injure your cat without even meaning to do so., When you take your puppy out of its designated space, go ahead and put a halter or lead on it. This will allow you to control the movement of the puppy, thus ensuring your cat’s safety. It is also okay to put your cat on a leash if you feel that this will add to their safety.It is important to prevent the puppy from chasing the cat because if the puppy is allowed to do it once, then he will want to do it again. Try distracting the puppy with one of his favorite toys and praise him for ignoring the cat.
With an older dog, you can also give them the "sit" command and then do some obedience training while the cat is at a distance. This will teach your dog to pay attention to you rather than the cat.
 As the home’s first resident, it is best to let your cat decide when, and how, to approach your new puppy. It is not a good idea to hold or dangle your cat near to your dog, as this may prompt your cat to strike out in fear. This also sets a stage for future interactions dominated by fear instead of positive feelings and curiosity., If your cat is particularly nervous about newcomers, or if you are simply worried about the process, it may be a good idea to contact a dog trainer in your area who can facilitate the introduction process. Talk with your vet to get a good reference.Before the trainer arrives take a moment to write down your primary concerns. Are you worried that the two animals will harm one another? Are you concerned about your cat’s emotional well-being?

