 With affiliate marketing, you agree to promote related products on your blog or website with affiliate link buttons. When visitors to your blog or website click on that affiliate link button, they are redirected to that merchant’s website. If they make a purchase, you receive a commission. The commission on one sale can be anywhere from $1 to $10,000. The amount you can make depends on what kind of product you promote., Many online retailers who sell products or services offer affiliate programs. If you decide to sign up for a company’s affiliate program, you get a tracking link to put on your blog. When visitors click on that link, the link stores a cookie in their browser that remains for a set period of time, such as 60 days. If the visitor purchases a product from that merchant site within the time period, you earn a sales commission.Most companies give you ready-made text links, banners or buttons. You copy the code and place it on your website to start referring customers to the merchant.Customers can clear their browser cookies at any time, which means the affiliate link won’t work., Affiliate marketing is inexpensive. Not only is it free to join an affiliate program, but you also don’t have to deal with storing or shipping products or with providing customer support. Also, it is a source of passive income. You can be earning money even when you’re not working at your computer. Finally, it allows you to work from home., Other methods of monetizing your blog include selling ad space to sponsors or signing up with an advertising placement service like AdSense. With these programs, you get paid anytime a customer clicks on an ad that is displayed on your webpage.Many people who make a lot of money through ads have hundreds or even thousands of websites. They write search engine optimization (SEO) rich content that directs traffic to their sites.
You get paid pennies per click. You need to attract thousands of visitors to your site per day to be able to earn more than a few dollars per day. If you are attracting that many customers, you can make more money through affiliate marketing., Think about the traffic that will be visiting your blog. If you are writing a blog about sewing, it might not make sense to have affiliate links to weight lifting equipment. Chances are your readers wouldn’t be interested in that product. This means they would be less likely to click on the affiliate link, let alone purchase something through it.Ask yourself if you would use the product and would the majority of your readers benefit from the product. If so, then it might be a good product for an affiliate link.
 Physical products are goods that customers can buy. Typical physical product commissions range from 4 percent to 10 percent. Choose an affiliate program that drops cookies that don’t expire for 60 to 90 days. This extends the time period during which you might earn a commission.To find an affiliate program for a product you want to promote, do an internet search for “product name affiliate program.” For example, search for “potty training affiliate programs.”
Or, if you are looking for products within a certain niche, you can search for “your niche affiliate program.” For example, search for “parenting affiliate programs.”

, An information product is created by another blogger or author to teach something. For example, it might be a course or an e-book. To find these affiliate programs, you generally need to contact the author or blogger directly. Typical commissions on information products range from 30 percent to 50 percent.The commissions are so much higher because the seller typically doesn’t need to pay production and shipping costs.
 Think of the services you use and that your readers are likely to use. For example, a parenting blogger could promote child care or tutoring services. With services, you are likely to earn repeat commissions as visitors to your blog may purchase from the service on a recurring basis. Typical commissions for service affiliate programs range from 15 percent to 30 percent. Some service affiliate programs may pay even higher commissions, depending on what the service is.