 Canines are naturally carnivores, for the most part, and some well-cooked meat will be much appreciated by your dog. However, there are a couple precautions you need to take:


Make sure there are no bones in the turkey. A human will take the time to remove a bone from the meat they're eating, but a dog will ignore it. This could cause health complications for your dog if the bone is large or sharp.
Cut the meat into small pieces. Large slices of turkey will be difficult for your dog to eat. Smaller pieces will make it easier for him to eat, and it'll slow him down a little so he won't scarf it down in seconds.;
, Vegetables are a healthy addition to a dog's diet, and most are happy for a change of pace. Again, make sure you cut the vegetable into small pieces. Good vegetables for dogs include:


Green beans
Lettuce
Carrots
Corn (but not on the cob)
Celery
Mashed potatoes (only if they're plain)

, Tear bread into small pieces for your dog. Raw-dough is no good for dogs, though.
 If you have a bit of pumpkin or some apple slices left from making Thanksgiving pies, it's okay to pass them to the dog. The pie itself might not be a good idea.
 Cranberry sauce is fine for dogs, with one caveat-- it's high in sugar. Use caution if you want to introduce your dog to a sugary food like this.
 There are a number of foods that should never be given to a dog. If you have any of these on hand, keep them far away from your dog:


Grapes and raisins
Onions, garlic, scallions, and leeks
Milk and dairy products
Spices (and anything that might contain them)
Alcohol
Fatty foods
Salty foods
Anything raw

, There are plenty of foods that your dog can eat, but don't give them to her all at once, especially if she isn't used to human foods. Give your dog a small amount of one, two, even three dishes approved above.
 Just like humans, dogs can have allergies and sensitive stomachs. Your dog might be fine with a food that makes your neighbor's dog violently ill. Again, use moderation when introducing your dog to new foods.

