 Usually the cut off date is at the beginning of open call auditions for the next season.


Go to nbcthevoice.com to check what the next season's cut off date will be.;
, This can include citizens, naturalized citizens and green card holders.


You will be asked to show proof of citizenship, so make sure you have a valid green card, US passport, social security card or driver's license.
 Do not apply for The Voice if you are running for public office. You must also be able to promise not to give an appearance of impropriety in the auditions and during the show, if you are chosen.
 People with disabilities are encouraged to apply; however, you must believe you fit this qualification upon applying in order to be considered.
 This will be done by employees of The Voice.
 The following are necessary dates that are reserved for travel:


Travel to New York, Atlanta, Los Angeles or Chicago for auditions. These locations may change from season to season. This initial audition must be at your own expense.
Travel to Los Angeles for 1 week 1 to 2 months following your initial audition. Lodging and travel for final The Voice auditions is paid for by the show.
Travel and reside at an undisclosed location for up to 9 months during filming. Lodging and travel for season competition is paid for by the show.
 Choose the date that you can attend.
 Once you complete the registration, you will be given an artist number.
 You can do this with your account at NBC.
 You are responsible for the total cost of the initial audition.
 You will receive an email reminder.
 You must have this piece of paper and a photo ID in order to audition.
 Wait to be escorted to the audition room.
 Wait to see if you make the final audition.
, You cannot try out for The Voice on video and in person.


Video submissions are available all year round. Although there is not a deadline, you must ensure you meet all eligibility requirements before submitting.
 It is located at www.nbcthevoice.com/downloads/The_Voice_Video_Submission_Application_021913.pdf.
 You are not allowed to audition a cappella.
, You should be creative in telling The Voice judges who you are and why you want to join The Voice.
,, Address it to "The Voice Casting, 5914 Smiley Drive, Culver City, CA 90232."

, Wait to receive word.

