 Place a heavy skillet on your stove top. Turn the heat to medium-low and allow the pan to heat for at least 5 minutes.If you have a table top grill or panini press, you can use it to make the grilled cheese sandwich if you prefer.
 Add 1 cup (230 g) of sour cream and 4 teaspoons (3 ½ g) of taco seasoning to a small bowl. Mix the ingredients together until they’re fully blended.If you prefer, you can use reduced-fat sour cream.
You can use packaged taco seasoning or a homemade blend if you prefer.
 To make two grilled cheese sandwiches, you’ll need four slices of bread. Spread some butter on the outside of the slices, and place two of the slices, buttered side down, into the heated pan.You can use any type of bread that you like, but it should be fairly thick and hearty so the bread can support the heavy fillings.
 Use a butter knife or small spatula to spread the sour cream mixture over the tops of the slices of bread in the skillet. Make sure that the sour cream is spread evenly across the slices., To fill the sandwiches, divide 1 large, sliced tomato, 1 sliced avocado, ½ cup (50 g) of chopped green onions, ½ cup (100 g) of sliced black olives, and 2 handfuls of tortilla chips between the two sandwiches to top the sour cream mixture. Be careful not to overfill the sandwiches, though.You can omit, add, or substitute your favorite nachos toppings to fill the sandwich.
If you want a heartier sandwich, consider adding some chili or taco meat.
You can use plain or flavored tortilla chips depending on your preference. It often helps to crush the chips before adding them to the sandwich, so they fit more easily.
 Next, set the two remaining slices of buttered bread on top of the sandwiches with the buttered side up.You can substitute your favorite type of cheese in the sandwich. Cheddar and monterey jack are tasty options.
 Allow the sandwiches to cook in the skillet until the bottoms become a golden brown. It should take approximately 5 to 7 minutes.Resist the urge to turn up the heat on the sandwiches so they’ll cook more quickly. They can can burn in a hurry if you use too much heat.
 When the bottom of the sandwiches are golden brown, use a spatula to carefully flip them over in the pan. Allow them to cook on the other side for another 3 to 5 minutes or until it is also golden brown and the cheese is melted.Serve the sandwiches alongside more tortilla chips and salsa.

