 Let's set the record straight right from the beginning: Growing your nails actually means not breaking them. Generally speaking, you can't magically make your nails grow faster, but you can get the strong and less prone to breaking, so they stay long and beautiful. That being said, there are a couple of products that claim to promote nail growth:



Nail hardeners. These are clear "polishes" that use formalin (methylene glycol dissolved in water) as the strengthening agent.They're like nail polish, only with a shield and a machete.

Growth gel. Does it work? Well, maybe. Sally Hansen's VitaSurge Growth Gel says, "The multi-active bead infused formula instantly releases a surge of nourishing Vitamins A, C & E to nourish and treat nails for healthy growth."Multi-active bead infused formula? Sure. Take that for what it's worth.;
, While it won't speed up the growing process, Biotin has been linked to stronger, less-breakable nails.If you suffer from brittle nails that just won't grow out, it's possible this could help. You might see a change in your hair and skin, too!


This is available in some dietary supplements -- but it'll probably involve reading the "ingredient" label. Look for vitamins and supplements that claim to improve the look of your hair, skin, and nails; they probably have Biotin in them.
 It's a long-held opinion that your diet determines what your nails look like (amongst other things). Well, that's true to a point. The fact of the matter is that if you live in a first world country in today's day and age, you probably get enough of everything. So while a better diet -- more protein specifically -- can make a difference, take it with a grain of salt. "Not getting enough protein" is hardly an issue for most of us anymore, vegetarians included.


That being said, it's never a bad idea to ensure that your diet is balanced for general health purposes. The more nutrients and vitamins you get, the better your body will look overall, nails included.
 If you're into long, beautiful nails, you've probably heard that there are right and wrong ways to file your nails. When you take your file or emery board to each finger, go toward the center on each side. It doesn't matter what shape you do, just make sure you go from right to center and left to center, not back and forth.


And while we're at the "don'ts," don't cut your cuticles, either. Push them back, sure, but don't cut them. That's your skin's last and final barrier against bacteria (it's on your entire body, after all) -- don't mess with it.
Though it's ultimately a matter of personal preference, you may want to stick to round nails. Square one have more of a tendency to catch, ultimately breaking more easily and more often.
 If you're painting them, that is. It's probably best if they're bare (polishes can eat away at your nail), but we all know how tempting color can be. If you can't imagine possible having nude nails, always use base and topcoat. Just plain polish keeps your nails from being able to breathe, ultimately weakening them. Applying a base beforehand and a topcoat after provides that barrier and the topcoat keeps the polish looking good, keeps you from picking at it, and tops your nail off with a seal-like finish.


Watch out for polishes that have chemicals -- they won't do your hands any favors. If it's something you're concerned about, you can find colors that are "natural," "vegan," or "chemical-free." Putting formaldehyde on your nails?No thanks!

, Whenever your hands get wet, use moisturizer. After showers, doing the dishes, playing in the rain, whenever. Heck, throw some on when you get bored. This can actually help with nail growth, too, as it keeps your entire hand hydrated and healthy.


But believe it or not, you may want to skip the lotion. The better option is hand ointments and buttery, thick creams with petrolatum or glycerin.
Hand sanitizer actually dries hands out. So if you use it, be sure to negate the bad effects with extra moisturizer.
 If you're victim of the occasional "sandpaper hands," exfoliating is especially important. When you notice a buildup of dry, flaky skin, take it as your body's cue to exfoliate. Scrub your hands for two minutes or so with a tablespoon of sugar and a few drops of olive oil. Rinse it off and pat your hands dry.; don't rub.


While they're still damp, slab on some more moisturizer for good measure. Do this once or twice a week and you'll see visible changes.
 Sugar and olive oil aren't the only things you probably already have lying around that can make your hands baby smooth. Here are a couple of ideas:


Sprinkle some baby powder on your hands and briefly rub lightly in. Then pour some bath salts into your hands, a few drops of hand wash, wash and rinse. Be sure to use warm water!
Leave an application of coconut or palm oil on your hands for about 10 minutes. Wash away the oil with salt, not soap. Use some warm water if need be.
Wash your hands in vinegar and cover with powdered sugar. Scrub your hands lightly for a minute or two and wash off with warm water. This will also remove dirt and enhance the fairness of your hands.
Cocoa butter works great, too. You can even make some yourself!

, Take a spa night for yourself and moisturize the hours away. All you need to do is apply a thick coating of cream or hand ointment to your hands and slip on a thick pair of cotton socks over your hands -- and feet, if you'd like! Do this right before bed so you're not wondering, "How the heck am I supposed to type this email?!" When you wake up, you'll wake up to shockingly smooth hands.


If you can't swing the entire night, do it while you're watching TV or otherwise relaxing and don't need your hands. Even an hour will make a noticeable difference.
 Unfortunately, some soaps aren't that great for your hands -- after all, killing bacteria is no easy job. To be as hygienic as possible, they can actually dry your skin out, exacerbating the problem. Make sure the soap that you keep in the bathroom and the kitchen isn't one of these products!

, This is good both for nail growth and hand softness. Whenever you're doing dishes, cleaning up, or just generally being active with your hands, cover them with gloves (rubber or otherwise) or mittens. Heck, even when you're in cold weather. The fewer elements your hands are exposed to, the better.
 Some people like to think that working your hands promotes blood flow when it's just not true. How many manual laborers do you know that have long, beautiful nails and gorgeous, soft hands? Right. So if you can avoid using them, do so.


What's the easiest thing to stop? Using your nails and fingers as tools. Sure, you'll have to walk all the way to the scissors drawer, but don't open that package! It's a little hard to say "don't do the dishes," or "don't organize your closet," but not putting using your hands and nails as a source of pressure is something you can actually do.
 You know who you are! If you're the reason your nails are short, you've only yourself to blame. When you feel the urge to bite your nails or pick at them, sit on your hands or do something creative with them to talk your mind out of it. The urge will pass -- it's just a bad habit that needs to be broken.


Don't pick at your nail polish, either. The more under duress your nails are, the quicker they'll break. You shouldn't be picking at your nail polish if you're maintaining your nails and using hardeners and topcoats!

, Remember how we talked about getting enough protein and the fact that in today's global economy, it's hard not to? Well, if you're crash dieting, that may not be the case. For the sake of your nails, it's important to eat and eat right. If you're starving yourself, your nails will be starving, too. Maybe your waistline looks good, but your hair, skin and nails will look terrible. It's not worth it.


The more your diet includes fruits and veggies, whole grains, low-fat dairy and lean meats, the better. It's fine to cut calories, just don't be ridiculous about it. The fewer you intake, the fewer that can get devoted to growing and repairing your nails and keeping your hands healthy.

