 You may want to double-check that you can finish a run as long as the event that you’ve prepped for. Resist the urge! It’s important to go easy on yourself so you’ve got the maximum amount of energy for the run.If you feel like you’re going to go wild without some physical activity, you can always do yoga, stretch, or dance.
Remember to sleep, too.
 If you live in a town that annually holds a big race, you might have noticed that the night before, the town often holds a giant pasta dinner in town hall or a public park. The carbohydrate consuming that you did during your training should reach a frenzy right before the race. Lean into it--food is fuel, and pasta is delicious.


If you have a running group or squad, have a pasta potluck and wish each other luck the night before.
 Start off on the day of the big race by waking up with extra time. Do a few dynamic stretches or jumping jacks, or anything to get your blood pumping, Make sure you don't push yourself too hard, though. Save your energy for the race., Fiber and hydration are important now more than ever. If you’re not usually a breakfast person, it’s still important to eat something. A healthy breakfast of complex carbohydrates and a little protein and fat, paired with a big glass of water, can really help you run faster.


Some great breakfast ideas include oatmeal with peanut butter; a banana with a handful of nuts; and toast, dates, and protein spread.Avoid sugary foods such as donuts or muffins for breakfast, as they won't give you any energy or stamina for your run.
 A big glass of water (around 16 ounces) is a good idea in the hour leading up to the race; dehydration is real, and drinking a moderate amount of water will help you avoid it.Plan to supplement this with water stops along the route, but don't overdo it. If you drink too much water during the race, it'll end up slowing you down.Check if there will be hydration stations available during the race. If not, you can run with a small water bottle.
 There's a performance aspect to running a race, and it's possible to get a little nervous in the hours leading up to it. This is one case in which you don't want to meditate or nap if you're anxious. After all, if you get too relaxed, you won't run as well. So shoot for a physically and mentally calm, but alert, state.


Deep breathing and gentle stretching can help prepare both your body and mind.
Try tensing your already-tense muscles, then relaxing them.It may seem simple, but smiling helps transform your outlook and relax your body. Try it!, You’ve been training for weeks or months, and you’re all ready to begin your long-distance run. No matter what happens, be proud of yourself! You set a goal and sweated a lot as you worked toward it. Hopefully, your first race is so fun that you decide to stick with long-distance running.

