 Take care to avoid substances that alter the blood supply to your brain, which include caffeine, chocolate, alcohol and various illegal drugs.These substances can cause nerves to swell and blood vessels to constrict. This can increase sensations of dizziness. If you do consume any of these, make sure you're not doing so on an empty stomach as the effects will be worsened.
 Absence of good sound sleep can cause or aggravate vertigo. Try to get a full night's sleep starting at about the same time every night and waking around the same time each morning. Though everyone's sleep needs are different, most adults do best with about seven to nine hours of sleep. Children and teens may require more sleep.If you're working on trying to fall into a more consistent sleep pattern, wait until bedtime to sleep and avoid napping during the day. Naps are a great way to recharge your batteries when you have a stable sleep schedule, but they are counter-productive when trying to change sleeping habits.
 The Anti-Inflammatory Diet can be particularly useful to reduce inflammation, including disorders that end in “itis”. This diet also provides all the essential vitamins and minerals, particularly if you eat a variety of foods. The general principles of the Anti-Inflammatory diet (similar to the Mediterranean diet) include the following:Keep your food as close to its original or natural form as much as possible. This means that you should try to limit any processed or prepared foods and cook from scratch as frequently as you can.
Reduce your intake of salt and sugar by limiting your consumption of chips, cookies, cakes, crackers, etc.
Use olive oil as your main cooking oil since it's full of healthy fats.
Avoid fried or fatty foods, like onion rings, french fries, hamburgers and hotdogs, etc.
Limit red meats and eat only skinless poultry or fish.
Increase the amount of fish in your diet. Excellent sources of omega 3 fatty acids include salmon, tuna, sardines and anchovies.
Increase all fruits, berries and vegetables. Include brightly colored berries and fruits and leafy greens, such as Swiss chard, spinach, beet and mustard greens and kale. You should also try to include broccoli, cauliflower and brussel sprouts, which have anti-inflammatory and cancer-preventing properties.Include garlic and onions into your diet as these contain anti-inflammatory and immune-boosting substances., Everyone's exercise needs are different. However, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommend that adults get at least two and a half hours of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise (like brisk walking) per week, along with two days of moderate strength-training exercise (like weight lifting).While this exercise may not cure your vertigo specifically, it will contribute to your overall health and well-being, much like the dietary changes suggested above.
 Yoga is good for vertigo as it helps release the spasms in the muscles of the neck and keep them more flexible and supple. In the long term, regular yoga for at least 30 minutes a day will prevent re-occurrence of vertigo and ensure a better stress tolerance. Yoga also helps with balance and helps cultivate your ability to concentrate and focus.Yoga is great for the mind and body. Your stress levels will be lower, your muscles will be more relaxed, and you may experience fewer episodes of vertigo to boot.
If you are experiencing vertigo, however, you should let your yoga instructor know before class so that she can offer you modifications for poses as needed.
 Vertigo or dizziness may be caused by a serious underlying pathology; you should seek a professional opinion if you have frequent vertigo or dizziness. A full medical work up will help your physician rule out serious underlying pathologies, such as malignancy and tumors.


You can also contact the Vestibular Disorders Association (VEDA) to find support groups and resources that may be helpful to you.

