 Using this code will keep your phone number from appearing on a caller ID display. This code works best when you are making one harmless prank call from a cell phone or home phone. The protection that *67 provides can be destroyed pretty quickly if it needs to be.


This code is fairly useless if the police get involved because they can bypass that code easily to get your information.It usually won’t help you when you prank a toll-free number because those organizations typically use a different phone system.
Most internet-based services, such as Skype and Google Voice, won't let you dial *67 from their lines.;
, Prepaid cell phones, also known as burners, are sold at most gas stations and no personal information from you is required to buy them or use them. Keep in mind that they are equipped with GPS, so if you are using one while you’re at home, you can be traced that way.


Buying these cell phones can quickly turn into an expensive habit, since they aren't cheap. If you're a frequent prankster, burners aren't an ideal solution.
It's entirely possible that your friends and family may begin to suspect that you’re a drug dealer if they see you with burners frequently. This is a common stereotype created mostly by crime-related television shows.
 There are now phone apps that allow you to generate disposable phone numbers to make calls with, essentially keeping your real information hidden and your personal phone number clean. These apps provide the anonymity of a prepaid cell phone at a fraction of the cost, making them a very effective, convenient and cheap solution.


The most infamous app of this kind is called Burner, but there are a handful of others in existence., These services are a great way to make prank calls because they aren’t tied to any location, making them really hard to trace. However, they aren’t impossible to trace by the police, especially if you give them a reason to do it, and you can be arrested.Follow the same guidelines that you use for pranking with a cell phone or landline.
These internet services are usually free to use or have a very nominal monthly fee, making them financially feasible choices for pranking.
 This won’t prevent trouble for the actual owner of the phone, but it will keep you from being caught. Try to be stealthy if you’re attempting this, especially if you’re a frequent prankster and your friends know it.


They’ll probably identify you as the culprit right away and start hiding their cell phones when you’re around.
If you are caught, prepare yourself to face a furious phone owner.
 This is especially true if you live in a small town, but it’s an excellent general rule that all pranksters should follow. When you make local prank calls, especially to multiple local numbers, and your victims end up calling the police, it’s incredibly easy for them to use a local phone company to discover the caller’s identity.


If you are prank calling someone who lives in another part of the country, it’s nearly impossible to trace because your victims aren’t able to call the local police to show up at your residence and give you a lecture.
 Pay phones still exist, although they are getting increasingly harder to find these days. If you’re a serious prankster, it would benefit you to track down the locations of payphones in your area.


Skip around so that you never make a prank call from the same pay phone twice in a row.
If you are making prank calls that are bothersome or upsetting enough for the person on the other end to contact the police, they will definitely start checking security camera footage from the surrounding areas and they’ll probably attempt to lift your fingerprints from the pay phone.