 The relationship between you and your doctor or midwife is very important. When you are pregnant, make sure that you are working with a healthcare professional whom you trust. Talk to your doctor about your baby's development, and the best ways for you to hear the heartbeat, both at home and in her office. Choose a doctor who thoroughly and patiently answers all of your questions., Ask your doctor when you can first expect to hear the heartbeat. Most physicians will schedule for a prenatal exam in your ninth or tenth week. Before your visit, make sure to prepare a list of questions to ask your doctor. The moment will be even more special if you understand what is happening and what to expect.This will be an exciting and emotional visit. Ask your partner or a close friend or family member to come with you to the appointment to share in your excitement.
 Talk to your doctor about what type of exam he will use to hear the heartbeat. Typically, you will first hear the sound when your doctor or technician uses a fetal doppler, which uses sound waves to amplify the heartbeat. You will lie down on an exam table and the doctor will move a small probe on the surface of your stomach. This is a painless procedure.While your doctor can usually detect the baby's heartbeat at nine to 10 weeks, sometimes it takes until 12 weeks to easily detect it.
 If your doctor schedules you for an early ultrasound, you may be able to hear the heartbeat through ultrasound as soon as your eighth week of pregnancy. This is typically performed early if you have some elevated risk factors in your pregnancy. Otherwise, the doctor will typically wait until you are at least 10–12 weeks along. , Be aware that your doctor might be able to use a stethoscope to listen to your baby's heartbeat. However, this instrument is not as powerful as others, so he likely will not do this until you are well into your second trimester. Your doctor or midwife might also use a fetoscope, which is specially designed to listen to fetal heartbeats.