


Define your customers. It's important to know who your target audience is. If you have invented a new toy, your best customers will be children. But, you still have to appeal to the parents who have the expendable income needed to buy your product.;
,


Consider all the costs to produce the invention. This can include labor and the raw materials. Keep in mind that the cost of manufacturing your invention will fluctuate based on the increase or decrease of materials and labor.
Check out your competition. Get an idea or ballpark figure of what the market can handle.
Evaluate your findings. Not only do you need to determine how much profit you can make for each sale, you also need to consider the price consumers are willing to pay for such an item.
, Attend as many trade shows or conventions as possible.


Demonstrate your invention or put it in the hands of investors and distributors at national invention trade shows like the National Congress of Inventor Organizations, INPEX, AOTA or Innovative Products Technologies, Inc.



Ask newspaper editors to publish your press release profiling your new invention. Keep the editor current with successes.
 They may be interested in promoting or putting your invention on their shelves.
 Some bloggers will write reviews for your invention if you allow them to test it.
 You can also market an invention in magazines that cater to your target audience.



Use this website as an online brochure. Highlight what problem or need your invention fulfills. Include information detailing the benefits of your invention. You may want to include a video demonstration that shows consumers how to use your product.
Display good-quality pictures and graphics on your website. Make sure they are professional yet eye-catching. People will judge your invention on the quality of your website.
 Post press releases, offer discounts for new customers and come up with other marketing strategies for your invention that have the potential to go viral.
 Post your invention, a brief description and all contact information that you would like posted with your idea on invention websites.
 Get on the air as a guest speaker or inquire about advertising through their stations.
,


Do extensive research before choosing a marketing firm. If you are introducing a completely new idea, you may need to conduct more market research before you begin advertising your product than a person who has an invention for a booming field.
 It can take a year or longer before you see your invention on store shelves.

