 That means paying attention to your appearance and smile. Put your hair in a style that you know suits you, ensure that your teeth are clean and sparkling and that you've got pleasant breath. Looking lovely will give you a burst of confidence. The best confidence will come with flashing your smile, to show him that you're approachable.;
, Let him see that you're not afraid of anyone bothering you or trying to boss you around. You're in charge of your destiny. He'll like that.
 Don't assume he wants to waltz you off to a wild romance before he even gets to know you. Besides, after spending time with him, he might not be as interesting as you once thought... or he might be. You don't know either way yet, so give yourself the time and space to really find out.


Offer to do homework or study group together. It's a good way of connecting.
Join the same club he's in, provided it's interesting enough to you.
 Sit next to him in class, or at lunch, and make an effort to start a conversation. If you haven’t spoken to him yet, take the opportunity to introduce yourself. Find some things that you have in common, and mention something interesting about yourself so that he remembers you. The next time you see him, even if it’s in the corridors or outside of school, make eye contact, smile and say hello.
 Go up to him, with your confident self projecting forward, and begin a conversation.


Ask to hang out with him. It doesn't need to be a date, just talking in the school yard is cool enough.
Suggest you hang out in the library, common room or classroom if it's cold or raining.
 Let him know you'd like to be friends on Facebook, Instagram, wherever it's cool right now. If you're already making headway with forming a good friendship, he'll be keen.
 Although school can be a lot of fun (at times, when you’re not falling asleep in math), you can’t really get to know someone that well until you’ve spent time with them outside of school. You can play it safe and arrange to see him with a group of mutual friends (for example, going to movies or hanging out at the park), or you can be bold and suggest you do something together as just the two of you. Keep it casual, unless you’re ready to ask him out on a date.


A good way to broach the subject is to ask him to help you with something – homework, sports, or even a hobby of his that you’d like to try. Be creative and find ways to spend a bit of quality alone-time with him.
 Be friendly with him but also to everyone around you. This lets him see that you're interesting to everyone and interested in them as people who matter. This does not mean flirt with other people; it means showing that you connect well, remember people's names and say nice things to other people.
 Show your sense of humor when you talk to him, and feel free to joke around and be playful when you’re with him. He’ll see you as a carefree and fun girl to be around – characteristics of a good girlfriend. However, make sure that you don’t become “one of the guys” – keep your fun side flirty and feminine.


Laugh a lot; it gives the impression you're carefree and open.
Don't be afraid to show him your darker sense of humor. If it's as dark, dirty or macabre as his, good for you, that'll be something to share in common.
Avoid giggling, he-hawing or laughing at things that really aren't funny. The worst you can do is titter at things he says –– if it wasn't funny, just make it politely clear that he needs to up his game in the joke department.
 When you see him in the hall, stop and smile. Flutter your eyes. Check him out. Blow a kiss or two or give him a wink. Then move on.


If he automatically likes you, he will start looking for you. If he backs away or looks nervous, realize that he might not be the approachable type or he might find open displays of affection overwhelming at this stage.
 When it becomes clear that he is really the guy you'd like to get closer to, and he has shown some interest, you can invest some effort in flirting with him.

]

Sit next to him whenever you can. Brush against him often, touching his arm, shoulder and head. Touch his leg with yours; if he doesn't move away, then touch it again harder and this time and leave it there. If he doesn't move, he likes you!
Another way is when talking to him, lightly punch his arm and laugh at his joke, or tap his hand and if he doesn't resist, go so far as to hold his hand!
Smile at him more often, excluding others around you. If he smiles back, look away now and then, so that you don't overdo it.
Gaze into his eyes now and then. If he does the same, smile and let your eyes grow larger big (you can even use eyeliner to create an amazing effect), then look down, then back up at him!
Blow air kisses to him now and then.
Leave little notes for him in his desk. Leave private notes in his social media account. Text him sweet nothings out of the blue.
Compliment him. Say something such as "your eyes are nice" or "you're really smart". (Try not to just make up stuff though, don't lie. There's something good and amazing in everyone, no point in inventing it.)
Play off his mood. If he tells a joke, laugh as much as it looks like he needs, or just a tad more. If he's sad, leave him alone yet tell him you care.

