, Many people make the mistake of putting up a bakery without first knowing how bread is baked. It is not enough that you hired bakers to do the work, you must also know the baking process so that your bakers would not give you a run-around.
 There are a lot of training centers and culinary schools offering baking courses.
 And more often than not, these courses are offered free of charge to prospective bakers as part of the company's marketing efforts. So get in touch with any of the local flour mills and ask for their training schedules.
 Just like kneading dough, getting your hands dirty will let you feel the texture of the dough which will tell you if it is too soft or too dry. “You have to work hard for the bakery to succeed and grow. If you will let the bakeshop just run on its own, nothing will happen. But if you are hands-on, you will know what will be good for your business

,, Look for a location where people congregate like a market, near a school,hospitals, entrance of residential areas or maybe inside which consists of minimum of 2000 houses, a bus or jeepney terminal or even a tricycle terminal and put up your bakery there. Foot traffic areas consists of 400 cars. The people that populate your area are your target customers.
, Do not produce pastries like apple strudels or Italian Rye Breads or Belgian cookies because these products are not the type that people in Tondo consume. These products are for the shopping mall crowd. Try producing pan de sal, Monay, tasty breads, ensaymada etc. These are bakery goods that people in Tondo are familiar with and regularly consume. Also, these are products they can afford.
, If the business grows, then it will be easy for you to expand, rather than start big and downsize later. Suit the type and size of equipment you will buy to the volume of products you want to produce. remember, you should not produce more than you can sell.
, One bag of flour normally produces 1,880 pieces of pan de sal weighing 25 grams each. Get technical help from equipment dealers. Do not just deal with one. Get the best offer and technical advise you can get.
, Customers return to buy bread when they like its taste. Do not give them a different tasting bread when they return because they will either complain or not return anymore.
 In the bakeshop business, quality bread is equal to patronage. “Not only are our bread affordable, they are also made of good quality. From the ingredients to the process, make sure that your breads are made in the best possible way

,, If your employee is happy, they will take care of your business and make sure that your customers are happy too. A happy customer will always return and buy more. And you are assured that your business will grow.
 “You should always learn how to manage your people. Make sure that they follow the rules and regulations, especially the procedures on how to handle the products. As we are involved in food production, we are conscious of the sensitive and delicate nature of our business. Proper management of people will ensure that there is also efficient movement in the work area,”

,, Because you are selling low-value products in quantity, it can be easy to think that pricing is not that important, but every peso must count. Remember Filipinos are barateros, they will prioritize Divisoria first before going to Greenhills.
, Keep a note of what you sell each week and ask people for their opinions. Develop new products based on what is successful. Constant innovation is important as you’ll need to keep people interested and – by extension – coming back to you

, In a saturated industry such as bread-making, innovation will set apart a business from the rest. “While our competitors are always , we continue to innovate with existing products to make them new,”

,, Service must also be topnotch. “If people see that your staff are wearing proper uniforms, observe cleanliness, and offer good service, people will keep coming back to your bakeshop. Sometimes, if all products are the same, the customer will choose a store that has the better service.

