 It's an everyday, immediate way to give yourself an endorphin rush. The act of laughing stimulates the production of endorphins and helps you feel good instantly. Laughter helps to relieve stress and has many other physical and emotional benefits. Laughing has so many therapeutic benefits that some people practice "laugh therapy" to schedule in some healthy laughter as often as possible.
Sharing a joke with friends or finding something genuinely funny is the best way to make the most of laughter. Go for a deep, belly laugh that takes over your whole body.
 True smiles, called Duchenne smiles, result in the production of endorphins, giving your mood a boost.A Duchenne smile is one that engages your entire face, including your eyes. It's almost impossible to fake, and it only happens when you're really feeling happy.


A smile that engages just your mouth, and not your eyes, doesn't have the same beneficial effects.
To boost your mood with a smile, try looking at pictures that make you smile, or talk to a person who makes you happy.
 Studies show that gossiping stimulates pleasure centers in the brain and releases endorphins. Scientists believe that since we're social animals, and gossip developed as a way to stay connected, and we're rewarded for gossiping with an improved state of mind.Get together with people and talk about your friends and family.


Remember that gossip is the act of talking about other people, but it doesn’t have to be negative in tone. Just updating your mom on what your brother has been up to, or cracking jokes about your uncle's antics, is a way to strengthen family bonds and improve your mood.
 That feeling you get when a loved one walks into a room is the result of a mini flood of endorphins.Adding more love to your life is a great way to improve your happiness level. It's not something that will happen right away, since love takes awhile to blossom, but if you put your mind to developing closer relationships you'll end up reaping the benefits. This is true of both romantic love and platonic love.
 Being intimate with someone releases endorphins that make you feel great. You have the combined feeling of love plus the benefits of physical touch and the endorphin rush of having an orgasm. Having sex will boost your happiness right away.


Having an orgasm on your own works, too. When you orgasm, endorphins are released into the bloodstream, immediately improving your mood.