 In most cases, you are much better off keeping your job search a secret from your current employer. Even though there is nothing technically wrong with looking for a new job, your current employer may take it personally or become concerned that your attention is no longer focused on your work.


Telling your current employer that you are looking for a new job can harm your relationship and prevent you from being considered for new opportunities or promotions within the company. If your search for a new job turns out to be unsuccessful, this can be very bad indeed.
You should also be extremely cautious about telling your co-workers that you are looking for a new job, even if you think they are trustworthy. Telling other people at work simply increases the chance that your boss will hear about it on the grapevine. If you do end up leaving, your boss should hear it from you first, not through office gossip.;
, Many employees make the mistake of including their current boss as a reference on their resume. However, this can backfire terribly when a potential employer rings your current boss, who has no idea that you're currently job-seeking.


Putting your current boss down as a reference without telling him/her is unprofessional and can be very harmful to your relationship with them. It can also make him/her disinclined to give you a positive reference, making you less likely to get the job.
Instead, include previous employers and co-workers as your references, preferably ones you had positive relationships with and where you left the company on good terms.
 Although professional networking sites such as LinkedIn can be a great tool for self promotion, networking and knowledge sharing, you need to be careful about what information you put on your profile.


When using these sites, don't advertise the fact that you are actively searching for new jobs, or at least set your profile to private.
Avoid uploading your resume to online job websites, as someone in your company could easily see it and alert your boss.
 One of the most important considerations when searching for a new job is timing. All of your job searching should be done on your own time; do not use your work computer to job search or use your work email to send off resumes.


It is not unheard of for employees to get in trouble or even fired for job searching on the company’s time. Therefore, it is very important to be professional and maintain a good relationship with your employer.
Do your job hunting in the evenings and at weekends. It can be very tiring to maintain a full time job and search for new work opportunities, but the time and effort will pay off once you have secured a new job and have the ability to leave your current position on amicable terms.
Keep in mind that even if your current employer finds out that you are job searching, you can't get in trouble if you haven't been using company resources to do it.
 You shouldn't put your work email or phone number on your resume, as most companies screen their employee's systems and internet activity.


If you have to speak to a potential employer during the work day, try to do so on your lunch break, on a personal phone. Try to step outside while your on the call, as this decreases the chance that someone will overhear your phone conversation.
Use a personal email address to contact potential employees and refrain from checking it throughout the day. Check it once per day, after you get home from work. If an email is time sensitive and you must answer it, try to reply to it on your lunch break, from a personal device.
 If at all possible, you should avoid scheduling interviews throughout the work day. Try to organize them for before or after work hours, at the weekend, or during your lunch break (if time permits). This is the most professional approach, and your prospective employer should respect you for it, even if it is not as convenient for them.


If none of this works, then take some time off work to do the interview. Avoid lying about why you're taking the time off, as far as possible. Don't just call in sick, tell your employer that you need some time off for "personal reasons".
If you end up scheduling an interview for after work or during you lunch break, be careful about what you're wearing. If you normally dress casually for work but suddenly show up in a suit one day, your boss and co-workers will know that something is up. Try going home to change before your interview, or pack your interview clothes in a bag.
 When you have found a suitable match and obtained a job offer, ensure that you accept the offer, wait for references to be checked and have a start before resigning from your current job. The last thing you want is to have the new job offer withdrawn after you have resigned from your current one.


Be sure to remain professional by giving your current job adequate notice and providing a handover. This should help to avoid any hard feelings from your coworkers and superiors.
It will also be reassuring for your new employer to know that they have chosen someone with respect and a high level of professionalism.
 Searching for a new job is a big undertaking, so it’s important to be organized and make a plan. Ask yourself questions about your current role, being as honest with yourself as possible. Once you realize what’s lacking in your current position, you can figure out what you want from a new one.


Try to identify your strengths and weaknesses and your current skill set. Ask yourself whether you are happy in your current role and if it's allowing you to reach your full potential.
Figuring out the answers to these questions will help you to understand yourself better and give you a clearer idea of the direction you want your career to go in.
Once you've established a direction, you can set yourself a short-term 6 month plan and a long-term 2-5 year plan. Making detailed career plans will help you to stay focused on your goals and avoid becoming complacent.
 Once you have made a plan and know which direction you want your career to go in, the next step is to identify the kind of jobs you wish to apply for.


Having a basic idea of the direction you wish to go in will help you to streamline the job searching process. Look at job websites, job listings on specific company websites and lists of job openings on LinkedIn and search for the job title or field of interest you wish to work in.
You can look at similar job roles with other organizations and compare them with your current role. Alternatively, you can look at jobs on a higher level or in a different sector and see what skills you already have and if there are any skills you are lacking.
Don't be too concerned if your skills or experience don't match the job descriptions exactly - at this point your are just trying to get a sense of what's out there and the areas or positions that you might have an interest in working in.
 If you haven’t already, update your resume to include your current job. Write down any new skills you have gained from your current job, then relate them to your goals and what you have decided you want from a new role.


For example, if you want to change careers, prepare a functional resume to show off your transferable skills. However, if you are looking for a similar position to the one you currently hold, a chronological resume that highlights your relevant work experience will be most beneficial.
It’s great to get into the habit of updating your resume every 3 months. That way, you are constantly analyzing your own performance and working towards your goals. Even if you are not actively job searching outside the company at the moment, you never know when another attractive opportunity may come up.
 In addition to a resume, you will need to include a cover letter with each of your job applications. A cover letter is a chance for you to draw attention to important information from your resume and provide addition details. It also allows you to express why you want to work for this specific company and what personal skills or experiences uniquely qualify you for the job.


Before you start the job search process in earnest, it's a good idea to write up a sample cover letter, which you can tweak later on to make it relevant for specific jobs. Having a basic template will save you time later on.
It's very important that you tailor each cover letter to the specific job you are applying for. Generic cover letters are boring for the reader and will not make you stand out from the other applicants. A good, well-tailored cover letter will tell a prospective employer why you want to work for their company and show them how you could positively contribute to the team.
For more information on how to write a compelling cover letter, see this article.
 There are many ways to look for a new job. The most obvious way is to look for job listings online and in newspapers. Look for recently posted job opportunities that match your skills and qualifications, then send an up-to-date resume and cover letter to each employer.


Some of the best sites for job searching include CareerBuilder, Dice, Glass-door, Indeed, LinkUp, Monster and Simply Hired.
 Another way to find out about open positions is through networking. This is where you work any connections you might have or try to make new connections in order to get your foot in the door at a new company or business.


There are multiple ways to network - you can ask an employee of a company you're interested in working in out for coffee, attend large-scale networking events or simply send someone an email.
 Once you have applied to as many jobs as possible, you will hopefully start to hear back about some interviews. It's important that you be as prepared as possible for these interviews, in order to maximize your chances of getting the job. You may find the following articles helpful when preparing for any interviews:


Prepare For A Job Interview
Have A Good Job Interview
Answer Tough Questions in an Interview
Dress to Impress at Your Interview
Follow Up After a Job Interview

