 If both of your families live within easy traveling distance, you may be able to spend certain holidays with both sides. For instance, it’s easy to spend Christmas Eve with one side and Christmas day with the other, but what do you do about Thanksgiving? It may be possible to do half of the day with one family and half with the other, but this can lead to complications and stress about keeping a schedule.Consider asking a family to celebrate a day later, if possible, or split the day's traditions without committing to a full event at both homes.


For instance, maybe the two of you can join Joe's family earlier in the day to watch the annual Thanksgiving Day Lions game, then head to your own family's Thanksgiving dinner.
Be careful not to set a demanding precedent the first year, or you may be expected to repeat it. Keep things manageable, and remember that compromise will be needed on both sides.
 Either you or your future spouse may associate one of the holidays with special spiritual significance. Even if you both adhere to the same formal doctrine you may need to make a decision about something like which place of worship to attend.Further, one of your families may consider it significant that you and your partner worship with them.
The decision about where, how, and with whom to worship is equally up to your and your future spouse - and no one else. That said, if one of you are more dependent on religious belief, or are from a family that takes worship seriously, it may be worth defaulting to these criteria regarding decisions about holiday events.
 In the course of dating your future spouse, you have hopefully gotten to know a lot about how they see the world, and about whatever religious affiliations they have. Even so, the increased proximity to one another’s lives that a marriage proposal may bring may also bring with it newfound realizations about how seriously each of you feel about one or the other’s chosen belief system.Take care to acknowledge any dates and plans that may be especially meaningful to your partner. Especially if you are uncertain about specific holidays or events, ask something like, “Which of the upcoming events are important to you, and are there some I should make a point of planning to attend with you?” Have this conversation before you agree to plans with either family.
That said, neither of you should feel obligated to attend or adhere to all of the religious practices one of you decides to partake in. In this and every realm of your relationship, balance and communication are vital.
 It may not be ideal, but if a certain scenario requires you and your future spouse to be apart for part of the holidays, don’t let it wreck your cheer. This may be likely in certain scenarios, especially if one of you have to travel substantially to visit family and your partner has tight professional obligations closer to home.If it so happens that you have to be apart, be sure to video chat with one another and allow your intended spouse to say hello to everyone you’re celebrating with. Consider exchanging plans about when everyone will see each other again too.

