 Our gestures often communicate messages more powerfully than words.Remember that body language plays an important role in social interactions. Be wary and take time to reflect on messages you give others through your posture, eye contact, and facial expressions.


If you are avoiding eye contact, standing far away, or crossing your arms, you are likely telling others that you don't want to interact.Adopt a confident pose, and smile a bit more, Make frequent eye contact with people you are talking to; stand tall and unfold your arms. This way you are certainly more likely to create a good impression on people you speak to.
 Watch their body language closely and consider why they are better at interacting with others socially. Observe their posture, their gestures, their facial expressions, and how often they make eye contact. Consider how you might replicate or improve upon your own body language while talking to people.


Determine 'how well' the people you're observing know each each other. This is important, because the body language shared between close friends who are talking differs completely from that displayed by two complete strangers even in an ordinary setting.
Mentally take notes about what you see and observe. This will both guide and help you to become more aware of your own body language.
 Home is often the best place to start learning something new, because you won't be as inhibited in a familiar setting. You could try making a video of yourself in conversation with your family members, and then consider how you can improve your body language. You could also practice non-verbal gesturing in front of a mirror. Enlist the help of family members you are close to, or even close friends- this is another effective approach, as they can give you honest useful feedback that no one else would. Some other tips include 'pulling back' your shoulders, keeping your spine straight, and your chin up, parallel to the floor.


One of the best things about practicing at home is that its obviously a private and a low-pressure environment.
Don't be shy! It just you and the mirror! Have fun trying out different types of body language signs and gestures.
 A smile is universally known to be a great way to show you are open to others, and makes people feel at ease. Just focusing on smiling when you meet people will make things a little easier., Work on making more eye contact as you you get comfortable with it. Don't stare people in the eye, especially if you're uncomfortable with it because that could prove annoying. Whenever you think about eye contact, make yourself look at someone in the eye for just about 3-5 seconds only. As this gets easier, you'll be natural about it.


If you're not right next to someone, look at their ear lobe, or the spot right between their eyes. This is faking it, but people won't be able to tell the difference.
If you're nervous making eye contact, some social psychologists suggest that you practice doing with people on TV. Put on the news and try keeping eye contact with the anchor., You'll feel more confident with the way you look. Spending a little extra time on making sure you like the way you look and feel confident about yourself will make all other social situations easier to be in. Develop a hygiene routine, buy some new clothes or a pair of shoes you liked, and dressing your best not only improve self-confidence they make you naturally more social, too.

