 When dealing with federal taxes due to the IRS in the U.S., you can initiate the entire process of filing for a tax extension online. Go to the right hand side of the page, and click the section that says “pay your tax bill."


If you don't owe multiple years worth of back taxes, but only need a little extra time to file this year's taxes, simply file for an extension--Form 4868. You'll only need to give your personal information and estimate your tax liability. Be aware, any penalties or interest will still accrue, you just won't be in violation., The online installment agreement is probably the easiest way for most people to extend the amount of time they have to pay their taxes. In order to be approved, you’ll need to provide your email address, your physical address from the last place you filed taxes, date of birth, and Social Security number. You’ll also have to meet the following two conditions:Must owe less than $50,000 in unpaid tax, fee, interest, etc. ( Although $100,000 is an acceptable limit for short term arrangements.)
Must file for all unfiled years. In order to be eligible for the offer, you also have to bring any back taxes from unfiled years current. If there are still years for which you have not filed, you must do so in order to be eligible.
 An offer in compromise is basically a settlement agreement between you and the IRS. The IRS generally seems willing to negotiate. Even on their website, they say they’ll accept nearly any agreement that’s all the person in collections can afford, so it would seem to be an agreeable arrangement. Nonetheless, there are several rules for eligibility, including:The person who owes back taxes must be current on all years that are unfiled, and up to date on payments, and not in the midst of bankruptcy.
 If you’re in the midst of serious financial hardship, the IRS will suspend collection activities completely. You will still accrue interest and any penalties for being late, but they put collection efforts on hold indefinitely.They don’t come right out give a great definition or hardship, but they do give an example of hardship: having to sell your house to pay your taxes. You’ll also have to fill out Form 1127 to get approval.
 If your owe back taxes to a state or local government, it's best to contact an attorney to find out what your options are and the procedures to bring your taxes current. While laws governing local property taxes are most likely dictated by state laws, this won't always be the case, so don't assume that the state procedures will automatically apply to your county or municipal government.


If you cannot afford an attorney, contact your local chapter of Legal Aid for assistance. Find your local chapter at http://www.lsc.gov/what-legal-aid/find-legal-aid.

