 A huge part of the attractiveness of dipping is the oral stimulation that it provides. There are several different types of fake chew on the market that can simulate the experience without damaging your health.


Purchase an herbal-based chew such as Jake's Mint Chew or BACCOFF Non Tobacco Chew. Fake chews usually come in several different flavors, including a flavor that simulates the taste and feel of real chewing tobacco.
Chew nicotine gum or regular gum. Some people will only need to simulate the feeling of constantly chewing on something to get their oral fixation. Purchase your favorite chewing gum or nicotine gum and pop a piece in your mouth when a craving arises.
Use sunflower seeds. Sunflower seeds are often eaten during baseball games as an alternative to chewing tobacco. They give you something to chew on and spit out, simulating the feeling of dipping.Begin using these products the day you stop dipping.
 There are several different nicotine replacements on the market that allow your body to get a necessary amount of nicotine without ingesting the other harmful chemicals in tobacco. These can help ease withdrawal symptoms.


Nicotine gum, patches, and lozenges are available over the counter. Gum and lozenges may be the most effective for dippers because they most resemble the action of dipping.
Nicotine nasal spray and nasal inhalers require a prescription from a doctor, and may be less effective for smokeless tobacco users.
If you use more than three cans or pouches per week, you are considered a heavy user and require high doses of nicotine replacement therapy. Those who use two to three cans should try moderate doses, and those who use less than two should use low doses.
 Some drugs are available with a prescription from your doctor that can help with the symptoms of withdrawal. Some can be started a week or so before you begin to quit and can sometimes be used in conjunction with other types of nicotine replacement therapy.


Varenicline (Chantix速) manipulates the nicotine receptors in your brain and helps ease the symptoms of withdrawal. It can be taken in pill form twice daily and should be started a week before you plan to quit. Studies have shown that Varenicline can help to increase long-term quitting success. Some mild side effects such as nausea, dizziness, and vomiting may occur.
Bupropion (Zyban速 or Wellbutrin速 or Aplenzin速) is an anti-depressant that may help smokeless tobacco users, but the evidence is unclear. It does not contain nicotine and comes in an extended-release pill form.Consult your doctor about whether a prescription drug is right for you.
 Keep your body hydrated and try to stay healthy in other areas of your life such as your eating habits.
 Physical activity can distract you from cravings immediately. Just 30 minutes of exercise per day can quell a tobacco craving., Perform any tasks or activities that help you relax. This could be a hobby such as crafting, working on cars, or gardening, as well as some sort of visualization practice.


Try deep-breathing exercises and visualization techniques to calm an anxious mind. If a yoga practice interests you, try visiting a nearby studio or practice a yoga video in your home.
Hypnosis has also been successful in helping some people quit using tobacco.