 If staying home from school isn't a last minute decision, start preparing for your performance. Scream a lot to make your voice raspy, or practice your fake cough.Make sure your parents aren't around while you practice. If they catch on, you'll be going to school.
Most people can feel a cold coming on a day or two before it happens. If you can, mention to your parents that you think you're getting sick., Sneeze and cough, but don't overdo it. Act like you're having a hard time standing up. Keep talking to your family and friends to a minimum. Don't change your mind about what part of your body hurts. If you say you have a headache, stick with it.Try to fall asleep often, especially if you're watching TV. Sick kids tend to fall asleep easily. If you say you're sick one minute, but then get excited about your favorite show, your parents might not believe you.Avoid complaining too much. The trick to acting sick is to not give the impression that you are acting sick. Keep the whining down, and don't make a scene.
 A common way to make it seem like you have a fever is to hold a hot water bottle to your head.Another way is to run a thermometer under hot water to raise it's temperature. This method requires a little work, as well as trusting parents.Be careful when you fake a fever. If your temperature is too high, you may end up in the emergency room where you will soon be found out. Try to keep the fever right around 100-degrees Fahrenheit.Don't stick the thermometer in the microwave to warm it up. This will only ruin the thermometer., This takes quite a bit of skill, but if you can pull it off using makeup will add to your performance. Lighten your skin with some foundation, and make your nose red with a little bit of lipstick.If you don't have your own makeup to use, be careful. If you get caught using mom's makeup, you might be in more trouble than it's worth.
When choosing a lipstick to make your nose red, don't use anything metallic or shiny. Just find a basic red lipstick.Don't go too light when making yourself pale. Find something similar to your natural skin tone.Try putting some of the lipstick you used to make your nose red around the corners of your eyes. Be careful not to get lipstick in your eyes, and only use enough to make it look like you've been rubbing them.