 An adult tapeworm has a small head that is connected to a chain of proglottids. Proglottids are about 1/4 inch (6 mm) long. Each proglottid has its own set of reproductive organs, and, when fully mature, will break off and exit your cat’s body in her feces. Once in the environment, proglottids will move around by increasing and decreasing in length.Proglottids are pale in color and look like cucumber seeds or tiny, cooked grains of rice.An adult tapeworm can be anywhere from 4 to 28 inches (10.2 to 71.1 cm) long, so your cat may pass a lot of proglottids through her feces.;
, Look for proglottids in the areas where your cat frequents, such as cat trees, furniture, and her bedding.Since proglottids are light in color and very small, you may want to use a magnifying glass to look for them.


After being in the environment for a while, proglottids become hard, yellow, and even smaller (around 2mm).Finding proglottids in the environment is the best way to diagnose tapeworms. If you see them, ask your veterinarian about the proper way to dispose of them.
 The proglottids may become stuck to the fur under your cat’s tail and around her anus, so check those areas of her body.In addition, examine her feces in the litter box to look for proglottids. Keep in mind that you may not see proglottids in each section of fecal material—they are not distributed evenly in the feces.
 Tapeworms usually do not make cats sick, so your cat may not show signs of a tapeworm infection. However, if the proglottids get stuck to the fur near her anus, she may start scooting along the floor to soothe the irritation. If the proglottids migrate up to your cat’s stomach, she may vomit. You would see the proglottids in the vomit.The irritation may also cause your cat to start biting or licking at her anal area., As soon as you see proglottids on your cat or in your home, schedule an appointment with your veterinarian. Since each proglottid contains eggs and can release those eggs into the environment, you should make the appointment promptly so your veterinarian can confirm the diagnosis and treat your cat., Your veterinarian will perform a physical examination of your cat.The main thing your veterinarian will be looking for is proglottids on the fur around your cat’s anus.


If your cat has a heavy tapeworm infection, she may become weak or experience weight loss. However, this is very rare.Your veterinarian would notice the weakness and/or weight loss during the physical exam.
If you can, take pictures of the proglottids and bring those pictures with you to the appointment.
 Since the tapeworm is an intestinal parasite that passes through the feces, you may think a fecal examination would confirm the diagnosis. However, a fecal floatation (an examination technique in which a solution of fecal material is analyzed under a microscope) is usually not effective at diagnosing tapeworms. One reason is because tapeworm eggs are heavy and don’t float.


In addition, tapeworm eggs are not typically passed in the feces. They are released into the environment after the proglottids have hardened.Since the eggs may not be in the fecal sample, and wouldn’t float in the fecal solution if they were there, a fecal exam may result in a false negative. In other words, the fecal exam would incorrectly indicate that your cat is tapeworm free., Fortunately, tapeworm treatment for cats is very easy and effective. Medications called anthelmintics will kill the adult tapeworms. There are several types of available anthelmintics, so your veterinarian will prescribe the one that will be most effective for your cat. Tapeworms are digested in the intestine after they die, so you will not see dead tapeworms in your cat’s feces.Anthelmintics come in injectable and oral formulations. Make sure your cat completes the full treatment course so all tapeworms are killed.Praziquantel and epsiprantel are commonly-used anthelmintics to treat tapeworms in cats.
 A monthly flea preventative is the best way to prevent tapeworm infections in your cat.Different types of feline flea preventatives are available, so your veterinarian will prescribe the one that will work best for your cat. Give the preventative year round—if you stop administering it during the winter, you may forget to start it up again in the spring, leaving your cat more susceptible to fleas and tapeworms.



Advantage is a frequently used feline flea preventative.
 Fleas are not the only source of tapeworms. Dead wild animals (e.g.,squirrels, rodents, birds, and mice) can also harbor tapeworms.If you have an outdoor cat, you may want to keep her indoors to keep her away from dead animals.


To keep your cat busy when she is indoors, give her lots of toys and some scratching posts. It would also be a good idea to spend extra quality time playing with her.
If bringing your cat indoors is not a reasonable option for you, consider keeping a close watch on the presence of dead animals in your yard. If you see dead animals, contact a professional animal removal service.
 Cleaning your home is also very effective at maintaining a flea-free environment and preventing tapeworm infections. Vacuuming your floors every 1 to 2 days and cleaning your cat’s bedding in hot water once a week will help remove fleas from your cat’s environment.Vacuum every location where your cat spends time (e.g., perches, furniture) and throw away the vacuum bag afterwards.Replace your cat’s bedding when it starts to look old and worn.Flea larvae like to burrow into dark places, such as bedding, so getting rid of old bedding can remove a heavy flea larvae population., People can get tapeworm infections in the same way as a cat—by swallowing an infected flea. Tapeworm infections in people are rare, and occur mainly in children. If you have children, make sure they wash their hands after they play with your cat.If you have older children who clean out your cat’s litterbox, instruct them to wash their hands after they clean out the litter box.


A child infected with Diplyidium caninum may not show signs of being sick. Heavy tapeworm infections in children can cause abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, and itching around the anus.Take your child to your pediatrician if you suspect they have a tapeworm infection.

