 Although choosing which section of a quote to abbreviate for a student paper or published article is up to editorial discretion (ie, it’s up to you), you must be careful not to influence the meaning of the quote in any way.


To make sure you aren’t changing the meaning, choose words that are not essential to understanding a quotation.
Leave verbs and new subjects alone, but take out words that are already understood by the reader. In other words, it’s permissible to remove phrases that are redundant or repetitive.For example, here is another Charles Dickens quote, this time from the novel Our Mutual Friend: "I cannot help it; reason has nothing to do with it; I love her against reason."
Here is the quote with a redundant phrase removed: "I cannot help it ... I love her against reason."



, Write out the full quote and study it to determine which parts may not be necessary. Then use a highlighting tool to select these words and phrases. Read the quote aloud, omitting these highlighted words.


If you can tell that you have changed the meaning, work with the highlighted areas until you have preserved the original meaning of the quote.
For example, if you were working with the above quote, the bolded words are marked for removal: "I cannot help it; reason has nothing to do with it; I love her against reason."

, Once you have studied the quote and selected passages to omit, go ahead and delete or erase them. In place of the removed section(s), write an ellipsis.


If the removed section leaves the quote grammatically incorrect, add a word or short phrase that bridges the gaps in square brackets after the ellipsis.
For example, it would look like: "She played in the sun ... hated it."

, If you have determined it is possible to delete the rest of a sentence or a whole sentence, you need to add the period that would have been there after the ellipsis. The ellipsis would then look like it has four dots.Remember that an ellipsis has only three dots. The fourth dot is always a period.
Begin the next part of the quotation with a capital letter if it is the beginning of a new sentence.
For example, if you were quoting from the same passage as the Dickens quote in this method, you would take out the sentences we used above and leave the sentences around it like this:

"To enlighten with the lights of a stone passage, a flight of stairs, a brown window-curtain, and a black man .... What a use for the money, and how worthy of its old misuses!"



