 Don't worry, if you find a breeder you can't be sure your cat will be fine and everything in order.;
, If you're having trouble finding the right breed for you, then just look up "What cat breed will fit in with (certain pets, little children, small house, etc.)" on Google.
 All you need to do is look up, for example; "British Shorthair breeders in my location." Look at their website. Check it carefully! Make sure it says the following things:


You can see the mother and/or father. This is extremely important! If you can't see at least one of the parents, you can't be sure they've bred the cat themselves.
It'll be fully weaned, vaccinated, GCCF registered, etc. This is all very necessary. If it doesn't say all this, either move on to a different breeder or proceed with caution!
Be sure they care about their cats and kittens. For example, they might say that they always check out potential buyers, or they don't sell to 'just anyone' to ensure their cats will not be abused/neglected in any way.
If it says all the above, and more good things, they can most likely be trusted.
 Email/ring them. Make sure to include the following information:


Where you live: Near a busy road, big/small house, garden or no garden, etc.
If you have any, tell your children/pets. Say your kids' ages and what kind of other pets you have, and how you think they'd get on with the cat.
What personality and characteristics you'll need your cat to have. Are you an experienced cat owner, or is this your first? Could you cope with a temperamental cat, or will you need it to be steady and calm? Do you want it to be independent and not very sociable, or a lap-cat that loves attention?

, If they don't have a cat for you, find another breeder, or, if you are prepared to, wait for another litter and a suitable cat. If they are interested, and have the perfect kitty for you, schedule a time to visit so you can meet your future companion and discuss prices, etc. Visit the breeder, and if all is well, you can get the cat.

