 If you're paying for the Internet, but aren't necessarily a heavy user, there's probably an easier way to watch YouTube and check your email. Most coffee shops and an increasing number of other retail locations offer free Wi-Fi to customers, and some towns are even undertaking free public Wi-Fi projects. Likewise, most libraries have free Internet connections that you can use. Stop draining your paycheck with Internet subscriptions you could get elsewhere for free.
 If you're paying for the paper, stop. Getting access to the newspaper for free, or getting some variety of reading material doesn't require turning over your hard-earned money.


College campuses regularly make newspapers available in the entryways of certain buildings. They're supposed to be for students, but public campuses are easy to walk around. Get the New York Times for free, or the campus paper.
Free weeklies that focus primarily on arts and entertainment, or other niche markets, are available in most larger towns. Pick them up for free on the street, or in coffee shops, record stores, and other venues.
 The best place for free entertainment has to be the public library. From Wi-Fi to the daily newspaper, you can get almost anything you want for free at the library. Check out the latest DVDs without having to pay for them, read the current issues of your favorite magazines, newspapers, and books, and check out free CDs and upload them to your computer so you can keep them on your iPod. Free stuff, as long as you return it on time.
 Downloading music for free doesn't have to be illegal, or throw you into the deep water of the shady parts of the internet. Learning to find free legal downloads is a great way of learning about new groups and hearing new stuff on the cheap.


Check out Bandcamp and Soundcloud for free singles, free downloads, and whole albums available for pay what you want plans. Enter zero and download albums for free.
If you're a regular user of YouTube when you want to hear a song, you can download the audio files from YouTube videos quickly with a freeware client like YouTube to MP3 or other free programs that isolate the audio and download it to your computer.
 Got a big cable bill every month? Cancel it. Head to coffee shops or bars to watch the big game, or other places where the TV is on all the time. Watch TV while you're doing other things in public and you won't have to worry about paying for it at home. If you have access to the internet, watch your favorite programs on Hulu or other online venues for free instead of paying for 300 channels with nothing on.
 Getting in to a show for free? Why not! While it’s not the most reliable way of getting into an event (at least compared to actually buying a ticket), lots of places like zoos, museums, festivals and concerts will become a bit lazier about guarding the door in the last 20 or 30 minutes before the show's over. Some places, if you ask about tickets, might even just let you go in. Can't hurt to ask.


If you hear about an outdoor concert, don't bother with a ticket. Bring some lawn chairs and set up right on the other side of the fence. Free tunes on a nice night? Who cares if you can't see the stage.

