 Rinse the beef tongue under cool running water and pat dry with clean paper towels.


When buying beef tongue, it is especially important that you purchase it from a reliable source. You may need to buy it in frozen form, rather than buying it fresh, since it is not a common cut of meat in most geographic areas.
 Put the beef tongue in the bottom of the slow cooker. Surround it with your cut onions and garlic cloves, then sprinkle it with salt. Pour the water over the entire thing.There is no need to turn the beef tongue. The flavors of the garlic, onion, and salt should sink into the meat as it cooks.
Cover the slow cooker with its lid before continuing.
 The meat should be tender enough to shred when done.


If you do not have a full 8 hours, you could switch the slow cooker to high and cook the beef tongue for 4 to 5 hours, instead.
Do not remove the lid during the initial cook time. Doing so can release too much steam, and since the steam is partially responsible for cooking the meat, letting it escape can increase the overall cook time by another 15 to 30 minutes.
If the meat does not feel tender after 8 hours, you may need to cook it for another 1 to 2 hours.
 Place the cooked beef tongue in a large dish or rimmed baking sheet. Make a shallow cut in the skin at the open end of the beef tongue, then peel the rest of the skin off using your fingers.


You should also trim away any fatty tissue at the bottom end of the tongue using the knife.
The majority of the cut will be edible meat, even after you cut away the skin and fat.
 Use two forks to shred the tongue meat into pieces. Work from the outside and move inward into the cut of meat.
 Place the shredded tongue meat into a large mixing bowl. Ladle a little of the cooking liquid on top, then toss well to coat.


Use enough liquid to moisten the meat without drowning it.
Ideally, the liquid should be degreased and strained before you pour it over the meat.
 The barbacoa beef tongue is ready to eat and enjoy. Serve it on warm tortillas, and offer garnishes such as cilantro, chopped white onion, and salsa.

