 Help your shy girl feel secure by letting her know you are serious about a relationship and will be loyal to her. Contrary to what most people think, shyness usually isn't due to a lack of confidence. Many shy people and introverts are quite independent, and they will steer clear of superficial or fickle relationships to maximize their alone time.If a shy or introverted girl knows she can trust you, she will be more inclined to pursue a relationship with you. The sooner you make your intentions about the relationship known, the more comfortable and secure you will make her feel.
If you can promise her a genuine, meaningful, honest relationship, she will want to put forth the time, effort, and attention in getting to know you and nurturing your bond together.
 Just because she is quiet and shy, it doesn’t mean you have to be. Even if she doesn’t verbally express it, she is just as excited to get to know you as you are to get to know her. Don’t feel like you have to hold back or match her quiet or shy demeanor.Shy and introverted people are highly observant and sensitive (in a good way), so the more open you are with her, the easier time she’ll have getting to know you and shaking off her shyness.
 Don’t be afraid of the quiet, but if you feel like talking, talk as much as you like. Shy and introverted people appreciate someone else carrying the conversation when they don’t have as much to say. Plus, they are great listeners, so never hesitate to share what’s on your mind., Even though it can be hard for shy or introverted people to share their feelings in the beginning, it doesn’t mean that you can’t share yours.


In fact, knowing how you feel first will help her sort out her thoughts and feelings faster and help her communicate better, when she’s ready.
Just be sure to express your feelings without expecting her to immediately respond. This can be a hard thing to do, but she’ll appreciate you for it.
 If you enjoy rock concerts or weekly happy hour with your workmates at the bar down the street, don’t opt out just because you know her to be shy or introverted. Even though she’s shy, it doesn’t mean she won’t want to try to experience your world, so always feel free to invite her to social events and be there by her side when she accepts.
She’ll have an easier time getting used to a new environment and adapting to your world if you stick close to her, show her the ropes, and offer support if she needs it.
 If you’ve always wanted to skydive or take a road trip across the United States, take her with you and share the new experience together.Shy and introverted people appreciate intense one-on-one time with the people they care about, and new experiences free of old distractions and acquaintances will help you both bond and learn more about each other.

