 Most quality suits cost $750 to $1,250 (U.S.). You can find more humble suits for around $400. If you are particularly well-heeled, you might choose to obtain a deluxe suit for $3,500 or more. Whatever your financial situation, ensure that you are realistic in deciding how much you can spend., A two-piece suit consists of suit pants and a suit jacket. A three-piece suit consists of the aforementioned items plus a matching vest. There is no functional advantage to wearing one or the other., Suits are available in every color imaginable. Most business suits will be either black, gray, or navy. But suits in bold red, blue, brown, and white might be suitable for less formal occasions.Men with lighter skin generally look better in dark suits.
Men with darker skin generally look better in light suits.
Black suits are best for very formal occasions like parties and funerals., There are three main styles of suits. The first is the English style, a suit with soft, unpadded shoulders and an hourglass body. The Italian (Continental) style is lightweight with high, squared shoulders. The American suit has a straight, roomy design and a back vent.Most off-the-rack suits will blend the three styles to some degree. If you wish to wear a pure English, Italian, or American suit, you’ll probably have to have it tailor-made.
 There are three main types of suit fits. The first is the slim fit. This close-fitting suit is shorter than most suits and hugs the contours of the body. Suits with a modern fit will not hug your body as closely as those with a slim fit, but they will give you a flattering silhouette. Finally, there’s the classic fit. These suits have wide shoulders and extra room in the chest and back. They reach well below the waist and cover your butt.The slim fitted suit works best on thinner men with lanky frames.
Suits with a modern fit have tapered armholes and sleeves.
The classic fit is best for men with an average or full build.
Bespoke suits will fit better than off-the-rack suits. However, you can always get an off-the-rack suit tailored to fit better.