 Have your supplies in front of you so that they are easily accessible during filming. Having your supplies within arm’s reach will save you time and prevent you from having to get up and dig around your home to find something you need. Make sure your makeup and brushes are ready to go before you start recording.
 Before launching into your tutorial, do a brief test video. It would be frustrating if you recorded an entire tutorial and part of your face was out of the frame! Make sure that the shot is exactly how you want it to be before you begin recording. This may take several attempts.
 If possible, record your voice and video separately so that you can add in and edit audio without altering your video. You can use your video editing software to combine your voice and video files into one seamless tutorial.


After your record your video, use a microphone to record your voiceovers, following what is laid out in your outline or transcript (if you made one). Microphones can be purchased online or at an electronics store. You will want to purchase a microphone that can plug into your computer and record the sound on your desktop, such as a USB microphone., When the audio recording is complete, upload it to your computer if it has not already been recorded using your computer. Then upload the file to your video editing software and edit it into your video. This varies from program to program but there should be a button or command to import sound files on just about every video editing software.
 While you are recording, be mindful of the viewers and make sure that you are clearly recording what you are doing. You may want to go a bit slower than you are used to, to allow viewers to see exactly how the techniques are carried out. Make sure that you are always in the viewfinder and that the camera is focusing on you. Makeup requires very small, precise movements at times. Make sure that these are very apparent to the viewers. There are many cameras available that come with an autofocus feature, which can be quite useful for recording tutorials.

