 Many attics are relatively small and offer very little natural light. Dark colors tend to make spaces look smaller, but light colors can make a room appear larger and brighter. White and light yellow are especially effective at creating the appearance of additional light.;
, A dark slanted ceiling can seem oppressive and may give the ceiling a “caving in” effect. Even if you put a medium or bright color on the wall, keep the slanted ceiling a light color to accentuate the room’s height instead of shortening it.
 If you are primarily concerned with opening the space up, sticking with one solid color is a good way to accomplish your goal. When the eye does not detect divisions, it perceives a larger space. If you keep the walls and ceiling the same color, the room itself will often look more expansive. This effect is heightened if you select flooring that closely matches the color of the walls and ceiling, as well.


Only try this tactic if using a light color. Painting all the walls and ceiling a bold or dark shade will actually make the room look smaller.
 Texture can alter the ambiance of an attic bedroom and act as a subtle decoration in a room with limited space. Stonework and brick from an exposed chimney can create a rustic ambiance. Similarly, textured paints and finishes can also add visual interest.
 Select a vertical wall, preferably one of the two tallest ones where the slanted ceiling panels meet. Paint it with a bold color or use a metallic finish to reflect light and draw the eye. Painting all the walls with a bright color or finish can make the space seem "loud" and crowded, but an accent wall is a good way to introduce a splash of bright color without overwhelming a tiny space.
 Instead of worrying about how to hang decorations on your walls, decorate the walls directly with paint. Create a mural or a pattern on your wall. Simple stripes can heighten or elongate a room, depending on how you position them, and floral prints can create a whimsical, sophisticated getaway. This is another good way to balance openness and bright color in a small attic room.
 Paneling placed vertically will heighten the room, making it appear taller. When placed horizontally, paneling can elongate or widen a room, which can be especially useful if the bedroom is located in a narrow attic space.
 Leave the ceiling painted white or another light color and paint the ceiling beams dark brown or black. Doing so draws the eye to the beams. Since the beams slant upward, the eye looks upward, as well, causing the eye to perceive a taller space.

