 A natural antibacterial agent, honey works to clear clogged pores and lift off excess oil and dead skin. Coat your whole face in honey and leave it for as long as you can before rinsing off. Additionally, dab honey directly on your pimples and cover with a bandage while you sleep overnight. By morning, your zit should have significantly reduced in size and redness.
 Strange, right? But tomatoes actually do help to clear up acne-prone skin. Blend up a tomato to create a thick, pulpy juice. Spread this smoothie-like mixture onto your entire face and allow it to soak into your pores. Wash it off after 20-30 minutes.
 It’s not a joke, really. Potatoes will help to soak up excess oil while clearing up grime-filled pores. Slice a potato into wide pieces which can be rubbed onto your face. After a minute or two of this, wash off the juice with warm water.
 Go green and use every part of the strawberry - eat the fruit and save the top for your skin. Strawberries will lighten your acne and help kill bacteria. Rub the top of the fruit over your skin where you’re breaking out, holding it on particularly bad areas for up to a minute. Splash your face with cool water when you’re finished to remove the juice.
 It may have a strong smell, but garlic is one of the best natural skin remedies for acne. It is a natural antiseptic, quickly killing off bacteria in your skin. Mince up a clove of garlic into a paste, and apply it to your acne for 20 minutes. Rinse off with cool water afterwards, and be amazed at how quickly your skin will transform. However, be warned that this can be very painful and might leave a burning sensation for a few days. It can also make your eyes water and might elevate/bloat your skin and make it red.
 Not only does mint smell and taste great, it does great things for your skin as well. Grind up a few mint leaves to form a paste. Spread this over your acne and allow it to soak for 15-20 minutes. The mint will soothe and cool your face while working to clean out your pores. Rinse it off with cool water afterwards.
 If you’ve ever gotten raw egg whites on your skin, you’ll notice the tightening effect they have. Dab some egg whites onto your pimples and leave it overnight. By the morning your pores should be closed up and your acne reduced. Rinse off the mask with warm water.

