 You don't have to constantly assume that the worst will happen, but it's wise to notice the available routes and exits you could take in an emergency. Whether you're at an concert, restaurant, or a crowded city street, try to keep your bearings and know where you could run if necessary.Initial responses to an emergency are often instinctive, and knowing escape routes beforehand is especially helpful in a crowded situation.;
, Witnessing gunfire can be a frightening experience, but you must do your best to remain calm. Try to think clearly and strategically to find the safest position available. If you call emergency services or encounter law enforcement, staying calm will help you communicate any necessary information., When you first notice something is wrong, stop what you’re doing and drop anything you're holding. If you’re standing conspicuously near a shooter, drop down flat to the floor. If you can determine where the gunfire originated, run away in the opposite direction., Run away if you’re close to an exit, have a clear idea of where you’re heading, and can determine the direction where you heard shots. By running without thinking about where you’re going, you might head into the direction of the gunfire or attract the attention of the shooter., If an exit is close and you heard gunfire from an opposite direction, head straight for that exit and away from the building. Leave your belongings behind, do not attempt to move any wounded, and keep your hands visible so that emergency responders can see you’re unarmed.Avoid running to an exit down a hallway. If an exit is down a long hallway, you might run into the shooter en route, so try to find an alternate exit or hide in a room that locks instead.
 A densely crowded crisis situation can be chaotic and confusing, but cooperation in extreme situations offers the best chances of safe evacuation. As you make your way to safety, try to help others escape as calmly and quickly as possible.If you know the direction to safety, try to point the way to others.
If others are panicking, try to calm them and, if possible, give them direction. Say something like, "Everything will be OK, but we have to stay calm and find cover. Let's head for the far side of this building away from the direction we heard gunshots."

, If you can’t evacuate the area, try to stay out of sight and away from the shooter. If you’re indoors, find a room that locks, barricade the door, and turn off the lights. If you’re outside, try to find cover or a hiding spot, such as a parked car, patch of trees, brick wall, or other large, sturdy object., As soon as you’ve evacuated or secured a hiding spot, contact emergency services. If you’re in a group, have one person call to avoid tying up the emergency lines.Let them know your location, the number of people in your group, any injury information, and any information available about the shooter.
 Your priorities should be to flee or hide. If a shooter confronts you and your life is in imminent danger, defend yourself as a last resort. Try to disrupt or incapacitate the shooter by:Acting as aggressively as possible
Throwing objects
Using improvised weapons, such as a purse, belt, paperweight, or other nearby object

