 Many people suffering from this disease begin using corticosteroid medications; however, they come with risks of bone fracture. Discuss your options with your doctor at the onset of the disease, if possible.;
, Exercise can lead to an increase in blood pressure and shortness of breath, so make sure you undergo tests on your cardiovascular and respiratory systems before you start doing physical therapy.


Doctors may prescribe an oxygen machine, sleep apnea device or ventilators for muscular dystrophy patients that have problems with breathing.
In severe cases, a pacemaker may be inserted into the body to regulate the beating of the heart.
 If you are suffering from muscle weakness, your doctor may prescribe a cane, wheelchair or walker to reduce the risk of falling. Your doctor may recommend that you try a full physical therapy regime first before using an aid, or they may suggest you use an aid when performing the exercises.
 Using a service that is requested by your doctor and supported by your health insurance company will reduce the cost of physical therapy. Inquire about physical therapy appointment limits with your insurance company.
 People with specialized knowledge of the condition are more likely to be effective. Call several physical therapy offices to inquire about their experience with your specific type of muscular dystrophy.
 It may take several weeks or months before you are able to develop an at-home exercise routine. Undergo an initial consultation.
 Under the guidance of your physical therapist, begin regular swimming, walking on flat surfaces and/or bike riding. Schedule exercise that is energizing, rather than tiring.


For example, schedule a 10 to 20 minute walk or swim every day rather than an hour of activity every few days. Exercise that encourages cramping the next day will not have the positive impact that light to moderate exercise will.
The aim of regular exercise is to keep muscles in shape. It can also reduce weight, leaving a lower burden on joints, tendons and muscles.
 These prescribed exercises are tailored to your body to promote joint flexibility. Doing these exercises every day is likely to increase mobility and lessen your risk of contractures.


For example, a type of range-of-motion exercise for the shoulders involves raising your arms over your head. You would first grasp your weaker arm with your stronger arm at the wrist, then raise it above your head.
These exercises should be simple enough to begin at home and do regularly. Stop the exercise immediately if it causes a severe increase in pain. You should not try to push your joints past the point where they move.
Sometimes, doing exercises after warming up with cardiovascular activity will increase your mobility further.
 Muscular dystrophy patients must adjust their exercise routine as the condition progresses. Return every few months to assess any changes that need to be made in your plan.

