 Bird photography is hard work. You need to know what you are up for. Patience is the key, and an impatient person will not make a very good photographer. Also, make sure you can handle the disappointments, weather, and trips to places.;
, It must be of good quality. It should also have a fast shutter, because the birds can move at any split second. You should use the longest lens you have or can afford to get the bird larger in the photo. Also, if the birds won't come out when you are around, set the settings on your camera to trigger the shutter by remote control. Then you will be able to watch from farther away.
 Depending on what type of bird you choose, you will need to go to different areas to photograph it.
 Being passionate for birds just makes it easier to photograph them. You also need to respect them. Do not throw things at the birds if they fly away from you. This might make them never come back.
 If the birds don't notice you, you will be more apt to get a shot of them. You should also try making a hiding spot for yourself. This is called Bird-Blind Photography. Make a sort of barrier around yourself, with plants or whatever is handy, and set the camera up either inside it or outside. The birds won't care so much about the camera as they will about you.
 Or, go to a specific place where you see one bird go to over and over again. Different birds live in different places, so you should be prepared to travel to different places. Also, you might want to try going somewhere where there aren't many leaves in the trees. This will make it easier to photograph, but there may be fewer birds.
 Birds are very active feeding in early morning and late afternoon, so you might consider going around these times. That isn't the only times they are out, though. Birds can be feeding and active at any time of day.
 You should understand migration. Some birds migrate at different times of the year. If you are trying to photograph a specific bird, find out when it usually migrates.
 Once you arrive, find a place to stay, and plan on being there for a while.
 If you are using a remote controlled shutter, you might want to take more than one shot, to give you the best possible chances of having a perfect shot. If you are trying to get a close-up shot of one, wait for it to come over near you. Otherwise, take a picture at the appropriate time.

