 If you're looking to become famous on the internet, and keep it a secret from your parents, you'll need to build an online persona. Try to create a persona that feels "real." Make sure that it's fun and involved with what you want to talk about, but will also protect your identity.How easy this will be depends on the type of content you want to make.


If you want to write a blog, for example, you can easily do this with a pen name. Be careful not to write about or refer to people you know, or you could reveal your identity.
If you want to vlog, it’ll a bit harder to hide your identity. You could disguise your voice, and not put your face on camera.
Understand that linking an online persona to your normal social media accounts will instantly give you away.;
, You might find it easier to gain online fame if you focus your efforts in a particular niche area. If you have specialist knowledge or interests, and there's a thriving online community for them, you could concentrate on that.For example, if you're interested in fan fiction and like to write, you could promote your work on relevant forums and websites.


Don’t try to talk about something you think might be popular, but you are not particularly interested in or knowledgeable about.
You'll be more convincing and interesting if you're talking about something you're passionate about., However and wherever you choose to promote yourself, you should try to keep your persona consistent everywhere online. This kind of brand consistency will help you to create a strong identity that is recognisable and familiar.This could include:


Using the same name across all your accounts.
Using the same font or logo for your chosen name.
Concentrating your content on a specific theme., An important part of building a strong online presence, is using lots of different online platforms to get your message across. Think about how you can connect together all the many strands of online communication. Here it is important that you have a consistent name and identity.For example, if you upload a new video to youtube, send a tweet with a link to promote it.
Different people will prefer different platforms, so only using some is limiting your potential audience.
If you're trying to get famous online without your parents knowing, you should think carefully about how you use social media.
Your parents might not follow you on twitter, or be on facebook, but some of their friends might.
 Overnight sensations and viral videos are very rare. If you want to build a fan-base online, you need to be prepared to be patient and persistent. Keep producing new content and see how much attention it gets. Try to aim for steady growth in followers and subscriptions, rather than one giant leap.Avoid the temptation to start posting things you think might attract immediate followers. Instead, be thoughtful and purposeful in what you say and do.If you grow your followers slowly it'll be easier to manage your profile and interact with your fans.
Gaining fans slowly can mean that the fans are more interested and more loyal.
Fans that stick with you for the longer-term are likely to be the ones with a stronger interest in your content.
For example, if you post lots of pictures of your knitting, your most loyal followers are likely to be fellow knitting enthusiasts.
 Interaction is great for building and maintaining a strong presence and online community. Social media gives people the opportunity to immediately talk to people from all over the world, so try to speak directly to your fans.


Retweet and reply to comments from some followers to demonstrate that you are in a conversation with them.
Ask questions that engage your followers while also promoting yourself.
For example, you could ask “what did you have for lunch today?” and post a picture of your lunch.
Don’t retweet every response, but take the time to engage with your audience., Exposing yourself to a lot of attention on the internet can lead to problems, so be aware of the risks before you get going. Even if you're trying to use an online profile or avatar that obscures your true identity, you should still be sure never to post any personal information.


Don’t post your address, phone number, or anything like a social security number.This might seem obvious, but make sure you don’t get flattered by a lot of attention and let your guard down.
 If you are trying to get famous online, you might be tempted to say or write some things that you think will get you attention and maybe lead to fame. Whatever precautions you take to protect your identity and personal information, bear in mind that it's perhaps impossible to be truly anonymous online.


Don’t say something online that you wouldn’t say in face-to-face communications.Don’t send photos of yourself to someone.Make sure you use all the privacy settings on social media, and don’t respond to anybody who asks for personal information.
 The more attention and followers you have online, the greater the chance that unpleasant people will send you mean and insulting messages. This is an unhappy fact of online communication, so you should be aware that you might receive abusive messages from people. Don’t respond to any abusive messages, and delete them.


If you are a victim of cyberbullying, it is often better to try to ignore the messages. Bullies are often looking for a reaction.Not everyone on the internet is who they claim to be. Be wary and cautious about who you interact with.
If someone is sending you a lot of messages and making you uncomfortable, talk to your parents about it.

