 Whether it's in your home or in a commercial space, make sure your day care has the following elements:


A safe play area. Fill the main playroom with bright decorations. Consider setting up a corner of the room for kids to quietly read or rest, and another area where kids can play games together. Have tables where kids can make craft projects. Buy mats for nap time.
Toys, books, art supplies and other entertaining and educational items. Make sure the supplies you provide are age appropriate and safe for children to use.
Healthy snacks, water, and juice. You should also have plates, napkins, and cups, depending on the age of the children. If you won't be providing snacks for the children, ask their parents to pack them.
A bathroom or changing area designed for kids. Buy age-appropriate bathroom equipment for the children to use. If you're working with babies, have changing tables, diapers, and other necessary supplies.
 Divide the day into welcome time, reading time, play time, snack time nap time, outside time, and so on. Do research on the age group you'll be working with to design an appropriate schedule.


Consider adding educational elements. You may want to offer basic reading and math instruction as part of your day care service. You may also want to celebrate holidays, seasons, and special events with the children.
 In addition to making sure you've fulfilled the licensing requirements of your state, make sure your business is set up properly.


Hire staff. Decide what positions need to be filled, arrange interviews, and hire people to help you run the day care. Consider hiring people with a background in early childhood education.
Set hours of operation. Have a plan for when parents should drop off their children and when they should pick them up.
Settle on the price. How much will you charge for your day care services? Call other day cares in your area to find out what price range makes sense. If you're offering a specialty service, such as teaching children how to read, you may want to charge more.

