 It will usually cost around 7 dollars.;
, You will see the starting menu. Press Play to begin the game.
 Simply tap on the "New" button to select what you want to play.


If you want to, name your world. You don't have to give it a name, but if you have multiple save files, having names helps to distinguish them.
You can also enter a world seed. World seeds are codes that bring you to a certain map. However, you don't need to have a world seed, as any world spawned without a seed will have the necessities for a successful game.
 Do you want to play Survival mode, or Creative mode?


Creative means you have unlimited resources, can break blocks instantly, and you can do anything without dying.
Survival mode is when you have limited resources and can die, being attacked by monsters, falling from height, and more. The resources you do have are the ones you collect on your own with tools, and can be easily destroyed by a nearby creeper.
, The D-pad on the screen has five buttons: an up arrow, down arrow, left arrow, right arrow, and a circle in the center.


To move forward, press the up arrow.
To move to the left, press the left arrow.






To move to the right, press the right arrow.






To move backwards, press the down arrow.






To crouch, press the center circle twice. To stand from crouching, tap the center circle once.






To jump, press the circle on the right once.
 Raising yourself and lowering yourself uses the up and down arrows, respectively. If you want to stop flying, either lower yourself to the ground or tap the center circle twice.,


In Creative Mode, this happens instantly. In Survival Mode, it does not, and certain tools are necessary in order to harvest certain types of blocks.
,, The place you tapped will be highlighted.
 Creative mode is much different than Survival mode, so it's possible to do things that aren't possible in Survival.

You can fly in Creative. Tap the center circle twice to do so.
You have unlimited access to anything you need, meaning you can build whatever you want. Want to make a house entirely out of rare diamond blocks? Go ahead.
In Creative mode, pressing and holding a block will break it instantly. You can even break bedrock, and fall into the void without dying.
 It's called Creative mode for a reason - do whatever you want in the world.

You don't need to worry about mobs destroying your creations. In Creative Mode, mobs that are spawned don't try to attack you, regardless of the time of day.
 You can find this around you almost immediately after you begin the game, in the form of trees. Break the blocks and make sure they get put into your inventory.
 In the upper left, there will be a button labeled "Craft". Tap it.
 Tap it and create the planks. These are necessary to create most things in Minecraft.
 In Minecraft PE, crafting tables require four Wooden Planks. Crafting tables are used to create the majority of materials in Minecraft. Create it and set it down somewhere.
 Food is essential to restoring your health. You can either make bread with wheat, make Mushroom Stew with mushrooms, or kill animals and cook the meat in a furnace.


Certain mobs drop certain things when they are killed. For example, sheep drop wool blocks, but they do not drop any meat. Killing a cow will give you beef and leather, which can be used later.
Make sure not to kill off all of the animals. You can breed them.
 If you plan on lasting the night, you're going to need a shelter. It doesn't have to be huge - just something that keeps the mobs out.


You can only create tools with the crafting table (with some exceptions, such as torches). Tools such as pickaxes, swords, and shovels cannot be made through your inventory. For this reason, it's a good idea to carry around a spare crafting table in case your pickaxe breaks while mining.
Wood and gold are the weakest materials for any tools. A wooden sword deals the least damage, and a wooden pickaxe can only harvest stone and coal ore. The best thing to do is to use a wooden pick to get cobblestone, and then use cobblestone for other things, such as swords, furnaces, and pickaxes to harvest iron.
 Certain mobs will be harder to fight than others, and how you fight can make it easier or harder.


For mobs that can attack from a distance, such as skeletons, it's best to use a bow and arrow. If you don't have bows and arrows, a sword will work, but swords make it necessary to run around to keep from getting killed.
Mobs such as spiders and zombies can be attacked easily with a sword. Zombies will slowly walk straight at you, so it's easy enough to hit them with a sword. Spiders leap at you, so make sure you're ready to fight them.
Keep in mind that spiders can climb walls. If your shelter is unfinished, make sure it has a roof so that spiders can't climb in.

