 Daily exercise is crucial to maintaining good health, especially as you get older. Not only will it help you lose excess weight, which reduces your risk of several cancers, osteoporosis, and type 2 diabetes, but it is a great stress reliever and mood booster.When you exercise, your body releases endorphins, the “feel-good” chemicals in the body, which boost your mood and act like pain-killers. Aim for 150 min or more per week of moderate aerobic activity, or at least 75 min of vigorous aerobic activity. Spread it throughout the week as much as possible.
Also include strength training exercises twice a week, whether weights or resistance bands. Pick the weight or resistance that tires the targeted muscles after 12 reps, and don’t forget to stretch before and after.
Consult your doctor before beginning a new exercise regimen.
Some evidence suggests being overweight may contribute to symptoms like hot flashes, but more research is needed.When you first start, the increase in body temperature when you exert yourself may increase hot flashes, but as you lose body fat, they will become less frequent., It’s a bad idea for anyone to smoke, of course, but smoking contributes to earlier signs of menopause. Heavy smoking can cause onset of menopause 1-2 years early in all women, and for Caucasians, menopause can start as many as 9 years earlier, due to contributing genetic factors. Smoking also increases the severity of symptoms while going through menopause.Women who smoke tend to gain belly fat more easily than non-smokers during menopause.
Smoking reduced already falling levels of estrogen in the body.
Smoking exacerbates already increasing risks of several diseases for menopausal women, including heart disease, stroke, breast cancer and diabetes.
Quitting by age 40 erases almost all risk of early death. Quitting by 50 will increase your life expectancy by 6 years. No matter what your age, quitting will make menopause easier to get through.
 Up to 61% of menopausal women report insomnia due to different symptoms of menopause like hot flashes, mood swings and anxiety from shifting hormones, and having to urinate more frequently as you age.Not getting enough sleep sends your body into stress even more, making symptoms of menopause harder to cope with and even more intense. Hormone replacement will help you sleep better, but there are many things you can do to help you sleep better.


Keep the temperature in your bedroom at 65°F. This is the “ideal” sleeping temperature.
Avoid caffeine after 2 p.m. and don’t drink alcohol within 3 hours of bedtime.
Wear an eye mask to bed to block out as light. Even LED lights from your clock and phone can disturb sleep patterns.
Wear loose-fitting pajamas, or nothing, to bed so your body can breathe. Also make sure your sheets are lightweight, preferably cotton.Daily exercise helps you sleep better, but don’t exercise within 3 hours of bedtime.

