 Generally, synthetic fabrics such as nylon or rayon trap heat and moisture close to your skin. Bacteria develops rapidly in this environment, and can lead to exercise-related acne.Choose light, breathable garments for exercising. You may have to experiment to find the right combination or fabric blend that works best for you.
If you're prone to acne, lightweight cotton garments that fit loosely may be your best option to avoid exercise-related acne.
There are active fabrics that are specifically designed to wick moisture away from the body. Since clothing made from these fabrics may be more expensive, try them first and see if you notice any benefit from them. For example, you might buy a moisture-wicking shirt and monitor your skin over the course of a week.
 If your skin has repeated contact with surfaces that haven't been cleaned or sanitized, you could be introducing bacteria that can seep into your pores and cause exercise-related acne.This is particularly true in gyms, where there are many different people using the machines and other equipment. Make sure you wipe down any surface your skin will touch, including handles, before you start exercising. The same applies to your own equipment in your home.
You may want to bring along inexpensive anti-bacterial wipes with you in case the gym doesn't have any available. Don't just use a towel – especially not one that you later use to blot sweat from your skin.
You also want to wipe down any equipment or accessories that you wear on your body, such as headphones or a helmet you wear while cycling. When these materials get sweaty, they can become a breeding ground for bacteria and cause breakouts.
 If you have towels to blot sweat, don't use the same towel for your face as you use for other parts of your body. Gym towels typically are white, but finding a colored one for your face can help you keep them separate.If you're a member of a gym that supplies towels, you may want to bring your own facial towel so that you don't mix them up, and you can be sure that it's clean.
Don't use the same gym towel for more than one exercise session. That sweaty towel from yesterday is growing bacteria and yeast while it sits in your gym bag, which could lead to breakouts if you use it again.
If you're exercising outdoors during a hot day, or doing particularly high-intensity exercise, you may want several towels so you can swap them out when one gets too damp.
 Bacteria and yeast will grow on your dirty, sweaty clothing. Wearing the same clothes for more than one exercise session without washing them can cause exercise-related acne.There may be some items, such as an exercise bra, that you routinely wear for several sessions before washing. Bacteria may build up, especially with the friction of the garment rubbing against your sweaty body, leading to breakouts.
The sooner you can wash your clothes after your workout, the better. Wash in cool water with a strong detergent that will kill the bacteria.
If you don't want to run the washing machine or go to the laundromat after every session, you can wash the garments in the sink if you need to wear them the next day.

