 A washcloth is one of the quickest and easiest projects to crochet. All you need is a size H hook and some cotton yarn. Start with a chain of 26 to 36 stitches (depending on how large you want your washcloth to be) and then work the rows according to the basic criss cross stitch pattern. Continue to work in the criss cross stitch until the washcloth is a square.

If you like, you can even keep going and turn your criss cross washcloth into a hand towel.
 You can use the criss cross stitch to crochet a beanie. Start by making the crown for your hat and then transition into using the criss cross stitch for the remaining rows.

To make a crown for your hat, start by making a chain of 4. Then, insert the hook into the first loop to make the chain into a circle and begin to double crochet around the chain. You will need to double crochet 11 more times into the chain of four to complete one round. Slipstitch to connect the round.
For the next round, chain 3 and work a double crochet into the first stitch. Double crochet twice into each stitch for the entire round so that you are doubling the number of stitches (24 total at the end of the round). Slipstitch to connect the round.
Four round three, chain 3 and then double crochet into the first stitch. For the rest of the round, double crochet into every other stitch twice and double crochet into the other stitches once. At the end of the round you will have 36 stitches. Slipstitch to connect the round.
Repeat round three two more times to complete your crown.Then, you can begin working your rounds in the criss cross stitch until the hat is the size you want it to be.
 Making a scarf is a great option for turning your practice stitches into a wearable project. Start by making a chain that is long enough for a scarf and then work in the criss cross stitch until it reaches the width that you want it to be. You can make the scarf as wide or as narrow as you like.If you really like the way the stitch looks, then you can always keep going and turn it into a blanket.

