 If your partner or friend has intermittent issues with phone checking, agree ahead of time not to use your phones for a lunch or date you’ve agreed to. This sets up clear expectations about what kind of time you want to have together. It’s important that you, too, adhere to any requests you make with regards to electronics, so your companion feels equally respected.To a friend, you might say, “I’ve really been looking forward to hearing about your trip. Can we put our phones away while we catch up? I’d love to see your photos once we’re finished with our lunch.”

, If your partner or friend has a consistent phone issue, casually keep track of their usage patterns over a given week. Note the time of day, day of the week, and the type of activity or communication that distracts your partner. Find a good time to let your companion know what you’ve observed. Suggest that you’d like to set some boundaries for phone use in your relationship because the current arrangement is not working for you.


You might say to a boyfriend, “I love hanging out with you, but your phone usage when we’re together has really become a problem for me. I’d love to continue seeing you, but only if we don’t use our phones when we’re on dates. If that’s not possible, I’ll have to move on.”
To a friend, you might say, “I love running together, but it’s really distracting to my training when you’re texting on the phone. I’d love to continue our regimen, but only if we agree not to use our phones while we work out. If that doesn’t work, I’ll have to train with Sue from now on.”

, If a good friend or spouse exhibits troubling symptoms with their phone use, it may be helpful to consult a professional therapist. Symptoms to look for include excessive phone use that has caused them to jeopardize their job or relationship; withdrawal symptoms when they cannot use their phone; or persistent failed attempts to use their cellphone less often.A therapist can help you sort out phone use in your relationship or provide support to your companion who is struggling with an addiction to their phone.

