 If you can get a signature bond (aka recognizance bond), you only have to pay the bail amount if the arrested person fails to make a court appearance. Your "signature" is your promise to the court. In some states, you have to pay 10% of the bail amount even with your signature.


Be aware that the court has complete discretion over whether to grant a signature bond.
They take the accused criminal history into consideration. If there's no criminal history or a past of only minor crimes, you have a better chance of getting a signature bond. It also helps if the accused has always met court dates in the past.
The court also looks at how likely the person is to run away instead of showing up for court. Strong community ties like family, a long history of residence in the area, and steady employment will help.
 A lawyer will be more familiar with the process, and will be better equipped to make an argument in favor of a signature bond. Courts are more likely to allow signature bonds for people who have reputable, trustworthy lawyers.
 If you don't have a lawyer, you can ask the court yourself for a signature bond. It may help if you can find friends or relatives of the accused to co-sign with you.This demonstrates community ties, and might persuade the court that the person in jail will meet the promise to make his or her court dates.


Remember that the friends or relatives will be on the hook for the bail amount if the accused fails to meet the court's conditions or skips a court date.
Note that everyone has a right to a public defender if they can't afford to hire an attorney. The public defender would be able to request a signature bond on your behalf.
 If you can cover the entire amount of bail, you can just pay the amount yourself. Go to the jail where the person is being held with a check, cashier's check, or money order in the amount of the bail. You may have to pay a non-refundable administrative fee. Once they process your payment, the person in jail will be free to leave.


Just as with a private bond, the court will return the money at the end of the trial as long as the accused makes all court dates.
If he or she misses a court appearance, you will lose the entire amount you paid for the release. The state will use the money to pay restitution in other cases and help cover taxpayer costs.

