 There are several sites that offer free Microsoft Points codes in exchange for completing surveys or responding to offers. Just open a web browser on your computer and browse for these sites.;
, On most sites, there will be three denominations you can choose from (800, 1,600, and 4,000), but only one may be available to you. Choose the denomination that has the “Available” button displayed below it.
 After clicking on the “Available” button, you will be taken to the Introduction page where the mechanics are explained. After reading through them, click on the “Next step” tab to proceed.
 Simply click on the “Like” button on the screen. If you’re not logged into Facebook (on another browser tab), a small log-in window will pop up so you can sign into your account, and proceed to liking the site’s Facebook page.


Click the “Next step” button to complete this part.
 On the last page, click on the “Redeem code” button to get the code. A small window will appear showing you the list of offers or surveys you can complete in exchange for a code. Just click on one of the offers, and follow the instructions to complete one.


Each offer or survey is different from the next, so there’s no specific set of instructions to follow that can be stated here. Completing offers range from answering simple survey questions to installing a software on your computer.
 After you’ve completed one of the offers, the web browser will download a text file containing the code. Double-click on the text file to open it with Notepad, and view its contents.
 On your web browser, go to http://www.xbox.com .
 To do so, on the Xbox web page, click on the “Xbox Live” menu button on the upper-left section of the page. Select “Redeem code” from the drop-down list, and you will then be directed to the Redeem Code page of the site.
 Just type in the free code you received on the text field provided, and press the “Redeem code” button.
 Once the code is accepted, a confirmation message will appear on the page. You will notice below your account name on the top-right corner that the amount of the denomination you chose previously has been added to your existing points.

