 Plug in your iron and allow it to heat. The cotton setting works best to heat perler beads. Refer to your iron's instruction manual to figure out how to tell when the iron is hot. Many irons will have a light turn on or off to indicate they're ready to use., You can make up your own snowflake design as you go along. However, many people like to download a template online. This can be particularly helpful if you're trying to make a series of snowflakes of the same shape and size, as a template can help keep things consistent.You can find many templates that accompany instructions on websites like Pinterest.
There may be templates that come with your perler bead set.
If you look up a YouTube tutorial for perler bead snowflakes, there may be a link to a template in the description.
 Before you begin your snowflake, make sure you have all the supplies. You can buy a perler bead set at a local craft store, which should come with beads as well as a pegboard. For a snowflake design, you need to make sure you have a hexagon shaped peg board.You will also need an iron and iron paper. This is paper used to protect clothing and other objects during ironing. You should be able to find it at a local department store.
If you're using the snowflakes to make magnets, make sure you have small magnets to glue on the back of the snowflake. If you're using them as ornaments, get some fishing wire to hang the snowflakes from the tree.
 Place one bead on the pegboard at a time. Go slowly, as the beads are very small. It's not uncommon to have to try several times to place a bead on the board, especially when you first start out using perler beads.To make the outline of your snowflake, start by forming one horizontal line going from one corner of the hexagon to the other corner.
From there, make two diagonal lines going that intersect your horizontal line. These should also span from one corner of the hexagon to the opposite corner.
When you're done, you should have three lines intersecting. Each corner of the hexagon should be touching one of the lines. You will have a criss-cross pattern that looks like the bare outline of a snowflake.
 From here, you can fill in your snowflake however you want. If you're using a pattern, refer to your pattern here. If you're not using a pattern, use your imagination to make the criss-cross pattern resemble a snowflake.It's a good idea to add some embellishments to all six corners of your snowflake. Add small lines shooting out of either side of the corners, as this will help it resemble a snowflake.
Fill in the center a little. Many people like to draw a zig-zag line circling the center of the snowflake to fill it out a little.
Try looking at pictures of real snowflakes for inspiration.
 It's dangerous to iron on a surface that is not heat proof. You should place your peg board on something like an iron tray or ceramic tiles before ironing your snowflake.Be very careful when moving your peg board to a heat proof surface. You do not want to accidentally knock your beads over.
 Place a piece or iron paper over your snowflake. Using circular motions, gently run the iron over the peg board for about 15 to 20 seconds. This should fuse your beads together without melting to the point you obscure your design., After ironing your snowflake, you can peel off the iron paper. The snowflake should gently peel off the peg board as well when you do this. If it doesn't come off all the way, gently lift your snowflake to remove it from the peg board.Once your snowflake is off the peg board, turn it over. Flip the snowflake upside down and place another sheet of iron paper over the snowflake. Iron the other side for an additional 20 to 30 seconds.
Your snowflake is now done. Let it cool for a few minutes before proceeding to use it as a decoration.
 You can glue a small magnet to the back of your snowflake. After allowing the glue to dry, you can place the snowflake on your fridge or in your locker at school., If you want to use the snowflake as an ornament, or to hang it somewhere in your home, you can do so with fishing wire. Take a piece of fishing wire and feed the wire through one of the holes in the design.Fold one end of the wire and form a loop and then make a knot near the snowflake.
Trim the excess wire. You now have a snowflake you can hang in your home.
 If you want to decorate a binder, planner, or notebook for the holiday season, you can use your snowflakes. Use a little glue to secure your snowflakes on the cover of binders, notebooks, and planners. Allow the glue to dry completely before using these supplies.