 There are times to talk, but if introverts are untrue to their natures and try to appear talkative or even loud and boisterous, such behavior will not help to reveal an introverted personality. Introverts tend to be quietly emotional and romantic (in the literary sense) in their thoughts, soft-spoken and thoughtful.


Learn to pause and think before speaking. Consider whether that comment is really necessary. It is surprising to realize how many fewer words are necessary, and that it is easier to be quiet.;
, Be courteous, but stop choosing actions based on the sole criteria of whether those actions will please others. Learn to set boundaries on your time and availability so that others become aware of your limits.
 Having friends is emotionally healthy, but to reveal and activate your introversion, slowly learn not to be around too many friends more than is minimally necessary.


If there are things that truly need to be said out loud, organize those thoughts so as to say them in the briefest and clearest manner.
In school, a person who normally sits (uncomfortably) in the middle of a big crowd of people, might be more comfortable in the back area of the room, either alone or with fewer people. If it is mandatory to sit at a crowded table, try to choose a seat on the end of the table and not in the center.
 If you have naturally stoic behaviors, begin to accept them and allow them to reveal themselves.
, When lining up for class or just hanging out with friends, lean against a wall with your arms crossed or in your pockets, one leg halfway up, resting on the wall. This body language reveals a distanced attitude.
 If something seems a little bit amusing, accept yourself if you naturally want to react with a mere grin or smirk. Note, however, that if you smirk as if to criticize others or to indicate that 'that was dumb,' then you will need to be ready to take the consequences from those who may infer that you are disdaining them or their behavior. It is as inappropriate to refuse to accept the honest feelings, actions, or words of others as it is to refuse to accept your own honest feelings, actions, or words.


Being an introvert does not ever include cruelty to others; therefore be very careful not to project a spiteful or even bullying state of mind. So even though it is advisable not to laugh or smile more than you truly want to, the legitimate converse of that maxim is that, even though laughing may make people think you're an extrovert, being yourself is more important than basing your actions on the opinions of others, so laugh if you want to, but not if you don't want to.
 Don't concern yourself with how other people interpret your actions. Even though you are trying to come out as an introvert, there is no reason to stop doing things that you enjoy; even though other people may see your actions as inconsistent with introversion, and it may take them longer to understand the characteristics of your true and newly revealed self.
 Learn to recognize your honest reactions to things (this is where knowing yourself comes in handy), and decide which reactions you want to keep and which ones you want to change. Maybe you totally hate watching the footy (that's soccer in America), yet every now and then you sit down with your family and really get into it. Inconsistency is perhaps the hardest step to hold onto, because others are calling you unpredictable and suggesting that you are a big ball of confusion, but if you work hard, you can get past these false accusations and just be who you want to be, even if it is inconsistent with other actions of yours.
 Jane Austen, Charlotte Brontë, and Alexandre Dumas Pére have all written great books. Books like these will increase your vocabulary and awareness of the world, also. Your friends may rather skip rope or go play football or swim or ice skate. If you must do these activities with them, invest yourself in the activities only as much as you really want to. Even playing on rafts or using a bar to skate don't seem like things an introvert might do, but if you want to do those things, do them. One benefit of being a bit more withdrawn than your peers is that it may make you appear more mysterious. Sometimes that's fun.
 If talking about your opinions and feelings are going to stir up trouble with most others, then don't talk about them except maybe to very close friends and family. Once again, when people do not know your feelings and opinions, they may see you as fascinatingly mysterious.
 Learn to journal and write. Poets do delightfully mysterious things. Poetry is a great way to let your emotions flow.
 If you want to give off any impression at all, it's best to seem mysterious which means you might catch the eye of someone a bit sexy, give a sultry look and then look away, slipping into the shadows. That person will definitely want to chase you!

