 Foxes, wolves, cougars, arctic foxes and arctic wolves are perfect for teens and adult royalty. Bunnies and monkeys are great for child royalty. The cats are unpopular so they are not recommended, but if you want, you can use a snow leopard! Put them in your favorite colors.;
,


For members, get a designer skirt or princess dress. Buy a tutu and the new princess gauntlet outfit! Note: The princess armor costs diamonds. Not too big of a deal! (any color. But pink, red, or purple is recommended.) They look really good on arctic wolves! Then try to buy ice tail armor! Buy a royal tiara or a golden tiara, or earrings. For feet, wear a turquoise bracelet, diamond ring, or golden ring or high heels. For the neck, buy a princess necklace, diamond necklace, turquoise necklace, or beaded necklace. Any necklace! You could also wear a king's crown, a gold necklace, elf armor, sword, crossbow, or golden bow, and elf bracelets, or a full set of armor.
For nonmembers, get the normal crown or a knight helmet, silver chain necklace, a non-member sword or bow, and rare freedom bands. You can now color things as a non-member, a regular necklace, any necklace or wear a heart locket or moon necklace. Wear a silver or turquoise ring, or a friendship bracelet. Wear a clover blanket too. No worn or old blankets! They don't look, well, pretty. Star capes work well too. You'll look great.
 Good dens are Fantasy Castles, Princess Castles, Sky Kingdoms, and just plain Castles! Just remember to make it big and fancy.


For the kitchen, make it closed off. Only servants can go inside. Put a cake-bake kitchen, a fridge, a sink, and a table with teacups.
For the living room, put a curved couch, a crystal table, the tea, a fancy fireplace, a diamond on display, birthstone display with all the birthstones, a cuckoo clock, a crystal bouquets, giant crystals and a diamond phantom! If you want, you can include crystal chairs and couches.
For a bathroom, put in an acorn chair, a fancy vanity, a pool, and a nature archway. Or, just use a rain cloud. (For the shower.) If you want, add a magic mirror.
For the dining room, there should be a crystal table with some chairs and tea. Or, a little more expensively, a feast table with a throne on either end and good quality chairs, four per side on the longer sides. Don't put anything that can distract the guests from what they are here to do—eat! Remember when you eat, use good table manners. Royalty never scoffs down their food. Remember to serve healthy and never serve fast food.
Next, the bedroom. For a teenager or adult, use a pink sofa, or if you can get your hands on it, a princess bed. (Any color), vanity, a rug from a nice place such as the Zios rug. Fill it with everything you want! (But nothing sloppy!) For a kid, everything the same but with toys, plushies, and pet castles for dollhouses.
Now, we need something to get you around. Get the sports car!

, If you want to be treated nicely, treat others nicely. Never criticize poor Jammers. Instead, give them gems and food, but do not give too much. And stand up for Jammers who are bullied, instead of laughing at them, remember to be a good person.
 See if you can get your friends to help you start a private school for royalty.


Create a dress code. An example could be dresses and coats, or tuxedos and swords. If you prefer for the dress code, anything that can look classy and if they are wearing correctly, it is classy.
 Then you can say: Cast/Brace/Bandage Is Encrusted With Real Diamonds! Or, you can wear a golden glove, because it is pure gold. You can do the same thing with red, green, and a darker or lighter blue. Rubies, emeralds, and sapphires are good choices.
 Anything less than that is not acceptable.
 Only the best for royalty will do. While you can shop at Jam Mart places, it has to be royal-looking and feeling. A lot of this clothing will come from more expensive places. If you want to, have a lot gem encrusted items. Have a few gold bricks laying around, for instance.
 Preferably with a cute little bow, as well as a crown if you can find one.
 Advertise in Township and get your friends to make their rooms in their dens.
 Once you do, say: Gracefully let's (insert hair color here) Curls Flow Down Back!

,