 Remember, you are not the negative comments someone makes about you and you don’t need that person’s validation. That person has their own reasons for being mean and those reasons have nothing to do with you.Try telling yourself something like, "Her comment is only one of many. I can't make everyone happy, but I can make myself happy."

, It is not your fault that some people have a tendency to be negative. Let them be unhappy if they wish. Just realize that you are not to blame for their negative attitude.


To avoid blaming yourself for the comments someone makes about you, try saying something to yourself like, "I wonder if she has had a hard day? It seems she is taking it out on me. I hope she feels better tomorrow." Or, "I know her comment has more to do with her than with me. I'll focus on what is more important, which is what I think - not her."

, When someone says something mean about you, it can be tempting to say something equally mean in return. Doing so makes you just as bad as that person, though. Practice being the type of person you want to be and don’t stoop to the level of those who are negative. , When someone is constantly pushing your buttons by making rude and hateful comments to you, there might be times when you feel like turning around and punching them. You know that fighting is never the solution, though. Using physical violence to deal with someone who acts like a bully will probably lead to more violence. Choose to walk away.
 No matter how much you work on developing positive habits and limiting negative reactions to mean people, there might still be times when their words get to you. When you feel that way, find someone to talk to about it.Friends or family members can remind you of everything they like about you and help you brush off those negative comments.
If you are still in school, speaking to a trusted teacher or guidance counselor can help you deal with the negative comments and realize that none of those things are true.
 When someone says something mean about you, it’s normal to want to either say something mean in return or to hide from that person. However, both options lead to a negative outcome. By saying something mean back, you are acting just like the other person. By hiding, you are avoiding the situation and will likely continue to feel bad about it.


You can be assertive and stand up for yourself in a positive and respectful manner.
When someone says something mean to you, try saying something like, “I don’t appreciate the mean things you said about me. They aren’t true and I won’t listen if you say things like that.”
It’s okay to let some time pass before speaking up so that you no longer feel so emotional about the situation.For example, if someone at school or work says something rude to you, give yourself a day or two to get past the hurt feelings before letting them know how that made you feel.

