 Persian cats tend to have very round faces with full, puffy cheeks. The nose is "snubbed," and therefore not very prominent. Their eyes are usually large and expressive and may be colored blue, amber, or a mix of the two. Meanwhile, the ears tend to be very small and round-tipped in appearance.While many Persian cats tend to have flat faces, there are variations. Some Persians have a more rounded facial shape, which breeders often refer to as a doll-faced Persian.;
, The coat of a Persian cat tends to be very distinct. Persians typically have long fur with a silky texture. Their fur needs to be combed every day to avoid getting knots and tangles, and mats may need to be trimmed out from time to time.Most Persians will require daily grooming that lasts at least 10 to 15 minutes, plus an hour-long grooming session once every week., Though many people picture a white cat when they think of Persians, these cats can come in a wide variety of colors. Some of the most common colors include white, red, cream, black, brown, blue-gray, chocolate, lilac, silver, golden, tortoiseshell, blue-cream, calico, and seal (usually a mix of cream and brown/black)., There are numerous variations on the coat pattern seen in Persian cats. Breeders who raise Persians for cat competitions have divided the most common Persian patterns into seven categories (called divisions) to more easily identify what type of Persian you're adopting or purchasing.Solid Division - this category implies that the cat has a single, uniform coat color. Most solids have copper-colored eyes, but white Persians may have copper, blue, or one of each.
Silver & Golden Division - Persians in this category have either chinchilla (sparkling white with fine black tips) coats or shaded silver and golden coats. Goldens have a warm, creamy coat with black tips, and silvers usually have black down the back with even shading down the sides.
Shaded & Smoke Division - shaded Persians tend to have shell and shaded-cameo coats, typically with a white undercoat and tips that are red, cream, black, or blue-cream. Smoke Persians appear to have a solid colored coat, but close examination reveals a white undercoat.
Tabby Division - tabby Persians have either classic, mackerel, or patched tabby patterns. Classic tabbies have a bull's eye pattern along the side, and mackerel tabbies have thin lines that appear drawn on around the entire body.
Parti-color Division - this category includes Persians that have tortoiseshell, chocolate tortoiseshell, blue-cream, and lilac-cream coats. These coats tend to be a solid color (usually black or cream) with patches of red.
Calico & Bicolor Division - this category includes calico patterns and dual-colored coats. All cats in this division have copper eyes, except for silver tabbies, which may have green or hazel eyes.
Himalayan Division - these Persians tend to have white or cream bodies with point colors restricted to the face and extremities. Cats in this division will always have blue eyes.
 Persian cats typically have a distinct tail. It's usually short and lofted upward. The tail is usually straight with little to no curvature, and Persians usually carry the tail at an angle below the back., Persian cats have a distinctly short, stocky body shape. They tend to be slightly heavier than the average cat, though their bodies remain somewhat compact.A Persian cat's legs have heavy bones that carry the medium- to large-sized body.
The shoulders are usually broad, with an overall thick, compact body. The neck is also short and thick.Female Persians generally weigh between 8 to 12 pounds. Male Persians typically weigh over 12 pounds.

