 Get some trash bags (not just one) and empty out all the garbage from your room. This could just be trash that's lying around. If you’re not sure what can be thrown away, create a “maybe” pile or trash bag.You don’t have to throw anything away that you don’t want to.
For your first sweep of the room, focus on getting the garbage out of your room.;
, Spend about 10 minutes going through your bedroom to remove any belongings you have that do not belong in your room. Be looking out for dishes, paperwork, and loose change. Clear out the areas that are out of sight like under your bed and in between furniture.It might help to completely remove these items from your bedroom. Set up a pile outside of your bedroom for miscellaneous belongings or trash.
 Take a drawer and remove all of its contents. Go through one drawer at a time. Make three piles: keep, donate, and garbage. Once you’re finished with one drawer, place all the “keep” items back into that drawer. Continue this process for each drawer.


At the end of this process you can transfer the trash items into the trash. Place the “donate” pile into a bag and set aside for later.
If in doubt, throw it out. It's okay to hold on to sentimental items that you aren't sure where to put.
Set up a space or drawer for sentimental objects you feel inclined to keep. This includes things like letters, drawings, and ticket stubs.
 Go through all surfaces that have random belongings lying around. Put things away that are on desks, floors, tables, or nightstands. Be diligent while going through surfaces and attempt to truly clear everything.


The only items that should be left around your room are things like a lamp, computer, or other items of decor.
Once you’ve put everything back in their place, clean the surfaces. Take a moist rag to all counter tops in your room.
 Now it is time to tackle your wardrobe. Start with a category of clothing like tops or pants. Keep all the clothes you frequently wear in their place unless there are clothes underneath them. This will take a while, but try on everything in your wardrobe. You might not have worn a pair of jeans for three years and now they’re too small or large!


For clothes you can make two piles: keep and donate. Many people enjoy or rely on used clothing.
If you have a sentimental t-shirt that doesn’t fit you, offer it to a friend or a younger sibling.
At the end of the day they’re just clothes and you can live without them., Look through your closet for shoes, bags, accessories, and coats. Do the same system you did with your clothes. Take time to truly consider if you need something or not.


Hoarding belongings can affect the people around you and your quality of life. It’s better to get into the habit of recycling through belongings as opposed to keeping all your old styles.
If you have too many baseball caps, think about which caps you never wear. The caps you never wear are good items to be donated. Someone else will cherish the hat if you choose to donate it.

