 If your can does not allow water to drain, the potatoes will rot. Holes can be drilled or cut with a small saw. Drill as many holes as possible without making the trash can bottom too weak to hold in soil.;
, Once the drainage holes are drilled, you can begin adding soil. It is best to use potting mix rather than soil from your garden, as potting mix produces the best results when container gardening. Begin by adding a layer about 10 inches (25 cm) deep.


You can mix in fertilizer if desired. A low-nitrogen fertilizer should be used, as high levels of nitrogen promote leaf growth at the expense of potato size. A "5-10-10" mix works well; this indicates that the fertilizer contains 5 parts nitrogen to 10 parts each phosphorous and potassium.
 Small potatoes can be planted whole, but larger ones should be cut into smaller pieces. Each piece should have at least 3 "eyes," or dimples. After cutting the potatoes, allow the cut edges to air dry before planting.
 Bury the seed potatoes about 4 inches (10 cm) under the potting mix. In a 32 gallon (120 L) garbage can, you should only need about 4 potatoes, spaced evenly apart. Place the garbage can into an area that receives direct sunlight for 4 to 6 hours a day.


Keep the soil moist as the potatoes grow. In mid-summer, you may have to water the potatoes once a day to keep the soil from drying out.
 When the potato plants start growing, you should continually add potting mix to the garbage can to cover the plants' stems, making sure to leave the leaves exposed to the sun. This allows more room underneath the soil for new potatoes to grow.


You should continually build up this hill of soil throughout the growing season. This is why the trash can is such an effective vessel - it allows for plenty of vertical room to continually bury the plants' stems.
 At the end of the growing season, you simply have to lay down a tarp and overturn the trash can onto it. You can then pick the potatoes off of the tarp. Do not reuse the potting mix for growing potatoes again, as this will make the plants more susceptible to disease.

