 The word you've probably heard before, or learned in a phrasebook, is adiós. You can think of adiós as approximately equivalent to "farewell" in English. In practice, this word isn't used as much as you might think.Typically Spanish speakers use it if they won't be seeing the other person for a longer period of time, if ever again. For example, if you were ending a relationship with a significant other, you might say "adiós.";
, This phrase uses the familiar tú form of "you" and basically means "I'll see you." Pronounce it tay VAY-oh. This is a casual form that shouldn't be used with anyone you're expected to address formally, such as your teacher or boss.You also can say "nos vemos" (nohs VAY-mohs), which literally means "we see ourselves." The phrase's actual meaning is more like "we'll see each other later."

, Sometimes spelled "chao," this is another friendly, informal way to say goodbye. It's technically an Italian word, but is used among Spanish speakers casually – similar to the way English speakers would say "peace" or "peace out.", In Spanish, "hasta" means "until." There are several phrases using this word that can be used to tell someone goodbye. Some of these phrases specifically say when you will next see the person.Hasta mañana means "until tomorrow." Pronounce it AHS-tuh men-YAHN-uh. This phrase is appropriate in both formal and informal settings. You also can use hasta with a specific day. For example, you might say "hasta el martes," to mean "see you on Tuesday."

Hasta luego (AHS-tuh loo-WAY-goh) is less specific, meaning "until later" or "see you later." Another way to say "until later" is hasta más tarde (AHS-tuh mahs TAR-day).
You also can say hasta pronto (AHS-tuh PRAHN-toh), which means "until soon" or "see you soon." This phrase is used less often than "hasta luego."
If the person to whom you're speaking has mentioned the time when the two of you will next see each other, you can say "hasta entonces" (AHS-tuh ehn-TAHN-says), which means "until then."

, While the phrase "hasta siempre," meaning literally "until forever," is well known, it's not a phrase you want to use to say goodbye to someone because of its strong connotation of permanence.This phrase is more typically used when a couple is separated by death.
 Just as in English, if you are parting from someone in the evening, it is common to say "good night" rather than "goodbye."Unlike in English, buenas noches is used as both a greeting and a farewell. Depending on the context, it might mean "good evening" or "good night." The phrase is generally appropriate anytime after dinner.
 Different Spanish-speaking countries, and even regions within a country, may have different slang phrases commonly used to say goodbye. When you're traveling, ask someone around your age what phrases are popular.Learning a few slang greetings can help you blend in, especially if you'll be staying in the area for a longer period of time.

