 For example:



Aortic valve leak: In the case of an aortic valve leak, the severe leak can also be treated with blood pressure medicines known as vasodilators. Medications used for congestive failure - such as diuretics - are also very useful.

Mitral valve leak: This type of leak usually causes no problems. However, people who are suffering from a serious mitral valve leak (which sometimes leads to congestive cardiac failure) may need surgery.

Tricuspid valve leak: This type of leak can cause more serious problems. The leak occurs as a result of high blood pressure in the pulmonary artery, leading to congestive cardiac failure. In this type of valve leak, most medications are not useful but diuretics and water pills can be used to treat swelling. However, the best method of treatment is surgery where the leaking valve is replaced with a healthy one.

Pulmonary valve leak: This type of valve leak is usually treated by targeting the cause of the problem. For example, medications may be prescribed in order to lower blood pressure.;
, The main objective of these medications are to control the elevation of blood pressure as well as to prevent blood clot formation that can worsen the condition, and to increase the pumping action of the heart.
 This medication functions by helping the heart to compress harder, so that more blood is pumped around the body.


It works directly on the heart muscles, slowing down the heart rate and increasing the contraction force of the heart muscles. This makes each heartbeat more effective in pumping blood around different areas of the body.
The recommended maintenance dose of digoxin ranges from 125 to 500 mcg (0.0125 to 0.5 mg) once daily.
 These medications prevent blood clots from forming in your heart (which can cause heart attack or stroke) by interrupting the process of clot formation. They target the clotting factors which are crucial to the blood-clotting process. The most common anticoagulants are:


Enoxaparin (Lovenox). This works by inactivating thrombin, a substance which holds the platelets together to clot the blood. The recommended daily dose for adults is 40 mg injected subcutaneously (injected into fatty areas of the body such as the arm and the abdomen).
Warfarin (Coumadin). This works by blocking the body’s production of vitamin K, which is necessary for the blood clotting process. The dosage and administration of warfarin depends on the patient’s INR (International Normalized Ratio, a test for blood clotting) response to the drug.
 An elevated cholesterol level can worsen heart valve problems as high levels of cholesterol can contribute to narrowing of the heart valves. Statins are used to lower blood cholesterol levels.


Statins work by blocking the action of a chemical in your liver that is necessary for the production of cholesterol. High levels of cholesterol in the blood can narrow the blood vessels and cause blood clots.
Examples of statins are simvastatin, atorvastatin, fluvastatin, mevastatin and rosuvastatin. Statins come in varied doses that range from 5 milligrams to as much as 80 milligrams.
 These medicines work by blocking the action of a hormone that is responsible for constricting or narrowing the blood vessels.


As a result, the blood vessels may dilate or relax and open up. In this case, the blood can easily flow through the vessels, which in turn reduces blood pressure.
The most commonly prescribed ARB is losartan. The recommended daily oral dosage is 25 to 100 mg in 1 to 2 divided doses.
 Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors. These medications work by inhibiting the conversion of Angiotensin I to Angiotensin II, which is a potent vasoconstrictor (responsible for constricting or narrowing of blood vessels).


As a result, the blood vessels may dilate or relax and open up. Then the blood can easily flow through the vessels, which in turn reduces blood pressure.
The most prescribed ACE inhibitor is captopril. The recommended daily dosage is 25 to 150 mg orally, 2 to 3 times per day, one hour before meals.
 These medications work to lower the heart rate by blocking the hormone epinephrine (also known as adrenaline) which is responsible for increasing the heartbeat.


As a result, the blood vessels may dilate or relax and open up. In this case, the blood can easily flow through the vessels, which in turn reduces blood pressure.
The most prescribed beta-blocker is metoprolol. The recommended dosage is 100 to 450 mg/day orally.
 These medications cause the kidneys to remove more sodium and water from the body. This helps to relax the blood vessel walls and lowers blood pressure.


Examples are potassium-sparing diuretics, thiazide, quinazoline and loop diuretics. The most commonly prescribed are thiazide diuretics such Chlorothiazide.
The recommended daily oral dose is 500 – 1000 mg given in 1 to 2 divided doses.
 These drugs keep blood pressure low and ensure proper blood flow through the heart. This is very important for the proper functioning of heart valves.


These medications also stabilize the muscle tissue and regulate the heart rate. They include Flecainide, Sotalol and Dofetilide.
 These medications decrease pressure on the heart and ensure that the blood flows in a forward direction. Nitrates are the important vasodilators used in the treatment of heart problems. They include hydralazine with isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide mononitrate, Isotrate, Isonate and Isordil.


Isonate can improve the heart's condition. It is also used to relieve chest pain. This drug relaxes the blood vessels to improve blood flow. It is taken by placing one tablet under the tongue and allowing it to dissolve.
Isordil also belongs to the group of nitrates that are used to treat heart problems. It is used orally.
Isotrate is also used to relieve chest pain caused by heart disease. It should be taken just before exercise, once or twice daily by mouth. The first dose should be taken after waking and the second dose 6 to 7 hours later.
 Any surgical intervention or catheterization procedures to treat leaking heart valves will depend on the specific type of heart problem.
 Heart surgeons repair heart valves by separating the fused valve flaps, reshaping or removing tissue for better closure of the valves or by adding tissue to patch tears or holes or to increase the support at the valve’s base.
 If the heart valves cannot be repaired, the faulty valve is replaced with a man-made valve or biological valve made from pigs or cows.
 During a valvuloplasty procedure, a thin tube is inserted through a blood vessel to reach the heart. A balloon is then inflated in order to widen the constricted valve so that blood flow can increase.
 It is essential to quit smoking if you suffer from a leaking heart valve. This is because the nicotine present in tobacco can cause narrowing of the arteries in the heart. It can also cause problems with the flow of blood. Quitting smoking helps to reduce or even eliminate these issues.
 A low-fat diet helps to reduce cholesterol levels and keep the heart strong. It also decreases the risk of diabetes and helps to reduce blood pressure. In fact, a low-fat diet is recommended for anyone suffering from any kind of heart issue.
 Regular exercise keeps the heart healthy and reduces the risk of diabetes, high cholesterol, blood pressure and other health problems. Recommended exercises include regular walking, swimming and cycling. These exercises do the following:


Lower blood pressure
Improve cardiovascular disease
Increase bone strength
Improve blood circulation
Reduce body fat

, Take care of your teeth and gums to reduce the risk of infection. Gingivitis is an infection caused by poor oral hygiene, which causes the gums to become swollen and inflamed.


The bacteria within teeth can cause chronic inflammation of gum line. Though it may seem surprising, this chronic inflammation can cause serious heart disease. This is because oral bacteria enters into blood stream and attaches itself to fatty plaques lining the blood vessels in the heart.
In this way, the built-up bacteria obstructs blood flow, causing heart problems such as leaking heart valves. In fact, people with gum disorders have double the risk of developing heart problems than those without. That’s why it's important to brush your teeth twice a day and to floss regularly.
 Since leaking heart valves can be inherited, your doctor will ask you questions about the occurrence of the disease in your family.


If your parents or siblings have a leaking heart valve, then you are more susceptible to acquiring the condition.
Also, the doctor will ask you if you were born with any conditions that affect the heart’s structure.
 This test uses sound waves to generate images of the heart. It assesses the four chambers of the heart to diagnose and monitor a leaking heart valve.


During the procedure, the patient will lie on an examination table. The technician will then apply a lubricant or a Vaseline-like gel to the chest of the patient. A transducer or a device that resembles a computer mouse will be placed on the chest and will be moved back and forth.
The transducer sends sound waves to the chest and these waves will eventually bounce and be interpreted by a computer. This creates a two-dimensional image of the heart.
 An electrocardiogram is a procedure used to record the electrical activity of the heart.


Electrodes are attached to the skin of the patient which transmit impulses through waves into a monitor, which in turn is printed on a special paper.
This helps physicians to recognize heart rhythm problems as well as any damage to the heart.
 Generally, physicians order a blood work-up to measure levels of various substances in the body that may be suggestive of a heart problem. A blood work-up can also be used also to eliminate other conditions that may possibly be causing the existing symptoms.
 During this procedure, a thin catheter is inserted into the groin and inserted through the blood vessels of the heart.


The amount of pressure within the heart chambers is measured to determine the level of force of the heart when pumping blood.
Images of the heart arteries can also be collected during this procedure to check for any obstruction or blockage.
 During a cardiac CT (Cardiac Computerized Tomography) scan, patients lie flat on a table inside a doughnut-shaped machine called a gantry. An X-ray tube installed within the machine then rotates around the patient’s body and gathers images of the chest and the heart.


In a cardiac MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging), patients are positioned flat on a table inside a long tube-like machine that utilizes magnetic field and radio waves to generate impulses that produces images of the heart.
Through these images, the doctor can assess whether the patient has a leaking heart valve or not.
 A stress test is performed to record the functioning of the heart during physical activities. Patients are asked to walk on a treadmill or ride a stationary bike while a specialized device measures the blood pressure, breathing and heart rhythm.

