 Be aware that hormone levels can affect her energy and mood; however, don’t be rude and ask or assume a woman’s choices are solely based on her hormones. Always be respectful and openly ask her how she came about her decision.


If you know her well enough, understand that progesterone levels can have calming effects and usually rise a week after ovulation. Testosterone and estrogen levels are higher during ovulation and can cause a woman to have more energy and her mood to be on the sassier side.When progesterone is withdrawn from the body, women can easily be irritated. Similarly, her mood can be negatively affected 12-24 hours before her period starts.;
, Studies have shown that women are able to read nonverbal cues, such as facial expression and tone of voice, better than men.Be genuine in the emotions you’re trying to convey and you will have a better chance in changing her mind. You may not realize it but your body language may give off any ulterior motives you may have.
 Using intimidation, either physical or verbal, is wrong and abusive. If any thoughts of this nature creep into your mind, remove yourself from the situation and consult a professional!


While you are allowed to get angry, research has shown that women will act to nullify the threat that you’re presenting through manipulation.Just because you get the response you’re looking for, doesn’t mean that she is being sincere. Anger and aggression should be avoided.
 Studies have shown that women are more sensitive to stress and anxiety. If she is already stressed over another aspect in her life, it may not be the best time to add another source of stress with your appeal to change her mind. Understand how she responds to anxiety.
 A negative response may sometimes be better than no response because women will at least know that you’re engaged and invested emotionally. Women are sensitive to interpersonal cues so blank expressions or being stonewalled can escalate an already negative situation., The rules and expectations that govern how you communicate with her should be different. If you want to change her mind and get her to view you romantically, do not continue to abide by friendship dynamics., Is a romantic relationship what you actually want? Could you stand losing her friendship? Do not be friends with a female in hopes that you can change her mind about you. This is unfair to her as friendships should be based on trust and respect.
 The best way to change her mind about you as more than a friend is to be direct. There is no sense in trying to manipulate her or trying to wait her out. If she declines your romantic overtures and wishes to stay friends, respectfully decline.Your emotions may be too raw after you have been rejected to maintain a friendship. A friendship is based on mutual support and respect. Ask yourself if you can truly give that to her after you have clearly expressed that you see her as more than a friend. Can you still be friends with her if she is dating someone else?

, Help her change her opinion about you by learning more about her. Respectfully approach her friends and family and tell them that you’d like to learn more about her. Be open and honest with your intentions and they will better understand how to help you.


Do not present yourself as someone who you are not. This will certainly make things worse if she finds out that you have manipulated those close to her to get your way.
 Be direct when stating your case. Don’t assume that she thinks one way about you. Always respectfully ask and thank her for letting you know her opinion. Open communication is the easiest way to get her to change her opinion about you., Are you listening to respond or are you truly hearing what she is saying? Actively listen to her and ask questions to make sure that you understand what you’ve heard. Don’t be distracted by outside factors. Look for a quiet place or ask to schedule a meeting to ensure that both of you are mentally and emotionally present., Be present when you are communicating with her. Do not get distracted by your surroundings. More importantly, take in her facial expressions and how her body responds throughout your communication. Take in the entirety of her message to ensure you are clearly it., She may have formed an opinion about you based on her values. Religion and culture may play into her decision making so be respectful of this process. If you do not understand her value system, communicate openly and honestly so you don’t offend her with any ignorant retorts.

