 Because working two jobs will be a taxing and stressful venture, you will need the help of a strong support system. Turn to your friends and family when you feel like giving up on your business. Ask people for help if you are struggling to balance everything. A strong support system will go a long ways towards sustaining you and your business during difficult times.Let your friends and family know ahead of time that your new business will take up a lot of your time.
 In order to maintain your health and manage your stress levels, it is important that your start a good self-care routine. Although the responsibilities of working two jobs may make this more difficult, you need to make the time to exercise and do the things that you enjoy. You also need to create and adhere to a consistent sleep schedule. These things will help you stay physically and mentally sharp.Try to get at least 30 minutes of moderate exercise a day. Do things like taking a walk or going for quick job.
Try to get at least 8 hours of sleep a night. You should also try to go to bed and get up at the same times each day.
 Because you may initially run your side business from your home, it is important that you keep strict personal/professional boundaries. Do not spend all of your free time at home working on your side business. Instead, make sure that you do the things that you enjoy and spend some time with your family. You will be burned out quickly if you spend all of your free time on your business.Consider working on your business outside of your home. Go to a local coffee shop or café to work on any business related materials. This will ensure that your home does not become your office and you maintain proper boundaries.
 It will take time for your business to begin gaining traction. Few businesses turn a profit in their first few years of operation. Unless your small business becomes an overnight success, you will likely need to keep working your day job in order to meet your personal expenses. Recognize that you are in it for the long haul and that growing your business will take time and patience.Your day job is also a good safety net in case your business does not pan out. Less than a third of all startups are profitable three to five years after their founding and more than half have closed.

