 Several companies make “privacy film,” which is basically removable, cut-to-size plastic film that you can adhere to your windows. While this film alone will not completely block out light, it will reduce the amount of light that comes through your windows., Aluminum helps reflect the sunlight coming in through the windows, so it can reduce your utility bills as well as block light. Use painter’s tape to secure the foil to avoid damaging your windows.


If you rent your home, be aware that some property managers will not allow foiled windows. If you’re not sure whether you’re permitted to use foil, ask first.
 Blackout curtains are usually made from thicker fabrics and have liners that block light. In addition, they can reduce your utility bills because they help insulate your home.


You can also search for “thermal” curtains, which are also heavy and lined and serve the same purpose.
If you really like your curtains, you can purchase just a blackout liner and hang it behind your existing curtains using clips or a second rod. IKEA, Home Depot, and many department stores sell blackout liners., If you’re crafty, you can often sew curtains yourself for much cheaper than purchasing them. Most fabric stores sell “blackout drapery lining” and thermal fabrics that you can use behind any curtain fabric you choose. You can even sew linings into your existing curtains.
 Roller shades, roman shades, and other fabric window shades often block more light than curtains alone. They are widely available from home supply stores, departments stores, and online.


You can also make your own shades from blackout fabric. While these may not be as attractive as purchased shades, they are usually cheaper., Drapes and blinds will help block any light that still comes in through filmed or foiled windows

, Light can pass through the cracks of your bedroom door if you have the lights on elsewhere.
 Many devices have lights to indicate that they’re plugged in, charging, or powered on. These can emit a surprising amount of light in your room, so unplug them when they’re not in use to shut those lights off.


As a bonus, unplugging your unused electronics can save you money on your electric bill -- as much as 10% over a year!You can use a power strip to easily cut power to all your electronics in an area at once. Simply plug all the electronics into the strip and flip the switch to “off” when you’re ready to rest.
 Rolling up a blanket or towel and placing it along the bottom edge of your door can help stop light from seeping in through the crack. You can also purchase or make a “draft snake,” which is a filled tube that covers the crack below the door.
 This is probably the easiest way to immediately darken any room. Many sleep masks even come with aromatherapy scents like lavender to help you relax and fall asleep. Wearing a sleep mask in combination with using blackout treatments will help you get the rest you need.

