 There are many different “roads” you can take to an eventual career with NASA. While the Pathways Program provides excellent opportunities, you can apply to NASA straight away if you've graduated from college or are in the military., While it's a good idea to start your job search by visiting NASA's website—you can learn more about the organization, the people they employ, and the projects they are undertaking—you will be led to USAJOBS to find and apply for specific jobs.


You can use the search function on USAJOBS to filter the results to show positions with NASA.
 If you're worried about missing job announcements with NASA, you can sign up to receive email notifications from USAJOBS when a position which matches your qualifications and desired criteria becomes available.Just be sure to check your email regularly, and make sure that your spam filters are set such that the notifications won't be send to the wrong email folder or blocked altogether.
 NASA doesn't consider unsolicited resumes. As explained above, you should search for open positions by visiting USAJOBS, and/or signing up for email notifications of new positions., Once you've found a position you'd like to apply for, you'll need to prepare your resume. While NASA does accept mailed hard copy resumes (the address will be listed in the vacancy announcement), they strongly prefer that you use the electronic submission process through USAJOBS.It's in your best interest to apply as they prefer, and avoid mailing your materials unless you absolutely need to.
 You're allowed to create and save up to five different resumes on the the USAJOBS site. You'll then be asked to select the one you want to use for a particular job opening.If you're applying for more than one government position, or more than one job at NASA, you may want to create different versions of your resume to highlight different skills.


For example, one of your resumes may highlight your teaching experience if you are applying to a job that requires you to train or mentor others, whereas another resume may highlight your research experience.
Study the job posting carefully to select the resume that best highlights the skills and qualifications you'll need for that job.
Be sure to make note of which version of your resume you used for particular applications; NASA won't maintain the name you gave the resume., You should not use bullet-points or other non-alphanumeric characters in your resume. NASA's computer program won't translate these characters correctly, and your final resume will look sloppy.You may, however, use a dash instead of a bullet to emphasize points or to list your experience. , It's a good idea to first draft and polish your resume in a word processing program instead of creating it from scratch while applying through USAJOBS. However, you are advised not to copy and paste from your word document into the resume builder.


Programs like Microsoft word include special characters and hidden code that won't translate properly.If you compose your resume using a simple text file, you should be able to copy and paste without issue.
 It's a good idea to highlight the key words in the advertisement for the job your applying to when you tailor your resume. Make sure to include those words and phrases as you outline your work experience and present your skills and competencies.Make sure as well to use the appropriate technical terms for your industry.
 NASA recommends that you keep your resume focused on the job you want, and that you avoid using excessive adjectives when describing your experience. You should also avoid trying to fill out your experience by listing irrelevant work experience., You don't need to include your complete work history on the resume you send to NASA. For example, they don't expect you to list the summer you spent detasseling corn or the side job you had as a bartender while in graduate school.


You should, however, include your current job, even if it's not directly related to the position you're applying for at NASA.
 Once you decide what jobs to list on your resume, be sure to have at hand the dates of your employment, your salary, your employers' addresses and your supervisors' names and telephone numbers., You'll need to declare any work you've done with the government. Be ready to list the occupational series number of your position, the exact dates of your employment, dates of your promotions, and the highest grade you held., You will also need to provide the complete names of the schools you've attended and their locations. List as well your major, graduation dates, GPA (and the scale which was used to calculate it), and degrees earned.


Most jobs at NASA require at least a four-year degree, and often an advanced degree. It's important that your degree come from an accredited institution recognized by the Department of Education, and not a “diploma mill”., You should also include a list of any awards you've won, training you've completed, publications you've authored or co-authored, etc. Be sure to include specific titles and dates.

You should also outline the computer software, tools, and/or equipment you've used or mastered which could be relevant to this new job.
 USAJOBS has no length limit on the resume you create through their system, but NASA does. They won't consider resumes over six typed pages (approximately 20,000 characters)., NASA doesn't accept cover letters as part of the application process, nor does it accept other documents such as SF-171, OF-612, DD-214, SF-50, or SF-15., NASA typically doesn't request that you send supporting documentation when you first apply for an open position. Read the ad carefully, though, in case there is an exception to this general rule.

You should also monitor your email carefully for any requests that come your way after your resume has been submitted.
Some jobs, for example, may require you to send your college transcripts, or you will have to follow up with proper documentation if you're requesting veteran's preference.These requests typically come near the end of the hiring process, though.
 Once you've completed your online resume with USAJOBS, it will be transferred to the NASA Staffing System (NASA STARS). This system will extract the information that NASA is concerned with from your basic USAJOBS resume., Note that not all of the fields are extracted. For example, NASA doesn't extract info from the “Languages” “Organizations/Affiliations” or “References” sections.It doesn't hurt to fill out these sections in your general USAJOBS resume, but don't freak out when you don't see them on your NASA STARS resume.
 NASA STARS may ask you to answer some additional questions once your resume has been extracted. These verify that you meet the minimum qualifications and that you're interested in the position., You may be asked to answer supplemental questions while completing your USAJOBS resume. If so, your answers will be transferred, but you'll need to verify that they were transferred completely. You can use this opportunity to amend or revise your answers., For example, some SES (Senior Executive Service) positions require you to complete the SES Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ) and SES Executive Technical Qualifications questions. NASA recommends that you complete these off-line using a simple text editor and then fill in your answer once you've been able to give them careful thought and attention. These questions are designed to assess whether you have the appropriate managerial and leadership skills and experience, as well as the required technical knowledge and skills.
 Once your supplemental questions have been answered, you'll receive an email notice from NASA which verifies that your application has been received.If you don't receive this, you'll want to go back to your application to see if you've missed a step.
 You can log back on to USAJOBS at any time to see where your application is in the review process.

For example, you can see if your application has been received, if the review process has begun, if it's been determined that you are eligible for the position, whether you've been selected to interview, or whether the position has been filled or cancelledGood luck!

