 Chances are, even if your mother has been extremely controlling all of your life, you still are holding out hope that someday she might change. She may eventually change, but that will be up to her. You have to make peace with how she is now and stop wishing for her to suddenly become a different person.When you hold on to expectations, you set yourself up for disappointment. If you didn't expect your mother to magically release her controlling hold on you, her not fulfilling that expectation wouldn't hurt so bad.
By expecting her to change, you are also removing responsibility from yourself. No, you are not responsible for how your mother controlled your life in the past. You are responsible for how you allow her to continue to do this into the future.
 Your mother may be at fault for being overbearing and controlling, but you are at fault for constantly playing into her hand. Your trying to always satisfy her has only reinforced her controlling nature.The only thing wrong with trying to please everyone is that there's always at least one person who will remain unhappy: you.
Of course, it's important to respect your mother, and maybe even consider her point-of-view. Plus, bending a little might put you in her good graces. Still, you don't have to always bend to her way of thinking simply to make her happy or prevent discord in your relationship.
 If at all possible, you need to cut off financial ties. If you are an adult who has been steadily accepting money from your mother over the years, then she may think her contribution earns her the right to make choices for you.Your mom might think you are incapable of taking on adult responsibilities if you have been requiring extra money from her to make purchases or pay bills. Handling your own expenses will show her that you are a responsible adult who doesn't need managing.
Teens and young adults can demonstrate autonomy by spending more carefully or getting a part-time job to make their own money. Yes, you may still live under your mother's roof, but you can express disagreement with your mother more easily if you are pulling some of your own weight in the household.
 But, if her excessive need for control is causing you distress, you need to devise a solution that allows you to assert yourself as an adult.


Does you mother call you throughout the day, reminding you to do this or that? Tell her that you will start putting reminders in your phone, and that she no longer needs to do this. Try to limit phone conversation to one per day, with the exception of emergencies.
Does your mother frequently drop by your house, or enter your room and go through your things? Sit down with her and tell her how this bothers you and hinders your ability to blossom into a fully functioning adult. Make an agreement for her to limit visitations to certain days of the week. And in the case of living in the same house, she should only enter your room in your presence and after knocking.,


Emotional and psychological distance may consist of sharing less of your personal life with your mother, which gives her little opportunity to interfere. When she inquires about a sensitive subject that you know she will be controlling about, gently tell her you would rather not talk about it.
Distance can also be physical such as moving to a new city or coming home to visit her less often. Keep in mind, that this is an extreme mode of action. Family can be one of the biggest support systems you have, so moving away from them can be daunting to both parties. However, if you think it's the only way to live your life on your own terms, then go for it.
As you plan to get distance from your mother, try to include her in the process. Reassure her that you have and will always love her. You will still be her daughter or son. You just need more space to grow into the person you want to be.

