 Another reason people often feel thirsty is because they have dry mouth, a condition in which the mouth can’t produce enough saliva. This leaves the mouth not only dry but also irritated, sticky-feeling and craving fluids. If you are well hydrated and not overheated, you could have dry mouth. One means of reducing it is by ditching cigarettes and tobacco chew completely. It’s also wise to curtail your coffee intake. Both leave your mouth dry and you thirsty.If you’re a smoker and not ready to quit, try smoking less frequently, smoke only half of a cigarette at a time or wait longer between each puff – whatever it takes to decrease your overall intake.
 Just as chewing gum and candy helps in the immediate quenching of thirst, it also helps a great deal with persistent dry mouth. The more candy you suck and gum you chew, the more saliva you will produce. It’s best to find sugar-free hard candies and gums because poor oral health can also lead to dry mouth and, therefore, feeling thirsty., Lots of bacteria grows in your mouth, so proper oral hygiene is a must. Brush and floss your teeth after every meal. Flossing is often overlooked, but it’s necessary it help get rid of the bacteria that not only decreases the production of saliva but also increases your chances of getting gingivitis, advanced gum disease and yeast infections, all of which can be caused by dry mouth and make it worse..


Visit the dentist regularly for exams and cleanings. Also have any necessary work done as soon as possible to correct existing problems contributing to or worsening your dry mouth.
 In addition to the saliva substitutes Mouth Kote, Oasis Moisturizing Mouth Spray and Biotene Oral Balance, use mouthwash specifically for dry mouth that has xylitol like Biotene Dry Mouth Oral Rinse or ACT Total Care Dry Mouth Rinse. On your way out, skip over the antihistamines and decongestants, which will only make it worse, and you more thirsty.While there, talk to the pharmacist about whether any medications you might be on cause excessive thirst or dry mouth. According to the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research, over 400 medicines – from those for high blood pressure to those used for depression – can cause the salivary glands to produce less saliva., When you breathe through your mouth, the air that passes through dries out your mouth. When your mouth is dry, you feel thirsty. Start noticing whether you breathe through your mouth or your nose; it’s not one of those things most people consciously pay attention to. Then make a concerted effort to do it and see if it helps!

, One of the first things most people reach for in the morning is a glass of water. Why? Because typically when we sleep, we breathe through our mouths, not our noses as instructed. Hours upon hours of doing this creates significant drying in our mouths. Using a humidifier, which adds moisture to the air, will reduce how dry your mouth becomes at night and help to alleviate what is sometimes called “cottonmouth.”Make sure you regularly clean the humidifier to avoid the growth of bacteria and mold.

