 They're best kept under 2.5cm or 1-inch height for the standard dollhouse but you may wish them to be taller or shorter. If the doll is much larger, simply increase the size of the paper to suit the doll's hand size.;
, Cut this paper into lengthwise strips that are slightly smaller than the intended final size of the book. You don't want the pages to hang out over the cover. Use the first strip you've cut as a template for cutting the remaining strips.


The amount of strips you use is up to you. The more strips you use, the thicker the book; the less you use, the thinner the book.
 Fold each strip exactly the same way.
 Always slip the new piece joining over the edge of the old piece, all the way along until all pieces are joined.
 Clip together with a binder clip while drying, to ensure that they join together very firmly.
 Place the glued-together stack of pages onto the patterned or colored paper. Cut out the cover to a size both wider and higher than the stack of pages, making sure to cut enough to wrap around the whole book, plus have flaps each side when folded in.
 Wrap the new cover around the book. Ensure that it is evenly aligned all the way around the pages stack.
 Make the folds crisp and clean.
 Keep this neat all the way around and don't press too tightly just yet. Remove the cover from the pages stack and make these folds firmly on the work surface.
 Make adjustments if needed.
 Remove the pages stack again and hold it in the center of the cover you've just made. Mark the top and base edges of the spine on the inside of the cover. Measure in a little way up the spine and make a mark. Draw two long triangles each side of the spine to reach this mark. Then cut them out either side. You now have flaps for folding into the middle of the pages stack when it is reinserted.
 Fold the side flaps over the sides of the pages stack and the center flaps into the top and base of the stack.
 You may need to use invisible tape to hold parts together.
 This part is optional but allows you to customize it if needed.
 The book is now ready for using with your doll or dollhouse.

