 As your baby is increasingly able to move around and otherwise control their body, set up a space where they can practice pulling themselves up. They will likely try to use anything they can grab onto to help them stand. Accordingly, make sure furniture and other items in the area do not have any dangerous edges, and are heavy enough to remain still if your baby grabs onto it to pull themselves upwards.Never leave a baby that is learning how to stand up unattended.
 Within a safe area in which your baby can practice pulling themselves up, provide small incentives for them to do so. For instance, place one of their toys on the couch and show your baby where it is. Then set them on the floor near the couch.This may interest your baby in approaching the couch and pulling themselves up.
Make sure not to try this on furniture or items that might move if your baby uses them to pull themselves up.
Note that some babies will be able to pull themselves up and reach for things before they’re able to sit themselves back down. In these cases, you may want to help them lower themselves back to the ground.
If your baby becomes adept at this game, place several items along the couch, to encourage them to scoot sideways while supporting themselves with their hands.
 To put it bluntly, parents often need to be reassured that their baby is developing totally normally. Normal, in fact, is different for every baby. While it’s important to have plenty of unrestricted play time with your baby, you’re unlikely to actually speed up their physical development.Focus on providing them safe opportunities to experiment moving around, and having fun when you spend time together.
 Encouragement not only motivates babies, it helps them develop a positive concept of themselves as they become children. It also helps facilitate a happy, healthy relationship between you and your baby. Simply say things like, "good job!" or "try again" in a calm, joyful tone., The more restricted your baby is, the less opportunity they have to learn how to move and stand. In short, babies should spend as much as time possible unrestrained. Once it seems like your baby is able to pull themselves up, you’ll probably want to help them get walking - but don’t get them a walker. These are not only potentially dangerous, they hinder your baby’s physical development and interest in walking outside of their walker.While items designed to hold your baby vertically seem to prepare your child to walk, they do not. Accordingly, stationary bouncing seats and other similar items should also be avoided.

