 If they aren’t giving you clues about how they feel about being in a relationship right now, then just ask them. Once you ask them about it, you’ll know whether you have a chance at becoming more than friends.Start the conversation by talking about your thoughts on dating. For example, you could say, “I keep seeing couples. I’d like to be in a relationship with the right person.”
Then you can ask if they want to be in a relationship or date in general. You might say, “So, what’s up with you and dating? Are you open to it or not so much?”
If they don’t talk about having feelings for anyone else or hint that they haven’t found the right person, you probably have a chance.
If your friend is constantly talking about one person or outright says they have a crush on someone, now might not be the best time to try to become more than friends.
 You may have to discuss some of your friend’s concerns about dating someone of the same sex. This may be especially true if you want to become more than friends with someone that has never dated someone of the same sex, or had a bad experience with it in the past.


Explain that dating someone of the same sex doesn’t mean you are homosexual.You could say, “Dating a guy doesn’t necessarily mean you are gay. You might be bi, or something else. Only you can define who you are, though.”
Point out the benefits of same sex relationships. For example, “In my opinion, dating girls is fun because they already understand what it’s like to be a girl.”

, Before you can become more than friends with a gay or lesbian friend, you may need to talk about misperceptions about opposite sex relationships.


Describe the reasons why you date people of the opposite sex.
For instance you could tell your gay friend, “Even though I like guys, too, I also like the fresh perspective a girl brings to a relationship.”
Dispel any myths or false ideas they have about opposite sex relationships.
For example, you might tell your lesbian crush, “You say all men are dogs, but I’m a guy. And you always say I’m great!”

