 The fleas are most likely in your carpet because they came from your pet. In order to prevent the fleas from getting into your carpet, you will need to check your pet to see if he or she has fleas. If your pet is constantly scratching him or herself, he or she probably has fleas.
 Purchase a flea comb from a pet store and brush your pet with it. The flea comb has small, tight bristles that will catch the tiny pests in your pet's fur. It will also remove any loose fur, thus preventing shedding.


Consider keeping a small bowl filled with water and a few drops of dish soap. You can dip the comb into the soapy water to drown the fleas and get them off the comb while you are brushing your pet's fur., The water will drown the fleas, and the soap will kill any larva. Consider using a special soap for killing off fleas. Keep in mind, however, that this may not work very well if you have a cat. Most cats hate water and will become aggressive if forced into water. If you wish to give your cat a bath, make sure that you are wearing thick gloves and long sleeves to protect your skin.
 Take your pet to a vet and ask what sort of flea medication would be the best for your pet. Your vet will then prescribe or recommend a medication type (cat or dog) and a dosage. If you wish to prescribe the medication yourself, make sure that you read the label—it will tell you whether it is for a cat or a dog, what age range it is for, and what weight it is for. If you do not do this, you will risk overdosing your pet and get tragic results.


Depending on the type, flea medication can be given orally or topically. If it is given topically, it is usually applied on the base of your pet's neck, right between the shoulder blades. Refer to the instructions on the label to find out how you should give the medication to your pet.
Watch your pet for any signs of discomfort or allergic reactions. Sometimes, a cat or dog may be allergic to flea medication.
Never give dog flea medication to a cat and vice versa. Always use the recommended dosage, and never give more.
 Flea collars contain chemicals that ward off fleas. They are especially helpful if you have a pet that goes outside. If you can keep fleas off your pet, you can keep fleas off your carpet. Put the collar on your pet and tighten it until you can still slip your finger beneath the collar. Cut off any excess collar with a pair of scissors.
 Adding a small amount of garlic or brewer's yeast to your dog's food is a common remedy for repelling fleas (and thus keeping them off your carpet), but studies have shown that adding garlic or brewer's yeast to your dog's food has little to no effect.Never give garlic to your cat. The garlic remedy is intended for dogs only. Garlic is extremely toxic to cats.
 You can make your own flea-repelling spray for your carpet by pouring some water into a spray bottle and adding a few drops of essential oil. Shake the bottle to mix everything together, and then mist your carpet with this solution. This flea-repellant is safe to use around dogs and children, but not safe to use around cats.


Here is a list of flea-repelling essential oils that are safe to use around dogs: bergamot, cedar wood, citronella, eucalyptus, geranium, lavender, lemon, lemongrass, peppermint, rosemary, sage, and sweet orange.Do not use this spray around cats. Cats are extremely sensitive to essential oils.
 There are certain plants whose smell deters fleas. These plants do not kill fleas, but they discourage them from entering your home. Consider purchasing a flea-repelling plant and keeping it inside your home. Here is a list of plants that repel fleas:Catnip discourages fleas, but it is a nice treat for your cat!
Chamomile not only smells and looks lovely, but you can also use the flowers to brew tea.
Lavender keeps fleas at bay while filling your home with a pleasant fragrance. It also produces appealing purple-grey flowers.
Lemongrass can be used not only to deter fleas but also for cooking.
Mint is not only great for repelling fleas, but also for cooking! You can use it to season food, or flavor drinks.
Rosemary is a popular herb. You can use it not only to keep fleas away but also to season your food.
Sage is another herb used both for cooking and keeping fleas away.

