 Turning your body towards his is a welcoming and friendly gesture, and can warm a person up to us without them even realizing you’re doing anything. When you speak to him, make sure your legs are pointing towards him. If you’re in a chair, swivel your body so you’re facing him. If you’re standing in a circle and he approaches, turn your body so that it’s angled toward him. Try to keep your body angled toward wherever he is.Don’t make a spectacle of yourself trying to maneuver your body toward him. Keep it subtle and only do it when it can appear natural.
 Happiness is an incredibly attractive feature, and a big smile is sure to catch his eye. You don’t have to plaster a giant grin on your face, but try to smile as much as you possibly can in his presence. When your teacher makes a small joke, when your friend asks to borrow a pencil, whenever. Just show him that you’re a happy, upbeat person.Fake smiles are pretty easy to spot. Try to make your smile look genuine and real by thinking of something funny or happy. You don't need to be smiling 24/7, but just make sure to flash authentic smiles whenever you can, and whenever it seems natural.
 No, you don’t need to give him a giant kiss on the cheek when you say hello or rub his back while he’s doing homework. Instead, find ways to casually touch him. When he makes a joke, brush his arm while you laugh.


If you need his attention, tap your hand on his back. If you’re sitting side my side, you can lightly touch your knee to his. If he’s passing a paper to you, graze his hand when you take it.
Don’t be overly aggressive. The smallest physical contact can get a guy’s attention., This is a subtle little trick to make you seem interested and likable to your crush. Again, it’s a simple way to make him feel connected and welcomed by you. Watch his body language, and mimic it. If he leans towards you, lean into him. If he leans up against a locker, lean up against a locker. If he runs a hand through his hair, wait a few seconds, then do the same. It’s really simple, and it’s really effective.Be sure to allow a three to four second delay before mirroring his action. You don't want to literally mime him — that will look more strange than endearing.

