 The best way to prevent eclampsia in a pregnant dog is to give the dam a well-balanced diet rich in high-quality meat. Make sure the dam gets enough vitamins and minerals in the food she is eating on a daily basis.However, a common cause of eclampsia is when an owner gives extra meat, believing the extra protein will do the dog good. In fact, the meat is low calcium and alters the calcium:phosphate ratio in the blood, and actually drives down blood calcium levels. The best solution is to feed a diet for growth (such as a puppy food) in the last part of pregnancy.
For the first four to five weeks of your dog's pregnancy, feed her a regular amount of high-quality dog food. For the last four weeks of your dog's pregnancy, give her 30 to 50% more calories than her regular diet.You can ask your vet for food recommendations if you are not sure what to feed a pregnant dog.;
, Though eclampsia is caused by low calcium levels, giving your dog supplements will only increase her risk of eclampsia. The dog should get enough calcium, phosphorus, and Vitamin D from her food. If you want to add supplements to her diet, only give her a small amount when she is mid-term in her pregnancy. You can give her a balanced source of calcium, phosphorus and Vitamin D in very small amounts.Always give your dog a balanced amount of calcium and phosphorus, with a ratio of one calcium to two parts phosphorus. Never give the dog calcium supplements alone, as this can increase her risk of eclampsia.
Milk is can be a good supplement source of Vitamin D and calcium for your dog. Make sure the milk is not causing your dog to have loose stool. If so, stop giving it to her.
You can also give the dog fish oil to make sure she is getting enough omega-3 fatty acids.
 Cortisone has been shown in exceptional cases to be helpful at preventing eclampsia in dogs. Cortisone usually comes in the form of an injection. Talk to your vet about this preventative measure.Try to talk to your vet about cortisone treatment while your dog is still pregnant or if this is your dog’s second pregnancy and you are worried about her developing eclampsia.

