 The idea can be about a cat already in the Clans, a cat like Rusty growing to become a warrior, or even life in StarClan. It can be anything! The key here, though, is to make sure it's not something clichéd - that means something that is used too much. Most people will roll their eyes and stop reading if you write a story about "a cat with special powers that must fight to save their clan." It's written about too much and it's not very interesting. To come up with a plot that's interesting, think of an adventure you might actually want to read. Make sure the key parts of the story are there, too - you want to know how you're going to end it before you begin. Give the story a decent introduction, a middle that leads up to climax, and a satisfying ending.
 The best character has good qualities but is also flawed in some ways. Now, most people make the mistake of flaws as being "oh, my cat can't hunt very well, so it's okay that she's attractive and the leader and the best cat ever." These are referred to as "Mary Sues" in the case of females. "Gary Stus" is used when referring to males. The key to this sort of flaw is that it must actually make the cat miserable or unable to advance the plot at some point. She can't hunt? It's only a viable flaw when the Clan is starving and she can't even feed her own kits. That's when it actually becomes a "flaw." Other flaws to include are character flaws. These are things like pride, greed, jealousy, and other bad qualities. The best characters are lovable and great, but also have setbacks that make the reader understand and feel bad for them.

However, you also need to remember to give them some skills, or else readers won't care about them and they're not relatable. But, if it's going to be some minor character that's going to turn out to be evil later, it's a good trick to give them a lot of flaws so readers don't predict that they are a villain!

, Bringing in a whole new clan with a new set of attributes, lifestyles, and habitat can raise the readers' attention. They would want to know how this clan came in from the beginning and how they survived.

Be careful when creating Clan names. Things that aren't quite natural like "MagicClan" or something long and awkward like "AuroraClan" are all things you want to avoid. Do something natural like IceClan, or even Squirrelclan.
 Now, it's recommended you don't begin instantly with tons of action and suspense. You need to make the reader care about the cats and introduce the characters, settings, and even lifestyle if it's different from the main canon cat's lives before you threaten them with impending doom. Now, action scenes aren't bad - just use them sparingly. If you have cats attacking and fur flying in every chapter, things get rather boring and predictable.

Erin Hunter started one of her books with a small battle between two clans with both their deputies in it. This prequel took place a generation before the main story.
 If you have one at all, make it good. For example, if a cat named Grasspaw is the main hero and Yellowpaw is evil, don't say something like 'The grass shall defeat yellow,' because that is too simple. And don't make it too complex, like,"When the color of the sun threatens the Clan, the blade of what grows from the earth shall rise and defeat it."Try for something between the two extremes.

Be very careful about writing prophecies. They can't be obvious or too vague, and quite a few people have tried to use them and usually they just end up making it a little silly. Don't use one unless you know it will make for an exciting plot. There are also prophecy generators on websites like Scratch, just be careful with some of the prophecies because they may come out weird, like 'cat that saves a blade of grass will win a battle against a mouse.' Don't use lists of prophecies, because most of them will have already been used.
 For people who are not familiar with the term "climax," a climax is the most exciting part of the story. There can be a great battle between the clans, a cat confronting a corrupted leader, or whatever is the most important and exciting event in your plot. Now, be careful not to write the climax too soon in the story. Disaster will strike if we meet your cats and suddenly are plunged into a battle.... and then the story is over. Make the stuff leading up to your climax interesting and intriguing. Make the readers interested in what's going to happen., The ending is a bit difficult. You need to resolve all the problems that arose in your story and keep it satisfying. Don't end the story on "and the prophecy was fulfilled." Perhaps end it on a funny conversation between Clanmates or a cat receiving their warrior name. Something that will make your readers go "whoa", or "wow".