 If you want to keep your hat looking like its just from the store, you want to keep that sticker looking as clean as possible. Water will ruin it very quickly, making it peel and flake off. If you're trying to clean the hat up without messing up the sticker, a big of cling wrap from the kitchen will do the trick.


Cut a piece of plastic wrap big enough to cover the sticker by a few centimeters on each side, then tape it in place. Make sure the tape seals the plastic thoroughly.
 It's important to use cold water on a new hat, which keeps the dye from seeping out, though you can feel free to use hotter water on older hats that have been washed already.


If you want to find out if your cap will bleed if you toss it into the washing machine or the dishwasher, do a little spot treatment with a white cloth. Wet the cloth with hot water and blot at the colored area of the cap. Does any color come off? Keep washing it in cold. If not, you're safe.
 Probably the most effective way of gently but firmly getting into any stains–sweat, oil, or otherwise–is to use a brand new, soft-bristled toothbrush, wetted slightly in the cold water. Move the brush in tight circles, scrubbing away the stains gently.
 After you clean the cap with soap, re-wet the toothbrush with plain water and gently go over it again to try to keep working the stains out. If you prefer, you could also switch to a wet-wipe, or a cloth to cover more territory.
 It's very important to set up the cap like you want it to look and let it air dry for about 24 hours before wearing it. If you've gotten the cap fairly damp, it can loose some of its shape, and start to look saggy and old, which is what you want to avoid. Set the clean cap up with the brim flat, and the top of the hat supported with


Consider getting a cap mold to help hold the shape of the hat. These are commonly available at hat stores and other clothing retailers, only cost a couple of bucks, and help you hold the shape of your hat long term, especially while drying. If you've got an adjustable cap, keep it adjusted to the size you wear.
While it might seem quicker, putting the hat into a clothes dryer will ruin the shape and crispness of the hat faster than anything else. The heat will soften the structure of the hat, making it much more pliable. Let hats air dry.
 One of the easiest and quickest ways of washing any baseball cap is to put it into a cap mold, set your dishwasher to a cold setting, and run it through about a half cycle by itself. Remove the hat about halfway through the cycle and let it air dry.


Make sure your dishwasher is extremely clean if you try to do this, and only do this for older hats that won't bleed.

