 If they're your size, make sure they ride where you want them to ride -- that is, for a pencil skirt, around your natural waist. If they ride at your hip, you'll need to trade them out for a pair that are much bigger. A bigger size can easily morph into a high-waisted skirt.


Any material will do, not just denim! If your mom has a rockin' pair of chinos from the 80s, give it a shot!

, If the pants are bigger than you, you'll need to cut the inside and outside seams. If they're your size, you'll only need to cut the inside seams (along the inside of your legs).


Cut up the crotch too, so it lays flat. If you don't, you'll have this bulky, bubbly mess of fabric that you do not want to be dealing with later on down your skirt road. Cut to wear the material doesn't naturally curve anymore.
 That extra material for crotch room? The kind that juts out that forms a V? We don't want that. You want two long, straight shots of fabric for each "leg." Start at the widest point near the crotch and cut a straight line on both legs. It can even go down to the bottom of the pant.


If you bought pants that are much bigger than you and are working with two different halves, you'll need to do these steps twice.
 Down that straight line you just cut, pin both legs together to form the unified material for your skirt. Pin about 1" from the edges, leaving room for your backstitch. You can cut off some of excess material (length-wise) right now if you'd like, or you can just sew it all and adjust for length later. But if you'd like a slit, don't sew up the back all the way!


Your backstitch should be as close to the edge as possible -- you can follow the seam line that's already there. You can do this either by hand or with a machine, no problem.
Again, if you're working with two different halves, do this for both.
 Or if you're working with two different pieces (having just sewn each piece separately), lay the top piece on the bottom piece, wrong sides facing out.


If the skirt is bigger than you, take a skirt that fits you and lay it on top. Then, cut your pants-skirt to that size, leaving 1" on each side for a seam allowance. If you're not a super good seamstress, leave 2" -- it's easier to make it smaller and not so easy to make it bigger!
If the skirt is your size, you're ready to start sewing up the edge!

, Each side needs a good pinning (up and down both sides) to make it easier on you for sewing and to assure a straight line. If you're working with denim, make sure you're using denim thread. Don't have denim thread? Then use cotton thread and go over it twice.


Again, if you're using denim, sew very slowly. You may also need to pull at the fabric a little to keep it taut and straight.
Then try it on! You can adjust for length once you see how it fits your body.
 Once you've tried it on, find out where you'd like it to hit your leg. Pin it, take it off, and you're almost there! Cut it at the desired length, create your edge, and you're done!


You have two main options here: you can either hem it, creating a clean, finished edge, or you can cut and fray it, sticking with the distressed look. If you do choose to hem it, fold under 1/2" (1.25 cm) of material and sew along the edges. Do the same for your slit, if applicable.

