 The classes are assault, special ops, heavy gunner, demolitions, and sniper. Each one has different weapons and perks, which will be described momentarily. Try to find your strength.


Assault is a fairly balanced class, allowing fast-paced action and intense firefights. If you are new to Call of Duty, it is probably your best bet.
Special Ops is a stealthier class. With a lighter primary weapon, you will move slightly faster and run slightly longer. The sub-machine gun (SMG) has a high rate of fire, though, so watch your ammo consumption.
Heavy Gunner is a squad-support class. With the powerful M249 SAW (Squad Automatic Weapon), a skilled gunner can mow down an entire line of advancing enemy troops. If you play as a HG, try to find a second-story vantage point within close range of the hotspots. Think of it as being a close-range sniper.
Demolitions is an underrated class, but can be very powerful. With a high-capacity shotgun, the Demolitions class can storm an enemy-held building with a small team and quickly clear it, minimizing damage to his/her team. But be careful, because the shotgun has a short effective range and will lose power dramatically as the buckshot travels farther. That being said, don't be afraid to try it! Demomen (As they're called) are in short supply, and can really dominate on small maps. The shotguns can also rip through walls at close range, damaging enemies on the other side.
Finally, Sniper is a personal favorite of mine. You unlock the Sniper class at Level 8. (Don't worry, budding sharpshooters, you will progress through the early levels quickly.) Armed with a powerful scoped rifle, you have the ability to deliver death to your enemies from a great distance, and then disappear. Like in the single player campaign, the scope will waver about the screen unless you hold in the left analog stick to hold your breath. On Eastern European maps (SAS vs. Spetznaz) any character with a sniper rifle as their primary weapon will spawn with a ghillie suit, allowing them to hide in the bushes and snipe to their heart's content.;
, By now you've played a few games, and found different weapons and perks that work especially well for your playing style. The only problem is that they're spread over the different classes! Pick a gun you like, give it a camo pattern you like, and pick your perks! Don't worry, you can go back and change these settings anytime between matches. And with 5 slots open for customization, you can make your experience as unique as you want.
 Perks can change the tide of a game. It's vital that you find the right combination of perks that gives you an advantage.


Slot 1 Perks affect your Inventory. They give you extra things to carry (Except Bomb Squad). Try to base this perk on both your playing style and the game mode. NOTE: If you have a grenade launcher as your primary weapon's attachment, the Slot 1 Perks will not be available.
Slot 2 Perks are passive abilities. These are things that are constantly in effect and allow to enjoy things such as faster reloading, higher health, higher bullet damage, etc.
Slot 3 Perks are active abilities. They give you a noticeable edge on the battlefield. For instance, everyone will know if you have martyrdom enabled, because you will drop a live grenade when killed.
 In the Barracks menu, there will be a sub menu chock full of challenges to complete. Some are easy, requiring you to do no more than call in support. Others are absurdly difficult, and may require the help of a friend on the other team. Don't forget these. All of them give valuable experience points (XP). The weapons challenges are particularly good, because when completed, they unlock accessories and camo patterns for the gun you completed the challenge with! Scoring so many kills with a gun will unlock a new accessory for it. Scoring a certain number of headshots with a weapon will unlock a new camo pattern.
 Your gun is meant to be customized, and you won't last long if you leave it uncustomized. Apply an accessory to increase its lethality and an appropriate camo pattern to help your gun blend in with the map.
 Grenades are an important part of gameplay, especially on smaller maps. Remember that if a grenade lands next to you, you can pick it up and throw it back if you're quick enough. To avoid this happening to you, cook your grenades before you throw them. To do this, hold down the right shoulder button (You can only cook frag grenades), but don't release it just yet. You will see your crosshairs start to pulse; you have five pulses before the grenade explodes. Cook it until the third pulse (Four if your target is nearby or your really daring.) and release the shoulder button.
 Some of the multiplayer maps are taken from the single player mode, and if you play them normally, you get an idea of what enemy AI will do, where they will fall back to, etc. BUT DON'T rely on this; online opponents are not AIs.
 Try to play on all the maps, so you know where everything is on each map. The best sniper spots, possible choke points, where the flags are in Domination mode, where the HQs spawn in Headquarters, where the bomb points are in Search and Destroy, etc. Just don't play on private servers too long; you don't earn ANY XP, no matter how well you play.
 This way, you know what you're good at and what you need to improve on. Every once in a while, leave the Team Deathmatch lobby and go play a round of Sabotage. Remember, you gain XP faster on some game modes!

, It may seem boring, but you see exactly where your killer was when he popped you. Who knows, you could ambush him there, or get him from that same spot later in the match!

, Don't get discouraged when you see that you aren't leveling up as fast as you were before. Leveling takes time. Trust me, the rewards are worth it.
 When you top out at Level 55, you can make a choice. you can continue playing at Level 55, or you can begin Prestige mode. If you go Prestige, you will begin at Level 1 again, losing all of your equipment and perks. To compensate for this, you get a neat little icon next to your name where your rank symbol used to be. You can go Prestige a maximum of 10 times, getting a cooler icon every time.

