 Pour approximately 4 quarts (4 L) of water into a large pot. Set it on the stove over medium heat and allow the water to reach a steady simmer.

Ideally, you should avoid using aluminum pots since minerals in the asparagus may chemically react to that metal and discolor the asparagus.
Note that you should start preparing the asparagus while the water heats up.;
, Meanwhile, use a vegetable peeler to remove the tough outer skin from each spear of white asparagus, then use a knife to trim off 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) from the woody stem end of each spear.

To peel the asparagus, lay each spear flat and run the peeler blade down the length of the spear starting 1-1/2 inches (3.75 cm) from the top.
 Separate the asparagus spears into two or four bundles, and loosely tie each bundle with clean kitchen twine.

Arranging bundles based on the anticipated number of servings can make things convenient, but keep in mind that larger bundles may slightly increase the cooking time.
 Add all three ingredients to the simmering water. Wait for the butter to melt and the water to return to a simmer.

The salt and butter add flavor to the white asparagus spears as they cook, which is especially important since the white variety has a somewhat bland flavor on its own.
The lemon juice can help prevent white asparagus from discoloring.
 Lower the bundles of asparagus into the simmering water. Cook at a steady simmer for 8 to 30 minutes, or until the asparagus is tender enough to pierce with the tines of a fork.

The exact amount of cooking time will depend on the thickness of the spears. Spears thinner than 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) in diameter may only take 8 to 12 minutes, but spears thicker than 1 inch (2.5 cm) may take up to 20 or 30 minutes.
Adjust the heat as needed to maintain a steady simmer and check for doneness frequently to avoid accidental overcooking.
 Using tongs, remove the bundles of asparagus from the water and lay them out onto a plate lined with paper towels. Cut the twine, then serve the asparagus as desired.

Consider tossing the finished asparagus in melted butter or drizzling it with hollandaise sauce. Enjoy the white asparagus while it's still warm.

