 Massaging your breasts will help you relax and prepare you in case you need to manually express milk for the baby.The massage should be gentle and not painful. Start above the breast and stroke with a circular motion while moving towards the nipple.Then move again to the outside of the breast in a different area and repeat, moving towards the nipple. Do this until you have moved around the entire breast.
Do not “rough up” your nipples by scrubbing them roughly with a towel. This will remove the natural oils that your breast produces and may make them sore.;
, Some women have inverted, or flat, nipples which appear to have an indentation in the middle. You can determine whether your nipples are inverted using the pinch test:Pinch your breast between your thumb and forefinger on the areola, the dark area about an inch above and below the nipple.
If your nipple becomes erect, it is not inverted. If it retracts into the breast, it is inverted. Women may have one inverted and one protruding nipple.
The degree of inversion can vary from slight to severe.
Your doctor will also be able to tell you whether your nipples are inverted or flat.
 Many women with inverted nipples are able to successfully breastfeed without a problem. However, there are devices you can buy and techniques you can learn about to prepare in case your baby has trouble:Push your nipples out with breast shells. Breast shells are plastic devices which press on your breast making the nipple pop out. You can prepare your breasts by wearing them before the birth and then after the birth for about 30 minutes before feeding time.
Use the Hoffman Technique to stretch your nipple and make it easier to pop out. Put both thumbs on either side of your nipple and press into your breast while also spreading your thumbs apart. Work your way around the nipple. Start doing it twice a day and work up to five times per day. Continue doing it after birth.
Use a breast pump to pull out your nipple right before feeding.
Try an Evert-It Nipple Enhancer. This device uses suction to pull your nipple out.
Stimulate your nipples to make them erect before feeding. Massage them between your thumb and forefinger until they protrude. You can also, very briefly, apply a cold compress, but do not numb it. This will make milk less likely to flow.
As your baby latches on to drink, squeeze your breast or pull the skin back towards your chest. This will help the nipple protrude.
Try a nipple shield in consultation with a lactation specialist. This is worn over the breast and allows milk to flow through a hole to the baby. If the baby has difficulty gripping the breast in its mouth, the shield may help. But do not use it without professional help to make sure it is done properly.
 Washing your breasts in clear water will be sufficient to keep them clean.Lotions and lubricants are not needed unless your nipples are very dry.
If you have psoriasis or eczema, talk to your doctor about what medications you can use while breastfeeding.
Wash your hands before breastfeeding or expressing milk., Adoptive mothers can often breastfeed by stimulating their breasts to produce milk.Stimulate your breasts through pumping every 2-3 hours around the clock before the baby comes.
Use a Medela Supplemental Nursing System or a Lact-Aid Nurser Training System to feed your baby additional milk while he or she stimulates your body to increase its milk supply.
The quantity of milk adoptive mothers can produce varies greatly. It may still be necessary to provide some formula.
 They can provide you with advice and support.


Breastfeeding difficulties are very common, so chances are you will know people who have had similar problems.
 Many maternity wards in hospitals and birthing clinics have staff available to assist new mothers.Consult your doctor about any medications, herbal remedies, or supplements you may plan on taking while breastfeeding. Ask your doctor whether they are safe for your baby during breastfeeding.
If you have had breast surgery or implants, ask your doctor whether it will likely impact your ability to breastfeed.
 You will be able to learn techniques for breastfeeding, including how to hold the baby to encourage it to latch on properly.Most courses encourage partners to attend as well so they can learn what to do to be supportive.
Ask the experts any questions you might have.
 Even if your baby has not yet arrived, you can meet the consultant, discuss your concerns, and develop a trusting relationship.If you need help learning to breastfeed, the expert may be able to come to your home and assist you.
 Your doctor may be able to suggest a support group in your area. If there isn’t one, you may be able to find one online.La Leche League International has in-person and online support groups and information sessions in many languages.