 Many parents enjoy looking at images of their children, especially portraits done in a tasteful and thoughtful way. You may talk to your siblings about sitting for a photo portrait to then give to your parents as a gift for their anniversary. Look for a local photographer in your area who is skilled at portrait photography or try to take your own portrait photography using a camera and a tripod.


If you do not have any siblings, you may include the family pet in your portrait. Bring your dog, cat, fish, or rabbit and pose with them. Your parents will likely appreciate a tasteful image of all their “children” to hang on their wall or on the mantle.
 You can create a thoughtful gift for your parents by writing them a poem. Composing a poem for your parents may feel intimidating at first, but with a little brainstorming and editing, you can come up with a short piece that can be a nice tribute to them.You may collaborate with your siblings or loved ones to come up with a poem together. Discuss ideas, memories, and feelings that you associate with your parents. Then, choose a form, such as the free-verse form or a rhyming form, and try to put these ideas into the form.
You may also find it useful to read wedding poems written by others to get ideas for your own poem. You can find examples of wedding poems on www.poetryfoundation.com.
 If your parents have taken a lot of photographs of themselves and the family over the years, you may try editing them together to make a commemorative video. Enlist the help of friends or family who are skilled at video production and work with them to create the video. Or try to teach yourself how to use video editing software and put the video together yourself.One option is to organize the video chronologically, starting with images of your parents when they first met. Then, you may then move into images of your parents together before you were born followed by images of you all as a family. You can also include text in the video as an added touch.
 Think about a trip your parents have always wanted to do together or an outing they may enjoy as a couple. Get them tickets for the trip and put them in a nice card. They will likely appreciate the opportunity to do something together that they have always wanted to experience to celebrate their anniversary.For example, perhaps your parents have always talked about going to the cloud forest in Costa Rica as a couple. You may then pool your money with your siblings and get them tickets to Costa Rica as a gift.
Maybe you are looking for a gift that is affordable but still special. You may get your parents tickets to a fun, once in a lifetime event such as a hot air balloon ride or a horseback ride through the mountains.

