 Most professors should hold office hours during which you can get to know the her. This can be a good opportunity to build a relationship with the professor and learn about her expectations.


If you establish a relationship with your professor, she might be willing to dedicate more time to advising you about how to be successful in the class and in college more generally.
Ask her about the requirements for the course. What sort of time should you expect to spend on assignments? How can you go above and beyond in the class? What qualities does she expect to see in an "A" level assignment? , Ultimately, it is important to be able to develop a schedule to complete your work promptly. Make a point of finishing assignments in advance, rather than waiting until the last second. Organize your work, notes, and handouts so that you can find all relevant course materials.
 Maybe in high school your teachers were lenient when you turned in an assignment late. Don’t expect that to be true in college. You might not get any credit for a late assignment and sometimes in college a single assignment can make up a large chunk of your grade. Turning in any assignments late is flirting with failure.
 Sometimes you might be assigned readings that you won’t be tested on immediately. Don’t assume that you can wait until the final to learn everything you need to know. College classes require that you master much more information than high school classes. You might well find it difficult, if not impossible, to catch up if you fall behind.


Course lectures and discussions often follow readings. If you haven’t familiarized yourself with the text, the lecture might be unintelligible and you could have missed your one opportunity to understand the subject.
Professors can also call on you in class for information. If you don’t know the material they will probably subtract points from your participation grades.
 Research has shown that writing notes by hand forces you to engage with and better remember the lecture than typing notes. Typing notes actually impairs the learning process by encouraging the note taker to mindlessly transcribe information without thinking about what is being said.While it can be harder to get all of the information in the lecture while hand writing notes, notes are really less important as a point of future reference than they are as a way to actively engage with the lecturer as it happens. Because it is harder to keep up while handwriting notes, the note taker abbreviates the notes and is forced to decide what the most important points are.
Computers also provide plenty of opportunities for distraction. In the study, however, note takers were not permitted to surf the internet or play games. That means that, even in the best case scenario, typing is a worse way to take notes than handwriting.
 Colleges typically have much more extensive resources for students in need than were available to you in high school. There should be a tutoring center and possibly a writing center on campus. Other specialized resources might be available for harder classes. Ask your professor about what sort of assistance is available. Search the college website for more information.


The professor should also be able to provide some help with problems during office hours, but her time will be limited. Come in with a specific question that you hope to have answered. If you simply announce that you need help, your professor will not know where to begin and might be reticent to help.
When visiting the writing center, have an essay on hand. Someone should review the essay and not only correct mistakes, but also tell you more generally how to improve your writing.
If no other options are available, talk to other students in the class about forming a study group to help each other.
Remember, to improve you need to be willing to accept criticism. Your problem might not be that you can't handle the work, but that you are unwilling to adapt and use better methods. Find someone who is willing to talk honestly about what you need to do and take their comments to heart.
 To a greater degree than high school, college isn’t just about going to class and taking tests. It’s also about meeting people who might be important to your career and getting involved in organizations from which you can learn something. Ultimately, this experience important both in and out of classroom.


While getting involved in a club might seem to distract you from classes, that doesn’t need to be true. Being engaged in and enjoying the campus community can make you more invested in and dedicated to your collegiate success., If you don’t get sleep, you will have difficulty concentrating on class and school work. Research has also shown the missing sleep can severely impair your IQ. To be bright in the classroom, you need to make sure that you wake up bright and rested., For energy that will keep you alert throughout the day try to have a hearty breakfast that includes protein like eggs, bacon, or yogurt. Whole grains, like granola or oatmeal can also help sustain you through the day. Don’t forget, however, to also get some vitamins in by including fruit in your breakfast.