 There are many things that go into choosing a canvas. You need to choose what size canvas you need and what proportions you need for your project. You also have to choose a material for your canvas. There are all kinds of sizes and shapes you can buy from art supply and craft stores. Canvases come as small as a few inch square and as large as a full sized wall. The most popular sizes of canvas range between 11 x 14 to 48 x 72 inches.The two types of canvas are linen and cotton. They both hold oil and acrylic paint well. Cotton is cheaper, but it takes more work before you can paint on it. Linen is nicer, but it costs more.
If you want to go one step further in making your own canvas, you can buy the fabric and wooden frame and stretch your own canvas. However, most people buy their canvases pre-stretched., You size your canvas by painting a type of glue to the surface of the canvas. This helps fill in the holes in the fabric of the canvas. This is so the paints aren't absorbed and misshapen when you start. The type of size you will need depends on the kind of paint you are working with. If you are working with acrylics or watercolors, you don't have to size your canvas. Many painters do to make the canvas stable for painting. If you are working with oil, you need to size to avoid color fading.


The most traditional way to size a canvas is using rabbit skin glue. The most popular size for oil is poly vinyl acetate, or PVA size. You can use either one. If you use rabbit skin glue, you will have to mix it with water before you use it on the canvas., Pour a generous amount of your size onto the surface of the canvas. Using a large brush, paint the size across the canvas until all the sizing is spread evenly. Allow to dry for 30 minutes.


Make sure you do this in even, straight strokes. You don't want your size to be uneven.
Remember to apply the size to every side of the sides of the canvas as well. This will prevent degradation over time., Pour more size onto the canvas and paint it on with the same brush. Make sure you rub this layer into the canvas to fill in any holes in the canvas that haven't been filled. As you finish this second layer, take your brush and move along the surface in even strokes to make the surface smooth. Let it dry.


If your size looks a little thin, you may need a third layer. This depends on the quality of the size you choose to use.