 It can be a shoe box, or even a decorative box from an arts and crafts store with a magnetic lid.;
, You can paint the box using acrylic paint or spray paint. If you want to cover the box with fabric or paper instead, cut the fabric/paper down to fit side. Glue each panel of fabric/paper to each side, one at a time.The box can be the same color/pattern on the inside as on the outside, or completely different. You also don't need to cover the inside-bottom part of the box, as it will be covered.


If you are using fabric, try something with a pattern, such as calico or gingham.
Consider making the outside patterned, and the inside solid-colored.
 You will need enough for both the bottom and top layer. They need to be half the height of your large box, or shorter.


The boxes must be the same height, or the second tier won't lay flat.
If you can't find enough small boxes, you can make your own, or make a grid using cardboard.
 The boxes will be sitting inside the big box, so you won't see the sides. If you want the little boxes to blend in better, make them the same color/pattern as the inside of the big box. If you want a little more contrast, make them the same color/pattern as the outside of the big box.
 Consider using different sized boxes to hold different sized items. You can even fill only half of the big box with little boxes; this will give you lots of extra space for large items, such as fabric, fusible interfacing, patterns, or scissors.If you choose to have a large, empty space, you will need to "fill" it in with more paint, fabric, or paper so that the bare box does not show.
 Start on one side, in the corner, and work your way to the other. Spread a thin layer of liquid glue (such as tacky of school glue) over the bottom and sides of the little box, and press it down. Keep doing this with all of the boxes until the entire bottom layer is filled.


If the sides of the little boxes are not sticking together properly, consider clipping them shut while they dry, them removing the clips later. Clothespins and binder clips are perfect for this.
 Measure the length and width of the inside of your box. Draw a rectangle on a sheet of cardboard according to those measurements. Cut the cardboard out and check to see if it fits inside the box. Once you are happy with the fit, cover the bottom with paint, fabric, or paper. You will be gluing the rest of your little boxes to the blank side.
 Once you are happy with your arrangement, start gluing the boxes down. Spread a layer of glue along the bottom of a corner box, and two of the sides. Press the box down onto the divider, with the glue sides facing inward. Keep gluing the boxes down until there are none left.


When you are doing the boxes on the edges, be careful of where you put the glue. You want the glue only on the sides that will be touching the other boxes.
 By now, the bottom and the compartments of your divider should be colored. The edges are blank. You can fix this by covering the bare sides of the little boxes with more paint, fabric, or paper. Try to match whatever you used on the bottom of the divider.
 Fill the bottom compartments with items you don't use as much. Place the top compartments/divider on top. Fill the top compartments with items you use most often. Close your box and put it on your sewing table, or wherever you store your sewing supplies.


For ideas on what to fill your box with, click here.
 Adding a handle might not be a good idea, because your box does not have a clasp, but you can still make the box look pretty on top. Try gluing on some sewing-related embellishments on the lid, such as buttons, lace, ribbon, and pretty brooches.

