 Read historical books, blogs and articles on the history of Quakers. Glean information from Friends General Conference, and other influential Quaker organizations. Pay attention to core Quaker values, founders and requirements. Use your research to help you make an informed decision about whether or not to pursue becoming a Quaker.;
, Know that the core belief of a Quaker is that everyone is loved, guided by and has access to a direct relationship with God, also called “the Divine, Light Within, Christ, Spirit, Seed and Inward Teacher. Accept that Quakers believe that all human beings should have a relationship with God, and there is a “little of God in everyone”. Recognize the differences between Quakerism and other religions, including Christianity and Judaism. Invest in spiritual books, including the bible, to learn what inspires the Quaker faith.
 Begin by asking yourself why you want to become a Quaker. Take a look at your own morals and values. Do they fit with the Quaker thought process? Quakers believe that everyone is loved, guided by and has access to a direct relationship with God. Additional questions to ask yourself: Is becoming a Quaker right for me, or even something I want to do? Am I capable of adapting Quaker beliefs and applying them to my life? Talk to yourself about how you want to proceed.
 Find a Quaker to talk to about your interest. Ask them to share their experience about being a Quaker with you. Ask them direct, detailed questions about what made them decide to commit. For example, why did they make the decision to become a Quaker? Also, what has been the most rewarding part of being a Quaker for them? Use their answers to gain some insight into real life experiences being a Quaker.
 Participate in visitor's board discussions for prospective Quakers from a recognizable Friends group. In the forum, ask questions about living and serving as a Quaker. For example, How does one best serve God as a Quaker? And, what sacrifices will I need to make in order to properly honor the Quaker faith? Follow Quaker or Religious Friends groups on Facebook, Twitter and other social media.

