 Treats (in the form of pieces of kibble) should only be given to the puppy when they’ve performed the correct behaviour. And the reward should be given immediately after the good behaviour. If you cannot get to your puppy quick enough after the good behaviour, it’s better to forego the treat altogether.While training a puppy it’s helpful to keep a belted pack around your waist so you have easy (and quick) access to treats when needed.
 Before attaching a leash to your puppy, teach your puppy to stay seated and pay attention. Reward your puppy for staying seated. Then, run away and get get your puppy to chase you. Stop after 5-7 steps and wait for your puppy to sit down before handing out the reward.The point of this training process is to teach your puppy to sit and follow properly, without the added pressure of a leash. Your puppy needs to think this process is fun.
 Attach a lightweight leash to your puppy’s collar. Practice the sit and follow routine, but do not hold the leash. Allow the puppy to drag the leash around. Reward your puppy for performing the sit and follow routine properly.Make sure there aren’t any obstacles where the leash can get caught.
 When standing and walking normally, the leash should be held with enough slack that the puppy’s collar isn’t being pulled tightly around its neck. If your puppy moves too far from you, it may pull. But your puppy will soon learn that staying closer to you is more comfortable.The more pressure and discomfort a puppy is feeling, the more they’ll fight back.
 When holding the leash while on a walk, your hands should be down by your sides. Your right hand should be against your right thigh (with the loop of the leash in your thumb), and your left arm should be against your left thigh (holding a portion of the leash in your fist).Never wrap the leash around your hand or wrist on either side of your body, this can cause serious injury.
 When the puppy is stopped beside you, you may need to fold excess parts of the leash into your hand. But when the puppy (and you) start to move, you may need to allow a couple of the folds to come out of your hand.Avoid holding the leash in one spot and raising and lowering your hands to lengthen and shorten the leash. This will cause you to inadvertently hold the least too tightly.

