 Use a deeply moisturizing shampoo made specifically for African hair. There are many brands on the market, so try out a couple of different shampoos to find which one works best for you personally. Choose a product that is sulfate-free (it will promote this on the front of the bottle). Sulfate can be very drying and strip African hair of moisture.It is recommended that you wash your hair every 7 to 10 days for best results.You will want to follow the moisturizing and sealing steps daily, however.Check the label to make sure the shampoo you choose is alcohol-free. Alcohol can be very harsh and strip your hair of its natural oils.Look for shampoos that are pH-balanced.These types of products will maintain the outer cuticle of your hair, sealing in moisture and promoting shiny locks.
Choose a shampoo that has natural moisturizing oil.Check the label for jojoba oil and emu oil as one of the primary ingredients.;
, To begin the daily moisturizing and sealing process, use hair clips to assist you. Divide your hair into 4 sections and secure with the clip. The sections don't have to be exact or perfect - doing this just makes it easier to work with your hair during the daily routine process and also ensures even product coverage.
 Use a moisturizing conditioner that lists coconut oil, olive oil, argan oil and keratin as active ingredients on the label. Take down each section, one at a time, and apply the conditioner from root to tip, concentrating on the ends. After you finish one section, clip it back up into place before moving on to the next section of your hair.


While you should only wash your hair every 7 to 10 days, moisturizing and sealing (applying leave-in moisturizer and sealing with oil) should be done every day., The best oils to use are jojoba oil, coconut oil, olive oil, and pomegranate seed oil, all of which are widely available at grocery and drug stores. Take down each section, one at a time, and apply a small amount of the oil (a pea-sized dollop should work) from root to tip, again concentrating on the ends.


Experiment with each of the different oils listed above to see which works best for you.
Don't over-do the oil. Using too much will weigh your hair down and may contribute to a greasy look. Use the minimum amount required with a special focus on the ends.
When applying the oil, use a downward sweeping motion with your hair in between your palms. This will contribute to smoothness after completion.
Don't mix your conditioner and oil together to save time. The process will not work properly and the moisture won't be sealed if you do that. Make sure you always moisturize with conditioner before sealing with the oil.
 Repeat this full method every 10 days for best results.For the days in between shampoos, you'll still want apply the moisturizer and seal it daily with oil.