 If you have to leave something on the stove to measure an ingredient it could over-thicken or burn quickly. Have everything you need ready and measured ahead of time:


3 tablespoons butter
3 tablespoons flour
2 cups warmed liquid (chicken/beef/vegetable stock, condensed beef broth)
Salt and pepper to taste

Optional: 1/2 teaspoon Kitchen Bouquet, onion/garlic powder, paprika.;
, Melt the butter on medium heat, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. Once it is completely liquefied, move on.


You'll be mixing flour into the butter and you do not want any chunks, as this will lead to a lumpy gravy. Whisking flour and hot butter together is the basis of a "roux."

, Stir continuously until the mixture becomes smooth. It is often easiest to add the flour 1 tablespoon at a time, using your whisk to quickly break up chunks and smooth out the sauce. You should notice it thickening.


The longer you cook the flour, the darker and richer it will get. For a light gravy, move on as it turns tan. For a rich brown gravy, keep stirring and cook for an extra 3-5 minutes.
Butter and flour give the gravy its thick, rich base. You can add more of both for a richer, thicker gravy, keeping the 2 cups of liquid the same, but keep the ratio of flour and butter equal., Warm the liquid up in a separate pot or in the microwave before adding it. Only pour it in 1/4 cup at a time, whisking it in well before adding the next bit. You don't want to cause any rapid temperature changes in your gravy.There are a lot of options for liquids here, and it all depends on the meal you are serving. Traditionally, brown gravy has a beef base (which gives it its color), made with either beef bouillon and water or beef broth. Some other options include:


2 cups beef stock.
1 can condensed beef broth.
You can also mix in some milk or water for a lighter gravy, but keep the ratios (2 cups total) the same.
 As soon as the gravy starts to boil, lower the heat and let it simmer until it is as thick as you want it.


The gravy will also thicken a bit as it cools, so take it off the stove 1-2 minutes before your desired consistency.
 Add a pinch of salt and pepper as it simmers, as well as any other flavorings your desire. 1/2 teaspoon of Kitchen Bouquet, a browning and seasoning mixture common in many gravies, is a great way to get "classic" gravy flavor and coloring. Other options include:


1/2 teaspoon garlic and/or onion powder
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1/2 teaspoon fresh thyme and rosemary
Dash of Worcestershire sauce., Either pour over meat slices directly before serving or pour into a small serving jug and place on the table for diners to serve themselves from.

