 If you live in a place with plenty of heat and humidity through the summer, you'll be able to grow caladiums outdoors. Otherwise, you can grow caladiums as a gorgeous indoor plant.;
, You can order caladium tubers (often called bulbs) online or buy them from your local nursery. The larger the tubers, the larger your plants will be.To make planting even easier, purchase sprouted caladiums in small pots. That way you need only transfer the plants from the pot to the ground (or simply keep them in pots indoors) to enjoy their beauty.


Caladiums come in many different colors and varieties. Fancy-leaf caladiums have large, heart-shaped leaves.Strap-leaf caladiums are shorter plants with bunches of leaves.
Dwarf caladiums have small, heart-shaped leaves.
 Most caladium varieties do best in shady, moist spots. Plan to plant caladiums in a dark area that could use some bright foliage - under trees, along the house, or in another shady place. Caladiums grow well with ferns, mosses and impatiens.If you're keeping your caladiums indoors, plan to put them in a place out of direct sunlight. Choose a room that stays warm and humid but isn't completely flooded with sun.
Choose a spot that doesn't get strong winds. The leaves can be damaged easily.
 Caladiums need rich, well-drained soil. Till the soil to a depth of at least 6 inches (15.2 cm) and work in compost or chopped leaves to enrich it. If you're planting caladiums in pots, a standard rich potting soil will do.


Make sure the soil drains well by digging a hole and filling it with water. If the water stands, the soil doesn't drain well enough; you'll need to mix it with organic matter to loosen it up. If the water soaks in, the soil is well-draining.
 Plant the tubers 1 1⁄2 inches (3.8 cm) deep with pointed sides up. Space the holes 8 to 14 inches (20.3 to 35.6 cm) apart, with wider spacing for larger tubers.If you have small potted caladiums, dig holes twice as large as the root balls, set the plants into the holes, and pack the soil firmly around the stems.


If you are planting several tubers together in a large pot, space tubers 6 to 8 inches (15.2 to 20.3 cm) apart.
 Make sure the soil is kept moist, but not soggy. The tubers will rot in soggy soil. To help keep the right level of soil moisture, mulch around the plants after you have planted them., Use potash and phosphorus as well as a 5-10-10 fertilizer monthly to ensure optimum growth.
 If you live in a region where the temperature drops below 70 degrees in the winter, dig up the caladium tubers. Replant them when the soil is warm again. If your caladium is in a container, simply bring it inside for the winter. Caladiums do well as house plants. Be sure they get some sunlight during the day. Fertilize every few weeks with a liquid fertilizer.


When your plant begins to die back, but before the first frost, dig up the tuber and discard the wilted leaves.
Let the tubers dry out for a few days and then store them with dry peat moss in a box or paper bag in a dark cool place for the winter.Throw out any soft or empty feeling tubers.
Plant when the soil is warm and ready for your caladiums to grow well.

