 The key to a great frozen burrito is the right tortilla. You will want to get a large tortilla that is capable of holding the ingredients that you will be adding. If you buy them at the grocery store or make them yourself, you will want a flour tortilla that is at least 8 inches (20.32 cm) in diameter. Look for flour tortillas, which are flexible enough to hold a lot of ingredients. Plus, they freeze and reheat well.When you are at the store, look for tortillas that have “burrito-sized” on the packaging.
For a healthier option, you might consider whole wheat or spinach tortillas.
 In order to avoid getting a soggy burrito, you should let all of the ingredients, including the tortillas, cool down to room temperature. This will ensure that the moisture from the hot ingredients does not condense inside of the burrito, making it soggy and gross when you reheat it. Once you finish cooking everything, let the fillings cool on your counter for about 30 minutes.If you keep your tortillas in the refrigerator, be sure to take them out and allow them to thaw before you wrap the burritos. If they are cold, your tortillas will likely crack when you go to wrap them.
 Once everything has cooled, you can sprinkle some shredded cheddar cheese, add some diced roasted chilies, or squirt on a little hot sauce. As long as it will freeze and reheat well, you can add whatever you would like. However, you should avoid adding anything that is too watery, so consider adding chunky salsas that are not very runny.Avoid things that will not freeze or reheat will, like sour cream, avocados, or lettuce.
 In order to fill the burrito properly, add about one spoonful of each ingredient to the center of the tortilla and then sprinkle on your toppings. This will ensure that you are able to roll the burrito closed tightly without spilling any of its contents. To roll a burrito, pinch in the sides of the tortilla, fold in one end, and roll it closed. If you are unable to close the burrito, consider spooning out some of the ingredients., Wrap each burrito in tin foil, plastic wrap, or wax paper. After you wrap them, place the burritos in freezer bags. You want to try to get the burrito as airtight as you can to prevent freezer burn and help it last longer..Once they are frozen, your burritos will be good for up to 3 months.

