 It is very important to relax and to let the body be at ease. Contrary to many ideas about meditation, 'no pain, no gain' is something the Buddha described in his first discourse (the Dhammacakkapavattana sutta) as a fruitless endeavour, or in Buddhist terminology 'wrong view'. The early Buddhist texts often show that ancient practitioners used chairs, beds, cushions, back rests and leaning boards, so even for experienced meditators these things are useful tools.
 Ideally, practice vipassana meditation on a quiet weekend or self retreat, as it can be too challenging after a long busy day to be effective, except for longstanding practitioners. Far better to take a nap and refresh your senses before meditating.
 When the body feels like it has settled, and this may take a good 15-20 minutes generally (can be more or less depending on the conditions), then move onto the next step. What you are looking for is the mind, the body or whatever you are aware of becoming more present and clear.
 Your style of meditation is essentially going to be your best friend if it is going to bear fruit. Concentration is too harsh and leads to fatigue, so a more gentle awareness is more sustainable and the more you enjoy it, the longer you can stay with your practice. Generally, if nothing is evident, or you are feeling like your object is fading away, expand the size of what you observe.


For example, the breath is typically recommended as watching at the nose, but if that is too difficult to bear in mind, focus on the larger body breath to help settle the mind. If you are tired, your practice will be more productive to rest than to wear yourself out further by forcing.
 The whole point of this structure is to centre your mind and the world gradually fades away, so that you can see your object more clearly.


There is a common objective in modern vipassana that the practitioner must be constantly aware and mindful. This actually reveals a great deal of how the mind and body works, but is generally still too superficial
There is a common objective in modern vipassana that the practitioner must be constantly aware and mindful. This actually reveals a great deal of how the mind and body works, but is generally still too superficial (without its conjoined twin samatha) for the very deep mind to let go and no longer chase after what makes people suffer, with the exception of very rare cases. It is all the same, an amazing intellectual journey.
The Chan/Zen tradition beautifully shows this in the famous story of Hui Neng, the last Zen patriarch. To choose his successor, the former patriarch challenged his students in a poetry contest to reveal who was awakened. The runner up (not awakened) said '...the mind is a mirror, that constantly needs polishing to keep it pure'.

The winner, (who was awakened) wrote; '...there is no mirror, and as the mind is intrinsically void, where is there anywhere for dust to settle?". This means when you see clearly the reality of the mind and body, there is no more need to constantly be aware, as the mind knows at a very deep level the three characteristics of the world. This is the goal of the practice.
 This is essentially, letting things be, as that way more an more can fade away, this usually makes things much more joyful and blissful.


The early Buddhist teachings explain that it is important to engage the mind on the object, keep it there and then joy develops. If it doesn't and it stays dry, then the skill of the meditator is to start putting a bit of joy or love into what is there. The point of the joy is a mechanism to go even deeper.
 This can require courage as after things really start to fade away, the mind may start to worry that they won't come back - but they do - so it can take a lot of time and gentleness to develop deeply. This actually is a central facet of all types of vipassana, which is to see what faded away and is therefore not what we are.
 This is the starting ground of seeing clearly. As so many imperfections of the mind have fallen away you can reflect and consider much more clearly. Often the big question is, what was there, what wasn't? This will help you develop further and deeper until you have gone so deep and so still, you can see everything as it really is.

