 Show dog breeding is a very precise tradition, and the people who participate tend to be very committed to it. Find a mentor who can show you the ropes, share their experiences, and walk you through the different aspects of breeding show dogs. People entering into this new world often find mentors in the breeders they buy their puppy from; good breeders look after their puppies well after their sale, which means that a long-term relationship with the puppy’s new owner is often developed., The best time for your female to start breeding is between her second heat cycle and the age of 7; because of health risks, dogs older than 7 should not be bred. The female will make it clear whether or not she’s ready for breeding by how she reacts to the male – if she is not ready, she will avoid him, and if she is ready, she will move her tail to the side to communicate her consent.
 Show dog breeding requires a general understanding of genetics and a desire to better the breed. You can search for studs in the classifieds of dog breeding magazines, online, or by putting up flyers in your area. Look for a stud that is certified healthy, and that offers genetic attributes that will complement your female. Work out a stud contract with the stud’s owner, outlining the details of breeding times, fees, payment, expectations, and guarantees., Both dogs should be tested for genetic disorders, parasites, and possible infections. The female should receive a full pre-breeding exam from a veterinarian about a month before breeding to ensure her health and readiness to breed. Both dogs should be up to date on their vaccinations., It is usually best to bring the female to the male for breeding, as females handle new environments better. Depending on your stud contract agreements, you can either bring the female for multiple visits, leave her in the custody of the stud owner for the duration of the breeding period, or stay with your dog throughout the process to observe. Though the process should come naturally to dogs, some assistance from the owners might be needed.For instance, dogs usually remain “tied” after mating, staying together for anywhere from 2-30 minutes. This process is integral to conception, but if your dog is new to breeding, it might get nervous and try to pull away. In this instance, stepping in to reassure your dog can rescue the breeding attempt.

