 One way to help your gait is to improve your cadence. Cadence is your running rhythm, that is, how many times your foot hit the ground. Improving your cadence helps you improve your stride by helping you shorten it. Proper cadence helps you have a better gait.The ideal is to have at least 90 steps per minute. You can use running devices with GPS that can log this.
If you don’t have something that will count your steps for you, count the number of steps you land in 15 seconds. You should land 22 or 23 steps in 15 seconds.
Proper cadence of at least 90 strikes per minute will help you refrain from overstriding.
 Posture is very important for your running gait, and a proper gait is impossible with the correct posture. Poor posture causes your body to work harder, your muscles to overwork, and restricts blood and oxygen flow.To get the proper posture, keep your back and spine straight. Don’t make it too straight but try to reduce the bend or slump in your posture. Keep your shoulders back, down, and relaxed with your chin up, looking at the horizon.
You should not bend forward at the waist.
 Holding your body in the proper positions can help improve your gait. Keeping your muscles strong and at the proper place makes your muscles have to work less so you can run more efficiently.Hold your core tight. Your abs, hips, and glutes should be strong and stable while you are running. You shouldn’t be bent forward or moving side to side.
Your arms should be at a 90 degree angle or less. Your arms should be rhythmic and relaxed as they move back and forth. Don’t pump your arms. Keep your hands close to the sides of your body.
 Breathing is important for running. You should learn how to breathe from your belly. Instead of focusing your breath in your chest, you should breathe from lower down.Breathing helps your gait by helping you gain the most efficiency for your effort.


When you breathe, your abdomen should be expanding and contracting instead of your chest. You can practice breathing from your belly when you are at rest, and focus on proper belly breathing while running.
This method of breathing is more efficient, allowing your body to have access to more oxygen as you run.
 Instead of timing yourself or trying to hit the next milestone, focus on the basics. Think about stride length, cadence, breathing, and foot strike. Work on posture and positioning. Just enjoy the feeling of running. Reexamining the basics of your form can help you improve your gait by adjusting any underlying weaknesses.Take a few days or a week and get rid of your watch, GPS tracker, or anything else you use to chart your runs. Instead, just focus on the running.

