 Dividing perennials means splitting 1 large plant into several smaller plants. Plant division helps keep perennials healthy, promotes blooming and may extend the life of some plants. In the case of plants that are overtaking a garden, dividing a perennial will reduce the plant's size and keep it from crowding out other plants.;
, Most perennials should be divided in the spring when new growth is less than 4 inches (10.16 cm) high. During the spring, the cool weather and moist soil keep root systems from drying out after being separated and replanted. Perennials divided during the spring have a growing season to recover from the stress caused by division, and have time to develop a strong root system to survive the winter.


Divide oriental poppies, Siberian iris and peonies in the fall.
Avoid dividing perennials during the summer, with the exception of the bearded iris, which can withstand the summer heat during plant division. Tough perennials like daylilies and hostas may be divided any time.
 Using a shovel, dig a hole around the root system of the plant. Gently pull on the plant to remove the root system from the soil, and lay the plant on a tarp.
 There are 2 ways of dividing perennials: cut them apart or pull them apart. To determine which method to use, examine the root system of the perennial. Dense, tough roots will need to be cut apart with a sharp tool, while fibrous, tangled roots can be pulled apart by hand.
 If you need to cut the perennial apart, use a sharp knife or spade to slice the plant's roots. If you need to pull the perennial apart, gently untangle the roots and pull them apart using your hands.


Ensure each new division has 3 to 5 new growth shoots and healthy roots.
 To keep the perennial from overtaking your garden, replant 1 small division. Plant the division at the same depth as the old plant and water after planting. Keep the soil moist for a few weeks while new roots become established.
 Share the other perennial divisions that you did not plant with friends, or simply dispose of them. Do not plant them, or you will have issues with overcrowding in your garden again.

