 If you’re on any social media site, you already have a great resource for finding free local events. Depending on where you live, you may be able to find screenings of older movies, live music, mini festivals, and community events that you and your date can attend.While it might not be the latest films or your favorite bands, it will be a good time that costs you little or nothing.


Look for events sponsored by local businesses, schools, churches, or the city.
Check your friend’s feeds for events that they’ve shared or are interested in attending.;
, While tickets can be costly, most museums, zoos, and fairs offer free admission on certain days or during certain times.Oftentimes this information is available on their websites, but you may need to call to ask for details. You and your date could save mega bucks by going when the facility is free.


Even if you don’t think that your area has a museum, Google it just in case. Some cities have small facilities that can still be interesting.
Make sure that you meet any requirements that are necessary to take advantage of the free day, such as printing out a special pass.
Be mindful about parking during free times, as places can get busy.
 Most people know that the library has books that they can read for free, but did you also know that most also offer movies? While you’re there scoping out a great film for date night, check the events calendar because many libraries also offer community events. You might find a free local event while you’re checking out a film for date night.


Ask your librarian where they post upcoming events and notices. If they have a newsletter, take one or sign up for their email.
Many libraries allow you to request or hold items for a short period, so you and your date can look up the movie you want and request it in advance.
 Check with your local bookstore, coffee house, or college campus to see when they might be offering poetry or book readings. If you can’t find one, talk to the owner of the local coffee shops or cafes about starting a poetry night or an open mic night. Both can be an awesome way to enjoy a date and build a community., Help out your community and spend the day together. Great options include caring for animals at the local animal shelter, volunteering to work an event or carnival, and feeding the homeless at a soup kitchen. In addition to making a difference, you may gain access to volunteer-only areas. For example, working the gate at a carnival for free might earn you free entry for part of the night.