 Imagine you are being pulled up straight, like a puppet, by a string that goes from the base of your spine to the top of your head. Gently tighten your thigh muscles to lift your kneecaps. Then, hold your hip creases, which is the place where your hip folds when you are moving your legs., With your knees a bit bent, bend forward from your hip creases. Move toward the ground with your back totally straight.Resist the temptation to lock your knees while bending forward, which will cause hyperextension.
 If you are using a strap, place the strap under the ball of each foot and hold it. If you are using your fingers, use your index and middle fingers to grab your big and second toes on each foot.If you are using a strap, try to make sure you have an even amount of strap on each side of your feet. Also, try to keep the strap on the balls of your feet as opposed to your toes.
 Gently lift your head and torso while straightening your elbows. Then, lift your sitting bones and hollow your back. This means you should keep your abdominal muscles engaged and your back straight rather than slumped forward. At the same time, relax your hamstring muscles., On your in-breathe, gently lift your torso. On your exhalation, lift your sitting bones and relax your hamstrings. At the same time, try to keep a hollow back. In other words, you should keep your core muscles in your stomach tightened and stiff and avoid letting your back fall forward into a slumped position.Keep your head and neck relaxed as you settle into the pose. Try to let go of any tension in your neck and forehead as you exhale and relax your hamstrings., On an exhalation, lower your whole torso completely into the forward bend while pulling up on your toes. If you are using a strap, pull on the balls of your feet as you lower completely into forward bend. Stay in forward bend for a minute.


Take long, deep breaths as you stay in forward bend.
 Moving your head and torso as a single unit, slowly move back to standing position in a calm and relaxed manner.
 If you are feeling tired, you can do a reclining version of the big toe pose. Start by lying on your back. Then, lift your first leg up and grab your foot with a strap or your big toe with your middle and index finger. On exhalation, lift your torso and head toward your leg. On inhalation, lower your head and torso back to the ground. Then, repeat the same steps for your other leg.