 Every decision seems difficult when you have depression. However, you should remind yourself that though they feel impossible to make, small decisions probably don’t matter. Reminding yourself about this can help you just choose one, either purposefully or randomly.For example, you may not be able to make a decision about whether you should watch television, clean, cook, or go for a walk. None of these decisions are more important or pressing than the other. To help make a decision, remember that none of these decisions are wrong, and then just choose one.
 Depression makes you feel emotional and sometimes may even impede your ability to think logically. When you have to make a decision, try to work through the decision logically. Think of the most logical outcomes and reasons for making a choice, even if you feel like making the emotional choice.For example, if you are buying a house, ask yourself what is the most logical decision. Perhaps you choose a cheaper house so you have some extra income, or maybe you choose the house closest to your job. Try to come up with logical reasons for each decision so you can make a good decision despite your depression.
You may find doing a pro/con list is helpful to come to the most logical decision. Or you can use a flow chart or decision tree if that makes more sense to you. For example, you can start by writing the problem down, then draw lines extending to your options along with lines extending from each option to show the potential benefits and drawbacks.
You also may have to do outside research to obtain more information.
 When you have depression, you may find that you don’t trust the decisions you make. After you have made a decision, you may second guess and question yourself. Try to avoid this. Once you have made the best decision of your ability, either through logical reasoning or with the help of others, tell yourself you made a good decision and stick with it.Move forward with the decision. Don’t come up with reasons your decision is a bad one or research problems with your decisions. Focus on the decision you have made, move forward, and make the best out of that decision.
 Depression can feel like it runs your life. Even though you may feel like depression is causing you not to make decisions, remember that you can make decisions despite your depression. It may not be easy and it may take effort, but you can make a conscious effort to make a decision.Try telling yourself, “My depression doesn’t control my decisions. I control my decisions. I choose to make a decision.”
For example, if you don’t know what to eat for dinner, tell yourself, “Depression won’t keep me from making a decision about dinner. I will make chicken tonight.”

, Depression leads you to various moods or mindsets. You may have better days and worse days. Because of this, you may find it easier to make some decisions at certain times. When you are not in a critical low of your depression, you may be able to make basic daily decisions. However, during a critical low, any decision may be too much.


You should consider putting off major decisions, such as job changes and major purchases, until your depression has improved. Try not to make any major life decisions when in a critical low.

