 Separate the section of hair you want to dye. Make sure all remaining hair is securely pinned out of the way. If more than one section is being dyed, choose one section to dye at a time. Curly hair will need to be straightened to makes the dying process easier. You should also try to ensure that the section of hair you have chosen is of a consistent length, and that the section falls together.; sections that do not fall together will not give you the desired effect when dyed.;
, Prepare pieces of scotch tape between 1–3 inches (2.5–7.6 cm) long, depending on the thickness of your chosen strand, and wrap it around that section of hair. Rubber bands and baby oil also work. Just put the baby oil around the rubber band. Putting conditioner on the taped parts will help stop it from being dyed, as well as allow for easier tape removal.
 Make sure the tape is tightly wrapped around your hair.
 Read the directions of your hair dye carefully and prepare the mixture. Some dyes need to be applied to slightly wet hair while others can go on dry. Make sure to wear protective gloves, and an old t-shirt. Protect your hairline and ears with a layer of Vaseline, or you may end up with multicoloured skin.
 Apply hair dye onto the exposed sections of your hair using your fingers or a tinting brush, while pinching the tape below it with your other hand to make sure the dye does not seep beneath the tape. Continue applying dye to the exposed sections, making sure they are thoroughly saturated.
 Relax during the interval, and prepare your shampoo and hair styling utensils. Make sure to read dye instructions and leave dye in only for the recommended time period.
 Carefully rinse your hair with water, removing the tape as you go. Make sure to remove all the excess dye. Rinse well, shampoo and condition. Try to avoid getting dye residue on your face, as it may stain.
 Dry hair and enjoy your coon tail. Should be re-straightened and possibly treated with a glossing spray for super sleek results.

