 There are many reasons why you might consider rebranding your product or company.Identifying the specific reason why you want to rebrand, though, is important so you can develop the best roadmap to your new brand. For instance, are you:


Trying to appeal to a new demographic?
Trying to recover from a negative image? If your company has recently emerged from bankruptcy, corporate scandal, or seen its stock value plummet, rebranding can help create a more positive image for the company.
Trying to distinguish your company from competitors?
Reevaluating your institution’s values?;
, Once you’ve identified the reason for the rebrand, you need to come up with a roadmap outlining how to achieve your goal.Include projected costs and a timeline indicating important targets. The rebranding effort can proceed along one or many paths, including the development of new:


Logos. Changing a logo can excite people to investigate more about what the rebrand entails.Mottos. In 2007 Walmart’s motto “Always Low Prices” was replaced with “Save Money. Live Better.” The new motto suggested a lifestyle improvement for consumerswhere the previous motto only suggested low prices (often associated with low quality).
Name. This is a good rebranding strategy when a company is saddled with a negative association, such as Phillip Morris’ longstanding reputation as a tobacco company. In 2003 the company changed its name to Altria.
Image and reputation. Witness how UPS went from a boring mail carrier to a personal delivery service.Packaging. Be careful with this one. Tropicana famously lost 50 million dollars when they introduced new OJ packaging in 2009. They returned to the original packaging less than a month later.Products. McDonald’s, for instances, transitioned from serving greasy fast food to healthier fare in the early twenty-first century.Rebranding can take the form of a simple tweak (changing the logo font) or a complete overhaul (developing anew each element listed above).
The objects of rebranding are often intertwined. In other words, changing your logo and packaging will necessarily have an impact on the way people see your product, institution, or company.
 It is important to have the support of all parties the rebranding effort will affect before moving forward.There are basically two classes of stakeholders to consider in a rebranding campaign:


Institutional insiders. These include staff, managers, board members, suppliers, and partner agencies. These are the people who work for the company directly or indirectly. Insiders stand to gain or lose the most depending on the success of the rebranding effort. Make them feel included in the rebranding process.
Institutional outsiders. These are the people whose hearts and minds you are vying for in the competitive marketplace. Depending on your institution or product, you may need to consult consumers, donors, or stockholders. Your rebranding effort needs to move forward in accordance with their wishes and desires so that they remain (or become) loyal buyers of your product or service.Measuring stakeholder support can be accomplished with surveys or focus groups. Your marketing department should solicit feedback on specific products and services.
 Don’t blindside either the public or your staff with a new look or a sudden shift in institutional focus. Rebranding should be an open, collaborative effort, and should be communicated to everyone involved before implementation.


Think outside the box when releasing details on your rebranding efforts. When Seattle’s Best Coffee was revamping its image in 2010, it posted playful videos online rather than traditional press statements., Transition your brand to the new logo, product, etc. in accordance with your established plan. Update your business cards, letterhead, website and social media profiles as needed.Build your new brand into a name you can be proud of.


Submit amendments of your incorporation documents to your local office of the secretary of state. There will be a fee associated with this change.
The roll out of your new brand may include a single large, well-publicized event or a series of events that get your new image, name and product line out in front of loyal and potential customers.
Don’t be afraid to back out of your rebranding efforts. Sometimes the best market research fails to detect the general consumer sentiment. When Gap redesigned their logo in 2010, for instance, public outcry was loud and immediate. The company changed their logo back after just six days.Admitting a mistake is a sign of strength, and proves your institution cares about the consumer’s voice.
 Like rebranding a product or corporate body, this is an important first step. However, the many reasons for rebranding a city, state, or neighborhood are very different than those which prompt a corporate rebranding.Before rebranding, ask if the rebranding effort is primarily:


Economic, motivated by the need to attract new jobs or fight unemployment?
Political, part of a drive to acquire development grants or recover from a negative image? Cities plagued with crime or mismanagement could benefit from such a rebranding campaign.
Environmental, meant to attract infrastructure investment and improve urban planning?
Social, driven by the desire to reduce poverty and improve quality of life?
Competitive, intended to differentiate your locality from others? The modern “McDonaldization” of cities and tourist experiences has inspired many cities to rebrand themselves along more unique lines.Rebranding of places can have more than one aim. For instance, installing greenbelts around or through urban space is an example of both a social and an environmental rebranding effort.
 Conduct a preliminary investigation into similar areas which have successfully rebranded and use their experience to brainstorm how your city or municipality could rebrand.


There are two primary ways in which spatial rebranding is achieved: re-imaging and redevelopment.Re-imaging means emphasizing current attributes or recovering lost attributes which constitute a strong brand. Is/Was your city a cultural or historic center? An artistic hub? A fashion capital?
Regenerating means removing decayed or blighted areas and/or creating new development in the form of housing, storefronts, or green space such as parks and walking trails.


Recognize that urban, suburban, and rural spaces will have unique challenges and opportunities for rebranding. Urban spaces might do well under a gentrification or sustainability scheme, while rural spaces might benefit from identification as heritage tourism hotspots.,


Citizens can be your best ambassadors. Listen to their needs and consult with them before finalizing any rebranding proposal.
Make sure business interests are attended to, but don’t let them dominate the rebranding process. If they threaten to abandon the area, let the public and press know.
Government often has the final say in how a rebranding effort unfolds. Remember, though: they were elected and are accountable to the public.
Emphasize that the rebranding process should promote civic pride and help all stakeholders feel connected to the place they call home.Use opinion polls, crowdsourcing, and surveys to gain perspective on what stakeholders want from their rebranded city or state.
 Ensure the marketing department receives regular communication from the rebranding project leadership. Promotional materials celebrating the rebrand should utilize:


DVDs
Brochures
Posters
Radio, print, and TV advertisements
Literature
Websites and social media
Tourist offices
City slogans
City logos

, Continue to accept feedback from stakeholders and new emigres attracted by your rebrand. Treat your city, state, or district like a product which needs to be constantly built, promoted, and improved.


Stay focused on the vision outlined in your original plan, but make adjustments where necessary.

