 A good way to promote healthy eating habits is to serve everyone at the table the same foods. Fix a meal for the entire family and expect everyone to eat it. Make healthy, balanced meals that everyone enjoys, including your toddler. During this time, refrain from making too many new dishes or dishes that may not appeal to your toddler, like things with too many spices.If your child isn’t interested in one of the foods, or doesn’t eat much, stay calm and don’t overreact. Don’t force your child to eat the food.
Make sure you don’t make the child something else to eat in place of the food on the table. That reinforces bad behavior and teaches your child that refusal results in different food.
If you have a picky eater, make sure to have a couple of options that your child likes along with new options. As long as the child is getting a balanced meal (think eating the rainbow), there is no need to fuss.
Allow time for your child to adjust to eating these new foods.
 Your child learns a lot just by watching you. If you want your child to have good eating habits, model them for your child. When your toddler sees you eating good food, like chicken and vegetables, you will set an example for them to follow.Eating good food with your children helps normalize the idea of healthy eating habits. You also may avoid the idea that kids have to eat vegetables and adults can eat anything.
Often parents don't think toddlers will like "grown up food" that may have more spice to it. It's best to allow your child to safely taste food, even if you don't think they will like it. Their taste is developing and the more options, the more refined and open they will be, especially if they initiate a desire to taste.
 Having a set time to eat may help improve your toddler’s eating habits. This helps your child get hungry around the same times each day. You should also include snacks into the schedule. Have a consistent snack time and don’t let your child eat outside of that if possible.Refrain from letting your child eat between the scheduled meal times.
You should also watch what your child is drinking between meals. Too much milk and juice may reduce appetites.