 Getting a big bird means you have to spend more time with it. Large birds can make great companions, but they are usually a bit louder, messier, and need more care than smaller species. Because of this, it's recommended that if you are a beginner to birds, that you start with a small bird. The size of the bird is the first step in deciding which bird is right for you. Before choosing a bird, you should definitely take size into consideration.
 Decide if you want a really active bird that will constantly be talking and flying, or whether you want a beautiful, quiet bird just to give you company. Your bird should match you, as if you had something in common, so that the ownership could be more pleasant. It is also important to know that each specie is very different. For example, a huge, talking African Grey Parrot will behave quite differently from a small, singing Canary. If you're looking for a bird, concentrate on acknowledging the type of bird.
 Some birds need specific diets or other special care. Lories, for example, are beautiful medium-sized birds admired around the world for their striking colors. Despite their beautiful feathers and wonderful personality, they have highly specialized digestive systems, however, which require them to be fed a diet of pollen, nectar, and fruit. This causes them to produce lots of liquid droppings, making it necessary to clean their cages a lot more than those of other species. While there are good reasons to buy a pet bird, issues like this are why it is so important for potential owners to learn as much as they can about their favorite species before bringing one home.
 Keeping a bird can be expensive, and much of that expense can be related to the type of bird involved. Larger birds sometimes have an initial purchase price of thousands of dollars, and these species generally require costly cages and accessories that boost the bill even higher. Even smaller birds, while often initially less expensive, still present their owners with various financial obligations. Some birds can live a very long time, and those that own them are responsible for feeding, housing, and providing them with veterinary care throughout their lives. All of these factors should be considered when choosing a bird so that you end up with a pet whose upkeep you can afford.
 Some bird species, like hookbills, require daily exercise, interaction, and time out of their cages. Are you able to spare at least two hours a day to socialize with your bird and supervise his out of cage activities? If not, a Finch, Canary, or other more independent species may be best for you. To ensure that your pet stays healthy and happy, you should consider how much time you have available to spend with your bird when deciding which kind you would like to own.
 With a breeder, make sure you agree on the cost of the bird. The breeder will give you all sorts of information on the bird; health, activity, etc. The pet store will help you choose a healthy bird, too. Whatever happens, make sure your bird is happy, healthy and safe with you.
 You may need new cookware. Non-stick cookware can be deathly to parrots and other pet birds. The coating gives off an odorless fume when heated that can kill a bird within minutes. This means that any non-stick cookware you may own will have to go, and you will need to invest in pots and pans made of stainless steel or another safe substance.;
, Scented candles, scented oils, and air fresheners pose a health hazard when you use them around your pet. Birds have extremely sensitive respiratory systems and are easily overcome by chemicals and fumes.
 Period. Cigarette smoke is just as bad for your bird as it is for you. If you do choose to use tobacco products, use them outside away from your bird to keep him safe and healthy. And don't forget to wash your hands before handling your bird if you've recently smoked!

, Birds wake up with the Sun each morning, and they are ready to start their days bright and early. They will expect you to do the same. Be prepared to adjust your sleep schedule as needed to accommodate your feathered friend. Your bird will need his breakfast soon after waking, and you'll have to be there to serve it.
 Birds are quite messy, to put it lightly. In many cases, you will need to sweep or vacuum daily to keep up with the constant flow of seed hulls and other debris that will accumulate around your pet's cage. Be sure that you are up to this task before bringing a bird into your home.
 Many commonly kept houseplants are toxic to birds and could kill your bird if he ingests them. You will need to find new homes for them before you adopt your feathered friend.
 Birds are naturally attracted to shiny objects, which makes things like jewelry and sequins great targets. You will need to take these off before handling your bird, to protect yourself, your pet, and your items. Also, you should be prepared to lose many buttons to your feathered friend. It's a good idea to have some spares and a small sewing kit on hand.
 Sure, some birds can talk, but all of them can scream, chirp, cackle, screech, tweet, or coo, amongst other things. Your bird will probably make a variety of these noises, and it may not always be at a time when you want to hear them. If you want to own a bird, you'll have to figure out a way to cope.
 You may well end up with a bird that is completely tame when you deal with him, but refuses to tolerate other people. While there are certain species that are more prone to becoming "one person birds" than others, it can happen to any bird, particularly if only one person cares for and interacts with it. If you are buying a bird for your family, it's imperative that everyone learns as much as they can about the bird, and participates in its care and maintenance. Otherwise, your pet may decide to play favorites, which can lead to sore fingers and hurt feelings.

