 Simple carbohydrates, such as sugar and foods made with white flour, can increase triglycerides. Generally if it's white, stay away. Lay off cookies, cakes, muffins, white pasta, white bread, candy, etc.High-fructose corn syrup is a serious culprit when it comes to high triglycerides, studies have shown. An abundance of fructose is bad news for your system, so avoid it whenever possible. Read food labels to see if the food you are about to eat contains this sugar.
To fight sugar cravings, try grabbing a piece of fruit. Fruits are also high in sugar, but those are natural, rather than processed, sugars.;
, Eating a leaner diet and cutting down on the saturated fat and trans fat in your diet can improve your triglyceride levels.The American Heart Association recommends that people with high triglycerides monitor their fat intake closely; they should only be getting about 25 to 35 percent of their daily calories from fat, from the "good fats" to be more specific.


Avoid fast food and most processed foods. These often contain partially hydrogenated fats (trans fats), which are extremely unhealthy. But if you live in the US, don't rely on packages that label their foods as free of trans fat. If a food contains less than half a gram of trans fat in a serving, it can be legally labeled trans fat-free. Even though this seems miniscule, negligible amounts can add up quickly if left unmonitored. You can tell that a food has trans fat in it (even if the label says there is none) if it lists partially hydrogenated oil in the ingredients.
Avoid saturated fats, like those in animal products, such as red meat, butter, and lard.
 Replace those bad fats with good fats, though you'll still need to eat even the good fats in moderation. Healthy fats include olive oil, nuts, and avocados.Make an effort to make healthy substitutions, such as olive oil instead of butter in your cooking or a small handful of 10 to 12 almonds instead of a pre-packaged cookie for a snack.
Polyunsaturated fats, unsaturated fats, monounsaturated fats, and omega-3 fatty acids are examples of healthy fats.
 Aim for no more than 300 milligrams (mg) of cholesterol a day if you're simply taking preventative measures. If you have heart disease, aim for less than 200 mg a day. Avoid the most concentrated sources of cholesterol, namely red meats, egg yolks and whole milk products. Check food labels to see how much you're eating makes up your daily recommended amount of cholesterol.Note triglycerides and cholesterol aren't the same thing. They are separate types of lipids that circulate in your blood. Triglycerides store unused calories and provide your body with energy, while cholesterol is used by your body to build cells and maintain certain hormone levels. Both triglycerides and cholesterol are unable dissolve in blood, which is when problems start occurring.With a growing awareness of the problems of high cholesterol, more and more food companies are producing products with lower cholesterol. To be marketed as "low-cholesterol," the food has meet standards set by the government. Look for these options in stores., Eating more fish, which are high in omega-3s, can lower your triglyceride levels in a seemingly effortless way. Fish like mackerel, lake trout, herring, sardines, albacore tuna, and salmon are your best options because leaner varieties of fish don't have the same high levels of omega-3s.


To reap the benefits of fish's triglyceride-lowering powers, the American Heart Association recommends that most people eat fish high in omega-3s at least twice a week.It may be hard to get enough omega-3s from food to help lower your triglycerides, so your doctor may recommend a supplement of fish oil. Fish oil capsules are widely available in drug stores and health food stores., While you want to cut sugar, processed foods, and simple carbs, you'll want to fill your diet with whole grains and more fruits and vegetables. Maintaining a nutrient-rich diet will keep your mind and body healthy and thus contribute to your overall well-being.Choose whole-grain bread, whole-wheat pasta, and other grains such as quinoa, barley, oats, and millet.Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables every single day. A good way to get more fruits and vegetables at each meal is to make sure they comprise two-thirds of your plate.