 The Code of Federal Regulations, abbreviated C.F.R., is a listing of all the federal regulations on various topics. For any regulation, you can search by its title, something like the “Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools Rule,” or by its citation. A citation is a reference number that contains a chapter and section number. A citation will look like 40 C.F.R. §763.80. The 40 is the chapter number, and the 763.80 is the section number.


You can search the Code of Federal Regulations online or at a law library or many good public libraries.
State administrative agencies issue regulations as well, and these are similarly cataloged. For example, in Massachusetts, you could search the C.M.R., the Code of Massachusetts Regulations.In Texas, it is called the Texas Administrative Code, the T.A.C., This “Rule” is a set of regulations passed by the Environmental Protection Agency that requires local school officials to inspect school buildings for asbestos. The school officials must then develop plans to reduce the asbestos safely. You can search more detail about this regulation at 40 C.F.R. 763.80-763.179., You can find this rule at 763 C.F.R. 120.This regulation provides support and protection for some state and local government employees who have to work with asbestos or asbestos clean up.
 The Asbestos National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, abbreviated NESHAP, is a set of requirements issued by the EPA that control the demolition of buildings. The owner of any building that is being demolished must notify the appropriate state agency before demolition, to ensure that any asbestos contained within the building is destroyed safely.You can find this set of regulations by searching the name, the abbreviation NESHAP, or the citation 40 C.F.R. 61.140.
 In addition to these regulations, established by the Environmental Protection Agency, you can search for regulations that have been passed by other agencies. Some of these include the following:Asbestos General Standards, passed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). You can find this set of standards at 29 C.F.R. 1910.
Asbestos Construction Standards, also passed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). You can find this set of standards at 29 C.F.R. 1926.
Emberizing Materials regulations, passed by the Consumer Products Safety Commission, at 16 C.F.R. 1305.
Patching Compounds, passed by the Consumer Products Safety Commission, at 16 C.F.R. 1304.
Asbestos Containing Garments for General Use, passed by the Consumer Products Safety Commission, at 16 C.F.R. 1500.17.
Surface Mines Exposure Limits, passed by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA). This sets safe limits for exposure to asbestos for miners. The citation is 30 C.F.R. 56.
Underground Mines Exposure Limits, also passed by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA). This sets safe limits for exposure to asbestos for underground miners. The citation is 30 C.F.R. 57.

