 You may struggle to identify the physical cues that are signs of different emotions, but all humans are born with this ability. Just like any other skill, if you take the time to practice reading people's emotions, you will get better at it.Observe people in a crowded place (like a mall, nightclub, or park) and try to identify how they are feeling. Try using context, body language, and expressions to figure out who is feeling shy, stressed, excited, and so on.Read up on body language, especially facial expressions, and how it corresponds to different emotions. Sadness, for instance, is characterized by drooping eyelids, a slight pulling down of the lip corners, and a raised inner brow.Put on a soap opera and try to identify the emotions the actors are portraying. Use context clues, facial expressions, and body language. Mute the television so you can't get clues from the dialogue. Once you feel you've got it down, move on to more subtle dramas in which the actors use nuanced expressions to convey emotion., You may come off as insensitive because showing emotion makes you feel uncomfortable an awkward. Instead of saying something that might sound stilted or insincere when you see someone is upset, you remain quiet. Accept that it might sound forced when you offer condolences to your friend, "I'm so sorry to hear that...", but know that it will become more natural if you push through and keep trying., To you, sadness may seem pointless, illogical, and self-indulgent. You may wonder why the person doesn't just think through the issue and figure out how to make it better. But emotions are an essential part of decision making, as is logic. Emotions can motivate you to change your life, as emotional discomfort is often an impetus to get out of a rut.Emotions are essential to making connections and healthy, successful social interactions.Remember that emotions are simply part of being human. Even if you don't understand them or think they're pointless, be aware that most people don't feel that way.Sometimes it's okay to fake it. You may not understand why someone is upset or overjoyed, but playing along a little bit is sometimes the most sensitive thing you can do. You may not personally feel any joy that your coworker is going to be an aunt, but it shouldn't cost you much to congratulate her and smile., Feelings may cause you discomfort or confusion, or you may have been taught to hide and suppress your emotions, or maybe you only listen to the logical side of your brain. For whatever reason, you may have cut yourself off from your own feelings, which can make it difficult to feel empathy.If you are suppressing your emotions to cope with trauma or you are prone to anxiety attacks, you may need a counselor or therapist to help you work through those feelings.Begin asking yourself, "How am I feeling right now?" throughout the day. Stopping and checking in with yourself can help you begin to identify feelings as they come up.Identify any devices you use to avoid your emotions, such as: distracting yourself with video games or watching television, focusing only on work, drinking or using other substances, over-intellectualizing the situation, or making jokes about it.Allow yourself to feel the emotion. When you're in a safe, private place, don't suppress your feelings. Allow the emotion to come and try to observe how your body reacts. Making note of these physical changes (like that your eyebrows furrow and your lips narrow when you feel angry) can help you identify the emotions when the reoccur – both in yourself and in other people.