 You will need to find a pattern that fits your skill level. There are patterns designed for all skill levels and your local sewing or knitting store should have a variety of them.


You can purchase a single pattern on its own or find a pattern in a collection, such as in a knitting magazine.
If you are unsure whether a pattern fits your skill level, ask someone working at your yarn store about the difficulty of the pattern.
Whatever your level of skill, pick a knitting pattern that has design that is pleasing to you. You do not want to spend time and money knitting a shawl you do not like.;
, The pattern will tell you both how much yarn to purchase and the "weight" of the yarn to use.


The "weight" of yarn refers to its thickness. Weights are referred to in terms of their number, zero gauge yarn is very thin, while a 7 gauge yarn is very thick, or with descriptors such as "super fine" or "bulky," for instance.It is possible to substitute a different yarn from the one suggested on the pattern, but you will want to select something that has a similar weight.
 The size of needles you use determines how big your loops are and the looseness of the weave.


Needles are sized in millimeters, with US sizes 1 - 50 corresponding to specific millimeter diameters.Some patterns will give you a choice between straight needles and circular needles. The circular needles will actually give you more room for projects that are larger, such as knitting a shawl.
 Yarns can be made of a variety of different fibers. It's best to pick a yarn that feels nice to the touch and will hold up to wear.


Remember that you do not have to purchase the same colors as those shown on the pattern. Choose whatever color you would like.
Also purchase needles at your local yarn store, if you don't already own the gauge required.
 Be sure that you know how to read the pattern and that you have a grasp on the basic steps in knitting the shawl before you even start.


Knitting patterns have a language all their own. Patterns include symbols that stand in for types of stitches.In addition, there are many standard abbreviations that will give directions for completing your project.Luckily, these are largely standardized, so once you learn what a symbol or abbreviate means, you can use it for reading a variety of patterns.
 This will probably be unnecessary if you are an experienced knitter or if the pattern only contains very basic stitches.


The stitches you absolutely need to know are the knit and purl stitches. These can be combined in a wide variety of ways, for example in the garter stitch pattern and the seed stitch pattern.If there are any additional stitches in your pattern that you do not know how to make, you can search for tutorials online or get a knitting instruction book that will show you how to create those specific stitches.
 This will allow you to check your gauge. Remember to use the stitches designated in your pattern so that you get a true sample of how big your stitches will be. You may need to change needle sizes to better meet the gauge.


Matching the gauge, in other words how many stitches you make in a specific distance, specified by the pattern is important in order to make the finished size of your shawl match the size it should be according to the pattern.
 Remember to keep track of your stitches as you go and undo any mistakes you make as quickly as possible, so that you don't have to undo a lot of stitches.
 "Casting off" simply refers to finishing off the edge of your shawl, so that it does not unravel and so that you have removed the needles.


To begin casting off, move two stitches from your left needle (which should have all the stitches on it) onto your right. Then take you left needle and pull the first stitch you took off over the second and release it. The second stitch should stay on the right needle. Repeat by taking one stitch from the left needle and moving onto the right, then once again pulling the first over and off of the right needle. Continue this until you have no more loops on the left needle. You will want to tie a knot at the end and cut the thread, leaving a small piece to weave into the shawl.
If you are still unsure how to cast off, it may be helpful to follow more detailed directions here.
 If you choose to add a fringe, you'll want to be certain you have purchased enough yarn to include the extra amount needed.


Adding fringe to the edge of your shawl is easy. Simply cut pieces of yarn all the same size, at least 6 inches (15.2 cm) long. Take several together and thread them through a loop on the edge of your shawl. Tie them off so that they will be permanently attached. Move down the edge of shawl any distance you choose and attach the same number once again. Continue like this, using a standard distance between pieces of yarn to make the fringe look polished.
 Blocking is just a method of stretching your project into shape. The simplest form of blocking is just to stretch your project by hand until it reaches the dimensions outlined in the pattern.


If hand blocking does not work, pin your project down in the dimensions you desire, and with an iron set to the temperature appropriate for the fiber of your yarn, iron it.To get it to set you may need to lightly spritz the project with water but be sure that the fibers you used will not react poorly to water before you try this.
Lacy shawls almost always need to be blocked, while basic shawls usually do not.

