 Rather than using a square napkin, this project requires a rectangular napkin. If you have a rectangular napkin, feel free to use that. If not, take the left edge of your square napkin, and fold it until the edge reaches the middle. Take the right edge, and fold it until the edge hits the middle. Crease both folds with your hands.After you have folded, open the napkin back up. You should have 4 sections. Cut off one of the outside sections and you are ready to begin.
 Position the napkin so that the top and edges are the small sides of the rectangle. Fold down the top edge until it meets the bottom edge. Crease the fold with either your hand or a small, heavy object like a paperweight., You can do one at a time, or both at once. Fold them towards the middle, until the two corners meet. Make sure the two edges of the flaps are flush with one another. Finally, crease the folds with your hand or a paperweight., There should be two bottom flaps. Lift the top flap up until you are covering about half of the triangle. Flip your napkin over, and flip up the other bottom flap the same way. Crease both of these folds again, with either your hand of a heavy object., On each of the flaps you just folded up, are two corners, totaling four. Use your finger to poke in each of these corners. When you get done with all four, lay the flaps back down. Poke the corners in even more to make sure the edges of the poked in corners line up. You should now be left with what looks like a triangle., After you do this, grab the two sharp corners and pinch them together. While holding the corners together, press down on the rest of the napkin. Give the new edges a crease with your hands or a heavy object. You should now be left with what looks like a diamond., The bottom corner is the corner with the two flaps, not the one that is simply a flat corner. Fold one of the bottom corners up, until you form a triangle. Flip the diamond around, and lift up the other bottom corner. You should now be left with what looks like a small hat (triangle)., Just like you did before, open up the triangle, and pinch together the two sharp corners. Flatten out the rest of the napkin while you are pinching the corners. You are now left with a diamond shape again., Slowly pull them open. Tape the corners together to maintain the sturdiness of your boat. You now have a napkin party sailboat. You can just lay them out as they are, or add in chips/candy into the open area of the boat.