 Wash the jalapenos in cold running water, then shake them dry. Place them on a cutting board and use a sharp knife to slice off the stems, then slice them in half lengthwise. Scoop out the seeds from the halves using a spoon or your fingers.


If you're sensitive to hot pepper oils, use gloves when handling jalapenos.For extra spicy poppers, leave some of the seeds in the jalapeno halves.;
, Melt the butter in a saucepan over medium heat. Stir in the 2 tablespoons of flour until the mixture thickens. Add the milk and stir thoroughly. When the milk gets warm, add the grated cheese and salt. Stir the mixture until the cheese has melted, then remove it from heat.


The mixture should be thick and viscous. If it seems too runny, add another tablespoon of flour.
You can add 1/2 teaspoon of cumin, garlic powder, and cayenne pepper to take the spice level up another notch.
 Spoon about a tablespoon of the cheese mixture into each half. Add more or less depending on how much it takes to fill the jalapeno without it overflowing.
 Crack the eggs into a bowl and beat them lightly. Pour the flour into a separate bowl, and pour the bread crumbs into a third bowl. Line a plate with paper towels so you can place the breaded poppers there.
 Take a jalapeno half and carefully dredge it in the flour, being careful not to spill any cheese. Sprinkle some flour on top as well. Next submerge it in the egg mixture. Finally, coat the bottom of the jalapeno with breadcrumbs, then use a spoon to coat the top as well. Place the breaded jalapeno on the paper towel-lined plate. Continue this process until all of the poppers have been breaded.


For an extra thick and crunchy coating, dip the poppers in the egg mixture, the bread crumbs, then back into the egg mixture and the bread crumbs a second time.
You can use Panko or crushed crackers in place of the bread crumbs.
 Pour the oil into a heavy dutch oven or a large pot. Place the pot on a burner and turn the heat to medium high. Heat the oil until it's hot enough to fry. Test it with a wooden spoon; when you see bubbles flowing from the spoon, the oil is ready.
 Use a spider or tongs to lower the poppers into the hot oil. Fry them until they turn golden brown, which should take about 5 minutes. Remove the poppers from the oil and place them on paper towels to drain and cool.
 Place the cooled poppers on a platter and serve them with a side of sour cream, or enjoy them plain.

