 There are several types of food that can contain the Salmonella bacteria. Make sure you buy eggs and milk that have been handled properly and appear clean in their packaging. Do not buy meat that is not sealed or that appears old and moldy in the package.Make sure you always buy milk that has been pasteurized, as the pasteurization process helps to rid the milk of Salmonella. You should avoid buying eggs that are unpasteurized. Pasteurized eggs can be found at most grocery stores.
Do not buy cheeses or juices that are unpasteurized.;
, Some recall notices are spread through local news or on the shelves at grocery stores. You can also find information about food recalls through your local or national Food Inspection Agency, online or by contacting the agency directly. Do not buy or serve food that has been recalled, as it can contain Salmonella., Avoid letting raw eggs or meat, such as chicken, beef, or pork, sit out in room temperature. Put these items in your refrigerator as soon as you get home from the store and do not let them sit out on your kitchen counter or outside in your car.Salmonella is often found in raw food products that come from animals. Keeping these items refrigerated can prevent bacteria from reproducing. It can also make it safer for you to cook and consume these items if they have been kept at a cold temperature.
 Avoid ordering dishes that contain raw eggs, such as Caesar salad dressing, Hollandaise sauce, and tiramisu. If you do order dishes that contain eggs or meat, make sure the items are properly cooked. An egg that is undercooked or meat that is still a little raw can lead to Salmonella poisoning, so do not be shy about sending your meal back if you feel you are at risk of contracting Salmonella.If you do get food poisoning when you dine out and you believe it was due to Salmonella, you should report it to your local health department. Be sure to immediately write down what dishes you ate. A food diary helps the health department in their investigation.

