 Pinning your victim is crucial to your tickling success. If your opponent has free arms and legs, he will be able to get you back in no time. You must find a way to quickly pin and trap your opponent so you can exploit your tickling skills. You can try pinning your opponent a number of ways:;
,,,,, Every person's most tickle-sensitive zones are different, so you should experiment by tickling different parts of the body to see when your opponent looks the most surprised and panicked, or when he squeals, screams, and laughs uncontrollably. If the begging, pleading, and spasmodic movements increase, you know you've found your tickle sweet spot. Here are some sure-fire tickle-prone places to try:


The feet, toes, and achilles tendons






The belly and belly button
The armpits, ribs, and sides
The knees and area right above the knees
The hands and palms
The neck and back of the neck

, If you're tickling so your opponent agrees to do something, don't stop until you get what you want. Whether you're tickling your opponent for control of the remote, a free massage, or a dinner date, don't stop until he gives in.
 If he's laughing and can speak, then he's still breathing. But if he really can't breathe and sounds distressed and winded, then you should stop.
 To get him in this position, you may start with your opponent on his back, and tickle his arm pits until he turns over.
 Keep tickling his sides so he doesn't resist.
 You don't have to get them exactly in the armpits -- just move your feet in the general area. If you have bare feet, make sure your toenails are trimmed unless you want to scratch your opponent.
 Move your feet along the ribs as well. You can start tickling the lower back with your hands for maximum effect. Remember that you want to make use of all four of your limbs, so the sooner you start, the better.
, Try tickling his legs as well. If your opponent's shoes are still on, try taking them off to maximize your tickle skills.
 Watch out for your opponent's free arms. You need to start your tickle attack pronto so he is too weakened to fight back.
 This is a must before you attempt the ruthless Triple Tickle. You want your opponent to have no chance of fighting back

, Sit on his chest and pin down his arms.
 Release his arms as you do this.
 Tickle his left armpit with your left hand and his right armpit with your right hand. Remember to act quickly so your opponent doesn't have time to fight back with his free hands. He should be so weakened that he doesn't even remember that his hands are free.