 If only one of your tubes is blocked, and you are otherwise healthy, your doctor may suggest a course of fertility drugs like clomiphene, Femera, Follistim, Gonal-F, Bravelle, Fertinex, Ovidrel, Novarel,Antagon, Lupron, or Pergonal.Several of these drugs (Lupron, Pergonal) shut down the pituitary gland so you can control it with medication. They may be used in combination with other drugs, which cause your pituitary gland to release follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH), thereby increasing the likelihood that you will ovulate and become pregnant (using the open fallopian tube).


Note that this treatment will not work if both your fallopian tubes are blocked. If this is the case, you’ll need to begin with more aggressive treatment options.
The most common risks of taking fertility drugs are multiple pregnancy and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).OHSS occurs when your ovaries become filled with too much fluid.;
, If your doctor thinks you are a good candidate for surgery, they may recommend a laparoscopy to open blocked tubes and remove any existing scar tissue. Laparoscopic surgery does not always work. The success of your procedure will depend on your age and the cause and extent of your blockage.


If your blocked tube is relatively healthy, you have a 20 – 40% chance of getting pregnant after surgery.
The procedure will not be painful because you will be under general anesthesia. Risks of laparoscopic surgery include bladder infection and skin irritation around the surgery site.If you have a particular kind of blocked fallopian tube known as hydrosalpinx, in which the tube fills with fluid, you may not be a good candidate for surgery. Discuss your options with your physician — they may recommend removing the tube.
This kind of surgery increases your risk of future ectopic pregnancies (in which the fertilized egg implants outside of the uterus). If you do get pregnant after your laparoscopy, your doctor should follow your progress closely and watch for signs of an ectopic pregnancy.
 Salpingectomy involves removing part of your fallopian tube. This procedure is done when a tube has a buildup of fluid called hydrosalpinx. This procedure is done before undergoing an attempt at in vitro fertilization (IVF).If the end of the fallopian tube is blocked due to hydrosalpinx, a salpingostomy is performed. This procedure creates an opening in the fallopian tube near the ovaries. It is common for tubes to become re-blocked by scar tissue following this procedure., If you have a blockage that is close to your uterus, your doctor may recommend selective tubal cannulation – a medical procedure done by inserting a cannula through the cervix, uterus, and fallopian tube. The cannula is used to open the blocked portion of the fallopian tube.This is an outpatient procedure and less invasive than laparoscopic surgery. It is done by hysteroscopy, in which your doctor inserts a thin tube with a camera, which allows your doctor to see inside your uterus. You may or may not need general anesthesia.
Tubal cannulation is not recommended if you have other conditions such as genital tuberculosis, previous fallopian tube surgery, and severe damage or scarring in your fallopian tubes.Potential risks of this procedure include tearing of your fallopian tube, peritonitis (infection of the tissue around your organs), or an unsuccessful restoration of your fallopian tube function., If these treatments do not work (or if your doctor thinks you are not a good candidate for these treatments), you still have options for becoming pregnant. The most common of these options is IVF, in which doctors fertilize an egg with sperm outside your body, then insert the resulting embryo or embryos into your uterus. This method bypasses the fallopian tubes, so blockages do not present a problem.


The success of IVF depends on many different factors including your age and the cause of your infertility. IVF is also very time consuming and expensive and can be very difficult emotionally for patients.Risks of IVF include ectopic pregnancy, multiple births, premature delivery and low birth weight, ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, miscarriage, and stress due to the emotional, mental, and financial burden.