 You'll need enough cookie cutters to cover the length of the garland you're making, with even spaces between. The size of the cookie cutters should be taken into account when assessing this. As for the shapes, choose cookie cutter designs that fit with Christmas, such as angels, trees, gingerbread people, candies, Santa, reindeer, stars, etc.


Cookie cutters can be purchased from stores that sell kitchen and baking wares, as well as from online stores. Or, you can make your own cookie cutters from scratch.





;
, You'll be threading the cookie cutters onto the garland, which means they need holes poked in them. Choose a spot about a quarter of the way from the top of each cookie cutter (so that most of the design hangs below the garland) and pierce holes in each side of the cutter, at an even alignment. Continue until all cookie cutters have been pierced.


Use strong scissors, a screwdriver, a drill, tin snips, or similar, for making the holes. Wear heavy duty gloves to protect your hands from slippage, or consider using a vise to hold the cutter in place while you pierce. Watch fingers and hands!
In some cases, to ensure balance, you may need more holes. For example, a cookie cutter shaped like a candy cane will require holes to be pierced in both the hook and the stem of the cane for the entire cutter to remain stable on the garland.
Gingerbread cutters, angels and other humanoid shapes are usually best pierced just under the arms.
 Cut to size. Always err on cutting the garland length longer, as you will lose some of the length when tying knots and it is simply easier to make it shorter than to make it longer. However, if you do need to lengthen it, more can be discreetly knotted in later.
,, (This measurement may vary, depending on how long your garland is going to be.) Thread a medium bead, then a large bead, then a medium bead into position next to the knot. Tie another knot as closely to the last added bead as possible. You will now have a trio of beads stuck between two firmly tied knots forming the design change between cookie cutters.
 If you're using different shapes, mix them up, such as one snowman, one Santa, one angel, one gingerbread man, etc. Space it an even distance from the bead break, with plenty of string or ribbon showing.
 Thread on three new beads and knot off.
 Tie off the end with a knot.
 Place on the Christmas tree, over a window, on the wall, or anywhere else suitable.
