 Modern mothers are told they can have everything and can often feel bad about themselves if they begin to feel stressed or overwhelmed.


Remember that stress is a natural alarm system built into your body. Feeling stressed as a mother does not mean you are failing. It is normal. According to MSN, 70 percent of American moms report finding motherhood stressful.;
,


Ask for help when you need it. Call family members, friends and others who might be willing to help out with childcare, errands or other duties when you need a break.
Talk out your feelings with the people closest to you. Explaining how you feel will invite compassion and help. Discussing your stress is a good way to manage it.
 Find reliable caregivers who can take care of your kids while you engage in activities that you find relaxing.


Go on dates with your spouse or partner. A little romantic alone time will help ease the stress you feel as a mother. It will allow you to focus on your relationship.
Do something that you enjoy. Take a class, do a little shopping or relax in a cafe with a cup of coffee and a good book.
 Having too much on your plate will continue to motherhood stress.


Let your kids choose 1 activity that is important to them. When your kids are over scheduled, it means you are doing a lot of driving, volunteering and other things that can contribute to stress.
Look for flexibility if you work outside of the home. Adjust your schedule to keep yourself from getting stressed. Explore flex time, work from home options and other opportunities your employer might offer to provide a little more work/life balance.



Take every parenting "study" or piece of advice with appreciation for the knowledge and a little bit of skepticism. Mothers are constantly being told that they are over protective, not protective enough, too involved in their kids' lives or not involved enough.
Develop your own style of parenting. Different processes work for different families. Find what works and stick with it regardless of what the latest parenting trend reveals or recommends.



Exercise regularly and eat a well-balanced diet. Keeping yourself physically healthy will allow you to better manage the symptoms of stress.
 When you are doing what you can to manage your stress but it still seems overwhelming, get help from a professional or other moms.


Develop and nurture relationships with other moms who are also feeling stressed. Support groups are available in most local communities and online.
 Make time for family outings, laughter and anything else that makes you feel good.

