 If you're involved with someone prone to mood swings, you may end up isolated from others. When dealing with someone else's emotions constantly, you may not give yourself time to reach out to others. Remember, you need support as well. Do not feel guilty for talking to others.Reach out to friends and family members, especially when his moods are getting to you.
Go out and see others, especially if you live with someone prone to mood swings. You are entitled to a break from someone's volatile mood.
 It can be incredibly stressful to deal with someone's mood swings. Look for positive ways to cope with stress. If you don't deal with stress, it can have consequences down the road.Things like meditation, yoga, and exercise can help alleviate stress.
You can also talk to a therapist about stress management. A qualified therapist can teach you about things like deep breathing to help you better manage your stress levels.
 You should make sure your needs are prioritized. If you're dealing with someone with chronic mood swings, it's important to have a life of your own. Resist letting your life revolve around catering to someone's bad moods.Craving time for yourself is not selfish. It's normal. Someone prone to mood swings may be very demanding of your time; however, remind him you need time to yourself.
Do things that you enjoy. Read a book. Go for a walk. Attend events around your town. See friends. You are entitled to your own life. You do not have to have your life revolve around someone else's bad moods.
 Oftentimes, mood swings can lead to emotional abuse. Even if abusive tendencies stem from an underlying personality disorder, they are never okay. If you believe you are being abused, you should end the relationship. Signs of abuse include:Deliberately embarrassing you
Refusing to talk to you
Controlling who you spend time with and how you spend your money
Aggressive or demeaning language
Constant texts or phone calls when you're not with him
Unreasonable jealousy and moodiness

