 When you start karate you are a 10th Kyu white belt. This means you are a students who is 10 grades away from teaching a black belt. You don't have to wear a karate uniform at this stage, but if you do you wear a plain white belt. This way the sensei's can see that you are quite new to karate and might need some extra help.;
, grade to 9th Kyu yellow tip. This means you are now 9 grades away from black belt and have your first bit of colour on your belt.


You don't have to do anything special to gain your yellow tip. This is a reward for your commitment and attendance. It does take a lot of confidence to try something new and stick with it for the first 6 lessons. Your Sensei cans see that if you have a yellow tip you are still fairly new but will have experienced all the basics.
 Adults need to know a few more basics than the kids.
 If your Sensei feels you are ready they will give you a slip, which is called a grading slip. It will have your details on it and where and when the gratings are.


Evaluations are usually held on Sundays, once a month. Students will be invited from all over the region to grade. Usually you will grade with the higher coloured belts too.
 When you arrive you will need to sign in. You will need to hand in your grading slip and pay for your grading. You may also wish to purchase a belt. It is better to buy the belt at the start, because often they sell out or close the counter at the end. If you do pass you can wear it. If you don't pass you can just hang onto it until next time.


The grading will be like a normal class, you will do a warm up and then your basic strikes and blocks, then you will do some leg stretches and basic stances and kicks. You might do so,e combinations of moves and other stuff too.
Many sensei will walk around watching. Don't panic, they are mainly watching the higher grades. White belts aren't expected to be perfect to pass they realise you have only been doing karate for a little while.
 You might be asked to do some things you have not done before. Again don't panic. You won't fail if you can't do them, they are just giving you new experiences. You grading is just based on how well you do your strikes, blocks, stances and kicks.
, It is very rare to fail your yellow belt, but if you do you can come back and try again at the next grading which will only be a month away.
 Get yourself some mitts and pads for sparring.

