 Due to changes to the character creation system, you no longer need to "roll" for your stats. Instead, once you arrive at Maple Island, pump all your AP into strength, as it will help you level faster. Don't worry, these points will get reset once you make the job advancement.;
, Do the initial tutorial quests and then: Todd/Peter's, Maria', Lucas', Rain's, Pio's, and Mai's three quests. That should be enough to get you to level 10. (Don't worry if you accidentally over-top the level; you will regain lost SP) Leave Maple Island via Shanks in Southperry and talk to Olaf in Lith Harbor, choosing bowman as your job of choice.
 Go left in Lith Harbor until you reach Phil, and ask to go to Henesys. Then, go into Mushroom Park and enter the house at the very end. Talk to Athena Pierce and you will become a bowman. Apply your reset AP in the following way:


Hunter: Str 5+ your level, rest into dex
Crossbowman: Str equal to your level, rest into dex.
, Every time you level up, you will gain 3 SP, or Skill Points. Athena will also give you one SP for making the advancement. Here's what I suggest:


First point into arrow blow, so you have an attack.
Three points into Blessing of the Amazon, because it's the prerequisite to Eye of the Amazon.
Max out Eye of the Amazon, so you can attack farther.
Max out Critical Shot. This is arguably one of the most important passive skills you'll get as an archer, along with Eye of the Amazon and Mastery. When it activates, it doubles your damage, giving you a huge boost in damage.
Max out Double Shot. Why DS and not AB (Arrow Blow)? Well, although in formula they do the same amount of damage, DS has two chances of activating a critical, whilst AB only has one, giving DS a huge advantage over AB. The only pro of AB is that it has a better knock-back rate.
Now I suggest putting your last nine points into Focus. The reason why I prefer Focus over Eye of the Amazon is that although Focus is an active skill, which means you have to cast it to get the benefits, it increases accuracy and avoidance. Plus extra accuracy is virtually useless for a bowman, considering they have a large amount of accuracy already.

Levels 12~15 - The uppermost platform in Henesys Hunting Ground. You can also try doing Henesys Party Quest.
Levels 15~20 - Henesys Party Quest remains good experience. An alternative is Pig Beach, which is found in Split Way by pressing up on top of a patch of yellow flowers.
Levels 20~23 - You can stay at Pig Beach, or try Bubblings in the Kerning City subway.
Levels 23~27 - Now you can do Kerning City Party Quest for some good exp and items you can sell for money. Bubblings are still good experience.
Levels 27~30 - Keep on training at KPQ, or try the first or second excavation sites in Perion, killing Ghost Stumps and Wooden Masks.
 Find Athena and talk to her; then find the second job instructor. Be ready with some white and blue pots. Talk to her and you'll be transported to a special dungeon where you'll need to kill monsters and collect the Dark Marbles they drop. You'll need 30 Marbles; the monsters have a drop rate of approximately 1/3. (Note: the monsters here don't give exp) Talk to the instructor again, then go back to Athena and choose either the path of the hunter or that of the crossbowman.
 You can experiment some by yourself, but you need to make one big decision: whether to go FA or FA-less. FA stands for Final Attack, a passive skill that has a chance of activating every time you use DS (or AB, if you chose to max that out), giving you an extra attack that does a high amount of damage. Although this sounds good on paper, some people choose not to go with FA for three main reasons: it doesn't work with third and fourth job skills, making it obsolete after you get a decent level of Strafe and Inferno/Blizzard, you may unintentionally attack monsters, and you get more SP to spend on other skills. However, FA does speed up your training in the second job by quite a bit, so the decision whether to go FA or FA-less is ultimately up to you.

Put 19 points into (cross)bow mastery immediately. You'll see a huge increase in your damage overall. (The reason you don't max it is because the last point only gives you +1 accuracy)
Get a few points into both Booster and Soul Arrow. These will help speed up your training and lower arrow costs.
Max out Bomb or IA. It'll greatly speed up your training speed and gives you mobbing capabilities.
Max out Power Knock-back. Now you don't need to worry about hitting monsters with your bow when you get up close.
Max out Booster and Soul Arrow.
Put the remaining SP in whatever you want. I suggest maxing Mastery and Focus.
NOTE: If you still want to go with the FA build, you generally max out FA after you put a few points into Booster and Soul Arrow. Your end result is 19 Mastery, 15 Booster, and 7 Soul Arrow, with everything else maxed.



Levels 30~35 - Wild Boars in Perion, or the third excavation site, where you'll now face steel masks in addition to the wooden ones. You can also trade wins in CPQ for quick leveling.
Levels 35~40 - CPQ is your best option here by far. You can either continue trade winning or try playing competitively, but the latter might be a bit difficult with the advent of KoC classes.
Levels 40~45 - CPQ, again. Trade wins will be getting a bit slow, so try regular CPQ or buy wins. Another training option is Iron Mutae in Magatia.
Levels 45~50 - Last stretch in CPQ. You know the deal. Trade wins will be terrible, now. If you have good damage, you may try Straw Target Dummies in Mu Lung.
Levels 50~55 - Straw Target Dummies are your best option. An alternative is truckers, found in Singapore.
Levels 55~60 - Ah, Mysterious Path 3. This map, located in Singapore, has the fastest spawn rate in all of GMS. The exp is godly. If mp3s are crowded, Ghost Ship 2 is also available, although the spawn is slightly worse. If neither of these options appeal to you, you can stay at truckers or STDs, or attempt Ludibrium Maze Party Quest. NPCing the rewards you get will earn you a cool two mil or more an hour, and the exp isn't that shabby either. Try to get a party that can do the PQ in under two minutes.
Levels 60~65 - You can stay at mp3s, or try voodoos in the Haunted Mansion, which give 335 experience each with only 6800 HP. LMPQ is still good, especially if you're looking to make some cash.
Levels 65~70 - You may notice LMPQ getting a bit slow now. There are three options: stay at mp3s, stay at voodoos, or, for those whose damage is high for their level, windraiders, located in Crimsonwood Keep. You'll need to pass two jumpquests to get there, so I suggest searching up YouTube guides or asking friends to show you the way.
 Go to El Nath - Chief Residence, and talk with the instructor of bowmen. Then travel back to Henesys and talk with Athena. She will give you a quest to defeat her doppelganger. Once you do so, collect the Black Charm and return to her. She'll send you back to El Nath, so talk to your third job instructor and get a Dark Crystal. These can be purchased in the FM for 4m. Then go to the Holy Ground (located beyond the door in Sharp Cliff II) and answer the Rock's questions. Be warned, if you answer any of the questions incorrectly, you'll need to offer another Dark Crystal. You'll be given the Necklace of Wisdom. Go back to Nath and talk to your instructor, and you'll have become either a ranger or sniper!

, Unfortunately, you're on your own from now on. If you have any questions, there are many maple forums you can turn to, such as BasilMarket and Sleepywood. Best of luck on your maple adventures.

