 In traditional situations, you'll be provided a spoon and a pair of chopsticks to eat pho. Generally, the spoon is held with the left hand and the chopsticks with the right, though this may be reversed if you are left handed. Additionally, you should have a small sauce dish and a holder for your chopsticks.


Opposite of proper Western manners, it is alright to leave you hands on the table when eating a Vietnamese meal, like pho. This way, you can raise the bowl to your mouth to get every last bit.Wooden chopsticks can sometimes splinter when pulling them apart. In casual situations, take each chopstick and rub them together to remove splinters or burrs. However, in formal situations, this practice can be interpreted as rude.
Refrain from sticking either or both chopsticks vertically into your food, or leaving your chopsticks in your food when not eating. Doing so is considered rude.;
, When your pho hits the table, the first thing you'll want to do is sample the broth. If you find the broth needs a little more flavor, you can add some fish sauce, a common pho condiment, to it.









Two other common flavorings added to pho broth include black pepper and lime juice. Very frequently, an entire lime wedge will be squeezed into the broth., The amount of beansprouts you add to your pho will depend on your preference, but in most cases roughly a handful will be enough. If your pho is served with Thai basil, de-stem the leaves and add 10 - 12 to the broth.









After adding beansprouts, use your spoon to submerge them along with any pieces of rare beef.
Some restaurants or households may serve pho with saw herb. If you'd like to add this to your pho, tear and add 2 - 3 of these into pieces about an inch in length.
If you enjoy your food spicy, 3 or 4 slices of a serrano chili will give your pho a potent smolder. Those who are sensitive to spicy food should use fewer slices or none at all., Take your small sauce dish and add hoisin sauce and sriracha chili to it to make a dipping sauce. Normally, equal parts hoisin sauce and sriracha chili are used, though if you are sensitive to spicy things, less sriracha may be best.









You can sample your dipping sauce by inserting the tip of your chopsticks into it and tasting the sauce on your chopsticks. If you find it too spicy or not spicy enough, you may want to add more hoisin sauce or sriracha., Take your chopsticks and spoon to mix all the ingredients of your pho evenly. When eating noodles, vegetables, and/or meat, collect combinations of ingredients together with your chopsticks and dip them into the sauce. In between bites, scoop up broth with your spoon and sip it until your pho is done.


It may be difficult to eat the last bits of your pho with your spoon and chopsticks. In this situation, lay your spoon on its holder, bring the bowl to your mouth with your free hand, and guide the remnants into your mouth with your chopsticks.