 The proteins and B vitamins in beer are great for repairing damage, and a light beer can help to lighten the color of your hair.To make a paste that’s nourishing and easier to apply, mix half a cup (118 g) of beer with half an avocado and mash the two together into a paste.;
, This recipe calls for lemon and chamomile, both of which can be used alone to lighten hair. To start, pour the juice from three lemons into a bowl. Make an eight-ounce cup of chamomile tea using two bags (four grams) of tea. When the tea has cooled, strain the leaves.


Add the tea to the lemon juice and add one tablespoon (0.5 ounces) of almond oil. Stir to combine., Apple cider vinegar and hydrogen peroxide, like beer and lemon juice, can be sprayed onto your hair to help lighten it. Before applying vinegar or peroxide, mix with equal parts water.


When applying either of these as a highlighter, use a cotton ball to apply the liquids to sections of hair.Keep an eye on the peroxide, as this may have to be washed out sooner (after 15 to 20 minutes even) than some of the other products.
You can also use rhubarb in the same way to lighten hair. Dice a half cup (50 grams) of rhubarb root and boil it in a pot with four cups (one quart) of water for 20 minutes.When cool, strain and apply the liquid to your hair with a cotton ball.
 Henna is a dye that’s extracted from plants, and that produces a reddish orange effect in the hair. To mix a henna paste, take three tablespoons (45 grams) of henna powder and mix in boiling water, just enough to form a thick paste. Set the paste aside in a cool, dark place for about 12 hours.Be sure to wear gloves when applying henna, as it will dye your skin and nails as well.
 In a small bowl, combine the juice from one lemon with three tablespoons (45 ml) of honey, one teaspoon (5 g) of cinnamon, and one teaspoon (four capsules) of vitamin C powder to make a highlighter that will bring out reddish tones in your hair., Wash and condition your hair using your normal shampoo and favorite conditioner. Rinse out the conditioner. Pat your hair dry with an absorbent towel and allow it to air dry.


Having clean hair will remove dirt, oil, and other particles that might prevent you from spreading your highlighting material evenly.
When your hair is completely dry, comb through it with a wide-toothed comb or plastic-tipped brush.
 Divide your hair into lower, middle, and upper layers, keeping the two upper layers tied or clipped on top of your head and the bottom layer down and loose. To highlight evenly, it’s easiest to work in layers so that you can get highlighting product all over., Start with the bottom layer of loose hair. Using just your fingers or a clean toothbrush,apply your highlighter of choice to small sections (about one inch (2.5 cm) wide) of hair. Work the product thoroughly through the sections of hair from the tips to just before the root.Don’t apply the product to all your hair, but rather to certain sections, leaving the rest of your hair untouched. Try to balance the amount of hair you highlight so it’s even on both sides.
When you’ve finished the bottom layer, let the middle layer down and repeat. Try not to overlap the highlighted sections of hair. Instead, stagger them from the highlighted sections on the bottom layer.
 Let down your top layer of hair when you’ve applied highlighter to the bottom and middle layers. For the hair framing your face, make the highlighted sections smaller, closer to a half-inch (1.3 cm).For the sections in the middle and back of your head, you can go back to using one-inch sections.
 Finger comb your hair two or three times to help distribute the highlighting product naturally throughout your hair., For most natural highlighting products, the sun will help activate them and expedite the lightening process. Leave your hair down and the product on for 30 minutes to an hour (or longer if you can) before rinsing and conditioning your hair.


If you can’t get into the sun during this time, pile your hair on top of your head and wrap your hair in plastic wrap or cover it with a shower cap instead.
Henna generally stays on for one to four hours, or until you achieve the desired intensity. When you’ve finished applying it, wrap your hair in plastic.
 Because these products don’t contain bleaches or harsh lightening products, you may have to do several applications to see any results. Repeat every two weeks as necessary or desired to achieve or maintain the right lightness.


Henna is a more powerful dye, so you will likely see results after a single application, and won’t have to repeat the process bi-weekly.
If you’ve chemically colored your hair, you likely won’t be able to lighten your hair with these natural methods.

