 There are only about 7,000 devices in the US and about 10,000 total in the rest of the world.You will get plenty of attention while wearing Google Glass because it's a novelty and a curiosity at this point in time. The novelty factor and desire to learn more about it makes it even more of a reason to be courteous to those curious about your new technology.;
, If you have time, explain to them what Google Glass is. No need to let them touch it, if you are not comfortable.


Cultivate a response for those who ask what Google Glass is. This will help make the interactions seamless and enjoyable.
 They are more curious than anything. Slightly acknowledging their presence will give everyone peace of mind.
 As with all smart devices, it's always common courtesy to ask before recording images or taking photos. When in public, always ask before you take photos or video. Treat it just like a phone camera.
 For example, if a friend wants to know the score of the football game, ask Glass and save them the time of looking it up.
 Your Glass should be treated more as an assistant instead of a new friend. Do not neglect your social circles for sake of your new technology.
 Having the screen on might cause people to think you are recording them. It also drains the battery faster.
 As cool and nice as Google Glass is, there are times it's just not appropriate to wear for safety or legal reasons. The following lists just some of the times to leave Glass at home:


Movie theaters (cinemas). Recording devices are illegal in movie theaters worldwide. Glass is considered a recording device, as it's not concealed and has a camera.
Casinos. Most casinos actually have a "No Glass Policy" when around the gambling tables. They claim it's to prevent cheating and fraud during gambling. It may be okay to wear Glass to casinos, but just keep your distance from the tables.
The "bad parts" of town. The majority of people you meet, whether wealthy or poor, will know what Glass is. Google does have insurance on Glass but it doesn't cover theft or loss, so if someone were to take them off your face and run away, you'd be out of luck.
Driving. Glass is an electronic device and is considered to be "distractive". For this reason, many states such as California, Nevada, and Washington are giving tickets to those who drive and wear Google Glass, whether it's switched on or not.

Some laws are in the process of being passed to remove the driving ban, since with some cars like the Tesla Model S, Glass will assist you with a speedometer, battery life, tire pressure, etc. You'll need to keep yourself updated on progress.


Bars. Most people have heard of the Molotov incident in San Francisco.So bars are probably not the place for Glass.
Social events when you risk appearing rude. You should not take Glass to large family gatherings or dinners out in public. It can be seen as rude.

