 If your car is declared a total loss (totaled) because of an accident or damage, your auto insurance will reimburse you up to its fair market value. This usually happens to older cars when repair costs are greater than the car's actual cash value. Sometimes, however you owe more on the car than it is worth.GAP insurance helps make up for that. For example:


You purchase a car for $20000, and pay $2000 as a down payment. This leaves you with $18000 of the car’s value to finance with a loan.
You make monthly payments of $400.
After having the car for five months, you are in an accident and the car is totaled.
At this point, you have paid $2000 of the car loan (five monthly payments of $400 = $2000).
This still leaves you with $16000 ($18000-$2000 = $16000) of your car loan to pay.
The fair market value of a five-month old model of your car is determined to be $14000.
Your auto insurance reimburses you for the fair market value of the car, $14000.
You are still left with $2000 of the car’s loan to pay ($16000-$14000 = $2000). This difference between the fair market value of the car and what you owe on it is not covered by your regular auto insurance.
You must pay the difference out of pocket, or GAP insurance will pay for it, if you have it.;
, It does not cover the costs of:


Continuing payments if you become unemployed or disabled
Repairing your car if it is damaged
Renting a car if you need one while getting repairs
The difference between your car’s value before it is damaged, and its value after being repaired
Late fees
Interest on your loan

, If you want to know if you need GAP insurance, look at the car’s fair market value and what you owe on it. You can find this information in the Kelly Blue Book or NADA Black Book.Cars often lose substantial value as soon as they are sold.Some estimates suggest that on average, a car loses 11% of its value as soon as it is driven off of the lot, and 15% to 25% of its residual value each subsequent year.
If you are considering GAP insurance before buying a car, you can look at the fair market value of the car with models that are a year old, two years old, etc. Then compare this to the amount that will still be owed on your car loan after you make payments for a year, two years, etc.
 Purchasing GAP insurance may or may not make sense for you, depending upon your situation. It may be a good idea if you:Made a down payment on your car that was less than 20% of its value
Have financed a car for longer than 60 months
Are leasing a car
Purchased a car that is expected to lose value (depreciate) faster than the average vehicle
Purchased the car by rolling over a debt owed on a previous vehicle into the cost you owe for the new car
Need the peace of mind from knowing that the gap between the car’s value and what you owe on it will be taken care of

, If the gap between your car’s value and what you owe on it is typically expected to be small, you may prefer to pay for it out of pocket in the event of an accident, rather than purchasing GAP insurance.If you purchase your car outright (with no financing or payments to make), then you will not need GAP insurance.


Many insurance companies now offer full replacement costs or better in their policies for an extra fee.
If you already own your car, in the event of an accident, you will receive the fair market value of your car from your auto insurer, and not have a gap to make up for.
 In most cases, GAP insurance can only be used if you have purchased a comprehensive and collision coverage policy (also known as “full coverage”) for your car from your auto insurance agent.This insures that you receive the maximum reimbursement from your auto insurer before GAP insurance is used to make up the difference between your car’s value and what you owe on it.
 GAP insurance is often offered by dealerships when you are going through the process of purchasing a car.When purchased from a car dealership, GAP insurance is usually charged as a single payment for the entire term.Dealers may charge approximately $500-$700 for GAP insurance, and charge interest if that amount is factored into your loan.If you are leasing a car, the lease agreement may include a GAP waiver (sometimes for a stated fee).In some cases, dealers may require you to purchase GAP insurance when purchasing the car. This is rare, so your dealer should explain clearly why it is a requirement, and show you where this requirement is stated in the lease or purchase agreement.Be wary of dealers that try to push you into purchasing GAP insurance when it is optional. Dealers should be happy to explain your options when purchasing a car, but should not try to force you into buying coverage that you don’t need.
You can ask your dealer to tell you what the value of the car will be once you drive if off the lot — this will give you an idea of whether or not GAP insurance makes sense for you.
 Insurers usually charge 5%-6% of your collision and comprehensive coverage premium for GAP insurance.For instance, if you pay $1000 a year for collision and comprehensive coverage, you may be able to add GAP insurance to your auto policy for $50-$60 per year.


In general, you can shop around at different insurers to get the best rates.



Periodically check your car’s value using the Kelly Blue book or NADA Black Book, and compare it to the amount you still owe on the car. This will give you an idea of the gap between the two amounts, if any.

