 Dwarf hamsters are only around 4 inches long, but they like having a lot of space to run around and play. The cage should be big enough to give the hamster room to move around in addition to holding the hamster's food, water, and toys.Choose from the following housing options:


A hamster aquarium. Buy a special aquarium made for hamsters or choose one designed for fish, which will do just as well. Glass aquariums protect hamsters from cold, drafty temperatures, and they provide an excellent view of the hamster's daily activities. The aquarium should have a mesh cover on top so the hamster can't escape.A plastic hamster home. These expensive hamster cages usually have several rooms connected with plastic tubing, so the hamster can spend his days and nights running from room to room. They are hard to clean and usually way too small for hamsters. Even by connecting several critter trails (or similar cages) together your hamster will not be happy as it does not have a big running space and you can not fit a lot into these cages. Additionally, they are hard to assemble and are usually not tall enough to add big wheels or enough bedding.
A wire hamster cage. Especially when your hamster is a baby, make sure that it cannot squeeze through the wires. Hamster cages make a comfortable home for hamsters. These cages are well ventilated, but you have to be careful not to put your hamster in a drafty area. The area around wire hamster cages can get a little messy, since hamsters like to dig in their bedding and pitch it through the wire. Make sure NOT to get a wire cage with a wire bottom. It can hurt your hamster's feet. However, most wire cages sold by pet stores are way too small for hamsters., The best hamster cage is the biggest you can reasonably afford. The RSPCA recommend that the minimum size of cage for a Syrian hamster should be 75cm x 40 cm x 40 cm. (29 ½ inches x 15 ¾ inches x 15 ¾ inches).;
, If you have two hamsters, take measures to make them comfortable. Unlike their larger counterparts, dwarf hamsters can be social and some may enjoy being in small, same-sex groups.


If you put a male and female dwarf hamster together, expect babies in the future. Always provide two separate wheels (make sure these are not mesh or wire as they injure the hamster's foot, and that it is big enough so that they do not arch their backs.) , houses or nest areas (do not use cotton nesting material as it is deadly, toilet paper is a great option) , two water bottles, and have enough food for two hamsters.
Make sure you have two of each toy as well. They can get along in the same space, but will still retain basic territorial instincts., Dry bedding is essential for the health of a dwarf hamster. It keeps moisture away from the hamster's body and provides shelter and warmth. Choose bedding made of recycled paper, wood pulp, or recycled corncobs. Also make sure you provide a lot of burrowing space for your hamster to dig in. Best would be at least 15cm of bedding in at least one area.


Make sure the bedding you use does not contain pine or cedar shavings. Pine and cedar contain phenols that are toxic to hamsters, since the fumes they produce are so strong.Some hamsters are allergic to certain types of bedding. If your bedding contains pine, cedar, or another allergen, he may start wheezing and sneezing. If you see this happen, switch the bedding to recycled paper or another hypoallergenic bedding.Never ever give your hamster cotton type bedding. It is very dangerous and can kill them. Hamsters cannot digest the cotton fibres in their digestive tract causing blockages. It also presents a choking hazard to your pets.
 Set up the hamster's cage and accessories in a comfortable room. Since hamsters are nocturnal, they should be placed in a room that gets dark at night. Make sure the room is a comfortable temperature that veers toward the warm side, since your hamster can catch pneumonia if it gets too cold.Don't leave windows open in the room where the hamster lives.
If you have other pets, make sure the hamster is an area where he won't be disturbed or threatened.
 A clean cage will help keep your hamster healthy. Scoop out the dirty bedding every few days, and wash the entire cage once a week. In general, a medium spray bottle filled with 2 tbs of bleach or antibacterial dish soap and water will have the cleaning power to disinfect the cage without being too dangerous for your hamster. You can also use a white vinegar to clean the cage. Be sure to wipe down your hamster’s toys, dishes, and exercise wheel too.After cleaning, let the cage air dry for 10-15 minutes before you add 2 inches of new fresh bedding. 2 inches is the recommended amount. Remember that your dwarf hamster is a great burrower. If you don’t give your hamster something to burrow in, it won’t be as happy.While you are cleaning the cage, make sure you put your hamster somewhere safe, so he doesn't escape. Place him in a hamster playpen or a dry bathtub. Avoid placing the hamster in a cardboard box while he waits for you to clean his cage. Hamsters can chew through cardboard quickly.

