 Read Naomi Klein Disaster Capitalism. Express solidarity with others in your position. Fight your collective rights. Solidarity brothers and sisters.;
, Be sure to say "I love you" regularly and with meaning. Relationships get mauled and strained throughout hard times, and it can be too easy to forget that telling one another that you care and love for each other carries great meaning and serves as a source of energizing one another and reassuring each other of mutual support. Both of you need to know that you're still loved by the other, so say "I love you" as often as you can.
 For some, depression and sadness can descend during times of financial and emotional hardship. Having this happen is terrible, and it's truly heart wrenching to see the one you love in tears. However, don't give up on them. Be there for a partner who is suffering an emotional and mental health crisis. First, be sure they're getting the medical attention they need and support them as they go through it. Second, be sure to comfort each other at all times, for the last thing you want to happen is to become emotionally separated. By staying emotionally connected, the 'magic' of the relationship will be reignited a little and your partner will know that they can rely on you to be there for the long haul as they recover.
 Be sure to assume nothing and to seek direct guidance on ways you can help your partner. By realizing that you can't presume to know how your partner feels or is coping with the hardships, you give your partner the freedom to express themselves openly and without hiding real feelings. This can be both cathartic and revealing and it provides you with the opportunity to either reassure or to offer solutions and compromises that both of you can work through together.


Ask questions such as: Can I help in any way? Is there anything else I can do? Anything specific I can help with? These questions almost always have an answer.
 It will seem that the world is trying to beat you down. And sometimes you may be tempted to blame one another for the way that things have come about. First, much of what happens during financially hard times that a society is going through as a whole is beyond your control and isn't something you can be faulted for personally. Second, blaming one another changes absolutely nothing and both of you can put new ways of approaching old habits into place, so that you face the current challenges and plan ways to pull yourselves up to a better place, together. Be reassured that staying together increases the likelihood of both of you pulling through.
 While you might want to use some of this time to discuss budgeting, expenses, selling assets, making job changes or doing job searches, etc., be sure to also leave space for sharing emotions, feelings and worries, and do your best to set aside judgment. Worries can be worked on as a team but they can also be made worse if the person revealing their worries is mocked, spoken to condescendingly or has their worries simply brushed aside. Every concern is valid and needs addressing, even if it is to make it clear that the worry has no basis.


When discussing money, there is always a risk of negative reactions, such as shouting, walking out, tears, etc. but it's important to come back to the topic as calmly and in as team-minded a way as possible. Remind one another that you're in this together and you'll get through it together.
Don't let anger or frustration build up. Letting it build up is like watching a fire in a dry field, just watching the flames get closer, until it explodes. You promised to be there for each other through the hard times too, and this is the time those vows were referring to.
 If the stress eats away badly enough, it can be tempting to neglect personal hygiene, especially when lethargy, depression or hopelessness set in. However, this is a time to remain proud of yourself and maintaining your personal hygiene can help you to feel good about yourself in spite of everything. Also, it is an issue of respect to stay well groomed for your partner. It's hard to feel romantic with someone who is permanently unkempt.
 Wandering either physically or emotionally will weaken your relationship and presents the ultimate threat to your financial stability and other resources that are keeping you together. Although the idea of a fling can sometimes seem like a good way of escaping problems in the depths of despair, the reality is that it brings more problems and complications and can destabilize any chances you have of refreshing your romance with your married partner.
 If divorce is thought about, do what you can to delay it. During days of hardship, divorce is going to be the greatest hardship of all and it is final. Try to remind one another that the times of hardship will pass but your relationship is meant to endure. Look to counseling, talking things through and delaying such a move as ways to work through a desire to divorce as a result of the hardships you're experiencing.
 There are always things that will trip you up if you let them. It's important to realize that these things, while testing, are something that you can both overcome together. Show the rest of the world you can still stand united by being optimistic and turning to one another to work through the issues as they arise.
 Stay optimistic – you're strong enough to drag yourself through this tough phase without even wincing, even if you're directly affected, you can save yourself, but more importantly, you can save your relationship. Most importantly, by not giving up and by remaining consistent and energetic about your approach to working through the hard times, your example can be the guiding light for your spouse and will help your spouse find renewed hope too. And it's not just your example. In a way, it's really your love. This phase will establish you as somewhat of a guardian angel for the one you love and their love will be rekindled too. Promise you will stay and that both of you will see the hardships through.

