 If your temperature is 103°F (39.4°C) or lower, try to treat the fever at home, seeing whether it responds to at-home care.If it's 104°F or higher, call emergency services or go straight to the emergency room; you may need immediate medical attention.;
, If you're trying to self-diagnose fever, it's going to be hard to tell whether your temperature is at 98.7°F or at 101.2°F. You're probably better off trying to look for other symptoms of a fever (see below).


If you're trying to diagnose fever in someone else, try feeling the temperature of your own skin and then quickly checking the temperature of the person in question's skin. This should give you a good comparison for whether the person is feverish. If your skin is much cooler than the other person's skin, they may be feverish.
How accurate is this measure of diagnosing fever? One study found that people who try to diagnose fever by touch "seriously overestimate" the incidence of fever, sometimes by as much as 40%., A fever happens when your body sets its internal temperature higher to in order to ward off harmful infections, viruses, or other maladies.It's a natural defense mechanism. One significant result of this switching on of the body's heat switch is that patients can get or feel dehydrated.


Signsthat you may be dehydrated include:

Dry mouth
Thirst
Headache and fatigue
Dry skin
Constipation


Dehydration can be made even worse if it is accompanied by vomiting or diarrhea.If you've experienced any one of these, especially, be sure to drink plenty of fluids to compensate for their loss.
 In many cases, muscle aches are associated with dehydration, but they can be especially aggravating in a patient with the fever. Note: If your fever presents with back of muscle stiffness, call a doctor right away, as your condition may be related to bacterial meningitis, which can potentially cause brain damage., If your fever is at or above 104°F (40°C), you could experience some of the following in addition to hot flashes, dehydration, headaches, muscle aches, and general weakness. If you do experience any of the following, or have cause to believe that your fever is above 104°F, see a doctor immediately:


Hallucination
Confusion or irritability
Convulsions or seizures

, If you are dealing with a child who potentially has a fever, and whose temperature clocks in at higher than 103°F (39.4°C), see a doctor. In most cases, treating mild or moderate fevers at home is completely acceptable; in few cases, the underlying reason for the fever may demand serious medical attention.

