 The reclining or supine pigeon pose is down on your back, providing your body with more support. Bend your knees so that your feet are resting flat on the mat, about hip-width apart.Press your lower back firmly into the mat and roll your shoulders back so that your shoulder blades are tucked in alongside your spine.
You can rest your arms at your sides, or extend them outward to open your shoulders and chest.;
, Lift one leg and cross it over the other, keeping your knee bent. Your ankle should rest on your thigh just above your opposite knee, with your knee at roughly a right angle.Check your lower back and make sure you're still laying flat against the mat. You don't want to arch your lower back.
 To complete the reclining pigeon pose, grasp your lower leg just under your knee by reaching one hand through your raised leg and reaching the other along your side.Clasp your hands together around your knee and gently pull to raise your knee and foot off the floor. Only pull towards your body as far as you can comfortably go and feel a stretch.
If you push into the inner thigh of the raised leg with your elbow, you can help open up your hips as well. Again, only push as far as is comfortable, stopping when you feel a stretch. Don't force it to the point of pain.
 Hold the pose for 10 to 20 seconds, breathing deeply. Then release your legs, placing your feet back on the floor and your arms at your sides. Raise the opposite leg, crossing your ankle over your knee.Once you've repeated the pose on both sides, you can do it again or move on to something else. Reclining pigeon pose also is a good stretch after other exercise, such as running or cycling.
 If you're having trouble keeping your back flat while doing the reclining pigeon pose, you can start with a modification that will make it easier to maintain alignment. A rolled blanket placed under your hips should keep you in the right position and make the pose more comfortable for you.If you're using a rolled blanket, try doing the pose without it periodically, as your flexibility improves. Only use props as long as necessary to maintain proper alignment.

