 For instance, the top lips of doorways, the shade of an overhanging pipe or even the old hide in the enemy base trick.This can be just as enjoyable as playing the game. Whether it's hiding in a tree in Halo 3 or hiding on top of the door in Call of Duty Four.;
, Rockets, after all, are easy to dodge. However, an enemy under normal circumstances cannot dodge splash damage which, due to proximity, may kill them regardless of a direct hit.
 In even rarer circumstances, that weapon may have a direct effect on projectile weapons. Let's face it, Halo 3 is the only forthcoming example, but don't forget about such an advantage. A rocket, grenade, or even a sword wielding enemy can be fouled by a properly timed hammer strike.
 Many a new player has died for lack of consideration. A well bounced grenade or leading grenade will inevitably kill an opponent intent on moving forward.
 With two buttons and two machine guns it is also a good consideration to alternate triggers, one side, then the other in rapid succession.
 In short, smaller weapons allow for more view-able gaming area. For instance in Halo Two, one could argue that dual pistols allow a greater viewing area than the battle rifle, therefore adding advantage to a closer quarters battle.
 This is due to two separate advantages. By looking at another player in split screen, you can identify your tactical advantage in reference to the other player. Also note that your peripheral vision is better at picking up movement; therefore, many screen peepers are able to play two screens at once and still easily win.
 Throwing your weapon at your opponents neck will most likely provide enough visual pollution to give enough time to finish them off.
 That may not be measured universally, but on your own skill and merit. Some are better snipers, some are better flak monkeys. Adjust your hierarchy as such.
 The irony is that most people do not know that. Map your controls and have that one handy. Lying on the ground with your tongue hanging out can have three effects. First, is that your enemy will walk right over you allowing you to easily shoot him in the back. Second, you will be accused of hacking or "popping out of the floor." Third and most likely, if they do figure out what is going on, they will waste ammo on every corpse they come across. Giving you even more to laugh about.
 Ironically, you can beat them whilst running circles around them.
 Whilst following an enemy, throw a grenade in front of them whilst running forward. The resulting blast should throw them backwards into your awaiting melee strike.
 When one is being "lightly" shot at from behind, a well placed grenade can, with practice, epically throw you over a wall or other impediment that places you out of the reach of your potential killer.
 This is for two reasons. One is to provide easy multi kills and draws against multiple opponents. The other advantage is to be able to address a potential killer to your rear. A person with low sensitivity would stand little or no chance in such a scenario.


Get used to small jerky movements with your hands. A good tip with a mouse is to have your lower palm straddling the end of a table for leverage and quicker movements.
 In this, your objective is not to kill but to goad your enemy into seeking good defensive cover where you should then kill him. This is to give your teammates a decent position to defend the flag as it respawns.
 They are assigned to defend these. If you happen to be the last person left that round, and there are several other enemies, some of who are camping, you might want to sneak past their lines.


Do this by first firing wildly into the air, so the enemy knows you're there. Then, take the longest way to the objective as possible. The enemy, hungry for more blood, will attempt to take the shortest way to you to kill you and win the round. Thus, you will bypass the restless defenders, and it will be easier to win the round as last man standing.

