 Did you not study? Did you get in a fight with your parents?


Understanding why you failed can help you prepare for a retake.
Think about how much of this information you're willing to share with your teacher. They may ask the reason for the retake, and you should be honest. If it's personal, you can make general allusions: "family problems," or "a difficult personal period." It's unlikely your teacher will pry.;
, If you have the test with you, look through your work and the teacher's comments, if any. Are your mistakes clear to you? Jot down any questions you might have., If it was a simple matter of not studying, then you can solve the issue easily. Some circumstances may need a little more attention. Before you talk to your teacher, you should have a plan for what you can do to succeed on the retake.If you're distracted by a personal issue, be proactive about dealing with what's bothering you. Failing one test because of it is a sign that it might be affecting your other academic work, not to mention making you unhappy. Talking to friends or your school guidance counselor might help.
If you're struggling with the material, now's the time to find a tutor who can help you better understand it.
 Your teacher might want to give you the test again within a day or two, so be ready. If you think you're going to need more time, but want to talk to the teacher as soon as possible, be prepared to tell the teacher when you expect you'll be able to retake the test.
 After a class or after school are usually good times.


You might need just a few minutes to talk to your teacher, or this could be a longer conversation. It's a good idea to ask your teacher after class when a good time would be to come talk with them. They might be free then; if not, they'll suggest a better time.Don't approach your teacher before class. This is often a busy moment for teachers and they're likely to be distracted.
 Having your test on hand may help the teacher assess what you need to work on if they let you retake the test. They may have forgotten your grade, as well, particularly if you're in a large class.


Also bring any questions you wrote down while looking over your test. Come prepared.
 Don't immediately launch into the reasons why you failed; this might make your teacher suspect that you're making up an excuse.
 Tell your teacher that you accept responsibility for the test and that you're trying to be responsible by asking for a retake.


This also makes it clear that you do not blame the teacher for your poor results.
 It's very possible your teacher will ask why you need the retake. In that case, be honest. Letting them know helps them assess how they can best help you succeed in their class.
 They might ask you to study an hour a night if you're not reaching standard.


If you're struggling with the material, ask your teacher for help. They won't be able to reteach everything right then and there, but they may be able to point you in the right direction.
If you're considering getting a tutor, ask your teacher if they can recommend someone.
 Teachers may have their reasons for allowing or not allowing retakes, and you need to respect their decision. At the very least, hopefully you've learned a little more about their expectations and how to better prepare next time.
 Cramming for tests is never a good idea; instead, set a daily routine for yourself that includes doing homework on time and reviewing material from class. This time should be quiet, focused, and uninterrupted.


If you don't know where to begin, ask your teacher to help.
 Some subjects and topics can be particularly difficult. Find out if your school has a tutoring program and sign up for some sessions. Alternatively, you can ask your teacher, guidance counselor or another student to recommend a tutor for the subject you're struggling with.
 Unfortunately, we don't take tests in a vacuum, and life circumstances can often affect our ability to perform our best in school. If you're going through a difficult period, talk to family, friends, or a counselor. High schools and universities usually offer free counseling for their students.

