 Being dehydrated can lead to a number of health-related issues, including decreased energy.Aim to drink at least 9 eight-ounce cups of fluids every day if you’re a woman, and 13 eight-ounce cups of fluids if you’re a man., Sugar gives you a quick lift but then your energy level crashes. Cutting down on sugar will help you regulate your energy level.
 Your body uses magnesium for a number of reasons, including turning glucose into energy. When your magnesium levels are low, your body can’t function as energetically as it should.Get 300 milligrams of magnesium per day if you’re a woman, or 350 milligrams if you’re a man.
Eat foods rich in magnesium, such as almonds, cashews, halibut or bran cereal.
 Vitamin B12 helps your body make red blood cells, among other things. Eat foods that contain vitamin B12, such as meat, eggs, milk and cheese.If you don’t eat animal products, take a vitamin B12 supplement.
 Alcohol is a depressant, meaning that it brings down your energy level. Skipping alcohol will help you maintain a more even energy level.
 Start the day with a good boost of energy. Eat foods that are rich in proteins and complex carbohydrates, such as whole grain bread with peanut butter. Breakfast will give you fuel to keep going through the day.
 Food sensitivities or allergies can drain your energy. If you are sensitive to certain foods, your body cannot efficiently process them. Your immune system starts fighting back, leaving you feeling weak and tired.Keep a food diary. Keep track of foods you eat and how you feel after you eat them. This can help you track how you’re affected by certain foods.Eliminate certain foods from your diet for a few weeks. Slowly introduce these foods one by one into your diet. If you start to feel more tired than normal, you may have a food sensitivity or allergy.Try eliminating foods that commonly cause food allergies, such as dairy, wheat, eggs, soy and nuts. Add each one in after eliminating it for at least 3 weeks. Keep a journal of everything you eat and any symptoms that you experience. If you start to feel some symptoms, this may indicate a food allergy., Ask your doctor for an allergy test to determine if you have allergies to certain foods.

