 That is the first question you should always ask yourself because if you don't know about something, how can you write a whole book on it?;
, It isn't as easy as you may think. Every book starts with an idea. Something that works is imagining a really good beginning, asking questions about it, and sort of working out a plot line to go along with it.
 Write out a good beginning. Choose select parts in the plot to lay out in detail. Have fun! This is meant for you to be interested in.
 Your plot line may change as you get deeper into the story. New characters may appear, and alter the plot. This makes the book more exciting. Listen to music as you write, but make sure it's set to the mood of the book. No Solid Gold Oldies in the toughest, most suspenseful scenes.
 You are sending a message to your readers by what your characters do and say. Make sure that your main character has a theme and a purpose. It's good to surprise your readers, but don't keep releasing a steady flow of hidden secrets about your main character. Especially if you're writing first-person, make sure that the readers can relate to the person whose mind they are sharing.
 This can be hard. If you leave off at a loose end and start on another completely different story, chances are you will never return. A chained habit of leaving off like this is the worst pitfall. If you absolutely cannot let go of an idea, see if it will work well in the story you are writing.
 A horrible disease! Relax. Don't lose interest in your book. Just turn on some music. Imagine scenes from your book like you're creating a movie preview or music video. Try to bring up something new to get your readers' interest re-awakened. It will re-awaken yours, too!

, Don't get stressed. When your book is finished, send it to a publisher. Try to get involved, but don't get in it for the money. You're the author; you want it out there because it's YOURS and YOU made it. Take pride in your work! Let a close friend read the manuscript. Then get it out for the world to see.

