 Acceptance of yourself is crucial to the promotion of inner peace because it enables us to be okay with what is currently happening no matter what the circumstances.If we try to avoid pain we may only enhance it. You can start by practicing acceptance of yourself by taking a personal inventory- who you are, what you look like, how you feel, and what you’ve done.


Write down a personal inventory of your personality, characteristics (positive ones and ones you want to work on), actions, and appearance. Make a point to accept each and every part of your inventory – even the stuff you aren’t proud of. Forgive yourself for the wrongs you have done if you need to, and focus on what you can do today to better yourself.
Take an inventory of your goals. Having dreams and aspirations is sometimes what keeps us moving forward in self-acceptance. Set personal goals for yourself and move toward them every day. Some examples of personal goals include: losing weight, eating healthier, exercising more often, picking up a new hobby (such as playing an instrument), or watching less television. On a daily basis, ask yourself if what you are doing is currently in line with your goals and values.
Re-frame your negative traits into positive ones to promote self-acceptance. For example, perhaps you typically think that you are not tall enough and therefore, do not fully accept your height. You can practice self-acceptance by meaning-making about your height. What meaning or purpose might your height have? Does it help you do certain activities that a taller person might not be able to do? How does your height benefit you?;
, One way to practice acceptance of your life is to be grateful for what you have instead of focusing on what you do not have.Take an inventory of everything that you value in your life; this can include: family, friends, a roof over your head, enough food to eat, an education, the government, laws, nature, roads, and transportation. Remember that some people in the world may have little access to some of these things that we see as basic.
You can even create a digital gratitude journal online through Thnx4.org and share your thoughts with others., As humans, we often want to control others (what they do or how they act) and our environments (home, work, school, society, world). We want our spouse to be a better person, our boss to be nicer, our house to be cleaner, and traffic to evaporate. This is likely because we fear the unknown, or what we cannot control, including our own mortality. Unfortunately, we cannot always control these outcomes. Ultimately, we cannot control what others think, feel, or do.


Focus only on what you can control.Ask yourself, “What can I do in this situation?” If you can’t change it then accept it and let it go.

