 Getting the right hair cut can make your hair look thicker and obscure thinning spots. While barbers are a good option if you just want a short and simple cut, if you are balding, it will be worth it to go to a hair stylist. Although a stylist costs more, he or she will personalize your haircut to conceal your thinning hair and/or bald spots and will teach you how to style it.;
, If your hair is long, it will get weighed down, which will cause your hair to lay flat and lose volume. It will also separate, allowing your scalp to show through. Shorter hair (but not super short), on the other hand, provides more volume and a "feathering" effect, whereby one section of hair covers the edge of the next, so that your scalp does not show through.
 If you do not wish to deal with the upkeep of having a good haircut and/or volumizing your hair, another method to hide baldness or thinning hair is to shave your head completely. This seems counterintuitive, but it can work because it is deliberate. Bald heads are stylish, and people will not know if you shave your head because you like it or because you are losing your hair.


Use an electric razor to cut your hair as short as possible. Then use shaving cream and a razor blade to shave the stubble completely, like you would if you were shaving your face.
Shave your head regularly so that you do not have stubble. Otherwise, if you are balding enough that you only have hair on the sides, long stubble will signal that you are losing your hair.
Protect your head from the sun. Use sunscreen on your head every day, and wear a hat when in the sun to protect your head. Skin cancer can occur anywhere you have skin, even on your scalp.
 Bald or balding men can look very good with facial hair, and it will take attention away from the hair on your head. However, make sure you keep your facial hair short and well-groomed. A wild, unkempt beard will look strange in contrast with your short hair or shaved head, and it will look unprofessional in most workplaces.
 Wearing a hat or a bandana can hide baldness very effectively. Baseball caps are good for informal occasions, but fedoras and straw hats are also very stylish and work for a variety of settings. Wearing a hat also has the benefit of protecting your head from the sun. However, keep in mind that you may not be able to wear a head covering in all situations. Many houses of worship and workplaces require men to remove their hats when entering, and a bandana is too informal for formal settings, like work., Some companies make products that reduce the contrast between your hair and your scalp by coloring your scalp. This makes your skin blend with your hair so that your balding spots are less obvious. This is especially helpful for people with light-colored scalps and dark hair.


Follow the directions on the product to apply the lotion to your skin. Be sure to cover your scalp thoroughly, and allow to dry completely. Once dry, the lotion should stand up to sweat and rain. However, the lotion will rub off on your skin if you run your fingers through your hair, and it will transfer onto your pillowcase at night. The color will remain until you wash your hair.If you choose a powdered formula, be sure to rub the powder in well into your scalp. Cover all places where your scalp shows through your hair. The powder will also bond to your hair, making it appear fuller. Similar to lotion, this will last through wind, sweat, and rain, but it may transfer onto your clothes or pillowcase. It will last until you wash your hair., While toupees and hair pieces are less in fashion today than in previous decades, there are still some good options out there that will cover your baldness well. This works best for men who are not completely bald because the hair piece can be blended in with your natural hair.


Be sure to choose a high-quality hair piece made of real human hair that matches your hair color. Only real hair will look natural.You may also be able to get a customized hair mesh. This involves having human hair knotted into a mesh base. The mesh is then glued or clipped onto the head so that it appears as if the hair is growing from the scalp. The piece has to be cut well for a it to look natural. The mesh also has to be re-positioned when the glue or clips come undone and as the natural hair grows.Have your hair stylist help you touch up your hair piece on a regular basis. Bring it with you when you get a hair cut so that your stylist can incorporate it into your hairstyle.Keep your hairpiece clean, and be sure to adhere it to your head. If your hair piece falls off, that will defeat the purpose of having it.
 This similar to using colored scalp lotion or powder, only the results are permanent. This involves getting micro-tattooed dots all over the scalp. The process is tedious and may take several sittings to cover the entire scalp. Scalp micropigmentation runs the risk of looking harsh and fake if the color is not correct or if it is not done well, so seek out a reputable scalp micropigmentation specialist.