 Pick date at least a few days in the future for your 16 week challenge to begin. Then, get started, setting a reasonable pace that you can keep up.


Many people tend to start work toward a goal with a lot of enthusiasm, and put a lot of time energy into the first week or two. Enthusiasm is great, but try not to burn yourself out or set standards you can't live up to at the outset.This will only harm your progress later.
It's better to shoot for smaller goals spread out evenly than it is to work on nothing else but your goal.
Picking a date a little ways into the future is a good way to help build anticipation. This can provide increased motivation when the challenge begins., Once the challenge begins, the best thing you can do is put in the time and effort necessary to achieve your goal, and to do so every day.


In the end, no matter how good your plan is or how lofty your ambitions, the only way to achieve a goal is through time and effort. Get started, stay focused, and stick to the plan as well as you can.
Work on your goal daily. If you've got weekly deadlines, work on them over the whole week instead of trying to do all the work at the end. Creating a routine of working at it every day will help you form good habits and make steady progress.For example, imagine you are writing a book and have set a sub goal of writing two chapters a week. Try to write a few pages every day, rather than pulling all-nighters on Friday and Saturday to finish the work. This will only leave you exhausted as you head into the next week.
 In a 16 week challenge, there is no time to waste. Try to work toward your goals as efficiently as possible, avoiding procrastination and distraction.


For example, imagine you love of television or video games. You might need to put the TV in a closet for the duration of the challenge to avoid distraction.
When you are spending time working on your goals, focus on that work only, don't try to do other things at the same time. Many people think they are good at multitasking. But in fact, multitasking reduces efficiency and productivity. If you're trying to read or write, for instance, turn off the TV and log out of your social network sites., Get a calendar, app, or journal that you can use to keep track of how much time you're putting in. Keep track of the subgoals or benchmarks you've achieved.


Keeping track on a regular basis can help you determine if you're working at a good pace.
It can also provide a good reminder of what you've already achieved, which can help if you start to run out of motivation.
Noting your progress toward benchmarks or subgoals can also create a greater sense of accountability.You will not want to feel like you have failed in reaching your subgoals.
Use milestones to track your progress. For example, if you are trying to lose 40 pounds in 16 weeks, you should lose 2.5 pounds each week. Each month, you should lose 10 pounds. These milestones allow for regular check-ins, so you'll know if you're on track or need to amend your plan.
If you are using an accountability partner, trainer, or coach, they can provide a lot of help in this area via your regular check-ins.
 Achievement of difficult goals requires motivation and perseverance.Work hard, celebrate your victories, and believe in yourself.


One good way to keep your motivation high is to use reinforcement. Every time to reach a benchmark or complete a subgoal, give yourself a little reward. This can mean adding something good to your life, such as treating yourself to a fancy dessert. Or, it can mean removing something you don't like to do. You might, for example allow yourself to skip a weekly chore as a reward.Reinforcement helps you establish a mental association between good consequences and working for your goals. This can boost your motivation. It is much more effective than punishing yourself for failing to meet your benchmarks.