 Go to social gatherings and spend time with friends or make new ones. Allowing yourself to have genuine connections with other people will start giving you positive experiences to talk about and relate to. These experiences can start shifting a negative mindset to a more optimistic one.You may or may not talk to your friends about what is bothering you, but just knowing that they are there is reassuring.
And if you decide to confide in someone you trust, you may experience some relief, or your friend's feedback may be useful.;
, Create works of art to help your brain integrate emotions and thoughts. By creating something, you form new neural pathways in your brain and utilize your entire brain during the process. Aside from being a great way to pour your focus into something positive, creating a work of art can be healing.This does not have to be a “traditional” kind of art. You might choose to paint a picture, but you can create art in many other ways, too. For example, you could build a birdhouse as a creative project, or use online coloring apps or puzzles.
 If your pain is severe and causes you to feel depressed, anxious, or otherwise mentally unstable, you should seek help from a mental health professional. You should also seek out a professional if you have dealt with the pain for a long time and still struggle to cope with the incident. Your doctor can refer you to a mental health professional.The time required to heal from an incident can vary from incident to incident and person to person. For example, it may take you longer to heal after a parent dies than it takes someone to heal from losing their dog.
 Support groups will allow you to connect directly with people who are struggling with the same pains. These groups will allow you to share your story and encourage others with similar stories. You will also be held accountable for taking steps to heal yourself since you will be talking about it at each meeting.Support groups are understanding of people working through all stages of pain. You will not be required to share or talk in most support groups.

