 The Town Hall is the very first building you encounter at the very start of the game, and it is one of the two extremely fancy buildings in town and the only one with a clock.;
, Head to the first window (also known as the Civic Center) inside the Town Hall. You’ll be greeted by a white or pink pelican, depending on the time of day you arrive in. Talk to them by pressing “A” or tapping them with your stylus, and they will talk to you, giving you a list of options.
 option from the menu. This will lead you to a screen where all the notes are represented by frog heads on a scale. You can now change the notes of the tune.
 When changing your town tune, you can use your D-pad or your Stylus to modify the notes.


If you press any direction on the D-pad, a cursor will appear in the screen. You can navigate through each note using all four directions. To change the pitch of a note, just hold down the “A” button and then press up or down on the D-pad.
Your second option is to use the Stylus and the touch screen. To change a note in this manner, simply tap and hold the note you want to change and drag the Stylus up to choose a higher note or down to select one of a lower pitch.
There are two different scales for the pitch of each note, a note randomizer, a pause, and a “drag.” The randomizer can be accessed by scrolling the pitch to the highest, the pause can be accessed by scrolling to the lowest, and the drag is the second to the last lowest note when you scroll.
 You can modify a total of 15 notes for your melody, with two scales for their pitch. Simply input one of the three patterns:
. = pauses
- = drags


Pattern 1: A . A . A . FCA - FCA -
Pattern 2: D - D - D - AFD - AFD.
Pattern 3: E - E - E - C . GE - C. GE
Any of these patterns would render a convincing recreation of the classic chilling tune, which would then spread throughout town, from the clocktower’s hourly chime to the speech of the villagers!

, If you want listen to the pattern you entered before settling with it, you can preview the jingle by pressing the Play button at the bottom center of the screen.


You can also reset all the notes into a stop position with the Erase All button to start all over again.
 Simply press “Confirm” at the bottom right of the screen and prepare to hear the melody from everyone and everything!

