 The United States government has made it law that health insurance companies must allow a special enrolment period when qualifying life events have occurred. These life events can include getting married and losing other insurance coverage (among other things).


If you, as the employee, get married, you are allowed a special enrolment period so you can add your spouse to your employer health insurance plan.
If your spouse, who is not the employee, has lost a job or another type of health insurance coverage, you are allowed a special enrolment period so you can add your spouse to your employer health insurance plan. In situations like this, you’re also permitted the opportunity to change your coverage, or your spouse’s existing coverage, on your plan.
 While employers and health insurance companies must following government guidelines for their health insurance plans, the processes and procedures can differ between employers, insurers and plans. Determine what the specific process is for your employer and insurance plan.You can find all the details about your specific health insurance plan via your employer’s Human Resources department.
Most employers or health insurance companies also provide detailed information about their plans on websites. Some of these websites may require a login ID and password in order to access, and it is most likely also the same website where you signed up for your health benefits in the first place.
Pay special attention to the period of time you have after your qualifying life event that you have to add your spouse to your insurance plan. You will likely have a minimum of 30 days to submit the change, but some plans will allow up to 90 days. If you miss this time period, you’ll have to wait for annual enrolment before you can add your spouse.
 Review your employer’s or health insurance company’s requirements for making changes due to getting married or the loss of other insurance coverage. At the very least they most likely require one or more forms to be completed. Gather all the required documentation and complete all forms as indicated.This documentation will usually include an enrolment change form where you’ll select what type of coverage you want for your spouse. You will be able to change your medical (or dental) coverage to include your spouse, but you may also be allowed to add spousal life insurance. Adding life insurance may require a separate form.
For a new marriage, you will most likely be required to submit a copy of your marriage license or certificate.
For the loss of your spouse’s health insurance coverage, you may have to submit a letter from your spouse’s employer outlining when coverage was reduced or ended. This may include a termination letter if that was the reason why coverage was lost.
Once you have all the required documentation completed, submit it to your employer or insurance company for processing.
 Coverage for your spouse under your employer’s health insurance plan doesn’t start immediately. Normally coverage will begin on the first day of the month following your change request.Be aware that some insurance plans will not cover a spouse who is already in a hospital, nursing home, or other treatment facility until they’re discharged. This means there may be a period of time where you will have to pay for their treatment 100% out of your pocket. The only exception to this rule is a newborn baby, who is covered immediately upon birth.

