 It can be tough to commit to putting money into your savings account every month, but it is important to do so to ensure you have enough money for emergencies and for your future. If possible, make automatic payments into a saving account each month.


For example, set your bank account so it automatically transfers $50 from your checking account to savings account at least once a month.
Or, if your paycheck gets deposited directly into your account, you can usually set it up so that a certain portion (either a dollar amount or a percentage) is deposited straight into your savings account. Most professionals recommend putting 10 to 20 percent of your income towards savings each month., You should start saving for retirement as soon as possible to ensure you’ll have enough money to live comfortably when you are done working. The amount you need to contribute to this savings account monthly depends on a number of different factors, like when you start saving, how much you are starting with, and whether or not you’re going to receive any kind of employer contribution.


Many employers offer a 401k, or a retirement savings plan, of some kind to their employees. A lot of companies will also match a percentage of the employee’s contributions into this account over time. If your employer offers a plan of this sort, start contributing to it as soon as you can, even if it is just a small amount.
If you are self-employed or your employer does not offer any kind of retirement savings plan, you can set up your own plan through investment websites or many banks.
Consult a financial advisor to figure out how much you should be putting away for retirement to reach your goals., In addition to saving for retirement, you also need to save for emergencies, like losing a job, costly car repairs, or unexpected medical expenses. You can use your bank’s savings account for this emergency fund.


Financial professionals recommend you have enough in your savings account to cover a month and a half of living expenses for each person you claim as a dependent. For example, if you are married with one child, you should have enough to cover four and a half months of living expenses.