 You may think you don’t need it, but seeking medical help is one of the first things you should do to deal with being a victim of rape if it happened recently.Medical professionals can treat you for any physical injuries you may have from the rape as well as test for possible STIs (Sexually Transmitted Infections).

If it just happened, avoid bathing or disposing of your clothes. This way, if you decide to report it, evidence of the rape may be collected.
Go to your local emergency room or medical clinic. You can even call 911 or 1-800-656-HOPE for help locating medical attention.
If you do plan to report the rape, your medical care provider may be able to contact the authorities for you and collect evidence for them during your medical exam.;
, It will be easier for you to deal with being a male victim of rape if you have someone to support you with what you are going through. They can help you deal with the rape now and support you in the future.They can help protect you if the rapist is someone that you know.
Tell a parent, sibling, friend, teacher, or coach that you trust about what has happened to you.
You could try telling them by saying something like, “It is hard for me to say this, but I was raped.”
Tell them exactly what happened, when and where it happened, and who did it (if you know).
 This is not easy, but it is an important part of dealing with being a male victim of rape.Reporting it can help you cope with what happened and help stop the perpetrator from doing something like this again. If the perpetrator is someone close to you, reporting it can also help keep them away from you.


File a police report. You can call the police or you can go to your local police station.
Have a support person with you during the call or to go to the police station with you if you aren’t comfortable on your own.
If you are under 18 years old, you can tell an adult you trust and they will contact the police for you. The police will contact you later to talk about what happened to you.

