 Consume plenty of complex carbohydrates which will give you long term energy for competition.


Foods that are high in carbohydrates include: multi-grain cereals, whole grain cereals and breads, fresh or dried fruit, low-fat yogurt, bagels, pastas, beans, fruit bars, pretzels, vegetables, rice, waffles, pancakes, toast, bread, potatoes.
Avoid fatty foods that do not store energy or help keep you hydrated.
Drink plenty of liquid (about 16 ounces) to stay hydrated.

Water is a great liquid to maintain hydration, and sports drinks like Gatorade replenish electrolytes lost through sweating and give your muscles the carbohydrates they need to keep working hard.


Do not experiment with any new or exotic foods that may upset your stomach.;
,


Have a competition jacket and pants. Before the competition all groups will walk onto the floor exercise, salute, and present themselves in their warm up suits.
Unless you prefer to be bare-handed, you need grips to perform the uneven bar routine.
Regardless of whether or not your coach carries your music, it is always safe to bring an extra copy in case of technical difficulties.
Athletic tape can be used can be used if you are suffering from an injury or prefer to tape your grips for added support.
A small snack and bottle of water will help maintain high energy and hydration.
Use hair spray in case you need to touch up your hair in between rotations.
Use a competition score book. If you enjoy keeping track of you and your teammates’ scores, it is helpful to keep a book to record scores throughout the meet.
If you want to listen to your floor music or some calming tunes in between rotations, bring an iPod or CD player!

, Try to get at least eight hours of sleep the night before competition. You are less likely to get tired during the day if you are well rested the night before.
 Wake up at least two to three hours before competition and eat at least a half hour before the event.


Eat a hearty, high-carbohydrate meal (waffles, pancakes, toast, breakfast shake) because competition days are typically lengthy.
Drink 16 ounces of fluid and avoid orange juice or any highly acidic drink.
 Take a hot shower or bath the night before to remove any tension in your muscles.


Remove all nail polish. Judges will deduct points from your routines if they see any flashy color on your finger or toe nails.
 Dress in a competition leotard. Wear your hair tightly pulled back, with no loose fly-aways or hair hanging in your face.


Add a design or glitter hair spray to give yourself a little sparkle.
Makeup must be simple, appropriate, and clean.
Wear undergarments that are compatible with your leotard. Judges will deduct points if your undergarments are showing or if you pick a wedgie!

, Engage in an activity to take your mind off competition day. Watch a movie with your friends or family or read a good book.
 Review the mandatory skills you must perform and when they happen in each of your routines.


Each level of competitive gymnastics has different requirements and mandatory skills. They must be completed in order for the gymnast to receive the highest possible score during your performance.
 Knowing how to control your breathing will help you feel in control and less nervous during competition.
 Having an optimistic attitude is key - know that you have practiced your routines and are prepared for competition!

