 When you make connections online, you often feel instantly connected to another person. It can take much longer to feel a meaningful connection in person. Though it might seem frustrating to wait for in person connections to blossom, it is still important to cultivate them. Talk to people at work or school and make it a point to attend social gatherings regularly to meet new people.Try making it a rule that you will accept all social invitations you receive for a set period of time. For example, if you are invited to a party, then go and make an agreement that you will stay for at least an hour and see if you have fun. Make sure to keep your phone in your pocket the whole time to ensure that you can give your full attention to the people who are there.;
, Social media gives you access to millions of new contacts, any of which could become friends, business partners, or colleagues. Each network has its unique strengths. For example, you could use Facebook to make friends, as it connects you to friends of friends and gives you the option to join groups on special topics, like at home science projects.Another example would be to try LinkedIn if you are looking for business contacts. It is great for networking and even lets you search potential jobs.
 The closeness you feel online is not always genuine. Many social media sites will use an algorithm of some kind to match you to people with similar interests. This can give you the illusion of an immediate, deep connection. You need to keep in mind that it takes a lot of time to truly know a person, especially if you don’t meet them in person.Also be aware that some people deliberately use social media to create false identities to scam other users.
Protect yourself emotionally by checking your expectations for your relationships, and comparing them with the way that people actually behave. You may find that other people do not reciprocate your feelings.
 If you let it, social media can have a huge influence over your emotions. The good news is that you can use these emotions to gauge how healthy your social media usage is. If you notice yourself being too emotionally invested in things happening on social media, it is time to step back and unplug for a bit.For example, if you are extremely sad because someone on your news feed posted that they are having a bad day, social media might be influencing your emotions too strongly.
You can also try doing a debriefing session after using social media. Check in with yourself to see how you are feeling. Are you now upset in some way? Is your concentration or productivity impaired after using social media? These can be signs that social media is having a negative effect on you.
 Social media allows every person to paint themselves how they want to be seen. Many people take full advantage of this and use their social media to project the image of a perfect, blissful life. While in some cases the person might really feel this way, you certainly shouldn’t be discouraged in your own life just because you see someone who looks happier on social media.