 The slightest bit of dirt or oil on your hands can discolor or damage the pages and binding. Work up a good lather with the soap. Focus on your fingertips and the palms of your hands. Rub your hands together long enough to sing the “Happy Birthday” song., Place your index finger and thumb on either side of the top of the spine. Then, pull it toward you. Avoid pulling on the top edge of the spine with your index finger. You could end up tearing the spine., Avoid marking the pages or binding with ink, marker, or highlighter. Don't even make light pencil marks. You can unintentionally damage the pages when you erase., It could fall into the water and be completely ruined. If you need something to read near the pool or in a boat, read a magazine or newspaper that you plan to recycle. If you feel the urge to read something while in the bath, finish up and dry off completely before picking up your book., Stains and spills are difficult to remove. They can obscure the text and make the pages difficult to read. Keep the book away from your eating and drinking space during mealtime., Forcing an open book to lie flat can damage the spine and cause pages to fall out. If a book is old or tightly bound, avoid cracking the spine at all. When you're scanning or photocopying pages, don't press on the spine.If the book is a paperback, don't bend the front or back covers. Read your book on a flat surface whenever possible. Otherwise, position your thumb on the bottom of one page and your pinky on the bottom of the other to keep the book open.
 Rain and direct sunlight can damage your book. Even if you only get up for a few minutes and intend to go back outside immediately, take your book with you. Your plans could change or you could forget about your book., Pens and pencils can leave indentations on book covers. If you press too hard, they can tear through the paper and mark up the book. Lean on a table or desk. If that's not an option, use a folder, binder, or clipboard., Make a note of the due date as soon as you check your book out. Request a “date due slip” if the library offers this service. Set an alert in your calendar with an alarm the day before the due date. Ask the library if they send automatic emails when the due date is close., In many cases, libraries have only one copy of each book. If you keep your book out too long, it's not fair to the next person who needs it. Honor the due date. If you receive a recall notice, bring your book back as soon as possible for the person who requested it.Renew your book if you're not finished with it by the due date. Ask the library staff if you can renew your book online. If this isn't an option, ask if you can renew over the phone.

