 You must last hit all the enemy's creeps in order to get rich early. Note that you can also not deny your creeps because this might be tiresome - just focus in last hitting your enemy's creeps.;
, You must know what is the right skill build for your hero to make it more powerful and tough. Note that skill build must be different depending on your enemy. First example. Your hero is Omniknight and your enemy is a nuclear weapon user(High damage dealer via spells such as Demon witch) , master first the 2nd ability(immune to spells) then the 3rd skill (slow) so that when you reached in Lv7, Lion(Demon witch) can't cast spells to you because your 2nd ability is Lv4 or maxed - the only way that Lion can defeat you is to fight you with his normal attack which is a very small damage for you. When you attacked him, he can't escape because of your 3rd ability's slow. He'll die in this right skill build without using 1st ability (heal). The item build for him is 1.phase boots 2.vladmir's 3.sange and yasha 4.Armlet of Mordiggian 5.tarrasque 6.butterfly. Second example. your hero is Omniknight and your enemy is mortared whose damage comes mostly from physical attacks. Your 2nd ability is pretty much useless in this scenario. Learn first your 1st ability (heal) then 3rd ability(slow).
 You must also know the right item build for your hero in order to make it powerful and tough for example, the right item build for Lycanthrope is this: 1.Power Threads (Str) 2.Vladmir's 3.Abyssal blade 4.Armlet of Mordiggian 5.Tarassque and 6.Assault Cuirass. Sometimes, your item build must be different depending on your enemy for example, when your enemy is Ursa Warrior, you must have a blademail so that his damage will return to him; and if your enemy is a skiller, buy a Necronomicon (level 3) and cast it to him so that he'll loose a big amount of his remaining mana and HP, buy a Black King Bar so that he can't cast spells to you for a few seconds, or buy an Orchid of Malevolence to make his skill silenced for 5 seconds.
 You must learn how to survive by using blind-spotting (hiding on trees) and by the use of items that can help you escape (e.g. Phase boots, Force staff, Lothar's edge). You must also learn how to avoid being ambushed.
 You must not use these following heroes in a 2v2, 3v3, 4v4, or 5v5 game because they are weak and not kill stealers therefore they can't make you become godlike: Keeper of the Light, Lone Druid, Warlock, Alchemist, Pit Lord, and Undying. You can only become beyond godlike with them when you're a professional DOTA player.
 You must know the right combo skill of each hero (e.g. for Slayer, use first the 2nd ability (stun), then the 1st ability (damaging fire wave), and then the ultimate ability (Laguna blade); for Rhasta, use the Lothar's Edge or Eul's Scepter of Divinity first, then ultimate(ward), the 2nd skill (shackle), the 3rd skill (voodoo), and then 1st skill (lightning). You must also practice the perfect aim and shot of their each very long-ranged skill (e.g. Mirana's arrow, Pudge's hook's, Invoker's sunstrikes, Clockwerk's missile - practice aiming and shooting on AI maps in mode).

