 Staring at a screen right before you try to go to sleep is going to make it more difficult to fall asleep. An hour before you go to sleep, text anyone you are talking to that you are going to sleep. Then take your phone out of your room and put it somewhere where it is safe, but far away from you. Don’t try to sleep with it right next to your head because you will spend more time focused on who might be texting you than sleeping.If you normally use your phone as an alarm clock to wake you in the morning, it's time to invest in an alarm clock instead.;
, When you take your phone with you places, don’t carry it in your hand. Put your phone somewhere where you can’t see it. This is especially important when you drive. Texting and driving is very dangerous to you and everyone you share the road with. Make sure your phone is hidden away when you drive so you are not tempted to look at it and text., Think of the best times of the day for you to not be on your phone texting (at work, at school, when you do your homework, etc.) and make it a “no phone time.” Turn your phone completely off and put it away somewhere where you can’t get to it for a few hours. Forcing yourself to do this daily will allow you to be more productive and help train your brain to not get anxious when you are not on your phone.


Designate certain periods of the day where it is okay to be on your phone and try to stick to only those times to text.You might want to hand your phone to a parent during these times and ask them to give the phone back at the end of "no phone time."

, Probably one of the major reasons you are addicted to texting is because you can take your phone with you anywhere. Try pretending like your cell phone is a landline phone. Place it in one spot in your house and always leave it there and only use it there, instead of taking it with you everywhere you go.You can do this for a little while to train your brain not to check your phone constantly and then eventually start bringing it places with you again.

