 This is a very effective and inexpensive way to scare away geckos: they see eggshells and they think “predator.” Leave two eggshell halves around your home, such as at outdoor entryways, or in the kitchen.Do not crush the eggshells, leave them in two halves.
One two-halves pair at every entrance should be enough: the geckos just need to run into it, then they'll run away from it.
To keep the eggshells fresh, change them every 3 to 4 weeks.;
, Mothballs target moths, cockroaches, ants, flies – and geckos! A real household panacea! Leave some under the stove, refrigerator, or sink to repel geckos., Many of the insects that geckos eat are drawn to light, so, oftentimes, geckos will hang out in those areas. Placing some flypaper near light sources will not only catch geckos’ pesky food source, but will likely catch the geckos themselves.A good position to place the flypaper is on the inside of the light bulb’s shade/housing.
You can also set glue boards or sticky cards near windows or other outdoor entryways.
If you find a live gecko stuck in one of your sticky traps, you can unstick it and set it free by pouring vegetable oil over the trap. It’s nasty – but humane!


, Using moist coffee grounds and some tobacco powder, form a small ball with your hands and stick it on the end of a toothpick. Put this near where the geckos are nesting or where they might easily find it, like an outdoor entryway. The geckos will consume some of this ball and die., Garlic’s strong odor isn’t just repellent to some humans, it’s also repellent to geckos, too! Leave a garlic clove around an outdoor entryway to keep them from entering that way ever again., Onion slices are another irritant that will drive geckos away. Cut an onion in half and leave it in a known gecko hiding place, somewhere warm and cozy that you’ve seen a gecko camping out, or by an outdoor entryway., The irritation felt by humans when sprayed by pepper-spray is not unlike that felt by geckos that encounter it. Mix some pepper and water in a spray bottle and spray the solution around your home in places like under the refrigerator, behind the couch, or on the walls – basically, anywhere warm or anywhere you’ve seen a gecko.








Cayenne pepper or chili powder can be used in place of pepper.Tabasco sauce can be used in place of the home-made pepper-spray.Warning: spraying too much may repel ‘’you’’ from your home, so be mindful of its irritating effect.
 If you have a stubborn gecko that just refuses to be repelled from your home, you can try capturing him manually, as it were, by setting a box against a wall and “encouraging” the gecko to get inside. Then you can release it back into the wild – and set some more repellents to keep it out!







