 A whole list of rescues will come up, and you can start looking at their websites.;
, You can even join an online group so you can talk to the canine's owners. You will be surprised at how much you can learn!

, What requirements will you have to meet to rescue the dog? Do they seem serious about their work and really work hard at saving dogs, or are they a puppy mill in disguise? Will you be able to meet dogs you will be able to adopt? How will they match you up with the correct dogs? If you are comfortable with the rescue, then proceed to the next step.
, Remember to be as honest and truthful as possible. The rescue needs to know as much as they can about you so they can match you up with the perfect dog! Sometimes he/she will be one of the ones you had in mind, but other times, you may be well suited to a completely different dog than you thought.
 See if you can take him/her on a walk, and play with him/her. How active is the canine? Does he/she have more of a dominant personality, os is he/she more laid back? You should always choose a dog with a lower dominance level than you, so you can be sure to become a natural leader for your dog. If you are comfortable with the dog, then what are you waiting for? Take him/her home!

, This stimulates his/her natural behavior to migrate with his/her new pack, to a new home. The walk should be 3 hours or more, and your dog should always be walking behind or next to you, and respecting you as his/her leader. Be calm and assertive, walk with a confident posture, and show your dog that you will be a great alpha for the pack!

, Take him/her on a leash into your home, by leading the way, and inviting him/her to follow. Make him/her follow you around the house, and get to know the rooms that he/she will spend the most time in. Don't just let your dog run all over the house during this time: You're the once who should be introducing him/her to your rooms one at a time, so he/she can't claim them for him/her self.
 Life has probably been very stressful for your canine during the last few months, and even years, but resist the urge to feel sorry for it. This is perceived as weak energy in the pack. You have to be calm and assertive all the time, always setting clear boundaries, and rewarding your dog when he/she respects them. This is what will help your dog grow more confident as a pack follower in his surroundings: a great pack leader!

, Try new things out, and walk on the edge of adventure and fun all the time. Good luck!

