 Your name should be unique, and something you can live with. i.e attckno0b. Customize your character to whatever you want. After doing that, complete the tutorial in Lumbridge.;
,, You may want to bring some food. You will need to set recovery questions. Look it up on the RuneScape website in order to do this.
 At the end (the death floor), you will receive a pair of boots (your choice of aesthetics). You will have completed the Stronghold of Security.
 There is a full guide in doing this here.

At this point, you should have 20k gp, some cool boots, gloves, and 2 XP lamps giving 500 XP each. Spend these lamps on defense. You may also wish to do the Swept Away Quest for additional XP.






With your newly earned money, you may want to buy some armor and accessories, or use it to make some more money. Remember, the more money you have, the easier it is to make more.
 13 combat with 400, or 27 combat with 990). If you wish to do this, do not train by killing monsters. You will have to use XP lamps, and other passive means of getting XP.

If you wish to train hitpoints too, you're going to have to find a weapon. Some suggestions include an Iron Dagger, Iron Scimitar, Blurite Sword, Silverlight, or a Runecrafting Talisman Staff.






Some suggestions for enemies to train on are monks (near Edgeville), cows (for their hides, which are worth decent money), chickens, or goblins (the last three can all be found in Lumbridge). Remember that bones are worth a fair sum of money and collecting these could be a good source of income. Do not bury these bones as it will increase your prayer, which does affect your combat level.


When you hit 40 defense, you can wear any type of Rune armor, except for the platebody (Dragon Slayer quest required). If you've made a lot of money, you can buy something fancy, like gold trimmed. You may even want a gold trimmed wizard robe for style, as you can't wear a gold trimmed platebody.






If you are still F2P, note that continuing your defense will be extremely slow. If you want to continue your defense, membership will make things a lot easier. However, if you wish to stay at 40, you can always train skills, and earn money, and improve your character.

