 Wash the cucumber in cool water. Take a vegetable peeler or cheese knife and carefully peel the entire cucumber. Take a sharp knife and trim off the ends of the cucumber. You can discard the ends.Always use caution when handling sharp knives. Work on a stable surface, like a cutting board to prevent the food from slipping as you prepare the cucumber.;
, Insert a sharp wet sushi knife just 1








The layer of cucumber should always be 1/4 of a centimeter thick (so you can just barely see the sushi knife through it).
Keep a bowl of water on the counter so you can keep the knife wet as you cut. This will help it slide through the cucumber easier and make the slicing neater.
 Take a small piece of fresh tuna and slice it thinly. You should insert the heel of the knife into the fish and slice down towards you in one fluid movement so the tip of the knife ends up on the board as you finish the slice. Continue slicing the entire piece of tuna.








Each slice should be about 1/4 to 1/2 of a centimeter thick.
 Lay your sliced cucumber so that it's completely open on your cutting board. Place your sliced tuna on one end of the cucumber. Lay the tuna next to each other so they don't overlap. Lay 2 slices of avocado on the middle of tuna and smear a dab of wasabi on a piece of tuna next to the avocado.








The tuna should take up about 1/3 of the total cucumber wrapper.
 Start at the end of the cucumber wrapper that has the tuna and avocado. Fold the cucumber wrapper over the tuna and avocado using the fingertips of both of your hands. Continue rolling and compressing the roll.









Since there isn't any rice in this roll, you don't really need to use a sushi mat.
 When you've almost finished rolling the cucumber wrapper, spread about 1








The mayo, yogurt, or spreadable cheese will help keep the cucumber sealed closed once you've wrapped and cut it.
 Place your slices of tuna cucumber roll on a plate. You can dab salmon roe on top of each slice for an extra pop of color. Consider using these garnishes for your tuna cucumber roll:Shredded daikon
Shredded carrot
Baby salad greens
Soy sauce

