 On average, you probably need to use three to six pads or tampons per day. For heavier flow (the first few days of your period) and at night, use longer, heavier pads with wings (side protectors) to prevent spilling. Change your pad or tampon every four to eight hours, depending on your flow.Never wear a tampon for more than eight hours because of the risk of toxic shock syndrome (TSS).Don’t be embarrassed if you accidentally bleed into your underwear or on your sheets. This happens to most women at some point. Rinse the linen with cold water and immediately put it in the wash.
During your period, wear dark underwear and clothes. That way accidental spotting will be less noticeable. If this happens at school or in public, tie a sweatshirt around your waist to cover up until you get home.Getting comfortable with tampons can help if you like to swim, play sports, or be active. Tampons with applicators are easier to use than those without. If using a tampon is still uncomfortable, try a bit of vaginal lubricant on the end before inserting it. However, do not use petroleum jelly due to the risk of infection.You can also try alternate products during your period, like cups or THINX period undies.
 It’s not only okay to shower during your period, it’s important to do so. Showering helps you feel clean, and the warm water can improve menstrual cramps. Shower like normal, washing your vagina with warm water. When you’re done, pat yourself dry with a dark colored towel to avoid staining linens, or dry your vagina with paper towels first. Then use a fresh pad, tampon, or cup before getting dressed.


You can remove tampons and cups before showering, but you don’t have to. Of course, take off your underwear and dispose of your pad first.
If you’re bleeding heavily, you should probably avoid taking a bath. The running water in a shower will wash blood away better than still bath water.

Rinse any residue out of the shower when you’re done – don’t leave it for the next person.
 The best way to avoid accidentally bleeding into your underwear or being caught without tampons when you need them is to know generally when to expect your period.There are many websites and apps for this, like WebMDs Ovulation Calculator. Or use a journal, diary, or period calendar. Write down the first day of your period, and keep track over several months.


The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long, but this can vary a lot. Count from the first day of your period one month to the first day of your period the next month. If you take an average over three months, you’ll probably have a good idea how long your cycle is. For example, if it’s 29 days one month, 30 days the next month, and 28 days the third month, add all these together and divide by 3 months – your average cycle is 29 days long. However, keep in mind that your period can vary a lot while you are a teen and it may range from 21 to 45 days.If you have an irregular cycle, talk to your parent or a doctor for advice and possible treatment.
 If you’re not sure how to use a tampon, need help buying hygiene products, or have questions or concerns about your period, ask an older relative for advice. Remember that your mom, aunt, and older sister went through this at some point, too! You can also talk to your doctor, if that feels more comfortable.

