 Every state in the U.S. has a child support division, which has usually been created by the state’s Attorney General’s Office. These offices were created to help parents get child support orders.


There is probably one centralized office in your state’s capitol and then local field offices around the state. You can find your local office by checking your state’s Attorney General’s website, which might have a map of field offices.
Alternately, you could stop into the court and ask where the nearest child support office is located.;
, You should contact the local child support division and tell them that you want to apply for child support services. They will help the parent with custody (the “custodial parent”) get child support from the parent who does not have custody (called the “non-custodial parent”).The child support division should send you an application to fill out.


You may also schedule an appointment to come in and meet with a representative who can answer your questions.
 In some states, the child’s grandparents will be responsible for child support obligations if the custodial parent is receiving government assistance. About a dozen states have passed these laws.You should ask the child support division if there is a law to this effect in your state.


In some states, the court will even consider the grandparents’ financial resources when setting the child support amount. This is beneficial for the custodial parent, since the grandparents undoubtedly make more than the minor parent.
 In civil disputes like child support matters, the law does not recognize minors as adults capable of representing themselves. Accordingly, minor parents will need to provide contact information for their parents or legal guardians, who serve as the minor’s adult representative.If parents or legal guardians cannot serve, then the minor can select another trusted adult as their “next friend.” The judge must determine if this person can serve as the legal representative.
 You may have to provide supporting documents along with your application. The child support division should tell you what you need to provide. For example, you may need to supply the following:children’s birth certificates
an acknowledgement of paternity, if the father signed one after the birth
documents that show your financial condition

, Make a copy of the entire application once you have completed it and gathered all necessary documents. You should then submit it to the address provided. You may have to pay a fee, depending on your circumstances.


If you are receiving public assistance, then you will not need to pay a fee.
However, if you aren’t on public assistance, then your fee will probably be limited to $25 for each year that you receive at least $500 in child support payments., The purpose of a negotiation conference is to allow the parents to reach an agreement without the need of going into court. The conference will probably be held at your local child support office. Depending on your office, the meeting either will be automatically scheduled or you will have to call and schedule it., Each minor can have an adult representative with them, whether their parents, guardian, or an adult friend.At the meeting, the parties will try to negotiate a child support order.
 If you can reach an agreement, then the child support division should write up an agreement to be signed. They will then present it to the judge for approval. You should keep a copy of the agreement for your records.
 If one of the minor parents won’t agree to child support, then the child support division will need to get a judge to award child support. The agency will draft a petition and file it in court.If the father is denying paternity, then the agency can ask the court to determine paternity first.


The minor parent requesting child support doesn’t have to work through the child support division.Instead, they could file for child support on their own. However, there is no real reason not to use the agency.
If you try to file for child support on your own, then you will probably need the help of a lawyer.
 The minor parent who is objecting to child support must be given notice that you have filed a petition for child support. Generally, you can arrange to have a copy of the petition hand delivered on the other parent.


Generally, the sheriff or constable will hand deliver the petition on the other parent. You can ask the court clerk how to schedule delivery. If the child support division is filing your petition, then they will handle serving notice on the other parent.
 The other parent might write a response objecting to the child support. For example, a father might deny his paternity. Having no current income, however, is not a reason to object to child support.


The response will be sent to you or the child support division.
 The judge won’t award child support until you attend a hearing. Make sure to note the deadline. In some states, such as Oregon, child support hearings are held over the phone. During the hearing, the representative from the child support division will argue to the judge why child support is warranted. As the minor parent, you may have to testify. Remember the following tips:Testify only when it is your turn. Don’t interrupt anyone.
Never guess. Instead, testify as to what you know. If you don’t know the answer to something, say “I don’t know.”
Avoid arguments and always remain calm. You will appear more believable if you remain professional.
 After all evidence has been submitted, the judge will decide whether child support is warranted. The judge will then sign an order.The order should state the amount of child support and how often the non-custodial parent should pay.


If the father denies paternity, then the judge probably won’t decide child support until receiving the results of a DNA test. This means you will probably have to attend two hearings—the first to decide whether a DNA test is necessary, and the second to find out the results and order child support.
 There are many federal, state, and local welfare programs potentially available to minor parents. To fully understand what is available, you should find your state’s Department of Human Services website, which should have contact information.


In many situations, a minor mother will automatically be referred to her state’s office after giving birth.The state may then assign her a caseworker who can help her find financial assistance.
 Each state offers minor parents different resources, so it is best to check with your caseworker or state’s Department of Human Services. Generally, the following support programs are available in many places:child care subsidies
food stamps
cash assistance programs
child health care

, The federal government has tightened eligibility requirements for receiving cash assistance, such as TANF. To qualify, a minor parent must meet the following:be enrolled in high school or a state-approved GED program
live under adult supervision
receive an exemption from the requirement to live under adult supervision, if you have no living parent or guardian or if you left the home for certain reasons, such as sexual abuse

