 If you find yourself getting anxious during the test, stop and take a deep breath.Close your eyes and breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth. Take a couple of breaths and then get back to your test.


Practice deep breathing before you take your test so you can get in the habit of doing it.
As you take a deep breath, tell yourself, "I am in control. Everything is going to be fine."
If you get a headache, start sweating, feel like you might pass out, get butterflies in your stomach, start sweating, or start shaking, you may be feeling anxious. These are signs that you should take a deep breath., Test taking can be scary. If you experience fear or become overwhelmed during the test, stop and acknowledge it. When you pause, remind yourself about the task at hand. The task is to answer the question in front of you.If your mind goes blank or you feel like you have no idea what you are doing all of a sudden, you may also be experiencing fear. Fear is completely normal. You will not be able to eliminate fear completely, but you can manage it so it does not affect your test.
Place your hand on your belly and take 3 deep breaths. As you inhale and exhale, notice how your belly gets bigger then smaller. You can also write the word "breathe" at the top of your test booklet to remind you take deep breaths when you begin to feel stressed out.Tell yourself, "I can do this," or "Just keep going."

, It is easy to get worked up about a test. You may be thinking about what will happen if you do not pass or how many more questions you have to answer. You may still be thinking about the last question you answered. Stay in the present and answer one question at a time.If your mind begins to wander, bring it back and tell yourself, "I will only focus on one question at a time.
If you tend to have problems focusing or get nervous every time you take a test, talk to a teacher, parent, or school counselor about it. They can help you with other techniques to stay calm during the test.
Tell yourself, "I am smart. I can do this."