 Maybe listen to some old songs that you haven't listened to in a while. Or, even more enjoyable, spend time discovering new music you've never tried before, in new genres or from new bands. Use Genius, people's blog recommendations and YouTube to find new music to try.;
, Watch a movie you haven't seen yet but want to see. Or maybe just revisit an old favorite. You could also have a "bad movie day" and watch movies that seem interestingly stupid, and offer a commentary over the top of it (switch off the sound and run your own soundtrack -- have friends to help). Then you can rate your bad movies and see which was the absolute worst!


Make some popcorn.






It'll be more fun to watch with a friend or family member.
 Then upload it to YouTube. Spend time with them chatting or shopping. See what the comments are and respond.


Alternatively, watch YouTube videos. Try to watch at least two or more videos at a time.
 If it's a nice day, read outside. If it's not nice enough outside, set up a reading nook indoors to pass the time comfortably. Choose a book that is of major interest to you, or switch between different books to spice things up.
 For example, check out Percy Jackson, or the Hunger Games. Trade with friends so that you can find new interests.
 This might be a postcards, a handmade gift or something you know they have been wanting for a long time.
 You simply stand by a road and when a car passes by, wave. If they wave back, yell "sweet!". If they don't, yell "sour!" and chase them down the road for a little while.
 Or do crazy stuff together, like pranks, running around or building a massive Minecraft structure.
 Put Kool-Aid in the shower head, place Saran wrap under the toilet seat, put peanut butter underneath their car door handles and so on. See wikiHow's prank category for lots of fun ideas to inspire you.
 By yourself or with somebody. This can give you time to clear your mind and create different ideas.
 Swimming can be a fun time killer, and if it's really hot, you'll keep cool too.
 This is a great workout that will improve the garden as well. Plant a tree in your garden or make a place for the birds to feed and bathe.
 Make a drawing or a cartoon or sketch. You could really see how your drawings have improved.
 Or maybe even a little book!


Or, write an article for wikiHow.
, Admit it, everyone loves chalk. Find a large area of sidewalk and let your artistic self spill forth.
 Doodling can be fun. Grab some paints and start painting. Learn to knit or crochet. Build a bird feeder. Make a diorama or some hair accessories.
 Then take cool selfies with your friends. Upload those fun shots!

, Make it up from scratch and see how it turns out. It can always be turned into trifle if it fails.

