 Tap the App Store in your home screen.;
,, Coin Asia is their developer.
 It has a Yellow icon and a blue circle with a letter "B" on it.
, Locate the app on your iPhone or iPad and tap on it.
 Upon launch, this screen will show. Your can create a new account by tapping on "Sign up" button.


If you have already an account, you can tap the word "Sign in" in the lower right corner of the screen.
, Then a confirmation email will received on the email address you have entered earlier.
, Tap the "Open Mail App" to proceed to your email app.
,,, Locate the app on your iPhone or iPad and tap on it.
,, The app will show you one field for BTC, or bitcoin, currency. Tap the field and input the amount of bitcoin you want to convert.
 The default currency for conversion of the app is PHP or Philippine Peso, so just tap the “Convert” button on the middle of the screen. The app will display the corresponding amount in PHP for the bitcoin amount you input.
 There’s no need for a manual trigger or update of the bitcoin exchange rates for all the foreign currencies. The app automatically gets and uses the updated exchange rates in the background.
 Tap the dollar value on the screen, and a list of foreign currencies will appear.
 Swipe up or down through the list and find the new currency you want to use for conversion. Tap on it when you find it.
 The amount in the selected currency of the bitcoin value you input from Step 2 of Part 1 will be displayed.
 Tap the BTC value on the screen. The field for the BTC will be shown. Tap on it and input the new bitcoin amount you want to convert.
 Tap the “Done” button on the upper right corner of the screen. The app will display the corresponding amount in the currency currently selected.
 If you’d like to convert this new bitcoin value to another currency, repeat Part 4.


You can only convert the bitcoin value to another currency. This app was made just for that. You can’t convert one foreign currency to another as this isn’t a foreign exchange tool.

