 The four competitive strokes are freestyle (which is most commonly the crawl stroke), backstroke, breaststroke, and butterfly. Learning the proper techniques for all four, and then perfecting those techniques, will make you a well-rounded swimmer.From lessons, a coach, or by watching videos, you can pick up the proper arm movements for the stroke, as well as how and when the best way to kick is.
You may do best to focus on one stroke at a time rather than attempting to learn all four of them. See what you can carry over from one stroke to the others.
 You should not decide how to workout every time you head to the pool. Come up with a full workout that you can follow each time, or even 2-3 workouts so you don’t get bored of the exact same thing. A plan for your workout will help you push yourself and have a specific end point.Your routine should always start with some good dynamic stretching of the arms, legs, neck and back. It is important to get the muscles loose and warmed up before getting in the water.
Next you should do some in-water warm-ups. Swim a handful of sets at a casual pace, but with great technique, to get the muscles ready for the harder portion of the workout. Replenish your fluids after this part.
The rest of the workout should be some drills followed by your main set in which you push yourself hard. Drills might be 5-10 75m laps with short pauses for rest in between. Your main part should focus on speed and endurance for whatever events you are training for.
 Training all the time by yourself can become a burden, and you miss out on the coaching and competition of teammates when you train alone. Being part of a team offers the companionship that makes training more fun, plus having other swimmers around pushes you to get faster.Depending on your situation, this may take a little researching to find out what you have available near you. Many high schools and colleges have teams that you could join, or at the very least practice with.
If you are not in school, inquire at the pool you typically swim at about whether or not they have any swim clubs, or even casual groups of swimmers who meet to practice together.
At the very least, if you can’t find an organized group to join, consider asking any swimmers you meet at the pool if they would be interesting in joining you in a consistent training routine. Two or three people helping each other out is still better than going at it alone.
 Even if you have been swimming for a long time, or have even competed, swim lessons with a trained mentor could improve your swimming. They can watch you and point out areas of weakness that you can’t see on your own. Plus, they can instruct you on the best techniques that you may not know.


If you have been swimming for a long time, but have not been under a coach or mentor recently, you may have developed bad habits that you didn’t even notice. Lessons can help you find out those flaws and remove them.
Lessons can be a good way to “force” yourself to get in the pool frequently and towards a specific purpose. Plus, your training sessions will have focus because you’ll have a guide.
Lessons may cost you some money, but this will give you a feeling of being invested in your training more than if there is no sacrifice.
 Your goals could include practicing 4 days a week, swimming a lap in under a minute, or swimming 10 laps without a break. You can have a coach or teammates help you set the goals and be accountable, but you should ultimately be making them for yourself. Be realistic about your current skill level when setting goals.For example, “I want to swim faster,” is a broad goal that doesn’t have a concrete point of achievement. “I want to hit 30 seconds in the 50 meter” gives you a target to aim for.
If you don't know what good goals would be, you could track how you perform during a week of practice and then set your goals based on that. If you find out you can easily swim 10 laps, your goal might be to swim 15.

