 If you're worried about the disease spreading, having your partner talk to their doctor. Your partner's doctor can recommend treatment options that lessen the likelihood of an outbreak spreading.


Be respectful of your partner when suggesting they see a doctor. Talking about herpes can be embarrassing and stressful; however, your partner told you about their infection because they care about your health.
Explain to your partner you want to make sure the two of you have as fulfilling a sex life as possible. You feel a doctor may be able to suggest medications or other treatment options that can lessen the likelihood of the virus being transmitted.
You can say something like, "I like you and I really want to have sex with you, but I want to make sure we both stay healthy and safe. What would you think about talking with your doctor about the best way for us to have fun and stay safe?"

, Antiviral medications can be used to manage a herpes infection. When used properly, these medications reduce the risk of transmission.


Your doctor can prescribe antiviral pills. Some people take the medication every day, but if your partner's outbreaks are rare, their doctor may recommend your partner only take the medication during outbreaks.Medication is not the proper course of treatment for everyone with herpes. Only a qualified medical doctor will be able to tell your partner if medication is the right choice for them., If your partner has genital herpes, the two of you need to have a discussion about your sex life. You need to establish sexual boundaries with your partner if they have herpes.


Stay calm during the conversation and try to keep things in perspective. Keep in mind that herpes comes with few health risks beyond irritation and many couples engage in sexual activity for years without spreading the virus.Be transparent with your partner about your expectations. You may prefer to only have sex using condoms or to avoid sex during outbreaks. If you can foresee a long-term relationship with your partner, you may be less worried about transmitting the virus., Having herpes comes with a certain amount of stigma. Your partner may need to find someone to talk to about the virus. You can help them find support groups online or in your local community.
 Couples should regularly get tested for STDs, especially if one partner has a condition like herpes. Make an agreement to get tested once every few months together. There are usually free or discount clinics in most cities for STD testing.

