 Most companies sponsor a variety of events throughout the year that allow their employees to network and forge bonds with one another. Rather than flaking on these events, try to attend a few and connect with your coworkers outside the office.Examples might include hosting a charity event, participating in a 5k or joining the company baseball team.
 During office-hours, there’s not always adequate time to engage with your coworkers and tease out their interests. A workplace group activity such as a book club can be a terrific platform to forge deeper relationships and figure out what you have in common with one another.Put up a memo or send out an email asking who’s interested in participating in a book club. You and your coworkers can vote on the genre and specific books for each month. Then, meet up over coffee or drinks to discuss the book.
What’s more, if you select business or personal development books, your boss will likely appreciate your willingness to enhance your skills while promoting workplace bonding.
 People naturally bond over meals, so take advantage of the lunch hour to foster potential friendships. Plus, eating together can make you more productive after the lunch hour and serve as a wonderful way to network.You might simply join the group in the office break room or suggest a new restaurant you all can try. For instance, you might say, “I have been dying to try the new deli on the corner. Anyone game to go with me tomorrow for lunch?”

, You don’t have to stick to company events or lunch hour if you’re trying to connect with your coworkers. Listen to their common interests and use what you hear to pursue deeper relationships with one or two people.For instance, if you spotted John reading a poetry book last week, you might casually say, “John, there’s a poetry grand slam happening at a coffee shop next Friday. I know you love poetry. Do you want to go?”
Or, you might invite several people to an activity at once, such a new movie premiere or a community charity event.

