 For most purchases, you can write a personal check to cover the cost, and that amount will be deducted from your checking account. For larger purchases, though - for example, paying a down payment on a house or car, or for some security deposits - you'll need a cashier's check.


A cashier's check is purchased at the bank, and the amount is withdrawn from your account immediately. This helps ensure that the check will not bounce or be cancelled prematurely, as it basically guarantees payment by the bank to your intended recipient., You'll most likely need to request a cashier's check in person at your bank, though some banks may let you order a cashier's check online if you're already a customer.If you need to visit the bank in person, you can simply go to your regular bank location, or search online or in a phone book to find a location near you.


If you do not currently have a checking or savings account at any bank, you may still be able to request a cashier's check by paying cash to the bank of your choosing, with an additional fee for the service.
You may want to call a bank first to find out if you can request a cashier's check if you do not have an account at that bank.
You'll need to bring a valid photo ID with you in order to request a cashier's check.
Cashier's checks may have a cap.
 Once you arrive at the bank, let the bank teller know that you need a cashier's check. You'll need to tell him or her how much the check should be for and to whom it should be addressed.


Cashier's checks usually come with a fee. If you are a customer with that bank, your payment will likely be less than that of someone who is not a customer. For example, at Bank of America, if you have a checking or savings account you will be charged $10 for a cashier's check. If you do not, you'll be charged $20., Once the bank teller has made out your check and you've paid any fees for a cashier's check, you'll need to sign the check. Then you'll be on your way. You can use your cashier's check to make whatever payments you need to.

