 While professional diagnosis is crucial, you should get a sense of the general symptoms of ADD before making an appointment with a professional. This can help give you a sense of whether or not professional testing would be appropriate for your child.


The symptoms of ADD are broken down into three categories: inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity.Children displaying symptoms of inattention are often easily distracted. They may frequently miss details, forget things, and switch quickly from one activity to another. They may struggle to complete new tasks and have trouble focusing on a single task long term, unless it's something fun. They may frequently not turn in homework assignments and lose small items, like pencils and folders. They are also prone to daydreaming, have difficulty following instructions, and may not listen.Hyperactivity symptoms may still be present in children with ADD, but they may be minimal and not as obvious as they are in children with ADHD. Hyperactivity symptoms may include fidgeting, getting up and moving around when he or she should sit still, talking a lot, having a hard time playing quietly, or having a hot temper.Children displaying symptoms of impulsivity are marked by intense impatience. They may blurt out inappropriate comments, struggle to regulate or constrain their emotions, and display an inability to understand consequences. Children may interrupt activities or conversation and be unable to wait their turn in class or at home.Children with ADD may also have another mental or medical health condition that looks like ADD or that accompanies it.;
, If you're an adult who struggles with everyday tasks, you may have ADD. Many adults with the disorder do not realize they have it. If you suspect you may have ADD, you need professional diagnosis. However, learn a bit about the symptoms first in order to gauge whether testing is appropriate for you.


Adults with ADD struggle to prioritize and focus in day-to-day life. They may run late frequently, miss meetings at work, struggle to keep up with social obligations, and miss deadlines. The impulsivity associated with ADD may be marked by difficulty waiting. Adults with ADD may experience intense frustration or impatience waiting in traffic or waiting in line at the store.Other general symptoms include restlessness, mood swings, disorganization, a hot temper, unstable relationships, and a difficulty coping with stress. If you have ADD as an adult, you also had it as a child even if you were not officially diagnosed. If you remember having any of the symptoms of childhood ADD listed above, this may indicate ADD in the present.It's normal to have difficulty concentrating and coping with stress on occasion. This is what can make ADD difficult to catch. If you've only struggled with the above symptoms occasionally, you probably do not have ADD. If these symptoms are an ongoing problem that affect your personal and professional life, seek professional testing.Many adults with ADD have at least one other mental health condition, like depression or anxiety. If you've been diagnosed with a mental health condition in the past, you're at higher risk for ADD.Adults with ADD are also at a higher risk of abusing alcohol or drugs.
 If you display any of the above symptoms, there are many diagnostic check lists and self tests online. Look for reputable websites, however. Universities often have diagnostic tests through their counseling centers. Websites like Psych Central and Psychology Today may offer self tests. Such tests can give you a sense of whether you may have ADD. They serve to help you see whether your symptoms are a problem and if professional testing is necessary for you.
 Most self checklists and online tests will advise that you make an appointment with a mental health professional. This is because symptoms of ADD are often similar to symptoms of other physical and mental health disorders. Only a qualified, licensed psychiatrist or doctor can make a proper diagnosis. Do not attempt to diagnose or treat yourself if you suspect you may have ADHD.

