 In the morning of a weekday is a terrible time; your parents are trying to get out of the house for work as efficiently as possible, so do not even bother requesting your desire before them; you will get a "no" regardless of the level of reasonability of your request. At the table when you are having dinner is a wonderful idea. Be calculating about this; the time in which you make your request is going to significantly affect the answer you receive and the power of your persuasion if you get a refusal.
 Running over to them shouting, "Mom! Dad! Mom! Dad!" is a disrespectful way to approach your parents. Walking to them and reverently saying, "Honorable Mom and Dad, do you mind sitting down with me and talking to me? I would like to make a reasonable and respectful question" is a completely filial way to do it. Try it!

, Do not change any parts of it yet. It is important to stick to your plans. If you change anything in a well-evaluated plan, it will likely affect your persuasion and reasoning negatively. So if you planned to request the purchasing of a pizza because you did your chores without more than one reminder last week, say so, even if you feel embarrassed about any part of it. You will likely eliminate your humiliation quickly.
 Always maintain a calm, serene temperament in such situations and situations that are similar to this one. Never make your request in a manner that tells your parents you are incapable of handling its fulfillment. And remember that your parents are not you, so they may think of the issue differently. Respect, but don't give in to, their refusals.


Do not say all your reasons immediately. If you do, you will not have much time to think of other reasons than your planned ones if your parents happen to have reasonable counterarguments for each of them. Say them politely one by one and remember that if your parents can counter all your arguments, they probably have a strong argument, too.
Be courteous and tranquil. Smile slightly when you are making your request. Always be polite, or your rudeness will deliberately take virtue from your argument.
 You may end your request with, "Virtuous parents, I respectfully suggest that you discuss my humble request privately before responding with 'Yes' or 'No'. I will respect a refusal, but shall not give in to it."


Do not nag your parents for an answer; go to your room and do something you like to do. Wait approximately twenty minutes before going and asking your parents politely if they have a response.
If your parents are still hesitant after twenty minutes and say that they aren't yet ready to supply an answer, apologize sincerely for disturbing them, bow deeply, and go away. Do not disturb them again. Leave them for approximately an hour before inquiring again.

