 If you're simply using it for business, for example, you probably don't need 128 gigabytes of storage space or a huge screen; on the other hand, you might want to take advantage of some of the nicer features on newer models if you're planning on holding onto your iPhone for the next few years. Some other aspects to consider are:



Locked or unlocked - If you travel internationally, purchasing a carrier unlocked phone will allow you to buy international SIM cards for cheap use as you go. Unlocked phones are more expensive than the phones you'll buy from a carrier, however.

Screen size - The iPhone 5 has a 4-inch screen, as does the newer iPhone SE. By comparison, the iPhone 6, 6S, and 7 have 4.7-inch screens, and the iPhone "Plus" models have 5.5-inch screens. If you have trouble seeing items on an iPhone 5's screen, consider buying a phone with a 4.7- or 5.5-inch screen.

Performance - As a general rule, the more RAM an iPhone has, the faster it will respond. The same goes for the iPhone's processing chip--an iPhone with an A9 chip will react to input faster than one with an A8 chip and so on.

Features - While additional features don't matter for business-only phones, you may care about your personal iPhone's camera resolution or storage space. Have your ideal features in mind before researching your iPhone options.;
, You'll likely need to budget for a minimum of $400 if you plan on purchasing one of the three models listed on Apple's site, though you can probably shoot for around $300 if you want to buy a used or older iPhone.


Most carriers will let you purchase an iPhone from them for a fixed monthly fee in addition to your monthly contractual fees. This is a good way to purchase an iPhone if you can't afford the total cost of one up-front.
 As of March 2017, you can purchase the iPhone SE, 6S, and 7 from Apple's website. In order to acquire a phone that can use the current operating system and take advantage of features provided by Apple, you'll want to buy one of the following models.


If you want an older model that will comfortably run the latest software, consider the iPhone 6 or 6 Plus:Pricing - As low as $340 (6) or $445 (6 Plus)

Memory - 1 GB RAM

Storage Space - 16, 64, or 128 GB

Screen Size - 4.7 inches (6) or 5.5 inches (6 Plus)

Resolution - 1334 x 750 pixels (6) or 1920 x 1080 pixels (6 Plus)

Processor - A8 64-bit


For a compact phone with a higher processing speed than the iPhone 6, look at the iPhone SE:


Pricing - As low as $399

Memory - 2 GB RAM

Storage Space - 32 or 128 GB

Screen Size - 4 inches

Resolution - 1136 x 640 pixels

Processor - A9 64-bit


If you want a high-end phone with a fast, motion-sensitive processor, consider the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus:


Pricing - As low as $549 (6S) or $649 (6S Plus)

Memory - 2 GB RAM

Storage Space - 32 or 128 GB

Screen Size - 4.7 inches (6S) or 5.5 inches (6S Plus)

Resolution - 1334 x 750 pixels (6S) or 1920 x 1080 pixels (6S Plus)

Processor - A9 64-bit


For an iPhone built for iOS 10 that is up to forty percent faster than the previous model, learn about the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus:Pricing - As low as $649 (7) or $769 (7 Plus)

Memory - 2 GB RAM

Storage Space - 32, 128, or 256 GB

Screen Size - 4.7 inches (7) or 5.5 inches (7 Plus)

Resolution - 1334 x 750 pixels (7) or 1920 x 1080 (7 Plus)

Processor - A10 64-bit



, You can usually buy second-hand or surplus iPhone 5 handsets on Amazon or eBay. iPhone models that are several generations old are often heavily discounted, especially if they have been used before; however, there are a few things to keep in mind when considering an older iPhone model:


iPhones older than the iPhone 5 won't support iOS 10, which is the current operating system. This isn't an issue if you simply need an iPhone for casual browsing or texting, but any features outside of basic phone functionality will be severely limited on phones that aren't capable of supporting iOS 10 due to app developers focusing on the latest version of the software.
The iPhone 5 line (iPhone 5, 5S, and 5C) will soon become obsolete because they won't be able to keep up with subsequent renditions of iOS.
Even though iOS 10 is technically supported on the iPhone 5, the phone will suffer from performance issues due to outdated hardware.
 If you're on the fence about buying one of two comparable iPhone models, viewing their specific software and hardware attributes may help you decide. To do so, go to the Apple website and do the following:


Click the iPhones tab at the top of the page.
Click the name of the model in which you're interested.
Click Tech Specs to the left of the "Buy" button in the top-right corner of the page.
 Before you embark on a quest to purchase your ideal iPhone, understand that it may not be available from your selected retailer. If you need to buy your iPhone immediately, having a back-up plan will make the experience much less stressful.
 Once you know where the closest Apple store is, you can consider visiting the store itself to purchase an iPhone in-person.


You can also order your phone online from the Apple store website and have it shipped to you.
 You can buy the newest versions of the iPhone at any Apple retail store while supplies last.Sales associates at Apple stores can typically answer your questions in a satisfying and unbiased manner.
When you go into the store to get your iPhone, the sales associate should be able to help you choose a rate plan and carrier that fits your needs.
The employees at the Apple store can also help you set your phone up by transferring contacts, setting up your email, and getting you started on iCloud.
When you go to an Apple store to pick out a phone, make sure you have your current mobile phone, your carrier information, and two forms of identification.
 Shopping online gives you a wide variety of accessories to choose from, and if you have any questions, you can search the Apple online store's help pages.


When you order online, you can have your iPhone ship directly to your home address or you can pick it up at the nearest Apple retail store. While having it shipped to your house will save you the effort of going to the store, picking it up at the store will give you the option of having an Apple store employee help you choose a carrier and rate plan.
If you have additional questions during the shopping process, you can call for help at 1-800-MY-APPLE or use the online chat feature provided on the website.
 You can purchase a carrier-locked or unlocked iPhone from Amazon and have it delivered to your doorstep; additionally, Amazon still stocks older models of iPhone (all the way down to the iPhone 3G for $24) from certified Apple sellers.


You may end up paying more for a newer phone on Amazon than you would in-store.
 When you shop at Best Buy for your iPhone, you can buy any version of the iPhone still being produced. Shop in store or online, and buy an iPhone with a carrier contract or from a no-contract carrier.Best Buy has an upgrade checker that allows you to determine if you are eligible for a new iPhone based on your current carrier plan. You can also trade in your iPhone and get store rewards, and the store staff will set up your iPhone for you so that it will be in working condition when you walk out of the store.
 You can purchase iPhone versions still in production, along with both contract and no-contract mobile plans through Walmart.


Walmart allows you to trade in an old phone for store rewards, and you are also given options in regards to warranty and installation plans.
 RadioShack offers both contract and no-contract plans when you buy your iPhone, and you can also have your pick of any iPhone currently in production. You can shop in store or online.


RadioShack will also help you check to see if you are eligible for an upgrade, and the store has it's own "trade and save" program that allows you to earn store credit toward certain products.

