 Find your local marriage license office through the county recorder. You'll need to apply for the marriage license in person before the marriage. Make sure you have 1 witness who's over 18 years old to come with you. To apply for your license, you'll need to:Be at least 18 years old
Show picture identification
Give social security information
Pay $30 in cash
Show date of divorce or spouse's death, if you were married before
Wait 3 business days after applying before receiving your license;
, Once you've gotten your marriage license and are married, make sure the license is signed by an ordained or licensed officiant or justice of the peace. You, your spouse, and witnesses will all also need to sign the license.This is the first legal document you'll need to get in order to change your name, so keep any copies you're given after you initially submit your marriage license.


In most counties, your officiant or justice of the peace will need to officially file the license with the county. At this point, you'll usually be given copies of the completed license.
 If you need a replacement certified copy, go to the county clerk's office where you picked up your marriage licence application and request a copy of the marriage license after your marriage. You can also get state certified copies of the license from the Bureau of Health Statistics. You'll need to show government-issued identification and can usually pick up the copy the next day.


If you can't get the copy in person, call the Bureau of Health Statistics. You'll need to provide personal information and pay $33 as a processing fee and to verify your identity. You should get your copy in the mail within 2 weeks.
 From there you can pick up and fill out the Official Form SS-5. You'll need to show the certified copy of your marriage license, which includes your old and new names.If it's been more than 2 years since your marriage, you may need to give other documents proving your old name.Once you've shown documentation of your new legal name, fill out an application for a new Social Security card.


There's no fee to apply for a new card and you should get it in the mail within 10 business days., You must change your name in person at a DMV office. After paying the $10 fee, you'll need to show a document that proves your name change, like your marriage certificate or updated Social Security Card. You must show the original document. Photocopies or faxed documents can't be used.You can also show these documents:U.S. passport
Certified copy of a birth certificate
Certificate of Naturalization
Certificate of Citizenship

, After you change your federal and state issued IDs, you need to change your name on your other important accounts and documents. Don't forget to change your name at businesses you frequently work with, including any medical/dental files, or post office boxes. Examples of accounts you'll need to update include:


Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases, mortgages, or loans
Car titles
Passport
Voter registration
Utility services

