 The server software can be downloaded for free from the Minecraft website located here: https://minecraft.net/download . Click the “Download it here” link on the right side of the Minecraft homepage, and then click the link to the server file in the Multiplayer Server section. The file will begin downloading.;
, Make this folder easily accessible, as you will need to change some of the information in it. Name it something easily recognizable, such as "Minecraft_Server". Copy the downloaded server program into this folder.
 Double-click the downloaded program to start the server. You will see several FAILED messages in the server log, but this is normal. Once the Log and Chat window says “Done”, type “stop” into the command line of the server and press Enter to close it.
, Save the file.
 More files will be created in the server folder. Close the server again after all of the additional files are created.
 When you attempt to open it, select Notepad from the list of available programs. This will open the file in Notepad, revealing some of the server’s code that can be edited.
 Change true to false and then save the file. This will prevent the server from connecting to the Minecraft official servers to check usernames, which will allow players with cracked copies to connect to the server., In order for others to connect to your server, you will need to open the port for Minecraft. You can set port forwarding in your router’s configuration menu. Set the router to forward port 25565 for the IP address of your computer. For more detailed instructions, read this guide.
 Once the file has been saved, you can restart the server and it will be cracked. Anyone with the IP address of the server can connect to it. If you need to find the IP address, you can look in the server.properties file under server-ip.
 If you want to join your own server on the same machine, start Minecraft, click Multiplayer, and then select Add Server. Name the server anything you want, and enter “localhost” as the Address. This will connect you to your server, as long as it is running on the same computer.

