 Carbon monoxide is often found in combustion fumes, such as those produced by small gasoline engines, stoves and gas cookers, generators, lanterns, and gas ranges, or by burning charcoal and wood. The gas may be caused to leak by rupture from movement of a building or equipment due to a storm, etc., the equipment being used may be defective, or there may be some other cause for the leakage of carbon monoxide, such as inadequate ventilation.


Carbon monoxide from these sources can build up in enclosed or partially enclosed spaces. Typical spaces where problems can occur include house rooms, garages, RVs, boats, tents, campers, garden sheds, marquees, etc. People and animals situated in enclosed spaces with little or no ventilation can die from breathing carbon monoxide.





;
, Part of prevention is noticing when the problem might be occurring. The symptoms are not clear and can easily be confused with other illness but awareness of the possible source contributing to poisoned air (such as a gas stove in the vicinity, or a stuffy room) may help you to pinpoint the symptoms. Moreover, the more persons exhibiting the symptoms, the more you should consider the possibility of carbon monoxide poisoning. Common symptoms include:Nausea and vomiting






Confusion, light-headed






Chest pain, fast respiratory rate






Lethargy







Dizziness






A very red face (cherry red)






Eventual unconsciousness in severe cases.
 Ensure that your heating system, water heater, and any other gas, oil, or coal-burning appliances are serviced by a qualified technician every year. Ask them to ensure that all valves, pipes, connections, etc., are in good condition and to replace anything that is faulty or worn.


If your home has chimneys, maintain both chimneys and flues in good condition and check regularly that they're not blocked.
 When an emergency occurs, everyone is likely to be on edge, tired, and perhaps even in shock or full of panic. Not everyone will be thinking straight and they may try to do things to keep warm or to heat up food that are not safe. As such, it is a good idea to gather everyone together to discuss safe methods of using fuels, heaters, cookers, etc., during and after the emergency situation. Some of the things to cover might include:


Avoid using a charcoal grill, hibachi, gas lantern, or portable camping stove inside a home, tent, camper, or any other confined space. Never burn charcoal in your fireplace in the house.






Do not use a gas range or an oven to heat the home. The door of an oven is there for a safety reason.






Keep generators operating outdoors and far from windows and open vents. Never run a generator, pressure washer, or any gasoline-powered engine inside a basement, garage, or other enclosed structure, even if the doors or windows are open, unless the equipment is professionally installed and vented.






Keep vents and flues free of debris, especially if winds are high. Flying debris can block ventilation lines. You might need to do regular checks during storm weather.






Do not sleep in a room where there is an unvented gas or kerosene heater.






Never run a motor vehicle, generator, pressure washer, or any gasoline-powered engine outside an open window, door, or vent where exhaust can vent into an enclosed area.






Never leave the motor running in a vehicle parked in an enclosed or partially enclosed space, such as a garage.
, When helping a suspected sufferer of carbon monoxide poisoning, watch yourself; you don't want to succumb to the gas as well.


Open windows to restore as much fresh air as possible. If this isn't possible, get the person to a place where the air is totally fresh.






Clear the victim's airway to assist breathing. If you know what you're doing, you can administer oxygen but if not, seek immediate medical advice.
 If the detector sounds leave your home immediately and call 911 or the equivalent emergency services in your country. Do not use the CO detector in place of any of the other steps – it is simply an additional layer of possible protection.

