 Volunteer in your kids’ classrooms, attend events and performances, and chaperone field trips. Join the Parent-Teacher Organization so that you know what’s going on at school. Involving yourself in your children’s education can help to keep you informed and show your kids that you’re invested in their learning.Even if you can’t volunteer during the day, attend school events such as plays, concerts, and sports games, especially if your child is participating.
 Make a stronger home-school connection by asking your child about their experiences at school. While some kids love to talk and describe their day, others may respond with a simple, “It was okay.” If your child is hesitant to open up, ask small questions to see how they’re doing in school. Ask more specific questions instead of, “How was school?” or, “What did you do?”For example, ask, “Did you sing songs?” or, “Tell me something funny that happened.”
You can also look for ways to reinforce what your child has learned at school by encouraging them to use that information in their daily life. For example, you could ask them to solve a simple math problem while preparing dinner, or ask them about a historical figure that they learned about in school and share what you know about that person as well.
 If your child is upset by something at school, listen to them. Even if you think the problem is small or silly, validate their experience and that they’re feeling lousy. Ask them about what’s happening and why they are upset. Give comfort and empathy for their experience. Let them know you support them and are there for them.Say, “I’ve noticed that you’re not liking school much lately. What’s going on?” You can also say, “I’m sorry this is hard. I’m here for you.”
You can also foster problem solving skills by asking your child what kinds of solutions might help and offering them your input as needed.
 If you express a dislike of things like reading, writing, math, or school in general, then your child may adopt the same attitude. Instead, speak positively about the benefits of education and lifelong learning.

For example, if your child brings home instructions for a science project, then you might say something like, “Ooh! I always enjoyed learning about science when I was in school! I remember getting really into my project for the science fair.”
Read books for pleasure in view of your children as well. You can also read books to your children to encourage them to enjoy reading. Try setting aside 30 to 60 minutes every day for quiet reading time where you and your kids just sit and read.

