 Hang on to any boxes, envelopes, and other packing materials from products you buy or receive in the mail. You can repurpose these when you need a container to put gifts in before wrapping them, when mailing envelopes or boxes, and when you need packing materials, such as styrofoam peanuts, for a shipment., Shopping at thrift or consignment stores is an excellent way to pass up energy- and materials-wasting new products. To support these stores’ operations, get in the habit of regularly clearing out your closet, garage, and basement to find items you’re willing to donate., Favor food products packaged in reusable jars, bottles, and recyclable plastic bins. These can be useful for storing leftovers.And by using nickel-metal-hydride (NiMH) rechargeable batteries, you’ll avoid contributing to the toxic waste source of disposable batteries.Instead of buying bottled water, fill up a reusable plastic bottle or glass jar from the faucet. If you buy bottled water for health reasons, get the largest size available to cut down on packaging waste.
Use washable fabric handkerchiefs and dinner napkins instead of disposable tissues.
 It takes a considerable amount of energy and raw materials to manufacture a new car. Buying a compact, fuel-efficient used car keeps you from contributing to this waste and the pollution it produces. These vehicles also will consume less fuel, while taking up less space on the roads and in parking lots.


Look for cars from the 1990s or early 2000s that typically get 30-40 miles per gallon, such as the Geo Metro, Ford Festiva or Aspire, Honda CRX HF, Toyota Tercel or Corolla, Mazda Protege, or Dodge Colt.Buying used motorbikes and bicycles can also save resources.
 If you forget to bring a tote bag, backpack, or basket to the store, and need to carry your items home in a plastic or paper bag, save these bags for reuse. They’re good for storing partially-used produce in the refrigerator, protecting fragile or potentially leaky items in a suitcase, and for general carrying around.


Use a plastic shopping bag for small trashcans, instead of buying small garbage bags.
 Fabrics, papers, cardboards, metals, and plastics can all be easily used for arts and crafts. For example, try transforming old magazine photos into a collage. Or make a scarecrow for your garden out of old clothes, packing materials, cds, aluminum pans, and colorful plastics.

