 This prank will use a loud noise to startle the prankee. To accomplish this, you'll be using tape to fasten an air horn in an unlikely location in such a way that the airhorn is triggered and a loud noise made without the prankee realizing beforehand. For this prank, you'll need:Airhorn
Tape

NOTE: depending on the surface you are taping your airhorn to, you may need gentler tape so as not to do damage to paint or wallpaper.
 You should set up this prank when the prankee is away from the place you are planning to perform it. This way he won't overhear the airhorn when you test it out. He may figure out what you're doing if he hears you setting up!

, When selecting your location, your ingenuity and imagination are the only limit. You might tape the airhorn to the wall in such a way that when a door is opened it causes the airhorn to go off, startling the prankee. You could put it beneath his chair so that when he sits the airhorn triggers.Use camouflage to disguise your airhorn when you are able. An airhorn taped to the bottom of a chair will be quite suspicious. Disguise this prank by putting a jacket or hoodie sweatshirt on the back of the chair to block the horn from view., Take your tape and use it to attach your airhorn to the location you have chosen. You'll want to do a trail run after you've secured the airhorn in place so that you're certain the prank will work. Once you've set the prank, you'll have to wait for it to be sprung. Don't worry - you'll know it when you hear it.


If the prankee is away for a period of time, you may want to check on your prank several times throughout the day. Depending on heat, humidity, tape quality, and the surface you've taped the airhorn to, your tape may loosen over time, ruining your prank.
 People rarely expect to be pranked multiple times in a row. You can use this to your advantage to prank your target especially well. Do this by setting up several airhorn traps for the prankee in locations he's likely to trigger. You might:


Another good place to set up an airhorn trap is under the prankee's bed. Set up your airhorn so that when he lays down, he sets off the airhorn.

