 All the art that Redd sells in his tent are based on real pieces of art from our world. This means you’ll see things like Vincent Van Gogh’s Sunflowers painting. Thus, if you’re familiar with some pieces of art, you’ll be able to tell which pieces are fake.

For example, a fake Venus de Milo has hair that goes down to her shoulders as opposed to the genuine hair cropped just above her ears.;
, Redd displays his art in the four different corners of his tent. This means, at first glance, it can be very difficult to scrutinize the paintings and statues. Keep in mind, though, that you can change the camera’s angle inside the tent by pressing the directional buttons on the D-pad.

For example, pressing the right directional button will cause the camera to move to the left, enabling you to better see the painting in the upper-right corner of the tent.
Considering that seeing the piece of art is crucial to determining whether or not it’s a fake, you should do your best to use the directional buttons on the D-pad to get a good view.
 Do be aware that Redd does not refer to any of his art pieces by their actual names. Instead, they will have names like “Perfect painting.”, This painting by Peter Bruegel depicts a number of hunters who have reached a snowy village., This painting by Paul Cézanne depicts a bunch of apples and oranges on top of pedestals and white tablecloth with a purple background., This painting by Eugène Delacroix depicts a war victory with someone standing in the middle with the French flag., This painting by Paul Gaugin depicts a number of dark-colored women with a dog in the front., This painting by Vincent Van Gogh depicts a vase filled with sunflowers., This painting by Francisco Goya depicts a woman lying in repose with black hair and yellow sleeves., This painting by Édouard Manet depicts a woman in the center at a bar with a party going on in the background., This painting by Édouard Manet depicts a young boy standing and playing the flute., This painting by Jean-Francois Millet depicts three people working on a farm., This painting by Jean-Francois Millet depicts one man sowing seeds on a farm., This painting by Georges-Pierre Seurat depicts a number of people out enjoying an afternoon in the park., This painting by Giuseppe Arcimboldo depicts a person with a face made out of produce.

It is genuine if the person’s nose is made out of a green vegetable, a cucumber.
It is fake if the nose is made of a carrot with green leaves coming out of it.
 This painting by Sandro Botticelli depicts a woman standing on a shell in the center surrounded by others.

It is genuine if the shell is correctly oriented (face-down) so that she is standing on the center.
It is fake if the shell is upside-down and forms a cup.
 This painting by Caravaggio depicts a basket of fruit.

It is genuine if the big green leaf in the top left of the basket has no holes in it.
It is fake if the big green leaf in the top left of the basket has holes in it.
 This painting by Thomas Gainsborough is a full-length portrait of a boy dressed in all blue with a nondescript backdrop.

It is genuine if only one of his arms is bent. His left arm is bent, which means that when you look at it, the arm on the right side of the painting should be bent. The other should be relaxed at his side.
It is fake if both of his arms are bent.
 This painting by Kanagawa Hokusai depicts a large wave cresting with Mt. Fuji in the background.

It is genuine if Mt. Fuji is small.
It is fake is Mt. Fuji is large and nearly reaches the wave.
 This painting by Hishikawa Moronobu depicts a Japanese woman in a kimono.

It is genuine if her head is facing the right side of the painting.
It is fake if her head is facing the left side of the painting.
 This painting by Toshusai Sharaku depicts a Japanese manservant with a leering face.

It is genuine if all of his fingers sticking out.
It is fake if he is only pointing one finger of each hand.
 This painting by Tawaraya Sotatsu depicts two Japanese gods, one of each side of a yellow panel.

It is genuine if the light grey God is on the left and the dark grey God is on the right.
It is fake if the dark grey God is no the left and the light grey God is on the right.
 This painting by Diego Velasquez depicts a number of persons and a dog inside a room, socializing with one another. There is a blonde girl in the center of the painting.

It is genuine if the blond girl is nearly the same height as the brunette girl to her left.
It is fake if the blond girl is twice as tall as the brunette girl to her left.
 This painting by Johannes Vermeer is a portrait of a girl wearing a pearl earring.

It is genuine if her head wrap is blue.
It is fake if her head wrap is red.
 This painting by Johannes Vermeer depicts a milkmaid working inside the kitchen and pouring out milk near a number of bread rolls.

It is genuine if she is wearing a white hat.
It is fake if she is not wearing a hat.
 This painting by Leonardo Da Vinci depicts a woman from the waist up with a nature background.

It is genuine if her right arm is crossed over her left arm and thus her fingers point to the bottom right corner of the painting.
It is fake if her left arm is crossed over her right arm and thus her fingers point to the bottom left corner of the painting.
 This painting by Leonardo Da Vinci is a portrait of a woman holding an ermine (a type of weasel).

It is genuine if she is holding an ermine (again, a type of weasel; it has white, short fur).
It is fake if she is holding a fluffy white cat.
 This is a statue of a bare man standing.

It is genuine if he is completely bare.
It is fake if there is cloth hanging down one of his shoulders.
 This is a statue of a topless woman who is wrapped in cloth from the waist down. As we know it today, the statue is missing its arms.

It is genuine if her hair only covers her ears.
It is fake if her hair goes down to her shoulders.
 This is a statue of an angel wrapped in cloth. As we know it today, the head is missing.

It is genuine if it has feathery angel wings.
It is fake if it has bat wings.
 This is a statue of a man participating in discus (throwing a heavy disc).

It is genuine if he is holding a flat, smooth disc.
It is fake is he is holding a different object with bumps on it.
 This is a bust of Nefertiti, an Egyptian woman.

It is genuine if her hat is cylindrical.
It is fake if her hat is spherical.
 This is a statue of an animal figurine, originating from prehistoric Japan.

It is genuine if its eyes are closed.
It is fake if its eyes are open.
 This is a statue of a wolf and two children below it.

It is genuine if there are two children.
It is fake if there is only one child.

