 Get in your bed and turn on your side – the opposite side of the hand you want to elevate. Bend your elbow and bring your hand up to rest near your face, close to your ear.This position can help elevate your hand, even if only slightly.
It may seem like a strange position to sleep in at first, but you should grow accustomed to it quickly.
Try using a pillow to trap your arm in this position to keep it from falling if you move at night.;
, Try sleeping on your back you’re your hand positioned near your shoulder, or with your arm all the way across your chest. This will elevate your hand while you sleep.Try placing some pillows next to your arm that help keep your arm in place and your hand elevated while you sleep.
 Lie on your back in bed and lift your arm up you’re your head, so that it rests on the pillows above your head. You may want to sleep with two pillows propping your head up, so that the elevation is more distinct.This can be a difficult pose to maintain while you are asleep, but it is one of the most effective at helping circulation and swelling.
 Lay on your side (the opposite side of the arm that needs to be elevated) and position several pillows on the bed next to you – kind of like you are going to hug the pillows. Place your hand palm down on top of the pillows and try to remain in this position while you sleep.Make sure that you position the pillows in such a way that it won’t be easy for your hand to roll off or change positions while you are sleeping. Try to create a large enough elevated space for your hand to rest so that it will stay elevated even if you move around a bit.
 You can lie in bed on your back and prop your hand up, with the palm facing down, on pillows next to you. This will elevate your hand above your heart.Make sure that you position some pillows to keep your arm from moving if you toss and turn at night.
 This is a special kind of foam pillow designed specifically to help you elevate your hand/arm. Place your arm inside the hole facing upwards, with your elbow resting on the bottom support.It may seem a bit awkward or uncomfortable at first, but this is quite effective at reducing swelling and keeping your arm elevated no matter how much you shift positions at night.
This pillow requires you to sleep on your back. Keep that in mind in case you have difficulties sleeping on your back.
 In order to elevate your hand while you’re sleeping, you’ll need to sleep on your back or your side (in certain positions). This is the easiest resting position for elevating your hand.Sleeping on your stomach won’t allow you to elevate your hand as easily. It’s much harder to prop it up from behind if you’re lying flat on your stomach.
 Elevating your hand means that you need to keep it at a level above your heart. This helps the blood circulation and can reduce swelling and bruising.It doesn’t really matter how much higher your hand is above your heart, as long as it is positioned at least slightly above it.

