 Start by washing your face. If you have bad acne, use a face wash that is right for your skin and does not dry it. (products such as Proactiv, Clean&Clear, Neutrogena, etc.) If you only get some blemishes, washing your face with just a warm cloth and soap is perfect!;
, Make sure your foundation is the right color for you - otherwise you will look ridiculous! Put just a thin layer on that blends well with your skin. This will also help you use less concealer.
 Find a concealer that is right for your skin tone, and make sure you do not over-apply. Only use it on blemishes and dark circles: the powder or foundation will do the rest. If you have lots of blemishes use a thicker concealer. With a thicker concealer, apply it with a small brush and then blend it in with a bigger brush. You can also use your fingers: some makeup artists say this blends the concealer better.
 First, apply a primer to your eyelids if desired. This sometimes will help make sure that your eyeshadow won't go cakey and can help it to stay on longer. If you are going to wear eyeliner, do it before the eyeshadow as you can always touch it up after. When you apply eyeliner make sure you apply it as low on the lash line as possible. After your eyeliner, apply your eyeshadow. When choosing a color, make sure it matches your clothing, skin tone and eye color. Also, if you are a first time makeup wearer, be sure to start neutral. You do not want to go to school one day with no makeup then come back the next day with a ton of makeup.
 (This step is optional!) Make sure you smile when applying your blush. This will help you to get it on the "apples" of your cheeks, which is the part of your cheeks that protrude when you smile hard. Go with a color that matches your skin tone well!

, Use a mascara that is right for your lashes and the look you are going for (such as volume, length, or both). Apply mascara to both the top and bottom lashes, as this makes it look more even and it makes you look more awake. If you are dark-haired, use a black mascara, and if you are blonde, stick to brown. Applying too much mascara can lead to your eyelashes looking caked and messy! Be cautious.
 You can either use a gloss for a more young, perky look, or a solid lipstick for a more mature look. Find a lip colour that is one or two shades darker or lighter then your lips. Never more. With a solid stick, dab it lightly along your bottom and top lips then rub together to blend. This will make it appear more like a lipstain and will make it stay longer. With a gloss, apply as directed.
 This is a perfect time to do your hair. Of course, this will change from girl to girl on how you do it! If you are unsure, there are more wikiHow articles on hair, if you still need to find the right style for you.
 Smelling good is just as important as looking good! This draws people to you and makes you more confident about being near people. Choose a scent that is right for you and apply it lightly.
 This is the finishing touch to any look! A good smile can do wonders, and surprisingly, it's one of the first things guys notice in a girl. One weekend when you aren't busy, take 10 minutes and practice smiling in the mirror.

