 When SPL’s became popular in the 1980’s, you could take tax-free withdrawals from them. Investors abused this tax loophole by borrowing money to open an SPL, and then borrowing from the SPL to avoid taxes. In 1988, Congress passed a law making withdrawals from SPL’s subject to income tax., Some SPL policies allow you to purchase an accelerated death benefit rider to pay for long-term care. An accelerated death benefit allows you to receive cash advances on the death benefit.With this rider, the account earns interest on a tax-deferred basis, building up a cash reserve than can be withdrawn to pay for long-term care.These withdrawals are not subject to income tax.
Any money not spent on long-term care is distributed to the beneficiaries as a tax-free death benefit., You may also be able to purchase an accelerated death benefit rider that allows you to withdraw cash if you are diagnosed with a terminal illness and have less than 12 months to live.This would allow you to have enough money to live comfortably for the remainder of your life and still be able to provide for your loved ones after your death.The availability of this rider may not be mentioned in the contract. You may have to ask your insurance agent about it.
These withdrawals are not subject to income tax.
 You can surrender all or part of your policy at any time after opening the account. You must pay income taxes on the difference between your initial premium and the surrender value.


The surrender value is the amount the insurance company will pay out to you if the policy is terminated before your death.In addition to income taxes, if you are under 59 ½ years old, you must also pay a 10 percent penalty. As a Modified Endowment Contract (MEC), an SPL is subject to these penalties under the Internal Revenue Code., Within the first three years, you may take a loan of up to 75 percent of the surrender value of the account. After that, you can borrow up to 90 percent of the surrender value. Loans are subject to an annual interest rate of 6 percent. In addition, loans are subject to income tax. Also, if you are under age 59 ½, you will also have to pay a 10 percent penalty.

