 Baby gates can be extremely helpful for keeping senior dogs safe. You can put up baby gates to keep your senior dog confined to an area of your house, to prevent him from going into rooms that might be unsafe for him, or to keep him from going up and down stairs.Try placing a few gates around your home to keep your senior dog confined within a safe, comfortable area of your home.
 Senior dogs have a harder time regulating their body temperature than younger dogs. This means that extreme hot and cold temperatures can be dangerous for senior dogs. To protect your senior dogs from temperature extremes, set your thermostat for a comfortable temperature or use other means to regulate the temperature in your home.During warmer months, you may need to use fans or even an air conditioning unit to ensure your senior dog’s comfort. During colder months, you may need to use a space heater.
Make sure that your senior dog’s bed is located in an area that is not too hot or too cold. Place it somewhere that is free from drafts in cold weather and that is not in direct sunlight during warm weather.
If your dog enjoys wearing clothes, then you might get a few sweater for your dog to wear in cold weather or even a jacket for going outside. Check your local pet store to find clothes for your dog., Dogs may decide to investigate hazardous items like cleaning agents, medications, and toxic plants out of boredom or curiosity.To protect your senior dog from these items, make sure that they are secured in a cabinet or placed up out of their reach.


For example, you can put your cleaning products in a cupboard or up on a high shelf.
Keep any medications (prescription or otherwise) in a medicine cabinet or other secure place.
If you have any houseplants, make sure they are up on a shelf or high windowsill so your dog can’t get to them.
 Older dogs may have less body fat than younger dogs, which can make laying on a hard surface uncomfortable for them. They are also prone to aches and pains, such as from arthritis. To ensure your senior dog’s comfort when he is resting, provide him with plenty of soft, cushy bedding.Try placing a couple of extra blankets under your dog’s bed to increase the padding or get an extra soft and fluffy dog bed for him.

