 As with any game it takes just as much practice. Although, it does take less physical action.;
, Your game should be something you will not easily get bored playing. It has to keep you interested. Remember you will be advancing beyond the low levels of the game and that it might take a while to accomplish. Remember, try to choose a game which has online capabilities so you can show off your skills and get better at the game. Online is harder than single player in most cases so you will improve even more online. Games like Call of Duty and Star Wars Battlefront 2 have this.
 If it is a computer game and you are using a keyboard and mouse, know which keys perform which functions. Usually the game manual or help will give you this information. If it is a console game or you are using a control-pad or joystick, know all the buttons and what action they accomplish.
 If you can't make it through the single player, chances are you won't last long in multiplayer

, Begin the game on the beginner level. When it becomes too easy move to the next level.
 Don't get frustrated if you do poorly at first. Figure out what you are doing wrong and fix it. When you reach the highest level, return to the lowest level and move up to the highest again just to make sure you got it.
 If there are any, they can save a lot of time. Watch how they do each shot, each trick, each area, etc. It may have taken them years to figure out a particular technique, but you can have it right away by watching and copying their videos. And stick with the technique until it becomes second-nature.
 (in a row, if possible.) This is where the real skill is made. Each time you repeat a level, you get better at it (and your gaming skills in general,) so playing an area 20-30 times in a row is a quick way to learn or figure out those new skills. And even 5 times in a row is better than once.
 Impress your friends by showing them up in head-to-head or just round play. Also if you're under the age of 17 and you're playing an M rated game, prepare yourself to be the main target of everyone in the game, because you're not supposed to be there.
, ea sports) whether their product is quality or not, is not a good habit. Base your opinions on individual games, not the company which makes them or just because its in a franchise.
 Some of the Gamer Senses include:


Reflexive Ability
Platform Calculation
Self Control
Game Knowledge
Timing
Self respect for yourself and others during online play

, The last thing you want is to be totally obsessed with a game. Also, playing a game too much can lower how well you play it.
 Know the story of game before playing. It will give ideas about game.
 Look for what to do in the game. Every game has that and is displayed on the screen while starting a new game (At most times) or in the pause menu some games have it there too.
 Get a game guide on Internet or see the level video it will help to know what will be in that level so you play more carefully.

