 Keeping friends and family members current with what’s going on can be exhausting for the parent. Offer to be the contact person that gives updates on your loved one’s child. Doing so allows them to focus on their kid as much as possible.Ask your loved one if they feel comfortable with you taking on this responsibility. You can say, “I want to take as much stress off of you as possible. I would be happy to be the person your friends and family contact for updates, if that’s OK with you.” They will likely be grateful to have this sometimes overwhelming task removed from their plate.
 Your loved one is likely spending all their time in the hospital. As such, their household chores are likely falling by the way side. Offer to take care of what you can.


For instance, this could mean taking out the garbage, mowing the lawn, feeding and caring for their pets, cooking meals, doing laundry, and performing other tasks. Knowing that these responsibilities are taken care of could provide your loved one with a certain amount of relief., Your loved one may not be able to leave the hospital often. Help out by bringing essential items with you when you come to visit. Doing so can make their hospital stay much more comfortable.


Call your loved one before you come to visit and ask what you can bring. Offer to bring them a change of clothes, healthy food, books, games, and other items that can keep them occupied during the hospital stay. , Offer to spend time hanging out with their other kids, if they have any. You can also volunteer to take them places like school, sports, and playdates. Your loved one likely feels guilty that they are focusing all of their time and energy on their sick child. Spending time with their other children may make them feel better.


You could also volunteer to sit with the child in the hospital so that they can spend time with their other child. Getting out of there and being able to concentrate on something else for a little while may be exactly what your loved one needs right now.