 Experience in the following categories is helpful in developing an image consultant career.


Work in marketing. Image consulting is a type of brand development. Their image reflects the confidence and identity that they would like to develop in a social setting.
Work in fashion. Part of being an image consultant is being a fashion stylist. Experience as a fashion designer, assistant, blogger or executive will give you the credentials to create a new wardrobe.
Work in business. Attending business school, running a business or working in the corporate or entertainment world supports your expertise. You should have an extensive and adaptable knowledge of corporate culture.
Work as a job recruiter or human resources professional. These fields will help you give advice to job seekers.;
, You will gain access to training, local chapters, conferences and their image consultant database.
 You can begin with online classes provided by image consulting firms and move on to a certification program with AICI or another organization. In an industry without a governing body, certifications can enhance your credentials.
 Search listings for image consultants and offer free work to learn the ropes of the business. You may want to go outside of your local area, so that you are not seen as competition to your mentor.
 You will want to choose whether you will work in the entertainment industry, corporations who train their executives or another niche market. Develop your own "recipe for success" in the profession of your choice to help market yourself to the community.
 Any consultant job should be planned out for at least 5 years, so that you can invest in start-up costs, begin marketing and plan for business growth. File applicable business or consulting documents with your Secretary of State.
 It may require 1 to 5 years to build up a client base for full-time work. You can offer image consulting services after work or on weekends until you have enough clientele.
 Suggest their services to your clients in exchange for their referrals.
 A professional website, stationary and pricing materials will identify you as an expert. Keep a portfolio of success stories for consultations.


As your business grows, invest in more equipment, such as video cameras, virtual makeover software and materials that clients can take home and review. If you are catering to a corporate environment, you will want to develop effective presentation skills and materials.

