 A theme will make your party stand out. Your theme can be whatever you like--the colour red, your favourite band, or historic era.;
,, A Valentine's Day party, for example, might feature a red lip print on a white card.
 Make sure to include the party particulars: who is throwing it (You!), why, where, and when (date and time). Include other details such as whether they should wear a costume. Ask guests to R.S.V.P. (Respondez` s'il vous plait--the French words for "please reply") so you'll know how many are coming.
 Make a list of all the party supplies you will need. Include small prizes for winners of any games you plan to play.
 Do you want simple munchies like chips, dips, and pop--or something fancier? Will you serve cake? What will you need to serve with?

, For example, if you have a "Red and White" theme, make all the food offerings red and white. A surfing theme? Consider tropical fruit punch, fresh tropical fruits, and coconut cream pie.
 Choose songs that are popular with your crowd and any that fit your theme.



My Left Foot. You'll need pen and paper for each player. Have players remove the shoes and sock from their left foot. Challenge players to grasp the pen with their toes and write their name as legibly as possible. Compare!
Mystery ID! You'll need a pen & sticky notes. Make a new identity for each guest by writing the name of a famous person or character--such as James Bond or Winnie the Pooh--on a sticky note. As each guest arrives, stick an ID on his or her back. Challenge the guests to discover their Mystery ID by asking each other "yes" or "no" questions--no more than 5 questions of any single guest.
Balloon Race. You'll need two chairs & balloons for each player. Divide into two teams at one end of the room, chairs at the other end. On the word "Go", the first player in each team blows up a balloon and ties it. Then players run (or skip, or hop) to the chair, put the balloon behind the seat, and sit on it, bouncing up and down until the balloon bursts (no hands!). Players then run back and tag the next player in line for his/her turn. The first team to pop all their balloons and return to the finish line wins.

