 One especially popular variety of amaranth for flowering is A. caudatus. Several different cultivars of caudatus all produce long-lasting flowers, in either erect or drooping tassels. Tassels of red, maroon, or yellow-green will last for as long as eight weeks.Go with a Green Thumb cultivar for bright green flowers that are likely to last a while.
Opt for Loves-Lies-Bleeding for long drooping clusters of dark red flowers. Go with pygmy torch for more erect maroon clusters.
 Another especially popular amaranthus variety is A.tricolor, which is also known as Joseph's Coat or Summer Poinsettia. This plant is the classic option for growing popular edible leaves referred to as Chinese Spinach. It can grow quite large, with relatively unimposing flowers but an especially attractive and richly colored foliage.Cut back buds on A. tricolor to encourage branching. This will also delay flowering, but will ultimately lead to a larger and more vibrant plant.
 A. viridis will provide long, green flower clusters, which will branch and cascade especially desirably. They are favorable for sunny locations, and can hold up especially well in a drier climate.A. Cruentus, meanwhile, will give you large, golden flowers tassels that are likely to swing in the breeze.
A. hypochondriacus, or prince's feather, is described has having "leaves of purple, red or green. The tips of its stems are crowned with large erect spikes of tiny bright red flowers.", Choose a smaller variety for decor and salad greens. Some of the amaranth varieties that are commonly planted as decoration will also provide you with healthy greens. In, fact, amaranth greens are one of the hardiest salad greens for growth in hot weather. On the other hand, if you’re growing amaranth for the seeds, the lighter-colored seeds, the better.Amaranth leaves taste a bit like spinach, and contain plenty of nutrients, including protein, vitamins, minerals, and fiber.
Specifically, red-leaf vegetable amaranth will provide medium green leaves with a bit of dark red. In addition to the health benefits, these will also increase the visual appeal of a salad.
Tampala is the best variety for greens in particular. Black-seeded amaranth are also best suited for greens, as opposed to seeds.

