 The idea can be intimidating, but do not get your back up. Keep working as you have normally done, and patiently wait to see how any changes will affect you.Do not get wrapped up in water cooler gossip or the rumour mill. There may be many people who have heard this or that, but do not get stressed out or anxious over gossip.
If you have questions that need answering, go to a supervisor you trust, or your human resources department. They may be able to address your questions or assuage your concerns.
When changes start to occur, be flexible and make yourself part of the process. This will show you are a team player, and willing to embrace the changes.;
, You ran through the financial aspects together, and yes, it can be done, but you will have to make some changes. Change can be scary, but given some time, you will adjust.It is important to make a budget and stick to it. Cut your expenses when and where you can. This may involve lifestyle changes, like no longer going to dinner and a movie every Friday night. Think of the upside; being at home to see all of your baby's firsts.
Nowadays there are opportunities available on the internet to make some extra money online from the comfort of your own home. While you are checking that out, you can also explore online coupon sites, for added savings on household items you purchase regularly.
Sell things online that you are not using anymore. Nowadays people do not have to wait until they accumulate enough clutter to host a garage sale. The internet is a great place to sell extra furniture, kitchen appliances, all sorts of things. Check out E-bay, Kijiji, and Amazon.
 The steps start with the blushing bride, through the newlywed and child rearing stages and into the children's teen years. This is the time when the children are becoming more independent and about 15 years of marriage have passed. According to Ms. Carey, this marks the beginning of the fifth stage:Distance is the stage when a woman considers getting back into the work force. It is a vulnerable time for her; a time when she may consider having an affair. She is looking for the intimacy she used to have with her husband in the first years of their marriage. This makes it very important for she and her husband to spend quality time together, to recreate that bond.
After being married for 15 or 20 years, a woman may begin to consider a Mid-Life Divorce, being unsure of where her life is going. She looks at the lives of her single friends with a bit of longing, thinking that what they have looks pretty good. In this case, she should speak to a counselor before taking any life changing action.
Then again, she may look at Renegotiation, where she realizes that single life may not be what it seems. Her friends may be out enjoying the dating scene, but it does not seem that tempting. She realizes that she has many years and built long lasting memories with her husband, and chooses to work with him to rekindle the romance and love of years gone by.
As you reach the 30 to 40th year of marriage, the couple reaches the Balance stage. This is when she and her partner each become comfortable with each others' strengths and weaknesses. Together, they enjoy the arrival of grandchildren and become best friends.
As they approach 45 and 50 years of marriage, the couple enters the stage of Compassionate Love. This is a time to enjoy being mortgage free, yet still thrifty with their spending, so they can enjoy the freedom and benefits of retirement. Both enjoy the safety net of their marriage, while still following their individual interests.
 Some of these changes can be attributed to the normal aging process. Others can be the result of leading a less than healthy life in our earlier years.Appearance: Graying or whitening hair is one of the first things that comes to mind with aging. Our hair, as with our fingernails, becomes more coarse in texture. Skin becomes thinner and loses its elasticity. Bruising, as well as cuts or scrapes, take longer to heal. If spending much time in the sun, it is best to use sunscreen of at least 30 SPF.

Physical Changes: Along with the aforementioned skin issues, you should also be aware of the fact that your body does not adjust to heat or cold as easily. It is important to take care against heat stroke or getting too cold. Joint pain from previous injury can become stiff or painful. Bones become more brittle. Vision changes are common. Dental and digestion problems can become issues. As well, changes in brain and nervous system cells cause slower reactions to stimuli. It is important to maintain regular medical and dental visits.

Emotional Changes: As we approach retirement age, we can look forward to having leisure time and enjoying the fruits of your years of labour. For some, with retirement comes the question of what their purpose is now, creating a feeling of loss. If you combine this with the eventual passing of family and friends, potential downsizing of your home and living alone, it can become a time of sadness and depression. On top of typical health issues, problems may arise if proper attention is not paid to diet and exercise.
 When we are young, we have aspirations of the future. In the decades that follow, increased self confidence and self awareness become prevalent:Self esteem continues to grow through the adult years, peaking at around the age of 60. This is likely due to the achievements you have made in your career, as well as the comforts you have come to enjoy in your personal and leisure time.
The middle age years that you now enjoy differ largely from the middle age years of our parents. Today, the preconceived notions of what to expect in our 40's and 50's, even 60's has completely evolved. We are still planning for the future at this age, taking better care of our health, and even beginning new careers.
Today, having greater self awareness is allowing for emotional maturity at an earlier age. This can lead to self reflection of experiences you have had, which can influence your sense of purpose, integrity, and passions, all of which are a part of your core values. It also helps us focus on what is truly important in our lives.
 When change happens, people tend not to think too much about it, let alone how this change will affect them in the long run. Sit back for a moment. Take the time to think about what you have accomplished, no matter what stage of life you are in. Think about the changes that have occurred in your life, and get ready to embrace the changes that are in the years to come!