 Lots of printers can be very finicky, and if you have an installation guide you should follow its exact instructions before deferring to these general instructions. You can usually find the installation guide as a PDF file on the manufacturer's support page for your model.


You can quickly find the support page for your printer by opening Google and searching for "manufacturer model support".;
, Make sure to plug it into a USB port directly on your computer, and not a USB hub.


Some printers will need to be plugged into a power source as well.
 You should hear the page feed mechanism start and the printer should light up.
 All modern versions of Windows and OS X should be able to automatically detect the printer and install the necessary drivers for you. You may need to be connected to the internet in order for your operating system to download the appropriate files. For most users, this should be all you need to do in order to begin printing from your computer to your new printer. If you are using an older version of Windows/OS X, or the printer is not automatically detected, read on.
 This will usually install any drivers that weren't installed automatically by Windows, and may install extra printing software that allow you to take advantage of additional features on your printer. If you don't have the disc that came with the printer, and it wasn't automatically detected by your operating system, read on.


As long as your printer was properly automatically installed, you usually don't actually need to install anything else.
 If you don't have the disc and the printer wasn't installed automatically, you can download the drivers directly from the manufacturer. You will need to know your printer's model number, which should be prominent on the printer itself.


You can quickly find the support page for your printer by opening Google and searching for "manufacturer model support".
 After installing the drivers, your printer should now be ready to print from any program on your computer that supports printing.

