 Choose if the project should concentrate on five pound bags or if you are wanting to include two pound bags.

It's appropriate to include both weights, however, it's suggestible to deduct points if a student chooses the smaller weight for the project.;
, Many students tend to cheat with the weight issue either as soon as they get the bag or throughout the project.

No covering: You run into the risk of students attempting to poke holes in order to lessen the weight, however, you may counteract this by weighing the bags at the start, middle, and end of the project.
Covering: The most popular method to use is double pantyhose. Tie the ends at the top and allow students to create their own baby hair and appearance.
 Develop a plan between you and your students for them to check-in with you in the middle of the night. This is to ensure that, like actual parents, they are "awake in the middle of the night".

You may either choose between phone messages or emails for this check-in.
Students must check-in between a specific time during in the middle of the night, for example, between 3 and 4 am. Avoid giving any midnight check-ins due to the easiness of students checking in before they go to bed.
They must leave their name and baby's name in the message.
You can merit points for the calls, as it can count towards the final total or extra points on the side.
 To avoid any circumvention during the project, for example, a student loses, misplaces, or damages the original package and attempts to get a new one at the last minute, either hand initial or stamp the bottom of each bag.

Inform the students that this mark is the only valid mark allowed on the entire bag for this purpose. If the original bag is drawn on (such as mock tattoos, piercings, etc) or tampered with, points could be deducted.
 You may also print out computer created chart templates, make copies, and staple them for each student., Make different sections in the journal regarding each flour baby.

Information: Allow students to create a their own baby's identification. Names must be authentic and proper, birthplaces must be real, and date of birth must be when the project has started.
Timeline: Have the students log what they did per hour, including sleep, verbal check-in times, actual school classes, after school activities, social time with friends, meals for themselves and their babies. If the student had any socializing, they must write details on where their flour baby was at the time.
 Students should be able to produce an up-to-date journal, even during a surprise check., Compose rules that students will need to abide by while in and around school and other classes.

No flour babies are to be in school bags and/or lockers. They must be in the open air at all times, whether a person is carrying it, on their desk, or in their lap.
No student on campus can babysit nor store another student's flour baby for them.
Students caught without their baby will have points deduced.
Other students and/or teachers can report for improper caring.
Points can be deduced for improper caring.


Each student can allow one non-student to "watch" the baby for a specific time limit once a day.
Each time someone else babysits, they must sign a slip stating that it has happened.
Students must log in their journal when the babysitting has occurred for all time slots.
 Each student can present an essay format paper about the project.

How easy or difficult was the overall project.
How this project would influence them on raising an actual baby.
Any moments while taking care of the flour baby.
 By the end of the week, each flour should be exactly the same weight as they were when they were distributed or assigned., If you have decided to initial or stamp the packages, merit points for the same package being presented., Any damage, including marks, rips, holes, etc should result in point deduction., All time logs should be completed up to the class time of turning the project in.