 The best fruits are ones without any additives. Focus on:


Fresh fruit
Canned fruit in its own juice
Frozen fruit
Dried fruit
Fruit juice;
, Foods with a low glycemic index (GI) are processed slower by the body and won't spike your blood sugar. Some fruits with a low GI include:


Pomegranates
Grapes
Apples
Blueberries
Strawberries
Plums, Fruits or dishes with high glycemic indexes release sugars into your blood stream quicker, and may spike your blood sugar levels. Thus, fruits with a high glycemic index should only be consumed in moderation by people with diabetes. Stay away from:


Fruit desserts with added sugar. For example, strawberries with whipped cream.
Smoothies with added sugar.
Cooked fruits, which have more concentrated sugar levels due to water loss.
Fresh items with a high glycemic index like dates, pineapple, watermelon, mangoes, and papaya., Since fiber slows down the rate that your body can absorb and process sugar, high fiber fruits are best for diabetics. Much like fruit with a high glycemic index, low fiber ones may aggravate your diabetes.


Avoid fruits that have been peeled.
Don't drink juice without pulp.
Stay away from heavily processed fruit juice with low fiber content.
Focus on high fiber fruits like apples, bananas, and oranges., While some fruits are great for people on a diabetes diet, you should only consume them in moderate portions. By moderating what you eat, you’ll help ensure that you maintain a stable blood sugar level. When determining portions, remember that:


People with diabetes should consume 2 to 4 servings of fruit a day, depending on their age, gender, and weight.
One serving of fruit has about 15 grams (0.5 oz) of carbohydrates. Examples of a serving of fruit (15 carbohydrates) include: ½ of a medium banana, ½ cup of cubed mango, 1 ¼ cup of watermelon, 1/1/4 cup of strawberries, and ¾ cup of cubed pineapple.
You should only consume fruit as a snack or dessert, rather than as a meal. For instance, eat a ½ cup of fruit salad as a snack between breakfast and lunch., Fruit should be just one part of an overall diabetes diet. Thus, you should think about creating a comprehensive diet that will help manage your diabetes. Your diet should include:


Proper portions of fruit.
Fresh vegetables.
Lean meats like chicken, fish, and some cuts of pork or beef.
Foods high in fiber., If you’ve consumed many carbohydrates or sugars (including fruits) over the last few hours, you should moderate your consumption of them.


You should consume roughly 45 to 60 grams (2 to 2 oz) of carbohydrates per meal.
Eat 3 or 4 snacks per day in addition to meals.
If you’ve eaten more carbohydrates than you should have at a given point, reduce consumption for a little bit.
Talk to your doctor about how many carbohydrates you should eat per day., Your doctor is the person best equipped to evaluate your individual health needs. Thus, talk to your doctor and let them know you have concerns about your ability to eat fruit when on a diabetes diet. Your doctor:


May advise you to focus on foods and fruits with a low glycemic index. Foods with a low index have glucose that is released slowly into the bloodstream – avoiding blood sugar spikes.
Might prescribe medicines to help regulate your blood sugar levels, like insulin or Glucophage., Your doctor will recommend blood tests to evaluate your overall health and the status of your diabetes. From these tests, they’ll be able to determine how foods, such as fruit, impact your health.


Blood tests will help your doctor determine how fruit will fit into your diet.
Tests might include short-term and long-term blood sugar levels.
Your doctor might recommend daily, at-home, blood sugar tests. If so, you'll be asked to test and record your blood sugar levels once or twice a day.
 A Dietitian or nutritionist who specializes in metabolic disorders may be one of the greatest resources for you when determining how fruits fit into your diet.


Food specialists will be able to consider your individual health circumstances, diabetes, and food intake and formulate a diet proper for you.
Your dietary specialist will be able to create a diabetes meal plan for you. This plan may be based on several methods, including the plate method (amount of food), carb counting (the number of carbs consumed per day), or based on the glycemic index of foods (how much sugar a food contains and how the body processes that sugar).
Make sure you consult a dietitian or nutritionist who focuses on metabolic disorders or diabetes in particular.