 Crazy glue can be tricky to get out of the tight, interwoven fibers of fabric or clothing. For most fabrics, acetone is your best bet. Put a drop or two of acetone on the bristles of an old toothbrush. Starting from the outside and working your way to the inside of the fabric, gently rub the glued area with the toothbrush to remove the glue. It isn't always possible to remove 100% of the glue from the fabric this way, but it should dissolve most of it.


Never use acetone on fabrics made from modacrylic, acetate, triacetate, or natural hair fibers like silk, wool and fur. Acetone can dissolve or damage these materials, causing permanent damage to the fabric.If you're not sure whether acetone is safe for your fabric, dab a tiny bit on an inconspicuous part of the fabric and wait five minutes to see if any damage occurs.
 If you're dealing with a fabric that acetone can't be used on safely, use ordinary laundry detergent to help loosen the glue. Before washing, gently rub your normal detergent into the spot with dried glue with an old toothbrush or a rag, taking care not to damage the fabric with rough scrubbing. Toss the garment into the washing machine and set the water to the hottest setting allowed on the garment's care label. Check the fabric after washing — you may need to repeat several times to get the glue out.


You don't need to launder your glue-damaged fabric by itself. To use efficient use of water and electricity, launder it with a load of similar fabrics. The glue will not affect the other items in the wash.
 Crazy glue can be notoriously difficult to get out of fabric (especially if you don't want to ruin the fabric while removing the glue.) If you have a glue stain on an especially valuable piece of fabric or you haven't been able to get it out with other methods, consider enlisting the help of a professional. Commercial dry cleaners will usually be able to get glue stains out, while larger items like rugs and pieces of furniture can be cleaned by home cleaning specialists.

