 Before you can run your own adoption agency, you should first work with one in some capacity. You can opt to volunteer, intern, or become a paid employee at a local agency. This will give you a firsthand look at what is involved and help you decide if you really have what it takes. For an extra boost in experience and credibility, attend a local university to earn your degree in social services.;
, Depending on where you live, the rules and regulations surrounding opening an adoption agency will vary. In the United States, the Secretary of State will be able to inform you what you need.
 You can choose to focus on domestic adoptions, international adoptions, or a combination. The costs and steps you need to establish the adoption agency will vary depending on the type of agency you set up.
 Consider the office space and supplies, computer, and Internet connection as well as necessary permits and licensing needed to become legal.


The computer and Internet connection can help you to advertise your business and to connect with families who are looking to adopt. You can also network with medical facilities and social services to locate children in need of adoption.
 You will need employees and a lawyer to help you with legal aspects. You should also have a social worker on your staff to help with other issues you may not be qualified to address on your own. Connect with people who may know of others wishing to place their child up for adoption as well as people who want to adopt children.
 What fees are you charged to help facilitate the adoption process? What fees do you have to pay to run your business? Factor in your building rent, utilities, employee wages, and legal-staff fees. Charge each couple enough to cover a portion of your expenses with enough to produce a bit of profit.
 Reach out to adoption communities online to market your services. Look into adoption-specific newspapers and magazines. Contact your local department of social services to alert them of your adoption services and offer to help wherever possible.

