 Press down and lift to pick up as much wet blood as possible. If you are working on a large stain, start on the edges and work your way towards the center. This prevents the blood from spreading.


Do not rub the stain. This smears it onto more carpet fibers.;
, Spray the stain with cold water, and let it sit a few minutes. If you don't have a spray bottle, instead pour on just enough water to wet the carpet.


Never use warm or hot water, which can set the blood stain permanently into the carpet.Too much water can spread the stain or damage delicate carpets.Keep it damp, not soaked.
 Use a dry towel to absorb the moisture, again blotting in an up and down motion. Continue to wet, then blot dry, until the stain is gone. This may take several repetitions.


You can also absorb the moisture using a wet vac or a handheld carpet extractor.
Change to a new spot on the towel whenever the old one gets discolored. Use white towels to see this more clearly.
 If the stain is still there, try a salt paste instead of plain water. Mix salt in a small bowl of cold water, until you make a thin paste.Pour a little over the stain and let sit for a few minutes. Blot this again with a clean cloth or towel. If you see residue on the towel but the stain is still there, repeat this step.


Salt can damage carpet fibers over time. Vacuum promptly once the area is dry.
 Stir 1–2 teaspoons (5–10 mL) liquid dishwashing detergent into 1 cup (240 mL) cold water.Soak a clean, white cloth with the solution and apply it to the stained area. Rinse by spraying on plain water, then blotting dry.


Do not use detergent that contains bleach or lanolin., Blow a fan over the wet spot to speed up drying. If the carpet takes too long to dry, blood left on the backing of the carpet can "wick" up to the surface fibers, causing a new stain.If you don't have a fan, stack a few paper towels over the wet area. Weigh down with a heavy object and let dry.
 This will restore the original shape of the carpet fibers. If the stain is still visible, try using the methods below for dried stain removal.

