 Expired yeast, or yeast that has been sitting out, may never fully activate. That's why yeast often comes in individual packets that you tear open as you need them. Check the expiration date on your yeast to make sure it should still be active.


Store your yeast in a dry, cool area to prevent it from going bad in between uses.
If you're using wild yeast starter and the starter won't seem to activate, you can place a pinch of commercial yeast in the mixture to keep things going.
 If you have a lot of trouble achieving the right temperature in your kitchen, you can try a warm water bath. Place the bowl with the dough in a baking tray that has been filled with warm water. Change out the water occasionally to keep it at the same warm temperature.Don't make the mistake of "cooking" your yeast by using water that's too hot. It should be warm, but not scalding, or the yeast will die before it causes your bread to rise.
Depending on the conditions in your kitchen, you may just need to have some patience. Try letting the bread rise overnight instead of the recommended four or six hours to see if that makes a difference.
 Bread made with white flour tends to rise higher than bread made with whole wheat and other heavier flours. If you want fluffy, spongy bread, white flour is the way to go. If you love the taste of whole wheat flour, try, using a half and half mixture of each so you get both the height and the flavor you desire.
 It's important to use the specific pan the recipe you're following instructs you to use. If you use one that's a little too big, the dough will rise from side to side instead of upward. The result will be a flatter loaf of bread that may not rise over the sides of the pan.
 Dough that is too dry won't rise as well as dough that is moist and soft. If your dough feels a little hard and dry after kneading, add an extra tablespoon or two of water to soften it. Cover the bowl you're storing it in with a washcloth dampened with warm water. This will prevent a crust from forming over the dough as it rises., High salt content can prevent bread from rising correctly. Be sure you use only the amount of salt that the recipe calls for. Extra salt may cause your bread to come out flat and hard.