 Attach the bottom of the roller to the edge of a kitchen counter or table using an appropriately sized vise clamp.Many oat rollers are sold with a matching clamp for this purpose. The clamp should hold the machine down as you grind the oats, making it easier to operate as a result.
This step is especially important when using a manual oat roller, but many electric versions are heavy enough to remain steady even if you do not clamp them down.;
, Place the oats directly into the hopper at the top of the machine.

Fill the hopper to the top edge, but avoid overfilling it beyond that point. If the hopper is too small to fit the entire portion of oats, work the oats through in separate batches.
 Many oat rollers have three settings. Switch settings as desired by turning the regulating knob on the side or back of the machine.Turning the knob changes the distance between the machine's roller bars, thereby allowing the machine to crush the oats into different sizes.
Generally, the three settings include coarse grind, coarse flakes, and thinly rolled flakes.

Use the "rolled flake" setting for rolled oats that resemble modern store-bought varieties.
If you would prefer larger, old-fashioned rolled oats, use the "coarse flakes" setting.
Choosing the "coarse grind" setting will crush the grains instead of flaking them. The resulting meal will be smaller than the flakes and will generally cook faster, but it should not be used as flour.
 Insert the handle into the side of the machine, if necessary, then turn it clockwise to pass the loaded oats through the rollers and into the collection basin.

Whole oats are easy to crush, so turning the handle shouldn't require much strength.
If you use an electric version instead of a manual one, press the "On" button (or its equivalent) to pass the oats through the machine.
 Pull the collection basin out from the bottom of the machine. Turn it upside-down into a bowl or other container to collect the newly rolled oats.

Use clean hands to quickly sift through the rolled oats. Most moderate to high quality rollers will crush the oats evenly, but damaged or poor quality machines may produce inconsistent results.
If most or all of the oats are not ground as finely as you would like, you may wish to pass them through the machine again. If only a few grains appear unbroken or too large, however, it might be easiest to simply pick them out and discard them.
 To enjoy the full benefits of freshly rolled oats, use them immediately or within several days. You can use them to make oatmeal or any other recipe calling for rolled oats.

Freshly rolled oats retain more of their nutrients and natural flavor. The nutritional benefits and taste will gradually decline in quality as the rolled oats remain in storage, though.
If you cannot use the rolled oats immediately, place them into an airtight, freezer-safe container or plastic freezer bag and store them in your freezer for several days to two weeks. Thaw the frozen grains before use.

