 Facebook uses a Code Generator tool in the Facebook app as a two-factor security system. You'll be prompted to open the Facebook app and enter the code from the Code Generator. This only happens when you log into Facebook on an unknown computer. If you can't use the Facebook app or Code Generator, Facebook will send your phone a text message with the code.You can install the app for free from your device's app store.;
, The quickest way to enable this extra security is by logging into your Facebook account on a computer.
 Click the ▼ in the bar at the top of the page and select "Settings".
 This will open the Security Settings page., This will expand the Login Approvals section. You'll see a checkbox.
 This will begin the setup process for two-factor security. Click "Get Started" to begin.
 You need to have a phone number associated with your Facebook account. Facebook will send your code to this number if you can't use the Code Generator tool. You can't turn two-factor security on without entering your phone number.


You'll be sent a text when you enter a new number. Enter the code that gets texted to you to verify your number.
 You can bypass the code for a week after turning Login Approvals on. This is in case you don't have your phone with you. After this week, you will always be prompted for a code. You can skip the grace week and lock your account down now if you'd prefer.
 You will be prompted for your code whenever you log into Facebook on an unknown computer. You will also be prompted when using a different browser.
 When you're prompted for the Code Generator code, open the Facebook app.
 You'll need to scroll down in order to find it.
 This will allow you to log into Facebook. If you don't have access to the Code Generator or the Facebook app, you can receive the login code as a text message on your mobile phone.
 You'll be prompted to review the login and decide if you want to save the computer. Only save private computers. If you logged in from a public computer (library, school, etc.), don't save the computer.

