 Many writers, photographers, web designers, and graphic designers can do their work from anywhere in the world as long as they have an Internet connection. There are online companies recruiting people with these types of skills. Be wary of anyone asking for money. There are plenty of legitimate companies hiring freelancers. Be prepared to bid for freelance work or possibly get paid a bit less than if you worked in the same job at an office., Ask your current employer if you might be able to start working from home (if that’s possible for your type of work). If they say yes, then you may be able to start traveling and completing your work while you’re on the road. Most work-from-home jobs allow employees to complete the bulk of their work online or to submit their work from another location. You don’t have to stay home to work from home., If you have web design and writing skills, you may start blogs or content-based websites that generate passive income through advertising and referral programs. This takes a bit of a time investment upfront, but once the site is established and active, it may generate returns. Start these sites while traveling or better yet, get them up and running before you go. Sites that are generating money will need maintenance and content updates once you are on the road.Advertisers usually make direct deposits into your bank account. Depending on your home country, there may be restrictions or limitations to getting paid, so be sure you have access to the money you earn before you begin your travels.
 Become a travel consultant, importer, or zip-line installer. Find a need for your specific services and skills, then market them in a way that makes sense for you and gives you the freedom you desire from your work.For example, engineers might start a business building zip-lines or obstacle courses for resorts around the world. Travel buffs can offer their services to corporations sending employees on international travel. If you love to shop, set up an importing business and next time you travel get inventory for resale.

