 If you have a shared interest in movies or music, ask your crush to go with you! It lets your crush know you’re interested and gives you a chance to have a fun memory together, which can make it more likely that your crush will become interested in you.Don’t forget that some people are shy, and even if they’re interested in and noticing you making an effort, they might not say anything. Go ahead and ask them to do something.
For example, you can say something like “So we both really like action movies, and the new Fast and the Furious is coming out. Do you want to go see it together?”

, This way, you have a chance to hang out with your crush without a lot of pressure. If you're nervous about asking outright, make lunch seem like an opportunity to do something else, like talking about a homework assignment or a work issue.For example, if you work together, you can say something like "Hey James, did you want to grab some lunch? There's a place down the street with really good soup and sandwiches, and I thought we could talk about the project."
If you go to school together say something like "Jenny, do you want to sit with me at lunch? I had a question about our homework assignment."

, If you’re really nervous about hanging out with your crush one-on-one, suggest you hang out with a group of friends. This gives you a chance to spend time with your crush without so much pressure.If you’re going to try a group date, let a few of your friends know what you’re doing and ask if they’re willing to go. Then you can make it seem to your crush like you’re inviting them to come with you and your friends, rather than making a big deal out of spending time with them.
For example, you can say something like “my friends and I are going roller skating on Saturday. Do you want to come with us?”

, If you like someone, they might not like you back or even notice you right away. Be patient, and keep trying to befriend them. It might take a little while, but it can pay off in the end!