 When you don't study, you don't know about it well enough! Not for school in this case, but instead you need to study up on fashion. Start with the magazines lying around your house, even if they aren't completely about fashion. For example, does your mom have a magazine like All You, Canadian Living, or Women's World? These have some advice on fashion, despite it not being solely about fashion. As long as the magazines are from this year or somewhat current, they are a good place to start. Find tips on what is new and what staples from your own closet you can use. Look for the pieces that you see multiple times, because then you will know they are in style. Another place to look is online. There is a great site is called Hel-looks. It shows street styles from Helsinki, Finland. Street style is a great place to find inspiration. Even if you just type in Street Style in Google, you can find some good sites, like the cool hunter. Finally, watch shows on TV that are based on fashion. Shows on the Style Channel are good, but they can sometimes be geared towards older women so be careful.;
, Jot down pieces of clothing, colors and outfits that you like. Separate them into things that you own and things that you want to add to your wardrobe. Use pictures from magazines or words. This will be where you base your new look.
 Keep in mind that you cannot change you style overnight. Also, you want to incorporate you personal style into what is in fashion. If you are "preppy" mix your blazer or polo with a funky skirt . If you wear a plain T-shirt every day, try to layer them with a cardigan or add some cool jewelry or an interesting scarf.
 Think about this: A fashionista wants others to notice a cool girl with a killer sense of style, not an acne face. Smell nice too by using perfume and deodorant. Take care of yourself. Also, remember that you don't need makeup to be a fashionista.
 Go out and find some new pieces to add to your closet. Here, you have to take into account your financial situation. If you can't or are not willing to spend a lot on clothes, then thrift stores like Goodwill or Plato's Closet, or stores like Target or Walmart are a great places to get started. When shopping second hand try to find clothes that are in good condition and are good quality. Also, keep in mind you can alter a long dress and make it a fun mini just by hemming it. So, if you find something you like have an open mind and you can always alter it. If you are willing to spend a lot more, try out Urban Outfitters, Aeropostale, American Eagle, Hollister, or Anthropologie. Ask someone whose style you admire where they shop and if you are friendly with them see if they could help you with your new look. A common love of fashion is a great way to make new friends. If money is of no concern to you, then get a stylist. However, remember that there is no need to splurge all on one outing. Keep your eyes out for pieces you need and you will begin to accumulate some great clothes.
 Ask your hairdresser for what you'd look good in. You could also wear your hair in different ways everyday. Be sure to know what your face shape is however. The some of the different face shapes are oval, square, heart, pear, round, oblong/rectangular, and triangular. After you know your face shape, then you can do your hair.
 A great necklace can complete a look. Before going out ask yourself whether your outfit is missing something or if there is too much. Also, shoes can completely change your outfit, so make sure your look is put together with a great pair of shoes. If you want to go for something sort of casual but really cool and put together, use flats. Try flip-flops for a casual, summery outfit. For a formal outfit, try heels. If heels scare you, try a low espadrille, because they will stay on and usually are pretty comfortable.
 Go back to the journal you made earlier and try to put together some new looks. Find a full length mirror and just try on lots of things until you find some outfits you like. Don't be afraid to step out of the box - fashion is all about doing something new and being the first to try something.
 You don't want to just be a trend follower. Also try to be a trend setter! Good luck!

