 In some instances, decedent’s property passes outside of his or her probate estate. If all of the decedent’s assets pass outside the probate estate, there is no probate estate, and therefore, you do not need to involve the Courts in distributing the property. Property that passes outside the probate estate includes :


Community property. Community property passes, by law, to the surviving spouse or domestic partner. If all of the property of a married decedent, or a decedent in a registered domestic relationship is community property, you do not need to probate an estate. The surviving spouse or domestic partner may file a Spousal or Domestic Partner Property Petition in order to have the Court decide what his or her share of the community property is, and what part of the decedent’s property passes to him or her.
Jointly held property. Bank accounts, vehicles, real estate, and investments held jointly pass, by law, to the surviving joint owner.
Property with a named beneficiary. Personal property, such as investments, vehicles, or bank accounts with a named transfer on death (“TOD”) or pay on death (“POD”) beneficiary passes, by law, to the beneficiaries upon the owner’s death.;
, Add up the value of everything that does not pass outside of the probate estate. To do this:


Ascertain the date of death value of all furnishings and household goods that do not pass directly to a spouse or registered domestic partner.
Add up the date of death total for all checking, savings, retirement, and investment accounts, including certificates of deposit (“CDs”), stocks, and bonds, that do not have a listed TOD or POD beneficiary or a joint owner.
Add up all life insurance policies that do not list a beneficiary and will be paid to the estate.
Exclude the value of cars, boats, mobile homes, property held in trust, real estate located outside of California, and any unpaid salary or other compensation up to $5,000 owed.
Total the value, without subtracting debts or mortgages.
 In California, there are three (3) choices for distributing probate property of a decedent.


By affidavit. If the probate estate totals $150,000 or less, and there is no real property located in California, you can transfer personal property by completing an affidavit, and do not need to probate the estate. Many banks and the Department of Motor Vehicles (“DMV”) have affidavit forms available. You may also be able to find an affidavit form on your Court’s website, in the self-help section.
By a simplified probate process. If the decedent left $150,000 or less, and that includes real property located in California, you will need to file Petition to Determine Succession to Real Property, an Inventory and Appraisal, and provide notice of hearing to all interested parties.
Through the regular probate process. If the decedent left $150,000 or more, you must go through the regular probate process. (Continue with the next step.)

, The California Court provides a form for the Petition for Probate on its website. Download the form by right clicking the link, and choosing ‘save link as’ then browsing to the place on your hard drive where you wish to save the form, and clicking ‘save’.
 There are basically two options for probate available in California:


Probate of Will and issuance of Letters Testamentary. If the decedent died leaving a Will, and you will not attach the Will to the Petition, you should choose Probate of Will and for Letters Testamentary. If the decedent died leaving a Will, and you plan to attach the Will to the Petition, you should chose Probate of Will and for Letters of Administration with Will annexed.
Issuance of Letters of Administration. If the decedent did not leave a Will, you should choose Letters of Administration.
 The PR will be in charge of collecting and distributing the estate assets, filing pleadings with the Court, and paying the debts of the decedent. If the decedent requested that a particular person act as his or her PR, that is who should be appointed. If he or she is unable to act, or no PR was requested by the decedent, the heirs should choose someone they trust to act as PR.
 You should file your probate documents in the county Court in the county where the decedent lived and/or owned real estate.
 Finishing filling in the Petition for Probate, following the instructions provided on the form. If you are unsure what a question is asking, a Court Clerk can assist you; however, clerks cannot give legal advice, and therefore can only provide a limited amount of assistance.
 You will need to file more than just the Petition for Probate. The best way to decide which forms are appropriate is to read each form, and see if it applies to your situation and circumstances. Probate forms can be located here, on the California Court’s website. Some forms that most people will need to complete include:


Notice of Hearing. Form DE-120, Notice of Hearing should be filed along with the petition.
Notice of Petition to Administer Estate. Form DE-121, Notice of Petition to Administer Estate should be sent to each heir, interested party, and creditor of the decedent.
Duties and Liabilities of Personal Representative. Form DE-147, Duties and Liabilities of Representative, should be signed by the proposed Personal Representative and filed with the Court.
Letters. Form DE-150, Letters, will need to be completed and signed by the Personal Representative, in front of the Court Clerk.
Notice of Administration to Creditors. Form DE-157, Notice of Administration to Creditors, should be completed and mailed to each creditor of the decedent.
Order for Probate. Form DE-140, Order for Probate should be completed by anyone filing a petition for probate. Do not sign the Order. The signature line should be left blank, for the Judge to sign.
 If the PR does not receive his or her letters within two (2) week of filing the Petition and other pleadings, contact the Court.
 The estate will need an EIN in order to hold assets until they can be distributed. An EIN acts as a Social Security number for the estate, so that a bank account can be opened and the PR can collect the assets. To obtain an EIN, go to the Internal Revenue Service’s (“IRS”), Employer ID Numbers page and follow the instructions to obtain your EIN online.
 The PR should go to a local bank or credit union and open an account for the Estate, using the estate’s EIN number. The name on the account should be “the Estate of NAME OF DECEDENT”.
 The PR should use his or her Letters Testamentary or Letters of Administration at all financial institutions where the decedent has an account that is a part of the probate estate, in order to collect the funds in the account. Once collected, all funds should be deposited in the estate account.
 After all assets have been collected, the PR should complete and file an Inventory and Appraisal with the Court. If there is real estate located in California, it will need to be appraised by a Probate Referee. Locate a probate referee in the county where the property is located, by selecting that county from the Probate Referee Contact Information list provided by the California State Controller’s Office.
 The PR should pay the bills and distribute the assets according to the Will or California Intestate Inheritance statues.
 The PR should complete an Ex Parte Petition and file it with the Court.
