 A girl likes to know you are watching out for her. A fine balance is important here, though. You don’t want her to feel that you’re watching every move she makes. That’s too controlling. Just be natural with the small things that come up; she can’t help but notice and feel good!


Offer your arm when crossing the street.
Wait until she’s safely in her house before leaving.
If you haven’t seen her for a few days, give her a call to see if she’s okay.
If she’s sick, call and ask her if she wants you to come by with some magazines or a book., Calmly, and not too seriously, laugh and say something like “It’s okay, whatever.” Try and make her feel comfortable no matter what she says. If she smiles, then that’s good. She will feel that, even during her goofy times, you fully accept her for who she is.
 With how much time people spend hunched over computers and smartphones these days, volunteering to reduce any pent-up tension can definitely make her feel good! Do it slow, though, with medium pressure. The tendency, if it’s not your occupation, is to go too fast with light pressure. But that can make her feel even more stressed. Whether it’s her foot or shoulder, knead the area in a relaxed, slow manner, and watch her melt like butter under your hands!

, Most girls are romantic at-heart and holding her hand as you stroll together in the world can make her feel special. It also lets her know that you’re comfortable showing others that you are together. Keep your clasp relaxed, though, not a death grip! If you’ve just started going out, only do it occasionally. If she grabs your hand, that’s a great sign.
 Don’t automatically assume that she knows. Either way, she wants to hear it from you. She doesn’t have to be all dressed up for you to say it. Most girls make an effort to look pretty, even with a casual outfit, and letting her know that you think so, too, can go a long way in making her feel good.
 All of these small niceties convey to her that you care enough to ask. It also shows that you’re not just thinking of yourself. Be careful to not go overboard, though. Gauge your actions based on what’s seems logical for the situation.

