 Your tonsils are valuable for fighting bacteria and viruses in your mouth. Your doctor may recommend having them removed if:Your tonsils get infected often. For example, you may need to have them out if you have had more than seven infections in the last year, more than five infections in each of the past two years, or more than three infections in each of the past three years.
Your tonsils are infected and resistant to treatment with antibiotics.
Your tonsils are abscessed. The doctor may first try to drain them, but if that doesn’t work, they may have to be removed.
Your tonsils have become so enlarged that they make it difficult for you to swallow or breathe, particularly while you are sleeping.
You have cancer in your tonsils.
You have frequent bleeding from your tonsils.
 It is important that your doctor know your complete medical history so that he or she can plan your procedure and after-care. Give your doctor a complete list of any prescription medications, over-the-counter medications, herbal remedies, vitamins, and supplements that you take so the doctor can check to make sure they won’t interact with the anesthesia. You should discuss the following risks with your doctor:A bad reaction to anesthesia. Tell your doctor if you have previously had anesthesia and reacted badly to it. Common reactions include headaches, nausea, vomiting, and sore muscles. Knowing your previous reactions will help the doctor to plan your surgery and make any adjustments necessary to avoid it from happening again.
Swelling. Your tongue and the roof of your mouth may swell after the surgery. If you are worried about this, ask your doctor how you will be monitored during your recovery and how you will be able to notify someone if the swelling is so severe it makes it difficult to breathe.
Bleeding. Occasionally people have significant bleeding during the procedure or after if the scab comes off before it has finished healing. Tell your doctor if you are taking any medications that may thin your blood. This includes over-the-counter medications containing aspirin, which can interfere with your blood's ability to clot. Your doctor will also want to know if you have any bleeding disorders or if any run in your family.
Infections are rare, but they can occur. Ask your doctor what the follow-up procedures will be to verify that you are healing properly. Tell your doctor if you have any allergies to medications, particularly antibiotics.
 Most of the time tonsillectomies are outpatient procedures. This means that you probably won’t need to spend the night in the hospital. You will receive general anesthesia so you won’t be awake during the operation. The doctor will either cut the tonsils out or use an instrument that uses heat, cold, lasers, or sound waves to remove them. The wound will usually be allowed to heal without stitches. Make sure you understand your doctor’s instructions on how to prepare. Your doctor may tell you to:Avoid taking any medications with aspirin for 14 days or more before the operation. Aspirin can increase your risk of bleeding.
Not eat anything after midnight the day before the operation. It is important that you have an empty stomach for the anesthesia.
 Most people require 10 to 14 days to recover. Make sure you give yourself enough time, particularly if you are an adult. Adults recover more slowly than children. There are several things you can organize ahead of time to make your recovery as easy as possible.Arrange ahead of time to have someone drive you to and from the hospital. This is important because beforehand you may be too nervous to drive safely and afterwards you will still be recovering.
Ask your doctor what pain medications you will be able to take. Many people experience pain in their throat, ears, jaw, or neck. Buy a stock of the medications and put them where you can find them easily.
Buy bland, soft foods. Make sure your refrigerator is stocked with things like applesauce, broth, ice cream, and pudding. These foods are less likely to hurt as you swallow them. Avoid crunchy, hard, acidic, or spicy foods which may irritate your wound or injure the sensitive areas as they heal.
Purchase ice pops and store them in the freezer. Getting enough fluids is important, even when it is uncomfortable to swallow. If drinking water is uncomfortable, you may find it easier to suck on ice cubes or popsicles. The cold may help numb your throat.
Clear your schedule. Give yourself time to sleep as much as you can afterwards. Give yourself the space to avoid going near people who are sick, because you are more vulnerable to infections while you are recovering. Don’t go back to work or school until you can eat a normal diet, sleep through the night and are not taking pain medications. Don’t do athletic activities like basketball, soccer, jogging, or biking for 14 days afterwards.
 Your doctor will likely tell you that you should get emergency medical care if you develop any of the following symptoms:Bleeding. Do not worry if you have tiny dried specks of blood in your nose or mouth. If you have fresh bright red blood that indicates active bleeding, go to the emergency room.
A fever of 102°F (38.9°C) or higher.
Dehydration. Symptoms of dehydration include urinating less often, feeling thirsty, feeling weak, having a headache, nausea, dizziness, passing dark or cloudy urine. Children may be dehydrated if they urinate less than three times a day or produce no tears when they cry.
Difficulty breathing. If you snore or breathe loudly, that is ok. But if you struggle to breath, call emergency responders.
 Being sleep deprived makes you less able to withstand stress and more vulnerable to worrying. Getting enough sleep will also help your immune system to be at its most effective.Adults need between seven to nine hours of sleep per night.If you are under stress, you may find you need more.
Try to get extra sleep the night before the surgery so you will be well rested.
 They will provide you with love, distraction, and an ear when you need it. Surgery is a time when you will benefit a lot from getting help from loved ones.If your family and closest friends live far away, you can stay connected with them by email, phone, letters, Skype calls, and social media.
 These methods are designed to help you control your emotions and give you a mental break from the things that are worrying you. Try these different techniques until you find one that works best for you.Self massage
Deep breathing
Meditation
Do Tai Chi
Music Therapy
Yoga
Visualizing calming images

