 If you’ve never purchased false eyelashes before, this can be a daunting task. For this technique, you want to purchase eyelashes that are made for the outer corners of the eyes, or half lashes.They may look a bit funny in the package, because they are short strips that will not cover your entire lash line. Depending on the look you want, you can purchase extremely dark, long lashes, or shorter, more natural ones.


Make sure you purchase eyelash glue as well! You can find both products at your pharmacy or local beauty supply store.
If you cannot find lashes made specifically for the outer corner, you can always buy regular lashes and cut them yourself.
 You want to apply any eyeshadow and eyeliner before you apply your false lashes. If you try to apply shadows or liners afterwards, you will likely get products into the false lashes, which will make them look less bold and defined. Consider the false lashes as the cherry on top of a completed makeup look.


You can do winged eyeliner to enhance the look of your winged lashes.
 Before you apply your false eyelashes, it’s good to give your natural lashes a curl and one coat of mascara first. Curl your eyelashes with a curler, holding it down firmly for about five seconds. Do this at the base of your lashes, the middle of your lashes, and again at the tip. Apply one, light coat of your favorite mascara.By curling and darkening your natural lashes, they will blend into your false lashes more seamlessly.
 You can do this in a couple of ways. You can squeeze the glue from the bottle directly onto the strip of your lashes, coating the band in an even line of glue. If you prefer, you can squeeze a bit of glue onto a surface, and then carefully run the band of the lashes through it.After you’ve checked that there is glue on the entire strip, let the glue dry a bit so it is tacky, rather than runny.
 Once the glue is tacky, hold your eyelid taut with your finger. Then, carefully place the false eyelashes along your outer corner lash line. You can apply the lashes with your fingers or with tweezers.


Once you’ve ensured that your lashes are placed in the correct spot, press them firmly into the base of your lash line.
 This is important to ensure that the half lashes blend into your natural lashes. If you desire, you can apply a coat of mascara to your eyelashes, to add a bit more intensity and ensure that everything blends fully. By applying these half lashes to your outer corner, you create a gorgeous, winged look that makes your eyes look big and bright.

