 If you are a chronically jealous person, then the chances are that you feel that you are not a person who is worthy of admiration because you are not exciting, interesting, or dynamic. It's time to work on making yourself into a person who has no reason to be jealous because you're so happy with who you are. Here's what to do:


Develop your self-confidence. Write down all the things you love about yourself and make a list of your flaws. Work to address as many flaws as you can, and you will start feeling better about who you are. If you feel better about being in your own skin, you will be much less likely to be jealous.
One of the most common reasons to be jealous is for material reasons. If you're jealous of a friend who has a lot of money, or whose family has a lot of money, while you do not, you should accept that you won't be able to buy all of the things she can. Instead, make your money count. Save up your money to buy just a few key items for your wardrobe or apartment that will make you feel good about what you have.
Work on your body. If you're jealous of your friend because of his rock-hard abs, start hitting the gym more often in order to reach that goal. Remember that, while everyone is born with a unique body, you still have a lot of control over how that body looks. However, if you think that everyone around you looks better than you do and that there's nothing you can do to change that, then you may have body image problems and should seek help from a doctor.
Remember to be yourself. You won't beat your jealousy if you're obsessed with doing what your friends do, looking like your friends, or having the same relationship your friend has. No two people are alike, and you'll only feel worse if you're trying to emulate someone else. Though different people should inspire us in different ways, don't forget that you are a unique individual and never compare yourself to anyone else.
 You may be jealous of others because you can't stand the things you do on a daily basis. To avoid this, you should be proud of the hard work you do and should also be excited to pursue your interests. If you're busy pursuing your own goals and interests, you won't have time to be jealous of what others are doing.


Do more of the things you love. If you spend a lot of your time wishing you were more like your friends, it may be because you don't do a lot of things that you're proud of. Become more cultured by reading more poetry, plays, and novels, or work on developing useful skills, such as knitting or fixing furniture. The more you do to improve yourself, the more happy you will be to be you.
Work on your career. If you're jealous of someone for following her dreams, or jealous of someone who got a promotion at work, you should either work harder at your own job, or think about changing career paths so you can do what you really want.
Set goals for yourself and reach them. Start small. If you've never run before, train to run a 5K without stopping to walk. If you succeed in this goal, you'll be proud of what your capable of, and will try to set other goals for yourself as well.
 If you are jealous of someone for having so many friends or for maintaining an awesome relationship, it's likely that there is something lacking in your own relationships. Try to spend more time engaged in meaningful conversations or activities with your friends, and work on having open and honest relationships.


If you're happy with who your friends or significant other are, then you would have no reason to want the relationships others have. If you have a strong relationship, then you will already feel validated and secure.

If you have a friendship that is based on jealousy, it may be time to end it. If you feel that you have a friend who tries to constantly make you jealous by bragging about all of the things she has, it may be time to move on.


Improve your relationship with your family. If you don't spend enough time with your family, you may be jealous of the close relationship others have with their family members. Make the effort to call home or hang out with your folks more often, and you will feel better about your relationship.
Improve your love life. If you're in a serious relationship, work on having honest and open communication to help you address the things that aren't working. If you're single, work on being happy with being unattached and being excited to find someone in the future, instead of spending your time being jealous of everyone in a committed relationship.

