 If your tap water is very hot, you might be able to use this water right out of the tap. You can also heat water on the stove, or fill a glass container and heat it in the microwave.The water should be hot to the touch but not quite boiling. Aim for a temperature somewhere between 120 and 180 degrees Fahrenheit (49 and 82 degrees Celsius).
You can check the temperature with a kitchen thermometer. If you don't have a thermometer, simply feel it with your finger. It should feel scalding hot to the touch.;
, Start by pouring in a small amount of hot water, and swirling it around the base of the jar. Next, fill the jar completely and let it sit inside for a full minute.The reason to start with only a small amount of water is to prevent the glass from cracking with hot water. Make sure that you're using a canning-quality jar, such as a Mason or Ball jar. These jars are intended to be used with very hot water.
Set a timer for 1 minute (or 60 seconds) while you wait. This can be a good time to retrieve a metal strainer, if you don't already have it handy.
 Leave about 1 inch (2.5 cm) inside the jar. The goal is to have a very hot jar with hot water in the bottom.If you pour out too much water, you can use hot tap water to replace the water at the base of the jar because the jar itself is already hot.
If you heated the water to the boiling point, you can allow it to cool a little. However, you may want to use a hot pad to protect your hand when you pour out the water. The hot jar could burn your hand.
 Rest the strainer over the top of the jar so that the basket is held inside the jar.


Do not let the strainer come into contact with the water itself.
The strainer should rest inside the warm air of the jar, but not inside the hot water.
 Place at least three to four ice cubes inside the strainer, working quickly. Alternatively, you could put a few pieces of ice into the lid of the jar and set it atop the hot jar.If your strainer is too small to fit that many ice cubes, you could use crushed ice, instead.
The contrast of the cold ice against the hot wet air inside the jar is what creates the fog.
 When cold air from the ice suddenly clashes with the warm air of the jar, rapid condensation should occur, causing fog to form inside the jar. If you have an aerosol spray, such as hairspray, a quick spray inside the jar will make the fog more long-lasting.For colorful fog, add a few drops of food coloring to your hot water.
As the jar cools, the fog will diminish.

