 If you have naturally straight hair, this can be a great way to achieve a soft, romantic wavy look.


While your curling iron heats up, use a large clip to secure the top layer of your hair on top of your head. Starting at the back of your head, gather a small amount of hair and wrap it around the curling iron. Make sure that the wand is pointed down toward the floor.
Hold each piece of hair around the curling iron, and then release. After you finish the bottom layer of your hair, simply take out your clip and start curling pieces from the top section of your hair.
When you curl the pieces of hair near your face, curl them in the opposite direction of your face so that they won’t fall into your eyes.After you’ve finished curling, gently run your fingers through your hair to make it look more natural. Spritz with hairspray to keep it in place. This is a great style for hanging out with you friends on the weekends, and you’re sure to get plenty of compliments.
If you don’t own a curling wand or are usually rushed before school in the morning but still want wavy hair, use the braid method. When your hair is still damp at night, braid it into as many simple braids as you like. The more you braid, the tighter your waves will be. Sleep on these braids. Take them out in the morning, and run your fingers through your newly wavy hair., If you have naturally curly hair, you might simply want to define your curls so that they are sleek and distinct. This is a good every day routine for school.









When your hair is still damp, comb through it and apply a gel or a mousse. If you have thinner hair opt for a mousse, as it is lighter, but if you have thicker hair, you might want to go for a gel because it offers more hold.Use your fingers to help shape unruly ringlets.
Let your hair air dry or use a diffuser attachment on your hair dryer. If you use a diffuser, turn your head over, and push the diffuser up against your hair. The diffuser will help define your curls without making them frizzy.
Consider finishing with a styling spray meant to add shine and tame frizz, or just use a regular lightweight hairspray for a little bit of hold.
 Straight hair can be a nice change, and give you a sleek, polished look. If you have naturally curly hair, this is good way to go for a completely different look, but if you have almost straight hair, it can make you look a little more put together.


Before you start to use your flat iron, prep your hair. While it’s still damp, apply a heat protectant mousse or spray, and then blow dry your hair.If your flat iron has multiple heat settings, know which you should use based on your hair type: fine hair (250-300 degrees), average hair (300-350 degrees), or thick hair (350-400 degrees).
Section your hair with clips or bands, and straighten the bottom layer first. Start about half an inch from your roots, and pull the iron down your hair at an even, slow pace. This is more effective than multiple quick strokes. Leaving a bit of hair unstraightened at your roots will help it to keep some of its volume.
After you have finished, use a small mirror you can hold to view the back of your head in the mirror on your wall. Make sure you haven’t missed any spots.
Straightening your hair can be a great way to make a drastic different in your school look.

