 You have the experience and know you’re ready to consult. Choosing whether you want to go it alone, or work with an established firm is an important decision and there are multiple things to consider.


Working for yourself – some Pros:

Builds your self-esteem. Any success you have is going to be based on your hard work and decision making. It can be a deeply satisfying experience.
Control. You’re in charge! You pick the jobs. You set the hours. You can work from home if you feel like it.
Tax advantages. You may now be able to take advantage of some worthwhile tax deductions. Check with an advisor before going overboard.
Great income opportunities. Your hard-work and dedication could reap huge rewards, and since you’re the one at the top, you don’t have to stress out about getting your cut.


Working for yourself – some Cons:

Long hours. Getting a business off of the ground is a lot of hard work. Just because you can sleep in and work from home, doesn’t mean that you can get away with this all the time.
No guaranteed salary. Whether or not you make any money is now entirely dependent on you. A lot of the perks that you may have taken for granted like sick leave and paid vacations are probably out the window, also.
A lot of responsibility. All the paperwork and operational chores are now on you, but even more than that, the fate of the business is also on your shoulders. It can be a large burden to bear.
 If you’re going into business for yourself, you’re going to need to supply yourself with everything you need. This may vary from situation to situation, but some important things to consider are:


Office rental
Services such as internet, phone, security, etc. for your office
Office supplies
Travel expenses
Fees for any pertinent licenses or certifications required to run your business
Insurance

, You need to make sure your business is legitimate, or else you can run into some serious problems down the road. These are just a few items to consider, but you can learn more here.


Taxes. You need to determine your tax obligations. The four basic types of business taxes levied by the federal government are: income tax, self-employment tax, taxes for employers, and excise taxes.
You will have to select the form of your business. This will also play into the tax forms you’ll need to file. These are the common forms a business can take:

Sole Proprietorship
Partnership
Corporation
S Corporation
Limited Liability Company (LLC)


Your state income taxes may also vary depending on the form of your business and where you’ll be operating.
 Depending on how you plan to work it, you can rent an office or work from a home office.


Renting an office will be more expensive, but may also have a more professional feel.
Working from home can save you money, but you may also have to keep yourself motivated in that environment and not give into the urge to relax at home.
Make sure you select a location that gives you the best opportunity to communicate with your customers and effectively meet their needs.
 Organization is going to be the key to your company’s success, especially when you’re just getting started. You’ll most likely need:


A thorough filing system. Keeping track of client information as well as any vital legal or tax forms for your company will be crucial to your success.
Hardware. This includes phones, computers, printers, routers, and anything else you may need.
Set up any services that you may need , such as phone, internet, security, etc.
Give yourself a comfortable place to work. Make sure you create an environment that you can perform well in.
 This will be very helpful in keeping yourself on task and will make you feel a sense of accomplishment when you start achieving what you set out to do.


Here are some examples of short-term goals:

Set a number of potential new clients to contact in a day, a week, or a month and then try to beat that number.
Build relationships with other people who can help you. They may not be paying you, but sometimes building out your professional network can lead to opportunities that you couldn’t access before.
Spend a month or so analyzing the competition and piece together a new marketing strategy that differentiates you from them.


For long-term goals, you may want to consider:

Turning a profit. This should be first and foremost on your mind. It may take a while, but keep your eye on the prize.
Double your revenue. Maybe you’re profitable already, but you can always be doing more. Set a goal to double your take by the end of the next fiscal year.
Plan for expansion. Think about what comes next after you’ve been successfully operating for at least a year. Consider taking on more office space, or possibly taking someone else on.



