 The stray cat may appear frightened and scared by you, especially if is it not used to other people or to being outside. A frightened cat may hiss, growl, or spit at you. These are normal signs of fear and the cat may just be reacting to being lost, away from its owner, or outdoors. An aggressive cat may howl at you and its eyes may be dilated, with its fur on end and its head cocked back.If the cat starts to act aggressive, it may be feral. Feral cats are cats that have always lived outdoors and have not been socialized to people. They usually cannot be adopted and may end up in a kill shelter if they are caught. You may try to approach the feral cat anyway to ensure it is not sick or in danger, but do so with caution.If the cat allows you to approach it or if it approaches you, it is likely not feral. A stray cat will be okay with rubbing your leg or being close to you. A feral cat will likely not approach you at all and may hide or run away at the sight of you.
Stray cats also tend to walk like house cats, with their tail up. Feral cats may stay low to the ground, crouching or crawling, and protect their body with their tail. Feral cats also will not make eye contact with you and will not purr, beg, or blink at you.
 You should approach a frightened or feral cat with caution and protect yourself against getting scratched or injured by the cat. Wear rubber gloves and a long sleeved shirt so your skin is not exposed.You should also have a towel or blanket ready to throw over the cat. Putting a towel or blanket over the cat can make it easier to put up the cat and transport it without getting scratched or attacked.
 Though the cat may appear frightened or scared, it may eventually approach you if you place a bowl of dry food and water in its area. You should leave the food and water out so the cat can eat and drink. Stay a few feet away from the cat so it does not feel threatened by you. You may then be able to move closer to the cat or get it to approach you by talking quietly to it.


You may say, “Here, kitty” or “Hello there.” With enough coaxing, the cat may come to you.
If the cat is feral or acting aggressive, it may not approach you. You can try throwing the blanket or towel over the cat. Then, lift it by the nape of its neck and try to put it in a box or in a container.
 If the cat appears too aggressive, you may want to contact animal control so they can remove it safely and efficiently. Give animal control your contact number and ask them how long it will take for someone to get to the scene. Try to stay in the area until animal control arrives to make sure the cat is picked up safely.If you are not able to stay on the scene, you should describe where the cat is located by giving animal control a description of any road names, landmarks, or mile markers in the area. This will make it easier for animal control to locate the stray cat when they arrive.

