 The number one reason customers get poor service from a Valet is because they are not paying attention to how the system works. Valet drivers and doormen have 2 objectives, serve you while making a good impression, and moving cars in and out of the loading zone quickly. If they cannot move cars quickly, customers become easily annoyed and upset resulting in a poor first impression of the establishment (for example, a restaurant) and lost tips for the Valet. You may be caught off guard by the rushed nature of the interaction between you and the valet, but this is not to be taken for rudeness. So pay attention to what other people are doing, and what the valets are asking of you. Many times customers are being loaded and unloaded on the curb of a busy street. This requires a lot of focus and attention from the Valet as well as the customer.;
, Drive slowly into the loading zone and stop behind the car in front of you. Do not get out of your car until the Valet opens your door. Many times a valet will want you to pull forward or move to another position in the loading zone before you exit your vehicle. Watch for direction from the Valet.
 It should be the valet's responsibility to open the doors for the female passengers first. However, sometimes time and circumstances do not permit this. Make the judgment yourself about whether it is within the capability of the valet to perform this service. If there is a lot of traffic and only one or two valets, it may not be possible. When you exit the vehicle, listen carefully for instructions from the valet concerning price, closing time, and how to get your vehicle back. These details are very important. Some valet services may close earlier than the restaurant and leave your car somewhere convenient for you to pick up. If you don't listen, you may have to leave your car overnight and pay an extra fee.
 You do not need to include every detail of the vehicle's performance, but if a door only opens a certain way, or the alarm is finicky, most valets appreciate this information.
 Once you are ready for your car, hand your ticket to the valet standing closest to the valet stand (also known as the "doorman"), or to the Valet who asks for it. Generally, one or two valets run the stand while others retrieve cars. You can slow the process down by giving your ticket to the wrong person. Once again, don't mistake the rushed atmosphere for rudeness. Usually valets are under a lot more pressure when customers are leaving than when they are arriving.
 When you see your car, quickly gather your party and get in. This is the most common time to tip the valet. Valets usually pool their tips and divide them equally. Usually it does not matter who you tip. If you are paying a fee, this usually goes to the Doorman.
 Watch for other traffic as well as valets. Be aware of your surroundings.

