 Fiber is essential for healthy and regular bowel movements. Increasing the fiber in your diet can help prevent constipation and help relieve it when you have it. Foods that contain fiber include:Fruits and berries. If the fruit has edible skin, like apples, plums, and grapes, make sure you eat those because that is where most of the fiber is.
Vegetables. Dark, leafy green vegetables like collard, mustard, and beet greens as well as Swiss chard are very high in fiber. Other vegetables like broccoli, spinach, carrots, cauliflower, brussel sprouts, artichokes, and green beans are high in fiber, too.
Beans and legumes. This group includes lentils, kidney, navy, garbanzo, pinto, lima and white beans. Black eyed peas are a high fiber food you can also add. Beans and legumes can cause intestinal gas in some people. If this happens to you, you may want to avoid this source of fiber while you are constipated. Beans and legumes may be best used to prevent any constipation.
Whole grains. Whole grains are unprocessed grains, which excludes white grains. Cereals like granola tend to have the highest fiber, but if you are buying boxed cereals, read the label to make sure your choice is high in fiber.
Seeds and nuts, such as pumpkin, sesame, and sunflower seeds and almonds, walnuts, and pecans.
 Try eating prunes and drinking prune juice. Prunes promote regular bowel movements. Prunes are especially high in fiber and contain sorbitol, a stool-loosening sugar that naturally helps relieve constipation. Sorbitol is a mild colonic stimulant that helps reduce the transit time of stool and decreases the risk of constipation.If you don't like the wrinkly texture or unique taste of prunes, prune juice may be a better alternative. The juice should start working within a few hours, so it’s important to let one glass pass through your intestines before attempting to drink another, or you may risk diarrhea.
Prunes have 14.7 grams of sorbitol per 100 grams, whereas prune juice has 6.1 grams per 100 gram. You will have to drink roughly twice as much prune juice to achieve the same results.
 Probiotics are live bacterial cultures that create the right environment for your digestive system to stay healthy and run on a regular schedule. Probiotics are thought to alter the microflora in the gut and reduce the amount of time it takes for your food to be digested and move through your system. This can help prevent constipation and promote regular bowel movements.Try adding a cup of yogurt to your daily diet. Check the label to make sure the yogurt you buy has active cultures of live bacteria.
Include fermented and cultured foods such as kombucha, kimchi, and sauerkraut. These foods also contain beneficial bacteria that may aid in digestion and relieve constipation.Drink plenty of water. Hard, dry stools are a common cause of constipation. The more water you add, the easier it will be to pass the stool. Experts don’t have a solid rule about how much water a day a person needs to drink. The most common recommendation is to drink about eight eight-ounce glasses of water every day.When you are constipated, increase to ten eight-ounce glasses of water every day. Use that as a starting point and find what works best for you.

