 Have at least 60 strength, 75 attack and 60 defence. If your player is weak, you will get killed, and that's not very helpful for the person you are trying to rescue. Other than the fact that you delayed their death for about 5 seconds.;
, Bring a lot of food to replenish your health. Heroes stop being heroes when they run to a bank to get extra food, leaving their "client" to die!

, Don't call people stupid, even if they are a level 3 and are fighting a Lesser Demon with a bronze pickaxe. Help them out. If they are a level 3, or they have low health, tell them to run and that you will kill the Lesser Demon for them. That also goes to calling people noobs. It is very difficult to tell a person you have a good reputation after calling 5 people noobs, and have them believe you.
 Wearing around tattered clothes does not put a good image in people's minds. You might even be mistaken as a one of the tramps that hang around in Varrock. Your outfit does not need to be extremely expensive, but you don't want people thinking you are stingy. A set of black gowns is OK, as is your full Saradomin armor completed with skillcape.
 It is very unlikely that players will all be crowded around one spot shouting "Help!". You don't want to seem like you have favorites by following people around. It is probably not going to insult someone if you leave them after they are out of danger. If it really does annoy them, explain to them *patiently* that you need to help someone else. If you see people that are in trouble very often, add them to your friends list and tell them to send you a message if they are in trouble.
 That way you are most likely to get there before they die. If, by the time you get there, they are already dead, then read their gravestone. That will tell you how long the gravestone will last before crumbling. If you think it will still be there by the time you kill whatever monster that killed them, then do it. When in doubt, be safe. Repairing their grave is a very polite thing to do.

