 This should be located at the top of the breaker panel.;
,,


Connected to this screw should be a red, black, or blue covered wire.
If you have properly turned off the power, there should be no signs of voltage.
 You may need a small, pointy tool, such as a screwdriver, to get them out.
 The cable clamp will keep the four-conductor cable in place after you run it through the hole.


Remove the lock-nut from the cable clamp.
Push the cable clamp through the hole. The side that comes through the bottom should have spiral edges for screwing it in.
Tighten the lock-nut back around the cable clamp by placing it at the underside of the clamp where you see the spiral edges and screwing it in with Channel-Lock pliers.
 You may need a professional to look at your breaker box and tell you which kind of four-conductor cable you need.
 Inside the covering, you'll find a copper wire (the ground wire), a white covered wire (the neutral wire), a black wire (the hot wire), and a red wire (another hot wire). In the sub-panel box, the neutral and ground wires will connect the same as they do in the main breaker box, but the red and black wires will connect to the hot bar instead of a circuit breaker.
 It is a metal strip with a row of screws running down it. Using a flathead screwdriver, unscrew one of them slightly and push your ground wire through. Screw it back in tightly after you insert it.
 Like the ground bus bar, this will be a metal strip with a row of screws, but the neutral bus bar is typically white.


Take a neutral wire and cut away about a centimeter of the covering at the end of the wire.
Use your flathead screwdriver to unscrew one of the screws and then push the wire through.
Screw it back in after you have inserted the neutral wire.



You should find a list of acceptable circuit breakers you can use.
Make sure that your circuit breaker is of acceptable size and voltage.
 It will be clearly indicated where this should go. Depending on the kind of circuit breaker you must use, you may have to attach the red hot wire as well.
 One set will be on the left side, and the other on the right side.
,,,