 As soon as you suspect PID, make an appointment to talk with your OBGYN. They will ask you about your medical and sexual history and then will do a general pelvic exam. If they find that you are tender in your abdomen and around your cervix, then they will likely order additional testing. If your OBGYN is booked up, try contacting your primary care physician. You could also go to a clinic, such as Planned Parenthood.They may order a blood test to see if your cells appear to be fighting off an infection. They may also send off a cervical fluid sample to be tested for STDs.There is no one clear way to diagnose PID. That means that, unfortunately, it is often misdiagnosed as another problem with similar symptoms, such as appendicitis.
Your doctor may also recommend hospitalization as part of your treatment if you: are very ill, won’t respond to antibiotics, have an abscess, or are pregnant.
 If your doctor believes that a PID diagnosis is possible, but needs more evidence they may request permission to complete an ultrasound, or in-depth image of your body’s interior. For example, an ultrasound can show whether or not an abscess is blocking or stretching out part of your fallopian tubes, something that is not only painful but very dangerous to your overall health., This is a procedure where your doctor will make a small incision in your abdominal area and then insert a small, lighted camera. This will allow them to view your internal organs up close and personal. They can also take tissue samples, if needed, to conduct additional testing.Even though it is only minimally invasive, a laparoscopic procedure is still surgery. So, you’ll want to be very clear on the possible risks and benefits before agreeing to go forward.
 The most common treatment for PID is antibiotics. Because PID infections are usually quite severe and may involve a number of different harmful organisms, you’ll probably have to take at least two different types of antibiotics at once. They will come in either pill form or an in-office shot.If you get pills, make sure to read the directions carefully and finish the entire run of the drugs, even if you start to feel better before they are finished.
Most doctors will want you to make a follow-up appointment about three days in so they can check your progress.
 While PID is not contagious, the STDs that it often develops from, chlamydia and gonorrhea, are easily passed between sexual partners. This makes it possible for you to be cured of PID only to be infected once more. Once you’ve been diagnosed with PID, talk with your sexual partner(s) and suggest that they seek out treatment. Remember that they may show no symptoms, but still have PID and be capable of spreading it.