;
, This will give you the option to "Create a Page"  Your new Author Page will allow you to track visitors, advertise and market your work, provide excerpts of your book, links to your blogs and encourage feedback and comments from your followers! 

, Of course, if you don't have a Facebook account, step one would be to join!

, Blogspot and Wordpress are blogging sites that provide free blog access. These sites offer easy to follow instructions on how to get started and creative templates to use to express your unique writing style and personality. A blog is a great to way to get a buzz going about your latest writing project or topic. For example, an author who's writing on "Bullying" created a blog that delved into the topic on a more personal note as she shared some of the experiences of her son.


Blogging is also a great way to practice your writing and create a following. The easiest way to start is to write on something that you really care about or is easy for you to get excited about. You can also consider a need that you had trouble getting met and write about how you met that need in your own life and best practices on how others can meet that need in their own lives.
Blogging also is a great way to raise your internet ratings. The more things you have online, for example, Facebook, Linkedin, Twitter, website, etc., the  more people can find you and your writing.
 As you build your platform, you can include the link to your new blog on your personal FB page, Author's page and Group page. Encourage your Facebook family to start following you on your blog.
 Become a contributor to an online magazine, join a writing community like wikiHow, offer to speak pro bono on your writing topic, hold a free workshop of your topic at the library. For example, Dale Carnegie could have held a "How To Win Friends And Influence People' seminar that would have provided exposure to his book.
 If you are a writer who enjoys speaking, BlogSpot Radio is another free way to build your writing platform and internet exposure.
 If you have self-published a book or will soon do so, create a book website to market your book and get your name out there. Homestead.com and similar companies offer free trials and their software and templates are easy to use.
 An article or short story that can fit into a tri-fold brochure or 8.5 by 11 folded booklet with a colorful cover makes a great giveaway that you can leave in the back pockets of airplane seats, in waiting rooms, and pass on during everyday networking opportunities. Carry a giveaway with you at all times. As a writer, it's better than a business card.


Ensure that your contact info and any online links are included.
 Include the title of your book, your name, contact information and links to your FB page, blogs and/or website. The postcard should direct your reader to specifically do something, for example, like your work on Facebook, download the free excerpt, check out your website and sign your guest book.
 You're bound to meet a lot of other aspiring writers this way. Share what you are doing to build your platform and show genuine interest in their story. Building your platform is not only about you but is also about the people who will support your work by reading it, providing feedback and by encouraging other writers, like yourself, to polish their craft and let the world know that another writer has just taken wing!

