 Skip the elevator ride in your apartment, office, or even at the mall and take the stairs instead. A brisk walk up and down a set of stairs will get your heart racing and act as a great cardio workout, especially if done on a daily basis.
 If you don’t have time to schedule in a daily exercise routine, create one for yourself by parking further from your office in the morning. This will mean you have to take a walk to the office and start your day on a healthy note.If you take the bus to work, you can get off one stop earlier on your way to work and on your way home. This will force you to take a quick walk before and after work.
 If you have at least twenty minutes of open time in your schedule, try to fit in a quick exercise routine. Choose a time once a day where you can focus on working out and be consistent about that time.


You do not need to join a gym or take a fitness class to do exercise. Instead, you can Exercise-in-Your-Bedroom|workout in your bedroom at home using online exercise videos or a set training plan. Doing twenty to thirty minutes of exercise a day can greatly improve your fitness level in a noticeable way.
There are many online resources you can use to create a quick, daily workout to stay fit. You can also try interval training, which takes about 30 minutes and can lead to notable results in terms of fitness and health.
 Look for a recreational sports team in your area or start your own league. A sports team can give you the opportunity to socialize and get fit at the same time. Think about a sport or activity you enjoy and seek out a recreational team you can join.


You may also want to consider joining a weekly fitness class, like yoga or pilates. Going to a fitness class one to two times a week is a small time commitment that could lead to high fitness results, as well as increase positive social interaction, foster lasting friendships and give mental health a fresh boost.
Exercise helps release endorphins which act like a natural antidepressant. Often times, mild case of the blues can be controlled with daily exercise.

