 Rather than directly facing your target, you should make a quarter turn so that you face the side of the ring. Beginning at a 90 degree angle from the target allows you to twist your hips in order to gain momentum when throwing the shot., If you are right-handed, you will step back with your left foot. This gives you stability and added momentum for throwing the shot., This will also help you to gain momentum as you throw. Twist toward the back of the ring and keep your non-throwing arm low., You don’t want to hold the shot in your palm, but rather at the base of your fingers, with your fingers slightly spread apart. This allows you to flick the ball off your hand.Bend your hand back in a cocked position. Imagine that you are balancing a tray or pizza box. Your hand should be steady, but not over-extended, as this may cause an injury., Make sure that your elbow is bent and parallel to the floor. Your thumb should point down toward your collarbone, and you should point your palm in the direction that you are throwing.Keep your eyes and head back, rather than focused on the shot., You should twist your body to the same side as your throwing hand as you rise, so that you are facing the target when you release the shot., Extend your arm to its full length while pivoting your hips to face forward., Try to release the shot at a 45 degree angle. Make sure that you wait to release the shot put until your arm is fully extended. You may flick your wrist to add more momentum, but be careful not to overdo it., You want to make sure your muscles are limber before and after throwing a shot put. To stretch your shoulders, stand near a doorway and lift your arm, holding it straight and parallel to the floor. Grab onto the frame of the door and gently lean forward, which will extend your arm behind your shoulder. Hold the position for 30 seconds, then repeat the exercise on the other side.
 This will prevent you from straining your muscles and ensure that you are working out at full capacity. Loosen your muscles with a general warm-up, then do specific exercises to target particular areas.


A general warm-up can consist of running, swimming, or riding a bike.
For specific exercises to target your arms, you can try push-ups or lift weights.
 You should stretch your muscles after throwing the shot put to cool down. You could make wide circles with your arms to stretch out your muscles. It is important to cool down so your muscles don’t tighten up after exercise. This will help you avoid injury and lactic acid build-up.

Try walking around the track while swinging your arms to loosen your muscles.

