 The more, the better as this will make your search easier.


Branch of Service they were in (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps or Coast Guard)
Military unit names/location (4th Infantry Division or the USS FDR)
Dates the person served in the military
Birth date
Service number and/or social security number
Where the person was born or grew up
Location of where they entered and or exited the military;
, Write a letter to the MPRC asking for help with your search and including as much information as you have on the veteran, such as his or her name, serial number or social security number, date of birth, the unit he or she served in, and when he or she served. Also enclose a letter to the service member you wish to contact, along with a stamped envelope. The letter you are sending must be unsealed so that the MPRC can read it to make sure it is not inappropriate. For more information on the process, contact the MPRC at 314-801-0800 or mpr.center@nara.gov. Send the letters together to:


National Personnel Records Center
1 Archives Drive
St. Louis, Missouri 63138

, If a veteran has filed a claim with the VA, they can forward letters to the veteran’s address on record. Write a letter to the VA with your request and all the information you have on the veteran. Enclose the letter you wish to be forwarded and a stamped envelope. The letter you are sending must be unsealed so that the VA can read it to make sure it is not inappropriate. For more information on the process, contact the VA at 1-800-827-1000. Send the letter along with a check for $2 made out to the Department of Veteran Affairs to:VA Records Processing Center
PO Box 5020
St. Louis, MO 63115

, Each branch of the military has its own locator for military personnel, but the army, air force, and navy can only locate active service personnel. The Separations and Retirement Branch, on the other hand, can help you find former marines.
 No one wants to look for an old friend or a relative’s war buddy only to find they have passed on, but it’s a good idea to check. The grave locator run by the VA includes information from VA National Cemeteries, state veterans cemeteries, and private cemeteries if the grave is marked with a government grave marker.