 Several agencies offer a phlebotomy certificate, each with its own requirements. The names of the specific certificate that you’ll earn vary, as each organization gives their certificate a different name. Practically speaking, the certificates are all sufficient to earn you a job as a phlebotomist. The primary phlebotomy certification bodies are:.


The National Healthcareer Association (NHA) which provides a Certified Phlebotomy Technician (CPT) certificate. This is the most common phlebotomy certificate.
The American Society for Clinical Pathology, (ASCP) which provides a Phlebotomy Technician (PBT) certificate.
The American Medical Technologists (AMT) which provides a Registered Phlebotomy Technician (RPT) certificate.
The National Center for Competency Testing (NCCT) which provides a National Certified Phlebotomy Technician (NCPT) certificate.
The American Certification Agency (ACA) which provides a Certified Phlebotomy Technician (CPT) certificate.;
, Although the five programs listed above all provide a similar final product, the requirements along the way may differ from one another.You can find the certificate requirements for each on their respective websites, and all are also listed in order on the Allied Health Schools website.

For example, the NHA requires that certificate applicants have attended a phlebotomy training program which includes having performed 10 capillary sticks and 30 venipunctures on live individuals.
The ASCP, on the other hand, does not require completion of a training program, as long as you have been trained in phlebotomy (or worked as a full-time phlebotomist) at an accredited laboratory.
 There are many certified and accredited programs that offer phlebotomy training. These programs practically prepare students for the certification exam and typically take 2–4 months to complete. Students learn about patient ethics and communication, blood sampling, and legal considerations of the practice.Be sure to find a program that offers hands-on training in addition to classroom instruction, as some certification bodies require a certain number of successful blood collections.
 After having completed an accredited phlebotomy training program, you will have to apply for the agency’s certification exam. You can register for every agency’s exam online through the agency’s respective website. You’ll need to provide proof that you have met the agency’s examination requirements.Each certifying agency will also provide a different exam structure. View the Phlebotomy Training Group’s website for more specific information.You’ll also need to pay any accompanying fees online. As an example, the test for ASPT certification costs $90, or $135 for walk-ins., Once you’ve registered, you can begin studying for the exam. Although your training course will have given you the needed knowledge, it will help your chances at passing the test if you study beforehand. To assist with studying, websites like the Phlebotomy Training Group provide sample exams.Passing the exam will effectively make you a certified phlebotomist.

Each certifying agency will structure and grade their examination differently. For example, the NHA scores exams on a numerical scale from 200 to 500. Examinees must score at least a 360 to pass.
 Every certification body requires phlebotomists to renew their certificates in a given time period. The time periods vary depending on the certifying body; some require annual renewal while others require renewal every two years. Each certification agency can provide information regarding how to renew.To renew, you may be required to take courses to show continuing education or have completed a certain number of blood collections.
Failing to renew your certificate may result in extra fees to re-certify. Some certification agencies will even require you to re-take the exam should you forget to renew your certification.
 If you’re still in high school and interested in pursuing phlebotomy as a career path, take as many courses as possible in pre-medical fields like chemistry and biology. These will give you a competitive edge over other applicants when applying to phlebotomy certification programs.Practically speaking, a firm knowledge of biology (e.g. anatomy) and chemistry will also make the certification process and your work as a phlebotomist easier.
 You will need to be at least 18 years of age to be eligible for phlebotomy training, and have a high school diploma.If you have not graduated from high school, you can earn a diploma by passing the General Education Development (GED) exam.
 While this is not required for the certification or to practice phlebotomy, it will give you a great deal of specific, practical knowledge regarding the profession of phlebotomy.If you’re not already in college, a two-year degree would help you prepare for the career of a phlebotomist. You could even earn the degree while you’re working on the phlebotomy certification.

That said, if you already have a four-year degree (even in an unrelated field), it’s probably not worth your while to return to school for a two-year Associate degree.

