 Use money to buy the basic amount of food and shelter you need. If you have food to eat and a roof over your head, your money has accomplished the bulk of what it can do to contribute to your happiness. Be thankful that we are more fortunate than our hunter-gatherer ancestors who had to struggle for essentials to stay alive, eat whenever possible, and worry about the possibility of being able to survive 'til the next day.;
, Look around at everything you have and give thanks. Accept that the pleasure of getting a new house, a new car, new clothes, new games, toys or any new material things will soon fade away, so we should be mindful of what we already have.
 The thrill of acquiring new things tend to fade away quickly, and may even beget unhappiness: the new car get scratched, the new home deteriorates and requires a new roof or paint, the new clothes become worn, and all material things will fade, decay or become lost. Instead of buying material things, buy experiences instead:
~ Travel around the world with your family.
~ Show appreciation of your friends by hosting and buying a dinner.
~ Plan an outing for your children.
~ Give your time, joy and money and they may bring the highly cherished, perfect gift that we all seek.
 You may avoid ruins of life and new wrinkles, tears and disappointments thus yielding new unhappiness as days and decades merely pass away or grow in grace.
 You could potentially benefit the world for generations and lifetimes to come.
 By helping others, you will bring gratitude and happiness to others and enhance self-actualization.
 Do not feel compelled to spend your money too quickly and without shared happy memories and other delights.
 If you live well below your means, you will have less worries and be able to enjoy life better. On the other hand, if you go into debt to get a big house or a new car, consider the unhappiness you will get from the uncertainty in being able to afford your luxuries especially as the new grows old and possibly useless or neglected.
 This will give your life great purpose and make it truly fulfilling. For example, this could be writing a new book, going back to college to pursue an advanced degree, training for a marathon, building a new school or church, and working where there is need. Spend your money toward for the future and that will leave you a sense of accomplishment -- for example, an endowment or large donation to a college as a new library section, wing, or an entire building.
,,,