 If you’ve ordered a package through an online retailer and the package hasn’t arrived (or arrived late), you should contact the company and ask them for a status update on the package. It’s possible that the responsibility for your package’s late arrival does not lie with the retail company itself, but with the shipping company.For example, if you ordered a package through Amazon, this shipping information will likely be available on your “My Orders” page. If not, send an email to Amazon (or the retail company you ordered from) through their Customer Service portal. Specify your order number, and ask which carrier has the package.
If you placed your order using an Amazon Prime account, or specified 2-day or overnight shipping, Amazon holds themselves responsible for making sure your package arrives within the 2-day deadline. Most other online retailers hold themselves to a similar standard when you order 2-day (or overnight) shipping.
 Online retail companies often ship through USPS, but will sometimes use a private shipping organization.Get in touch with the shipping company directly; there should be a Customer Service phone number or email address on the company’s website. Explain the situation and provide your order number and tracking number, if both have been provided by the retailer.


If your package has already arrived, explain that it arrived a certain number of days late past the point of guaranteed delivery. If the package is still missing, inquire as to the package’s location and estimated delivery date.
 Reach out in an email or over the phone, and be polite but clear with a Customer Service representative. Explain that you would like a refund for the late (or missing) package. Even if the shipping company is at fault, your order was with the retailer, and the company should be responsible for the shipment arriving on time.


If your late order was with Amazon through Amazon prime, in many cases, Amazon will extend your membership by one month for free. If your order is exceptionally late, Amazon may refund the full price of the item as well.If your order was not through Amazon Prime but you still requested 2-day shipping, Amazon should still be willing to refund the cost of your shipping.

