 Avoid using harsh cleaners that strip away the natural oils of your skin. Chemicals like salicylic acid and benzoyl peroxide can cause irritation and disturb the balance of hydration for your skin. Try using more natural antibacterials like honey or oats. Washing your face with the wrong products can leave it looking dull, haggard, and wrinkled.Skin-type-based cleansers are often labeled as such. As a general rule of thumb, a foam or gel wash works best for oily skin; a moisturizing cream wash works best for dry skin; and a wash with either salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide can help clear up acne-prone skin.
Consider making your own face wash. You can use a bevy of natural ingredients—many of which you may even keep in your home—that will clean, exfoliate, and moisturize your skin.
 The harsh chemicals that many soaps contain are useful to clean the skin, but not to protect it. While this works perfectly well for the rest of your body, the skin on your face is much more delicate and can easily begin to look damaged. Instead, consider investing in a high-quality face wash.


Your skin is acidic, while soap is alkaline-based. Your skin’s natural barrier is made up of acid mantle. When the pH scale shows 7, it is neutral. Anything below that is acidic, and anything above it is alkaline. Our skin’s pH balance is generally between 4 and 6.5, even when the skin is very oily.
Soap, on the other hand, is extremely alkaline and goes towards the other extreme. So, if you use soap on your skin, it messes with its pH balance and acid mantle, causing it to make skin conditions worse., Rinse with warm water and a gentle face cleanser in the sink or the shower. Use your hands and a clean washcloth to gently scrub your skin clean. Follow these steps:


Rinse your skin with warm water to open pores and add moisture.
Lather your hands with soap. Gently wash your face with your fingertips using small, circular motions. Apply more pressure on your forehead, nose, cheeks, and chin.
Using a warm, clean washcloth to repeat the circular pattern. Use enough pressure to slough off dirt and dead skin. Rinse facecloth and repeat with only water and cloth.
Splash cooler water for a final rinse to close pores. Your skin should be shiny clean and slightly pink. Apply a moisturizer and you're done.
 The combination can help keep your pores clean may take some time and continued daily treatments. Once you know your skin you have to develop a skin regime consisting of: a simple and sensitive face wash, a toner, acne medication (if you have acne-prone skin), and a simple sensitive moisturizer.


Consider using medicated acne creams that contain either salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide. These products can be highly effective at cleaning your pores of the bacteria that cause acne, but they may also strip your skin of moisture and nutrients. Be aware of the risks as well as the benefits., Directly after you work out, exert yourself, or spend time in a hot environment, use water or a clean towel to wash the sweat from your face. When sweat dries, your skin soaks up any bacteria that have been swept into the sweat.