 The American Eskimo dog was bred as a house dog, and thus is not suited to living outdoors. Your puppy should have a comfortable home inside with a bed, toys, and easily accessible food bowl.Eskies are extremely social dogs, and they will prefer to spend most of their time around your family.Eskies' long fur can cause overheating in the summer, and while their coats can keep them warm in winter, they should not be put outdoors for long periods of time in the cold.;
, While you may think your puppy is too young to begin training, young puppies actually respond well to early training. If you wait until your Eskie is six months old, they may have already developed bad behaviors.Fortunately, Eskies are known to learn commands quickly, and they are considered to be among the most easily trained of all dog breeds.You might consider taking your Eskie to puppy training school. Going to training school with them can help bond you with your puppy, and it will teach your puppy how to act around other humans and dogs.Puppies can start these classes at around seven weeks old., Puppies can learn the household rules early if you set a consistent schedule for them. You should keep a schedule for feedings, walks, play time, naps, and bathroom breaks. By feeding them and walking them at the same time every day, they will learn to expect these things at specific hours, and they will be less anxious or destructive during other periods of the day., Puppies can be destructive while they are not supervised, and they may be prone to separation anxiety. To prevent damage to your house or harm to your puppy while you are away, you should confine them in a room or crate. Make sure they have water, toys, and a bed to keep them busy. You may also want to put down newspaper in case they have an accident.


You may want to consider crate training your puppy. Not only will this help you confine your puppy while you are out but it provides a safe, personal den for your puppy. Puppies under six months old should not be in the crate for longer than three or four hours, however.You should also confine your puppy in a room or crate at night. Understand that very young puppies may not sleep through the night. You might have to wake up to walk the puppy. Your puppy should be able to sleep through the night at three or four months old.If you are gone for longer than four hours a day, you should have a friend, family member, or dog sitter come by to take your puppy out for bathroom breaks and play. Puppies should not be left alone for long periods.