 Before you get started, take some time to think about who you are and what you’re about as a band. You should be able to describe your band to others in just a few short, captivating sentences. What is your genre? Who are your influences? You’re a ukulele folk-punk band that sounds like Don Ho jamming with the Sex Pistols? Awesome! That’s the kind of thing people need to hear., A forgettable or overly-bizarre band name can kill you before you begin. Ask your friends and fans for some honest feedback. Is your band name intriguing and memorable? Does it reflect your identity as a band? If not, now’s the time to change it.
 Having a strong social media presence is a must for any up-and-coming band these days. Set up profiles for your band on some or all of the following: Facebook, Myspace, Twitter, Instagram, ReverbNation, etc. Make sure your message is clear across your profiles, and try to make them interesting.


Include pictures of your band, and personal bios of band members. You want people to want to get to know you.Follow other bands that you are interested in, and that are related to your music.
 People will lose interest if you aren’t posting something at least once a week, but don’t go crazy! Aim for a few posts a week about upcoming shows, interesting things going on with band members, pics of recording sessions, etc.


Keep your posts positive and upbeat, and proofread them all before sending them out.
Get yourself noticed by making friendly comments on other bands’ posts.
Be sure to respond to your fan’s comments and posts!

, Social media is great, but you also need page dedicated solely to your band. There are a number of services online designed to help bands create low cost or free web pages. Make sure to keep your page up to date, and post updates frequently.


Make sure and create an email mailing list along with your website so you can email your fans to announce upcoming shows, etc.
 If you and your bandmates are struggling to create and maintain your online presence, hiring an intern can really help. Someone in your band probably has a younger, internet savvy sibling, who would be happy to spend a few hours a week helping to promote the band. Otherwise, place an ad on Craigslist. The best think about interns is that they often work for no or little pay.


Make sure to ask for samples of your applicants’ work when making a choice.
Keep a close eye on what your intern is posting to make sure it stays in line with your band’s vision.
 Choose 2-4 of your best songs, and then record them using the highest-quality equipment you can manage. Rent studio space and use professional equipment if you can afford it, but remember that a lot of bands record their first demos using smartphones or a home computer outfitted with a decent microphone.Take the time to edit your demo and make it sound fantastic!
Distribute your demo tracks both physically on CD, and online.
 There are websites that allow you to create an online promo kit, but you will also need a physical promo kit to send out to local venues, radio stations, etc. Make sure they both have a similar aesthetic and the same information. Your promo kit should look sleek and professional, and include the following:


An eye-catching over page that includes contact information for your band, and basic details.
A band bio. Include a one-page sheet about the band and its history. Try to tell an interesting story that grabs the reader’s attention.
Your demo CD.
A band fact sheet that includes your band name, tagline, genre of music, a list of bands you sound like, hometown, when and where you formed, band member names, instrumentation, and other notable facts.
Any reviews, press clippings, and nifty quotes about your band that you’ve accumulated.
A photo of the band.
A list of previous gigs, including dates and venues.
Label everything with your band’s name and contact information!

, The best way to build a local fan base is to play as many shows as you can. Send your promo kit out to local venues. Go to shows and network with other bands and venue managers to make yourself known and look for opportunities.


Make sure people know about the shows you book. Get the word out on your webpage and social media sites.
Make sure to show up for any gig you book and put on an awesome show!

, Even a young band can put a basic merchandise table without spending a ton of money. Create a cool graphic and have some stickers printed with your band name and contact info. Get some t-shirts printed at a local screen printer, or use an online service (this might be less hassle, but the cost per shirt will be higher).


Include a guest-book or email list sign-up sheet at your merch table.
As your band matures, you can create more elaborate merchandise.
 One of the quickest ways to build a fan base is to distribute your music for free. Give away copies of your demo CD at gigs. Make sure band members always have extras to hand out to people they meet. Create a YouTube channel, and release new songs online as you record them.


People are more likely to engage with your music if there is something to watch along with it. Create self-made session videos and upload them along with your more finely-produced recordings.Create a lot of hype for new recordings by announcing them on social media a few days before releasing them. Get people excited to listen to your new tunes!
Find radio stations that play unsigned artists, and send them your best demo tracks. 