 Before you arrive at your church, be sure to wear good clothes, such as a collared shirt and pants. However, in some albs, wearing a collared shirt is impractical.


wearing smart clothes is not imperative as the congregation cannot see what you are wearing. However, be sure to wear smart, presentable shoes that you can easily walk in without tripping, as the congregation probably will see these.
Refrain from wearing trainers, high-heels or flip-flops. If you have long hair, tie it back or wear it in a ponytail so that it does not get caught in anything. In some churches, altar servers often carry candles, so by not tying back your hair, you could risk it catching fire.
;
, The earlier you arrive, the more time you will have to prepare.


When you first arrive at the church, be sure to remove any gum or candy you have in your mouth. It would be distracting and disrespectful to be chewing or eating something before or during the Mass. (Note: You may not receive Holy Communion if you have consumed anything other than water one hour before Mass. If you do eat or drink something before Mass, you may wish to refrain from receiving Communion to avoid a Mortal Sin)

If you will not be receiving Holy Communion, please do not serve.
 Try not to talk loud, but whisper.


Put on your alb correctly by buttoning it up or zipping it up all the way. Sometimes robes simply go on over your head. Albs are usually girdled with a cincture, so be sure to put one on that is not too long and not too short.
Try to wear it at around the same length as the other servers, but if you are unsure, again, ask a member of the clergy. If any of the albs are ripped or torn, let the priest or deacon know.
Remember to choose an alb that fits you, coming down to your shoes.
 Usually the Master of Ceremonies or deacon will decide this, but often the choice will fall on the most senior server available. If you are unsure which jobs need doing, ask the deacon or priest.
 And once you process into Mass, please--NO TALKING DURING MASS. Always have your hands joined. The lead server should rotate the younger servers in different duties. Depending on your parish's traditions, different servers will lead the procession. Often it is the job of the cross bearer(crucifix), sometimes accompanied by the acolytes/candles, but a lot of the time, the cross bearer will lead.


Don't start heading up the aisle until the priest tells you to or gives you a signal. Once you arrive at the sanctuary, genuflect if you are not carrying anything.
If you are carrying something(e.g. cross or candles), make a profound bow before the altar. Next proceed to your seat, where you should stand. When going around the altar, make sure that you and your partner go around on alternate sides; one should go around the left of the altar, whilst the other should go around the right.
 After the hymn has concluded, the priest will welcome the congregation.


After the Collect (opening prayer) you will sit down, as will the congregation. It's okay if you don't know the words, few servers sing at church, and Jesus and the people you serve with are the only ones who will hear it.
If you don't know the words, sing the title or main verse over and over, or stand quietly.
 It usually relates to the scripture readings of the day, and carries important information about the Faith.
 Sometimes a cross bearer goes down the central to accompany the gifts to the altar. Most of the time, the priest and deacon will go to the entrance to the sanctuary to receive the gifts and hand them back to the servers to place on the altar.
Servers should stand at the side of the altar and give the deacon (or priest) water and wine from the cruet or jugs as appropriate. Then, with the water and towel, stand in the same place to allow the priest to wash his hands.
 Kneel after the Agnus Dei (Lamb of God)

, After receiving communion, servers will return to their seats.



Walk forward past the altar, giving enough room for the other servers and clergy to stand behind you before turning to face the altar. Everyone in the procession will genuflect (except if you are holding something in your hands. You may bow your head, however). Turn and process to the back of the church by walking up the main aisle. The priest and deacon will usually stop at the entry of the church to talk to the congregation as they leave.
 A server's job is not over at the end of Mass. Before hanging your robe back up, extinguish all of the candles using a candle snuffer to avoid blowing hot wax onto yourself, the altar or the floor. According to parish custom, the deacon/Master of Ceremonies may tell you if something extra needs to be done, or if something has been forgotten, e.g. preparing for another Mass. Hang up your alb neatly and cincture in their respective places.

