 Though Vans isn't necessarily known for its sandals, the company actually sells a fairly diverse line of flip-flops. These sandals are suitable for the shower, the beach, the pool, and anywhere else you're likely to get wet. In addition, since they're cheaper than close-toed shoes (with some as cheap as $15), they're perfect as an affordable pair of shoes to wear around the house.Pairs well with: Swimwear, board shorts, one-piece or two-piece bathing suits, PJs, sweats.







Style tip: Just because you're wearing sandals doesn't mean you have to sacrifice your style! Look for a flip-flop with a toe band pattern that looks good to you — patterns include camouflage, tribal designs, checkerboards, and more.
 Believe it or not, Vans actually sells a limited line of shoes called the "Dressed Up" line that are meant to be worn in high-class situations. These shoes, which range from the relaxed style of the LPE Dressed Up Skate Shoe to the baby-soft comfort of the Era 59 Pelican Suede, aren't always widely available and can sometimes be a little more costly than the average Vans shoe.Still, for top-notch style at semi-formal occasions like graduation parties, awards ceremonies, and swank nightclubs, these relative rarities can't be beat.



Pairs well with: Dress pants, suit jackets, blazers, sweaters, button-ups, fitted jeans, semi-formal skirts and dresses.







Style tip: Try keeping a pair of semi-formal Vans in your closet separate from the shoes you ordinarily wear. You won't want to tarnish your beauties with daily wear-and-tear, so save them for the occasions that demand a little extra.
 Can't find a pair of Vans that are just right? Make your own! With Vans' custom shoe options, it's possible to literally build your ideal shoe from the ground up. Starting from a wide variety of all-white shoe templates that include models discussed above like Sk8-His, Authentics, Chukkas, and many more, you can add colors, patterns, and soles to get a shoe that's uniquely "you."Pairs well with: Depends on how you build your shoe!

Style tip: If you can't make up your mind, try browsing the selection of custom shoes designed by anonymous users and celebrities on the Vans Custom Shoes page.