 After experiencing sexual violence, you are likely to feel anxiety, fear, or stress. However, if you are having severe episodes of these feelings, if these feelings interfere with your normal life, or if you experience them for more than a few weeks after the incident, you may be experiencing the symptoms of Post-traumatic Stress Disorder. There are three common symptoms to look out for:Re-experiencing: If you feel like you are re-living the event, whether through unwanted thoughts, flashbacks, or dreams, you may have PTSD.
Avoidance: If you keep away from things you used to enjoy, or if you alter your behavior or routine to avoid things you associate with the traumatic event, you may have PTSD.
Hyper-arousal: If you feel edgy, nervous, easy to startle, prone to outbursts, or are having trouble sleeping or relaxing, you may have PTSD.
PTSD requires professional treatment. See a doctor or therapist as soon as you can.
Cognitive Processing Therapy and Prolonged Exposure are effective therapeutic methods for coping with PTSD., You may feel sad, unhappy, hopeless, or disconnected from the things that ordinary bring you pleasure.If these feelings are disrupting your life, seek help. Don't wait—the earlier treatment begins, the more effective it is.Helpful kinds of therapy include Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy, Interpersonal Therapy, and problem-solving therapy.There are many medications available to help with depression, but seek therapy first.
 If you feel yourself plunged into the memory of what happened to you, you are experiencing a flashback. Sometimes it feels like you are experiencing the event all over again, or like the perpetrator is actually there. Flashbacks can make it hard to stay connected to reality. They can be triggered by sensory reminders, like smells or a tone of voice. Learn the signs of an impending flashback so that you can recognize them when you have them, and get yourself back to reality.To get through a flashback, tell yourself you are having a flashback.
Say to yourself, "the event is over. I survived it."
Put a hand on your stomach and take slow deep breaths. Pay attention to your stomach as it rises and falls.
Pay attention to your senses: what do you smell, hear, taste, and feel?
Find something that would make you feel safer, like sitting in a soft chair, going outside, or spending some time with a loved one.
Talk to a therapist about flashbacks, especially if they worsen over time. They can be sign of PTSD.
 Surviving trauma means you may be at a risk for self-harm, disordered eating, and substance abuse.You may turn to these coping methods to help you survive an emotionally painful moment. However, they can lead to serious health risks and can increase the risk of further trauma.


Seek balance. Ask your friends and family to eat meals with you.
If substances are becoming a problem, abstain for a while. Find daytime activities that don't involve alcohol or drugs.
Seek help from your doctor or counselor if you are engaging in dangerous behaviors or having troubling thoughts.
 If you are thinking about hurting or killing yourself, seek immediate help.You can call a counselor, your doctor, 911, or the Suicide Prevention Hotline 1-800-273-TALK (8255)


Tell your loved ones what you are experiencing, and ask them to stay with you while you try to get through the feeling.
Your loved one may want to call for help. Let them, but ask them to stay with you while help arrives or while you talk on the phone.

