 Keeping your body hydrated is important during a fever, since the increased body temperature can cause dehydration.Drinking water and other fluids helps your body expel the virus or bacteria that's causing the fever. However, you should avoid caffeine and alcohol because these can lead to further dehydration.


Green tea may help reduce a fever and boost your immune system.If you are experiencing nausea or vomiting along with the fever, avoid fruit juices, milk, very sugary beverages and carbonated beverages. These drinks can make you feel sick or cause vomiting.Try replacing solid food with soup or broth to help rehydrate your body (but watch the salt content). Popsicles are also a great way to consume fluids that will also help cool your body down.
If you have been vomiting, you may have an electrolyte imbalance. Drink an oral rehydration solution or a sports drink with electrolytes.Children under age one who do not regularly consume breast milk or who are on a nursing strike during an illness should take a rehydration solution containing electrolytes, such as Pedialyte, to make sure they're getting the nutrients they need., Sleep is the body's natural method for recovery from illness; in fact, having too little sleep can even make you sick.Trying to fight through and keep going may even raise your body’s temperature.By making sure you get plenty of sleep you allow your body to spend its energy fighting infection instead of something else.


Take the day off of work, or if your child is sick, have him or her stay home from school. The extra sleep your child will get is a sure way to a quicker recovery, and the source of the fever might be contagious, so it’s best to keep her home. Many fevers are caused by viruses that remain highly contagious as long as the fever is present., Don't cover yourself or your child with blankets and layers of clothing. You may feel chilled, but your body's temperature won't be able to start dropping if you're covered with warm blankets or clothes. Dress yourself or your child in a thin but cozy set of pajamas.Do not try to “sweat out” the fever by bundling up a feverish person.
 Even though the old expression says “starve a fever,” that is not good advice. Continue to nourish your body with healthy foods for a quicker recovery. The old standby chicken soup is a good choice, because it contains vegetables and protein.If you don’t have much of an appetite, try replacing solid food with soup or broth to help rehydrate your body.
Eat foods with a high water content, such as watermelon, to help you stay hydrated.If you have nausea or vomiting with your fever, try to stick to bland foods such as saltine crackers or applesauce., Some herbal remedies may help reduce a fever or support your body’s immune system as it fights whatever is causing the fever. However, herbal and natural remedies can interfere with medications and other medical conditions, so you should consult with your doctor or pharmacist before taking any.Andrographis paniculata is widely used in traditional Chinese Medicine to treat colds, sore throats, and fevers. Use 6 g a day for 7 days. Do not use andrographis if you have gallbladder or an autoimmune disease, are pregnant or trying to become pregnant, or take blood pressure or blood thinning medications such as warfarin.
Yarrow may help reduce fevers by encouraging sweating. If you have ragweed or daisy allergies, you may experience an allergic reaction to yarrow. Do not take yarrow if you also take blood thinning or blood pressure medications, lithium, stomach acid reducers, or anticonvulsants. Children and pregnant women should not use yarrow. You may find that adding yarrow tincture to a warm (not hot) bath helps reduce fever.Despite its name, feverfew doesn’t actually work very well to reduce fevers., Drawing a lukewarm bath, or a relaxing shower, is an easy and comfortable way to reduce a fever. A lukewarm or room temperature dip is usually just the right temperature to cool your body without throwing off your equilibrium. It can be particularly helpful right after taking fever medication.Do not give yourself or your child a hot bath. You should also avoid cold baths, which can lead to shivering that can actually increase internal temperature. If you do want to have a bath, the only appropriate temperature is lukewarm, or just above room temperature.If your child has a fever, you can bathe him or her with a sponge dipped in lukewarm water. Gently wash your child's body, pat him or her dry with a soft towel, and dress your child quickly so he or she doesn't get too chilled, which can lead to shivering, which heats up the body.
 Rubbing alcohol baths are an old remedy people used to use to bring fevers down, but they cause the body temperature to drop dangerously quickly.Rubbing alcohol can also lead to coma if consumed, so it is not appropriate for use or storage around small children.