 This tricky shadow puppet makes full use of both hands, but is positively lifelike when pulled off well. To start, face your left palm toward yourself and make a ring with your middle finger and thumb. Bring your ring and little fingers together and curl them inward. Let your index finger lay on top of the ring formed by your middle finger ad thumb, sticking out slightly. With your right hand, face your palm toward the floor, curl your little and ring fingers in, and make an arc with your index and middle finger to form the face's eye. Lay this over your other hand palm-down to complete the puppet.








To make the face talk, you need to move the ring and little finger on your left hand up and down independently from the rest of your hand. This can be quite tricky, so practice!

, The hardest part of this shadow puppet isn't what you need to do with your fingers, but the way you need to orient your hands. With your left hand, face your palm toward the ground, curl all of your fingers except your thumb inward at the second knuckle, and bend the thumb underneath. With your right hand, curl all of your fingers except your thumb in an arc to make the bulldog's eye and raise your thumb to make its ear. Finally, put your right hand on top of your left so that all of your knuckles are facing the same way and align your hands just right so that the bulldog is visible — harder than it sounds!









To make the bulldog bark, move your left thumb up and down.
 This puppet's trunk requires a unique arrangement of the middle and ring fingers. To start, face your left hand's palm toward the ground. Point your ring and middle fingers toward the ground while keeping your little and index fingers straight (like a "rock on" gesture). Bend your thumb and tuck it under the hand. Place your right hand palm-down on top of your left hand and bend all of your fingers except your thumb to make the elephant's eye.








Try moving the middle and ring fingers on your left hand to make the elephant's trunk move — you can also make it talk with the thumb on your left hand.
 This puppet can take lots of practice, but it looks amazing when it's perfected. To start, face your left palm toward the ground and bring your index, middle, and ring fingers together in a point. Tuck your thumb under your hand and extend your little finger straight slightly under your other fingers. Place the fleshy part of your right palm on the back of your left hand and extend your thumb, index, and middle fingers upward. Curve your ring and little finger to make the deer's eye.








To make the deer talk, move the little finger on your left hand up and down. Be gentle — deer are usually quiet and composed (until they're startled by a friend's elephant puppet, of course).
 This hand puppet makes a pretty convincing terrier or dachshund. Start by raising your right arm and bending it at the elbow so that the hand points at the ceiling. Bend your little and ring fingers down so they point forward. Bring your middle finger over your index finger and arch it to make the dog's eye. Tuck your thumb up into the crook of your index finger. Bring the palm of your left hand against the side of your right forearm and extend your index and middle fingers while sticking your thumb behind the forearm to make the dog's tail. Keep your left ring and little fingers tucked out of the way.








Unfortunately, there isn't an easy way to make the dog talk, so you'll just have to use your puppet's "body language" to express its emotions!

