 If your pit bull is feeling cooped up or has too much energy, he or she might get aggressive. Take your pit bull on lots of walks if you don't have a big backyard to run around in. You should be prepared to spend at least two hours day with your pit bull to give him the exercise and attention he needs. Or, if you need to, you should get out yourself and go to a dog park along with your furry friend.


Walk your pit bull as often as necessary and take the time to clean up the dog's mess. A well-exercised dog is a happy dog.;
, Pit bulls, like other dogs, like having their own small area that belongs to them. The crate should never be used as a punishment, but rather as a place for pit bulls to sleep or to go to if they are feeling overwhelmed.
 Put a collar and tags on your new pit bull so that you can find him when he gets lost. You should also get a microchip for your dog so he can easily be found if all else fails. Many pit bulls that are lost suffer because it is difficult to place them into homes with new families. Take the short time to properly care for your pet and you'll make a big difference in his well-being.
 If your pit bull is a puppy, he will have to urinate often. He'll need to use the toilet during several occasions: after he eats, after a long car ride, when he wakes up from a deep sleep, and after exercise. He'll need to go every few hours throughout the day, though by six months, he should be able to go a night without using the restroom. Here's how you can house-train your pit bull:


Before you get your puppy, pick a toilet area outside your home that will be his go-to spot.
As soon as he gets home, take him to this area until he uses the bathroom.
Praise him for doing his business.
Look for signs that he needs to use the restroom and lead him to the area when he shows them. He may be scratching or sniffing the floor, walking in small circles, or generally looking agitated.
 Just like people, pit bulls are all different creatures with different fears and needs, and they have different body language that can show when they are upset or agitated. As you get to know your pit bull, look out for signs that show that he's upset. If he starts growling, barking, pacing in circles, or generally looks angry, then it's time to see what you can do to change the situation. Get to know your own little creature and look out for signs that he's too excited, upset, or even tired.


Some signs that your dog is uncomfortable around another dog or creature include a stiff posture, curled lip, growling, air snapping, tucking his tail between his legs, or even trying to hide behind you.
If your dog freezes, he also feels uncomfortable and his guard is up.
Find what you need to do to calm your dog down when he exhibits these behaviors, whether it's to move him away, give him a treat, praise him, take him for a walk, or to find a combination of these behaviors.

