 While there are some pricey hotspots in the world, these three countries are doable if you’re on a budget. You can visit one of them for two weeks for about $500, excluding airfare. This covers accommodation, drinks, food, transportation and other on-the-ground expenses.Thailand is popular and for good reason. Cheap dining and accommodations, inexpensive trains and buses, beautiful mountains and beaches, and a happening metropolis in Bangkok all contribute to the perfect destination place for the budget traveler.
Vietnam is another great place to make your money to go far, and it’s a beautiful country with so much to offer. Accommodation is inexpensive while still being comfortable and clean, the food is some of the best and cheapest in the world, and traveling by bus means you will save a fortune.
As a backpacker destination, Laos has been gaining in popularity in recent years but the costs are still within reason. This stunning part of the world is known for its laid-back lifestyle and its gorgeous scenery., Ask yourself, do you love what you do? If it isn’t a loud, enthusiastic YES, then it may be time to do something about it! First, sell everything that you don’t absolutely need. Two, save at least one or two months’ salary. And three, either volunteer your services, teach English online, or teach at an actual school in a developing country.Believe it or not, there are a lot of companies, individuals and non-profits looking for all kinds of help in developing countries. You could volunteer in an administrative capacity at a Tibetan school in India, on a coffee farm in Honduras, or on a horse ranch in Mexico. The choice really is yours.
There are several big websites that regularly post ads for people, companies and NGOs that are looking for volunteers. Though they don’t pay, most cover room and board. You just have to get there and have some money for living expenses each month.
You can also teach English online or at an actual school abroad. If you teach online, you can either freelance or work through a company. If it’s through a company, they may require you to have an “English as a Foreign Language” (EFL) certificate, which is only a short, inexpensive course. There are also hundreds of schools on the Internet canvassing for teachers on a regular basis – entry level or experienced; many require an EFL certificate but some do not. Most provide room, board and a decent salary. The biggest criteria for teaching EFL are patience, creativity, organizational skills and English fluency.
 Most of these writers are not being to paid to write. So you will usually get a personal, honest glimpse into what a country looks like. Since you’re on a budget, veer towards backpacking blogs. Along with giving you a frank portrait, many also give lots of details on what things cost.
 Many travelers sharing on websites have just come from your future destination, are genuine and want to help. Though take what they say with a grain of salt. It’s part of human nature to filter memories through a few specific events, negative ones usually.