 Invest in a good quality scale. You will want to use the same scale every time you weigh yourself, so find something that works well.You can find scales that measure not only your weight but also your body fat, body mass, body water percentages and even your local weather forecast. Find a scale that meets your dieting and budget needs.Quality scales cost between $30 and $170 USD.;
, You should weigh yourself first thing in the morning. Use a scale in your bathroom and weigh yourself before breakfast. The reason for weighing yourself in the morning is that your weight will fluctuate slightly differently every day, depending on the amount and quality of food and fluid that you consume.Instead of weighing yourself every morning, you can feel whether your clothes are tight or loose as you get dressed. If things feel a little looser than they used to, perhaps you are on the right track.
 You need to practice continuity when you check your weight during a period of dieting. Pay attention to the following factors:Use the same scale every time.
Weigh yourself at the same time of day.
Weigh yourself on the same day(s) of the week, if you are not weighing yourself daily.
Wear the same clothing, or lack thereof, every time you weigh yourself.
 Get on the scale and observe your weight. Your scale should indicate your weight in seconds. If it is a digital scale that measures multiple things aside from weight, such as body fat, it may take a little longer than a simple digital scale. If you are using a mechanical scale, you may need to balance the weights on the top of the scale in order to determine your weight.Make sure the scale is on a flat surface. If the scale is not positioned on a firm, flat surface, it may produce an inaccurate reading.Remember that the number on the scale is just a measurement of your weight at a particular time and place. Your weight may fluctuate throughout the week, so don’t worry about it too much., Letting the number on the scale dominate your thoughts isn't always healthy. Staying positive is a crucial part of weight loss. A confident, optimistic attitude will help you stick to your goals and even keep your body free of stress hormones that can hijack your weight loss efforts. Encourage this attitude in yourself by noticing the benefits of diet and exercise changes, such as an improved mood, being stronger or fitter, or liking yourself better. These are the real benefits, and they will provide the momentum you need to achieve your goal weight.