 For the length of this diet you cannot eat the following (unless specifically mentioned): dairy products, potatoes, avocados, dried fruits, grains, beans, tomatoes, baked goods, eggplant, sugar, honey, maple syrup, bananas, pasta, preserved food, meat, coffee, black tea, or alcohol.You should also eat as little salt as possible.
Do not consume any vitamins or mineral supplements while on this diet.
 Before breakfast every day, drink a glass of hot water with the juice of one lemon in it. For breakfast, drink at least 8 ounces (237 ml) of apple or grapefruit juice. Eat up to 5 tablespoons of plain yogurt and at least half a pound of fresh fruit.In the case of the fruit juice and fruit, you can eat more than specified, but you must eat at least the amount specified.
 For lunch drink 2 cups (500 ml) of vegetable mineral broth with a salad of at least 8 tablespoons of raw vegetables. You can put olive oil, lemon juice, garlic, ginger or kelp on your salad if you want., For dinner drink another 2 cups (500 ml) of vegetable mineral broth. Also, eat at least three different types of cooked vegetables (either steamed or stir-fried). You can have another salad with dinner if you want, or you can have one medium slice of wholegrain bread with butter., This diet allows you to drink as much fruit juice as you want throughout the day. It also allows you to eat as many raw vegetables or fruit as you want in between meals.Don't eat the vegetables and fruit within 30 minutes of each other.
 The vegetable mineral broth is easy to make and includes the following items: 2 cups of carrot tops, 2 cups of ¼ inch thick potato peels, 2 cups of beet tops, 3 cups of celery (including leaves), and 2 cups of fresh parsley.If you can’t find one of these vegetables, you can just leave it out or increase one of the other items to make up for it.
Put all the vegetables into a saucepan and cover with distilled water. Simmer the mixture for 20 minutes on the stove.
Strain the broth from the vegetables and discard the vegetables.
You can add garlic, onion, other vegetables, miso, or other seasonings if you want.

