 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the shepherd’s pie, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat., Place 6 large potatoes that have been peeled and cubed in a large pot and add enough cold water to cover them. Place the pot on the stove, and heat it on high until the water comes to a boil.You can use whatever type of potatoes you prefer for mashing. Russet and red potatoes are good options.
If you like, you can add a pinch or two of salt to the water before you bring the potatoes to a boil.
 Once the water comes to a boil, reduce the heat to medium-low. Cover the pot with a lid, and allow the potatoes to cook until they are tender, which should take 15 to 20 minutes.The larger that your potato cubes are, the longer that they will take to cook.
 After the potatoes are finished cooking, remove the pot from the burner. Pour the potatoes into a colander to drain all of the water from them.Shake the potatoes well while they’re in the colander to ensure that you remove all of the excess moisture.
 Place the cooked potatoes in a bowl, and add ½ cup (118 ml) of whole milk, 4 tablespoons (58 g) of unsalted butter, and 2 tablespoons (24 g) of sour cream. Use a potato masher to mash the potatoes until they are smooth and creamy.You can also use a handheld electric mixer, ricer, or even a large fork to mash the potatoes.
If you prefer, you can use your own recipe for the mashed potatoes.
 When the potatoes are mashed, add some salt and pepper to taste. Mix well to ensure that the potatoes are properly seasoned, and set them aside for the moment.You can add whatever other seasonings you usually mix into your mashed potatoes as well.
 Add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of vegetable oil to a large saute pan. Allow the oil to heat over medium-high heat for 5 to 7 minutes until it is hot.You can substitute canola oil for the vegetable oil if you prefer.
 Once the oil is hot, add 1 medium, chopped onion, 4 peeled and chopped carrots, and 1 ½ pounds (675 g) of lean ground beef to the pan. Allow the mixture to cook until the vegetables are tender and the meat is browned, which should take approximately 8 to 10 minutes.You can substitute ground lamb or turkey for the beef if you prefer.
 After the meat has browned, take the pan off the heat. Carefully drain all of the fat from the pan so only the meat and vegetables remain.You can use a spoon to remove the fat from the pan or transfer the meat and veggies to a bowl with a slotted spoon and dump the remaining fat from the pan before returning the meat mixture.
 When the pan has been drained of fat, stir in 1 cup (237 ml) of gluten-free beef broth, a 14.5 ounce (411 g) can of fire roasted, diced tomatoes, 1 tablespoon (16 g) of tomato paste, 1 teaspoon (1 g) of chopped, fresh rosemary, 1 teaspoon (1 g) of chopped, fresh thyme, and 1 tablespoon (4 g) of chopped Italian parsley. Bring the mixture to a simmer on medium-high and allow it to cook for 10 minutes.You can substitute dried herbs for the fresh herbs if you prefer.
 Once the mixture has finished simmering, use a spoon to strain out any excess liquid in the pan. Mix in 2 tablespoons (20 g) of potato flour, and stir well to ensure that it’s fully combined.You can substitute another gluten-free flour, such as rice or oat flour, for the potato flour if you prefer.
 When the flour has been fully incorporated, add 1 cup (150 g) of thawed, frozen peas to the pan. Mix them in well to ensure that they’re blended throughout the mixture.If you like, you can also mix in a cup (165 g) of thawed, frozen corn.
 After you’ve finished preparing the filling, pour it into a large oven-safe casserole dish. Use a spatula to spread it out in a neat layer so it will cook evenly.A glass casserole dish usually works best for the shepherd’s pie.
 When the pie filling is carefully spread out in the baking dish, spoon the mashed potatoes over it. Spread it across the entire dish, so all of the filling is covered.If you want to give the pie a more decorative look, you can use a fork to score the mashed potatoes.
 Once the mashed potato layer is in place, top it with ⅔ cup (65 g) of shredded, sharp cheddar cheese. Make sure to spread the cheese in an even layer across the potatoes.Adding the cheese is an optional step. You can omit it if you prefer.
 When the shepherd’s pie is fully assembled, place it inside the preheated oven. Allow it to bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until the potatoes become golden brown.If your baking dish isn’t very deep, you may want to place it on a cookie sheet before baking it it. Some of the pie’s gravy may bubble over.
 When the pie is finished baking, remove it from the oven. Let the pie sit for 5 to 10 minutes before cutting it and placing it in bowls to serve.Cover any leftover shepherd’s pie so it’s airtight and store it in the refrigerate. It should stay fresh for 3 to 4 days.

