 A footnote is commonly, but not always, a shortened version of a citation at the end of the book. Whatever content your footnote will include, however, it's probably the last thing to do in the writing of a text. Write your complete paper, including a list of references, before insert footnotes.;
, In Microsoft Word, you would go to the References tab, click on the Footnotes group and select "Insert Footnote." A number "1" should appear to the right of the sentence, and a number "1" will appear in the footer of your first page. In the footer, type the information you'd like to include foot-noted.


The cursor should be placed after any punctuation. The number linking to the footnote should appear outside the sentence, not inside of it.
If you do not know where to find the menu to insert footnotes in your word processing program, go to the help menu and research it before starting to footnote your paper.
 In the event that you're using footnotes in place of parenthetical in-text citations, the footnote should include the name of the author or editor, title (in italics), compiler, translator or editor, edition, name of series (including number or volume), place of publication, publisher and date of publication and page numbers of citation.


For example: Reginald Daily, Timeless wikiHow Examples: Through the Ages (Minneapolis: St. Olaf Press, 2010), 115.
 You need the following information in this order to footnote a website: author or editor of the website, title of the website (in italics), URL and date of access.


For example: Reginald Daily, Timeless wikiHow Examples, http://www.timelesswikihowexamples.html (accessed July 22, 2011).
 Go to each location in which you've referenced another source and repeat this process. Use an abbreviated version of the source in subsequent footnotes that have the same source. You will need the author or editor's last name, an abbreviated title (in italics) and the number or numbers that are cited.


Regardless of what style you're using, the use of footnotes does not replace the need for an ending list of references in the article, even though they are made superfluous. Include a "Works Cited" page in MLA format and a Bibliography for an APA style paper.

