 In order to obtain a marriage license in Colorado, you have to be at least 18 years old. There are, however, some exceptions. If you are 16 or 17, you can get a marriage license if you have the consent of both parents, the consent of a parent with legal custody over you, the consent of a legal guardian, the consent of a parent with decision-making responsibility, the consent of the parent you’re living with, or judicial approval to marry.


If you wish to marry and are younger than 16, you need to receive both judicial approval and one form of parental consent as listed above.Use form M-2 (available at http://car.elpasoco.com/Recording/Documents/ParentsConsentForm.pdf) in order to officially obtain parental consent when seeking marriage at an age younger than 18. This form must be notarized along with a court order verifying that you have received judicial approval if you are younger than 16. If you are 16 or 17, you need only notarize either your parental consent form or the court order granting judicial approval.;
, Social Security numbers are required to complete your marriage license.If you do not have a Social Security number, you must complete and submit the Affidavit Concerning Social Security Number when submitting your marriage license. This form is available online at http://car.elpasoco.com/Recording/Documents/AffidavitCencerningSocialSecurityNumber.pdf.


As an alternative to filling out an Affidavit Concerning Social Security, you could get a Social Security number from the Social Security Administration. Follow the steps on their website at https://www.ssa.gov/ssnumber/. You can also use this site to recover a number which you were issued but don’t remember.
If you obtain a replacement or a new Social Security number, you do not need to complete an Affidavit Concerning Social Security.
 While there are no residency requirements for marrying in Colorado, some relationships are not accepted under Colorado law.You cannot receive a marriage license if you are married to another person. You and your partner must finalize any divorces prior to completing the application for a marriage license.


Additionally, marriages between ancestors or descendants, siblings, uncles and nieces, and aunts and nephews are prohibited. These rules apply to both whole and half blood relations.
You can, however, marry your cousin in Colorado.
Neither you nor your partner need be Colorado residents to apply for a marriage license in Colorado.
 There are many forms of identification recognized by the state of Colorado. You could bring your passport, driver’s license, military ID card, or birth certificate. However, birth certificates in a language other than English must be presented along with a certified translation.Not all forms of ID are acceptable. Novelty ID cards, souvenir birth certificates, city and country detention center ID cards, and consular cards cannot be used to obtain a marriage license in Colorado.
 A full list of clerk recorders is available online at http://www.clerkandrecorder.org/allcounties. Check the office’s hours to ensure someone will be able to help you. Some offices only offer and accept applications for marriage licenses before a certain time each day, even if their offices close later than the time you arrive., You must also pay a $30 fee with either cash or credit/debit card.


If your partner cannot come, he or she must complete an Absentee Affidavit (available online at http://car.elpasoco.com/Recording/Documents/MarriageLicAbsenteeAffidavit.pdf) and get it notarized. You must then submit it along with your marriage license application.
The Absentee Affidavit is useful when your partner lives out of state, is traveling, or is incarcerated.
 Many counties offer the opportunity to submit basic information required for the marriage license application online. If you want to save yourself some time, you can reduce the time you spend at county clerk and recorder’s office by utilizing your county’s online marriage license application. After submitting some information online like the names and addresses of you, your partner, and your parents, you must finalize your application by visiting your county clerk and recorder’s office in person with your partner to present identification., Once your application has been approved, you will receive a marriage license in the mail or at your county clerk and recorder’s office. The marriage license is valid for 35 days and can be used in any county in Colorado., With a marriage license in hand, you are legally permitted to wed in Colorado. Locate an officiant who can solemnize (officially recognize) your marriage. You can have your marriage solemnized by a judge, magistrate, religious official, retired judge, or an official from an Indian Tribe or Nation.For a list of judges who are certified to perform civil union marriages, consult the Colorado Judicial Branch list at https://www.courts.state.co.us/Courts/County/Custom.cfm?County_ID=6&Page_ID=179.
You can solemnize your own marriage. Directions for doing so will be provided when you submit your application for a marriage license.
 After getting married, the license should be signed by the officiant who married you. It then functions as your marriage certificate. You should return the marriage license/certificate to your county’s recording department within 63 days following the ceremony. After being copied and officially recorded with the county recording department, your license/certificate will be returned to you in the mail.


Contact your local county recorder’s office if you have not had it returned within 14 days after delivering it.