 Folliculitis is often brought on by irritation caused by shaving or unsanitary shaving practices. If you have folliculitis on the skin under your beard or another area that you regularly shave, give that area a break from shaving. Persistent shaving can irritate the area and even spread the disease from one patch of hair to the next.


If you must shave, minimize the irritation as much as possible. Try to use an electric razor, rather than a handheld razor, and shave with the grain, rather than against the grain. Ensure your razor is clean every time you shave.
 Fingers and hands are among the most common vectors for bacteria. This means that they carry and transmit bacteria much like an airplane carries and transmits people. Although the area may itch, sting, or smart, it's important to resist the urge to itch or pick at the infected area. Treat the area like an off-limits area - try to touch it only if you're applying soap, topical medicine, or a compress.
 The mechanical action of clothing rubbing against the skin throughout the day can cause chafing and irritation which can potentially lead to infection. Additionally, skin infections can also result if any clothing prevents air from reaching the skin. If you are prone to folliculitis, ensure that your clothing is soft and loose-fitting to minimize any potential irritation.


Also try to prevent the clothing around any areas affected by folliculitis from becoming wet. Wet clothing is likely to cling to the skin, increasing the risk of irritation.
 Everyone's skin is different - some people are susceptible to rashes and breakouts, while others are resilient. If you have folliculitis (or are prone to it), try to avoid coming into contact with any substances that you know to cause you irritation (especially substances you're allergic to), as the irritation can lead to an infection or sidetrack the healing process of an existing infection.


You may, for instance, want to avoid certain cosmetics, oils, lotions, rubs, and so on.
 Folliculitis is colloquially called "hot tub rash" for good reason. Swimming, bathing, or otherwise submerging yourself in unclean water, such as hot tub water that hasn't been treated with chlorine, is a common way to receive a folliculitis infection. Certain folliculitis-causing bacteria, like Pseudomonas aeruginosa, are easily transmitted via dirty water.If you're prone to folliculitis, you'll want to take care to ensure that you don't allow yourself to come into contact with stagnant, untreated water.
 Certain medical treatments, when used for long periods of time, can lead to an increased risk for folliculitis. Topical steroid creams like hydrocortisone, in particular, can contribute to folliculitis infections. Paradoxically, topical hydrocortisone is itself a common treatment for mild folliculitis. If you're using hydrocortisone to treat your folliculitis, schedule a doctor's appointment if you don't notice any improvement - procrastinating and over-relying on steroid creams can cause the infection to worsen.
 Hair follicles can become inflamed and infected if a nearby infection is irritated or allowed to spread. Thus, you'll want to ensure you treat any skin infections promptly and professionally. Don't let infections get out of hand - they are much easier to treat when they're small and localized than after they spread.

