

The first few ants you see are “scout” ants looking for food or nesting sources. If you can address the problem while there are just a few ants, you are more likely to permanently remove them from your house.



 


Spray a solution of 1 part distilled white vinegar to 1 part water on entryway points or ant trails. The scout ants make trails that other ants can follow. Although this is tedious work, it can confuse them while you find your solution.





;
,

Take a close-up photo of the ant. Email it to the office and ask what type of ant you are dealing with. Local extension offices often keep files on local plants, insects and animals.






Ask for an information packet on ridding your house or yard of this type of ants. They may be able to give you special instructions on the best methods.






If you are dealing with carpenter ants, call an exterminator immediately. They can cause structural damage in the home.


If the ant nest is outside, this indicates that there are holes in the home allowing the ants to come in and look for food.






If the ant nest is inside, it indicates that you have soft, water-damaged areas of the home that need to be reconstructed. Remove damaged sections of the wall or cabinet, so that you can set bait on the nest itself.






If you know the ant nest is inside, but you are unable to get at the area, you may want to call a professional exterminator. Shortly after, you will want to get advice from a contractor about how to repair the damage to your home.


Chemicals are more likely to produce results quickly.






Curious pets or small kids are good reasons to try natural remedies first.
 Ant traps, keep the bait and chemicals inside a small plastic trap, meaning there is less mess and chemical distribution around your house.


Set the traps around ant entry points, such as windows, doorways or cracked foundations.
Look for traps that bait both sweet and grease eating ants. Ants’ food preferences change throughout the year, so these traps are more versatile.
 This natural remedy is extremely effective, if you have established where the nests are. It dries out the ants, killing them within 3 days.


Diatomaceous earth is a sedimentary rock made from fossilized algae. It absorbs lipids from the surface of insects, dehydrating them.
You can use borax by spreading it on nests and windowsills in a similar fashion. Although borax isn’t dangerous to adults, it can be toxic in large quantities and if eaten by small children.
 If you see ants away from the nest, then you can kill them where they are without using harsh chemicals.


Mix a solution of 2 tbsp. (30ml) of dishwashing liquid in 16 oz. (0.5l) of water. Pour it into a spray bottle.






Follow the ants and spritz them. Wipe up dead ants with paper towels.


Spray an insecticide on your lawn an hour after you mow it. Ants may start on the lawn and move closer to the house over time. Buy a lawn spray insecticide and repeat every year.






Trim bushes, trees and flowers that are close to the house. Letting plants touch the house creates bridges for the ants to find a pathway inside. Trim every year to avoid ant problems.






Seal up windows and foundation with sealing caulk. If you rent your home, then ask a landlord to caulk areas where you know there is a problem.


Vacuum your kitchen and dining areas daily. Even the smallest food crumbs can attract ants.






Discourage eating in other areas of the house.






Wipe counters with dishwashing liquid and water solutions or vinegar and water solutions. They will erase ant trails and clean surfaces.







