;
, This can be found on the the RFXcom CD that came with your transmitter., You should now have a screen that looks like this:

, (The transmitter may have a DHCP assigned ip address which could cause future problems for example, if you switch off the RFXCOM and the router and you switch on the DHCP server (maybe your router) it is possible that the DHCP server assigns that to another device. When you switch on the RFXCOM you will have two equal IP addresses in your network and lots of problems, please see tips section to see how to assign a static ip.)

,, You need to input the port number 10001 or 10002 depending on the position of transmitter in the LAN interface. If you look to the back side of the interface, if the transmitter’s yellow antenna wire is on the right side it is port 10001 and if installed on the left side it is port 10002. Then click 'OK'.
, This KAKU (KlikAanKlikUit) mode is the mode used for older HE (HomeEasy) products with address wheels and BBSB or for the new HE modules with program button when you want to control this module with BBSB codes (A-P/1-16). In KAKU mode you cannot set dim levels of the HE unit and only use dim levels using 2 ON commands and a dim cycle. You should now be able to switch these types of units on and off.
 IMPORTANT: set Device code 0 0 0 0 to another value (it does not matter what) because 0000 will switch under some circumstances all HE units in your house.
 For example set Device to 1000 and Unit 1, press the program button on the HE unit and press On in RFtransmitter. The HE unit should respond with clicking On/Off and is paired now with Device 1000 Unit 1 and can be switched On/Off and a dim level 1 to 16 can be set.
 You need to make a note of all of the codes that the program uses to switch your devices on and off. For example, If you have an older address wheel plug in unit with the x10 address A1 and you switch it on using the program the code '20609F00FF' appears in the yellow box below. So now for example write down: Lounge Lamp 'ON': 20609F00FF. You will also need to write down the 'OFF' command in this case: 20609F20DF. The same applies if you are switching using the newer HomeEasy products. You need to do this for all of the devices you wish to control using the HomeAutom8 service., You now need to fill in the details for the property including the transmitter ip address and port number which you established earlier. Leave the 'Transmitter Settle Time' at 3 seconds for the minute, this is the delay from when you switch a device to when it responds however if this is reduced too much the system may become unstable. Click 'Create'.
 Add all the rooms you wish to control., Now fill in the relevant details for the device, leave the 'Init Data' box empty as this is not required for HomeEasy or Byebyestandby devices. Insert the 'ON/OFF' codes you wrote down earlier for the device. You need to insert separated hexits e.g: 48:65:6c:6c:6f:21. Once completed, click 'create' and repeat the process for all rooms and devices.
 Once the program has opened, enter you homeautom8 login details and press the '>' button. You should now be able to switch your devices using this program. IMPOTANT: The homeautom8 service will not work with the RFtransmitter program running, close this down before hand.
