 Before you call the utility company, read the bill to make sure you understand it.;
, Get information together such as your account number and previous bills, and then call the utility company.


Before you call, make sure you have all the information you'll need, including your current bill, past bills, and any canceled checks or bank statements showing payments.It might help to call the company when they are least busy, such as on a Friday morning. In contrast, Mondays and the days after holidays typically are the most busy.When you reach a representative, write down his name and the date and time you called for your records. Take notes during the conversation., Generally you won't be at risk for having your utilities shut off if you formally dispute the bill and pay any undisputed amount.


For example, your utilities cannot be shut off in Missouri if you legitimately dispute charges either in writing, in person, or on the telephone within 24 hours prior to the date listed on your shut-off notice.However, the dispute must be legitimate. A frivolous dispute won't stop a shut-off.Chicago's Citizens Utility Board notes that you can't be disconnected for nonpayment if you pay either the undisputed portion of your bill or an amount equal to last year's bill for the same month.Typically your bill won't be considered as in dispute until you call or visit the utility company and specifically tell them that you are disputing your bill., If your bill was an estimate rather than based on a direct reading, you can request a reading.


If your meter was inaccessible, perhaps because of landscaping or large dogs, the company may provide an estimate rather than an actual reading.
If the estimate seems too high, you can ask the company to return and do an actual meter reading.Keep in mind that you are still responsible for paying your bill, regardless of whether it's estimated or actual. Even if you've disputed part of it, you can't expect not to pay anything for an entire billing cycle.When the utility company completes the actual reading, which you can be present to observe, you will be responsible for the updated amount. If you still believe the amount is too much, you can request an accuracy test.
 If your bill was based on a direct reading, you can ask the utility company to test the meter and make sure it's functioning properly.


In most states, the utility company is required by law to complete an accuracy test if you request one. For example, Maryland's regulatory code requires companies provide accuracy tests for customers upon request at no charge, and also states that you or your representative may be present during the test.
If it turns out your meter was inaccurate, you can negotiate an amount with the utility company. Typically, this amount will be equal to your bill for the same month last year. If you haven't been a customer for that long, the utility company may negotiate an average amount for you to pay based on the accuracy adjustment that was made., Send a letter to the company confirming what you were told by the representative and the steps that will be taken.


Make sure you sign and date your letter before you mail it.Make copies of your letters so you have them for your records.
 While the dispute is going on, you must continue to pay at least part of your bill.


For example, if you are disputing a $200 bill in April, because your bill was only $50 in March and you believe your bill should have been about that much in April, you must pay the March bill, $50 for April, and any bills following while the dispute is being resolved.
If you don't pay bills that are undisputed, the company can still cut off your electricity, even while you have a pending dispute., Be willing to supply any additional information the utility company needs to get to the bottom of the situation.

