 Look for the label with care instructions on your clothing item, which can often be found on an inside seam. If the label says, “Dry Clean Only,” you should consider taking it to the dry cleaners. If it simply says, “Dry Clean,” you are probably fine to wash it at home.If it is silk or wool, you can hand-wash them instead of going to the dry cleaner.;
, Find a spot on the garment that is rarely seen. Drip a few drops of water on this spot. Using a cotton swab, rub the water across the surface of the garment. Take a look at the cotton swab to see if any color has been removed in the process. If the color bleeds, you need to take it to the dry cleaner. If not, go ahead and wash it at home., Fill a tub or sink with cold water and a small amount of mild detergent or, if you have it, silk detergent. Gently, hand-wash your silk garment in under thirty minutes, since silk suffers from prolonged water exposure. Air dry the silk garment.Silk is a little harder to clean at home. If you decide to do it yourself, you should use a silk detergent, which may be tailored for lingerie or silk sheets.
You can also clean silk fabrics on a hand wash cycle in your washing machine., The main challenge with washing wool at home is felting, which occurs when the wool fibers get matted together during washing. To avoid this scenario, you need to hand-wash wool garments with a gentle touch in a tub of cold water. Use a wool cleaner, such as Woolite, to clean cashmere, angora or other wool garments.Avoid putting wool garments in the washing machine, since the agitation of the machine cycle will likely result in felting and shrunken garments.
Avoid using detergents with a lot of chemicals when cleaning cashmere. Instead, choose all natural cashmere detergents.Always lay out your wool garments flat to dry., Use a mild detergent in a tub of cold water to hand-wash your linen garments. Then, air dry your linens. Right after washing, you should press them. They may get wrinkled if you don’t press them right after the hand-wash.


You can let your linens air dry on a clothes line.
Linens can also be washed on a delicate cycle in a washing machine.

