 Good habits form when you stick to a routine. Rather than waiting until an important exam is approaching, form good study habits early on. Begin by setting a regular time to study with your child each day. Even if you only work for twenty minutes at a time, this will be quality time spent with your kid, this will aid to their success in school, and this will set up a positive pattern so that when exam time rolls around, you are ready.You will need to discuss this with your child and explain to them what the plan will be.
You might say, "We need to select a regular time to study each day. Would you like to get it out of the way as soon as you get home from school, or wait and accomplish this right after dinner?"
Remind them that whatever they choose, you will stick to, and that the two of you will study at the same time each day.
 While high school students should be able to study for an hour or more, first-graders can only focus for 15-20 minutes at a time. Consider your child’s level of development and attention span, and set a goal for how long you will study during each session.Once again, you will need to explain this to your child.
You might say, "“Sally, it’s 5:00 p.m. right now. We’re going to study for 20 minutes. How does that sound?"

, Another element of solidifying good study habits involves studying in the same place each day. This should be location that is (relatively) free from distraction, and that is a comfortable place to stay for a while. Once you are used to this habit, simply moving into your "study space," will get you in the mood to study and learn!, Studying with your child is an excellent way for you to understand what they are learning, spend quality time with your child, and help ensure their success in school. However, it is also important for you to encourage some independent study time. Encouraging your child to spend some time studying on their own (in addition to your study time together, not instead) will enable them to determine what study methods work best for them.
 Another important habit to get into is to study when it is time to study, and rest when it is time to rest. This can be easily achieved if you schedule regular breaks into your study session. For example (for an older child), you may consider working for 45 minutes and then taking a 15 minute break.During your break you can use the restroom, grab a snack, check your phone, or go for a walk around the block!
The idea is to do whatever you need to do to be happy and comfortable, so that you can return to work for another session.

