 Go to Hipmunk’s website at https://www.hipmunk.com/ and click on the “Log In” button on the top righthand corner of the page.;
, You can create an account using either your Facebook or Google account by clicking the corresponding buttons for each of these social accounts on the Sign-Up page.


If you prefer creating your account using your email address, simply type in your email account and password on the text field provided and click the “Create Account” button to continue.
If you already have a Hipmunk account, click the small blue “Login” link, enter your email address and password on the fields, and click “Login.”

,, Click the button of the kind of flight you’re looking for at the main area of the Flights section. You can choose from One-way, Roundtrip, or Multi-city (multiple destinations).
 Type in the origin, destination, departure, and return date you’re looking for on the text fields provided.
 Click on the drop-down list beside the Search button and select the flight class you’re looking for.
 Click on the drop-down list beside the Class list and specify how many people will be going with you on the flight.
 Click the “Search” button to start searching for flights matching your queries.
 Do this by clicking the “Select Leg” button and its details will slide open downwards.
 Click the “Book” button to pay for and reserve the flight schedule you chose.
, Do this on the text field provided.
 Type in the check in and check out date you’re looking for on the text fields provided.
 Click on the drop-down list beside the Search button and specify how many people will be staying with you on the hotel.
 Click on the drop-down list next to the count of people and specify how many rooms you like to reserve.
 Click the “Search” button to start searching for hotel vacancies matching your queries.
 Choose from the search results the hotel vacancy you like by clicking the “Select” button and you’ll be taken to the payment section.
 Enter your credit/debit card details on the payment form and click the “Complete Booking” button to finalize your reservation.

