 Cloacal examination, also known as venting, is another method of determining the sex of a duck. It is used in ducks that are sexually monomorphic (same external features between males and females), but is also used in ducklings as young as 12 days old.Venting is a difficult procedure to perform; if you are not comfortable with doing it yourself, ask someone who is more experienced to do it for you.When you place the duck on the table, position it so that its breast is facing up and its legs is facing away from you. The tail should drape over the edge of the table so that it can be bent down to examine the cloaca.If you do not have a solid surface on which you can lay the duck, you can also kneel down and lay the duck on your leg so that its tail can be bent over your knee.Venting is even more difficult in ducklings than adult ducks, so ask a professional to do this.
 The cloaca is a small external opening near the duck’s rear. A duck’s genital and reproductive tracts end at the cloaca. Use your fingers to search amongst the feathers to locate this external opening., To do this, use your index fingers to fold down the tail and apply opposite, upward pressure on the other side of the tail with your middle and ring fingers. Next, place your thumbs on both sides of the cloaca and slowly move your thumbs away from each other.Use gentle pressure while attempting to expose the cloacal walls and genitals. Too much pressure can cause serious injury to the duck.
An alternative approach to exposing the cloacal walls and genitals is to insert your finger about one centimeter into the cloaca and move your finger in a circular motion to relax the sphincter that keeps the cloaca closed.Once the sphincter is relaxed, you can use your thumbs to ease the cloacal walls apart.
 By exposing the cloacal walls and genitals, you should be able to determine whether the duck is male or female.The duck is a male if a penis protrudes from the cloaca.A female duck will have an oviduct opening in the cloaca.In male ducks, the penis will be small and unsheathed (uncovered) in immature ducks and large and sheathed in adults.