 See "Things You'll Need" below.;
, Measure 2 parts water to 1 part vinegar. Take the silk thing and soak it in that solution for 15 minutes. Make sure that it’s completely soaked through.
 These dyes come very concentrated so you can dilute them and mix them together to make nifty colors by using the diluted solution of the alcohol and the distilled water. Mix two thirds of a cup isopropyl alcohol (70%) with 1/3rd cup of distilled water to make the solution. This will keep your dyes from streaking too much.
 Once you have your colors ready and your silk piece is soaked you can start! Take the silk out of the vinegar solution and squeeze out the excess. Don’t wring it to much or you’ll damage it and it should be still very wet when you microwave it or it will burn. Place it in the microwave dish.
 There are many ways to do this and you can use a brush to paint it on or just pour it on wherever you want it. Sometimes you can get vague patterns that you can brush on. You won’t get much detail. Make sure your colors are contrasted enough for this or they will just meld into each other and you won’t see the pattern. You can also use elastic bands or string to do a tie dye type design.
 Two minutes is plenty if you are only doing one scarf and have a powerful microwave. You’ll know if it’s not done enough if when you rinse it out, all the dye comes out. There shouldn’t be too much dye run off.
 Add a bit of vinegar to the second last rinse just to balance out the PH at the end. Iron or hang to dry.
 This step will show you how to add some basic shapes to make your scarf more interesting. Place the scarf back into the vinegar solution and squeeze out excess as before and then lay out your scarf (you can fold it in half to make it easier) on a sheet of wax paper on a counter or other clean washable surface. Dye will get on your counter top but this easily washes off with the help of a household cleaner containing bleach. Then, using a very dark color or at least one that contrasts well with the other colors, paint on some basic shapes.
 Wash, rinse and dry as before. Voila! A beautiful scarf to wear in many ways!

,