 The pen tool is excellent for making very precise, editable selections. It's a more advanced tool that will take some practice to use well, but worth getting familiar with. Select it by clicking on the icon, or pressing P. Your cursor will look like the nib of a fountain pen.


Using the white boat left of center again, click on the bow where the hull meets the water, and drag along the water line to the middle of the boat. You will see two handles extend from the initial click point—the anchor point—in a straight line. When you reach the middle of the hull, release the mouse button.





Note that the handles remain. Now, click and hold on the stern (back) of the boat at the water line, and drag upward to about halfway up the backside of the boat. Do not release the mouse button yet.
You will see that the initial handles have disappeared, and a new set shows extending from the second anchor point. Notice also that there is an arced line extending from the initial anchor point, into the water, and up to the second anchor point.





If you move the handle under your cursor around the second anchor point, you will see that line bending like a rubber band. Don't worry if it's connected to the boat for the moment—we'll address that momentarily. Using the picture below, finish setting up the the anchor points around the hull of the boat, finally clicking on the initial anchor point to close the loop:





The line around the boat probably looks similar to the pic above, only loosely connected to the boat. Now we fix that, with the Direct Selection tool.
 Make sure the cursor is white, not black. If it is black, press Shift-A, or use the Selection Tool menu to select the Direct Selection tool.


Click on the first anchor point. The handles will appear as before. Click on the rightmost handle, and wiggle it: note the left and right handles move together around the anchor point. Now, press Command-Option (Control-Alt), click on the rightmost handle, and drag it upwards.





Note that only the right handle moves, and that the line between the top anchor point on the bow, and the point you are editing is now at least starting to be close to the hull. Drag the handle about halfway up the hull, and leave it there for now.
Click on the bottom anchor point on the stern of the boat. When you see the handles, click on the right handle, and pull it upwards slowly. You should see the line start to match up with the waterline. Adjust that handle and the left handle of the first anchor point until the line matches the waterline as closely as possible.
You may have to adjust the anchor points themselves—this can be accomplished by clicking on them and dragging, or clicking on them and using the arrow cursors to nudge them in any direction. When you're done, the bottom line should look like this:





Work your way around the boat, making the line as close to the boat as you can. It's not important to make a perfect selection at this point—only to get a feel of how the anchors and handles work. Stop when you get to this point:





There will be times when you don't want a soft, rounded corner, so we need to turn off the handles to make hard corners. The front edge of the cabin is one of those places. Locate the anchor point you placed there, then hold down Command-Option (Control-Alt), and click on that anchor point, and the one below it. Note that the handles disappear, and the line between the two points is straight, not rounded.





When you're done adjusting the handles, right click on the line, and choose Make a Selection from the menu. OK the dialog box that appears. The boat is now selected. If you wish to edit your selection, you can do so in the Paths window. Press Command-D (Control-D) to clear the current selection, click on the path (Work Path), make sure the Direct Selection tool is active, and edit away! When you're done, you can make a new selection.





Note: If you wish to save that path for later use, double click on the words Work Path, give it a name, and press Enter. The path will now be saved with your document.

