 There are multiple types of manual knife sharpeners. Some only have one slot, while others may have two or three.


Each slot should have two steel, ceramic, or diamond-coated disks on either side, and these disks are what sharpen the blade of the knife.
Simple knife sharpeners only have on sharpening slot, but others have two or three. If the knife sharpener has multiple slots, the slots should be labeled according to coarseness. The coarsest slot will usually be labeled as "coarse" or "1," and the finest slot will usually be labeled with the final number in the sequence or the word "fine.";
, Position the blade in a straight cutting position in between the two sharpening disks. Keep the base of the blade as close to the disks as possible, and make sure that the blade remains perpendicular to the body of the device.Note that if you only need to touch up the blade of a knife, you may wish to skip the coarsest slot and move onto a finer level. Coarse slots on multilevel sharpeners are usually meant for sharpening blunt knives.
 Using light pressure, pull the blade back in a horizontal motion, drawing the blade through the disks from base to tip.


Some knife sharpeners can be held by hand as you work with them, but it's usually easiest to use your non-dominant hand to hold the knife sharpener down on a table or similar work surface. You can manipulate the knife with your dominant hand.
 Return the blade to its starting position, then lightly draw it through the disks again, working from base to tip.


Note that you'll likely need to repeat this motion several times on this slot. If the sharpener only has one slot level, pull it through four to six times. If it has multiple slot levels, only pull it through this first slot two or three times.
For each pass, start at the base and end at the tip. Do not pull the knife back and forth through the slot since doing so could damage the blade.
 Work through the remaining slots, moving from coarsest to lightest. Draw the knife through each slot using the same technique as the first slot.


Don't skip over any of the slot levels unless the instruction manual tells you to do so. Usually, these levels are designed to sharpen dull blades in intervals, and skipping levels could minimize the product's effectiveness.
 When you're satisfied with the sharpness of the knife, rinse away any shavings under cool, running water. Carefully dry the blade with a clean towel.Once the knife is clean and dry, it should be ready to use again.

