 Giving yourself 10 or more extra minutes is not only a respectful gesture, but also useful if you want to find good seats.


If your date is late, keep your cool. Head to a nearby coffee shop if you know you have the time, but don’t order anything that will give you bad breath. Whatever you do, don’t scold your date for being tardy; it will kill the mood. Keep in mind though, you were early. If they are 20 minutes late, that's half an hour you have been hanging around all together. Being late is rude and shows a lack of consideration and ability to plan unless it's completely unavoidable.
Scolding your date would be a mood killer, but don't just act like nothing happened. Ask why they are late and if you have another date, don't tolerate them being late again.
 If it’s appropriate, throw in a brief kiss while you’re at it.









This will mainly apply to female dates. Try to compliment your date casually like "You look nice" rather than going over the top with things like "I like your dress". There's nothing wrong with complimenting your date's clothing but they want to know that you like their whole look, not just one thing they put on.
 A romantic comedy is cute and will encourage kissing and intimacy, but could seem a little much for a first date. Comedy will diffuse tension and relax you and is a good choice for people moving from friendship to romance. Horror movies are exciting and since you're scared, you're able to snuggle together and break the touch barrier. Keep in mind both of your own personal tastes and look in to reviews and ratings beforehand.
 They won't get stuck in your teeth like popcorn or give you bad breath like hotdogs. This is especially important if kissing is on the menu.
 Even if your date doesn’t think it’s rude, everyone else will.
 Make sure your hand is warm and dry, not cold or sweaty. Putting your hand under your leg for a few minutes is a great way to warm it up in a chilly theater.









Some girls like it when guys put an arm around them. However, if it’s a first date and the other couples around you are making out, putting your arm around her might make her think that you’re trying to make out, too.
Don't do anything that you aren't comfortable with regardless of what the people around you are up to.
 This is the perfect opportunity to make easy conversation and end the night on a personal note.
 A good night kiss at the theater is sweet, but if you don't kiss on the first date then a thank you is the only thing needed.








