 While a vision exists to align EMS education and certification procedures nationally, there is still variance at the state level. Each state will have minimum certification requirements and most maintain a list of authorized EMS instructors and training facilities.;
, You might just save a life before you become an EMT! If you're thinking medical, make sure it's a healthcare provider class so that it counts later on.
 Usually you can join a fire department or rescue squad without being an EMT and it's a great source of information for furthering your career. Many departments have Explorer programs for teenagers, which allow you a view on the inside to determine if it is right for you.
 Some employers are looking for certified paramedics to fill EMT slots, but the Emergency Medical Responder (EMR) designation may be right for you if you're just looking for an entry level certification to test the waters. Classes will not always be offered close by, you may need to commute to other counties to find a class that will fit your needs and goals. It even helps to take simulated practice tests from viable EMT test prep sources since you must pass the National Registry examination before getting your state license.
 Once you are in an EMT class you will be required to have a certain amount of hours riding along in an ambulance, learning from experienced EMTs.
 Many EMT courses are broken up into two sections: A lecture portion consisting of book work and written tests, and a laboratory portion that includes skills review and a practical test. EMS training facilities are introducing technology such as interactive simulators (patient and ambulance) that allow you to practice what you will do in the field.
 Each state offers at least one EMT test a year (usually more) you must successfully complete the class to be allowed to test at the site. The test will include a written test and practical examination. The didactic portion is now available online in many areas and the skills are sometimes demonstrated during you laboratory final in class, but you may have to attend a practical exam separately from the written test if this is not an option in the training program you select. Find out before you register.
 You can go online and check to see if you are on your state EMT registry weeks before they will send you a letter that lets you know if you pass or not (Google your state name and "EMT registry" to find this list)

, You have two more attempts to take the state test if you fail. After a certain number of attempts, you will be required to retake the EMT course before you will be allowed to test again. This is why it's suggested that individuals take test simulations online before tackling the arduous EMT testing process.
 The medical field is constantly evolving. Stay abreast of dynamic changes by joining professional groups an subscribing to educational literature. If you notice a big change, try to take a class so that you can be competent in the new procedures.
 EMTs are required to maintain documentation for their continuing education courses. Most states allow a portion of the requirement to come from online sources, but it's worthwhile to attend skills refreshers for core areas like CPR and Airway Management in person.

