 Monthly reflections can steer you in the direction of your dreams by keeping you on track with goal-achievement. To do this, develop short-term SMART goals that are specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and time-bound. Then, come up with actions you can take to reach these goals within the next month.For instance, you might set a goal to make an “A” on your sociology college term paper. To accomplish this, you might ask your professor for specific resources to guide your writing. Then, you might build a schedule for elements like research, outlining, writing, revising, and even getting a second pair of eyes on the paper for a critique.
You can develop longer-term goals, too. But for the purposes of regular reflection, month-to-month review periods are a great way to get started.
 Set a time frame to track the progress of the goals you have made for yourself. Set the time that is reasonable and achievable for you. It can be daily, weekly, or monthly.At the end of your time frame, track how well you did on that personal goal. What were you able to achieve? What do you still need to work on? Do you need to set another time frame to work on a particular goal more?
If you need more time, ask yourself what may have gotten in the way earlier. Setting these time frames and allowing yourself times of revision will help increase your sense of self-efficacy and keep you motivated.
 After you have set monthly goals, add something to your to-do list daily that helps you achieve them. This can be a small or large task, as long as it’s productive and goal-oriented.Let’s say one of your monthly goals is to lose three pounds. You might set out to exercise for 30 minutes daily. Another feasible action might be to eat three servings of vegetables daily.
 To grow from the experience, you will need to carve out time to assess your progress each month. You might schedule in one to two hours on the last day of each month for a review. During your review, you should evaluate what goals went as planned and which were more challenging for you.It’s important to use this reflection time to celebrate small wins and evaluate setbacks. Don’t just beat yourself up if you didn’t accomplish a goal. Try to understand why you didn’t. Also, pat yourself on the back for the small victories you made throughout the month. You may even set up rewards for these achievements.
 After your reflection period each month, spend some time thinking about whether you are headed in the right direction. Were you on track to reaching your goals, or did you fall short? Were your goals realistic or borderline impossible? Think about what you might need to change for the following month. Then, sit down and write out new monthly goals and repeat the process.