 Place a medium sized saucepan over medium heat on the stove. Try to use a pan with a thick bottom, which will heat the sugar mixture more evenly than a thin saucepan., Add the white sugar, brown sugar, whipping cream, maple syrup and corn syrup to the pan. Stir the ingredients to mix them., Heat the ingredients in the pan, stirring regularly. As the mixture comes to a boil, you should notice the sugar dissolving and the color of the fudge lightening. Lower the heat slightly to medium low, and let the mixture simmer, checking every few minutes with a candy thermometer. When the mixture reaches 240 degrees F (115.5 C), remove the pan from heat.Don’t stir the mixture after you take it off the heat. Instead, let it sit for 20 minutes.
 While the maple mixture cools for 20 minutes, place one inch (2.54 cm) of water into the bottom of a double boiler or a medium saucepan. Place it on the stove and turn the heat to medium until the water begins to simmer. Then chop the chocolate and place it into the top of double broiler, or a heat-safe plate, and put it over the bottom of the broiler. Stir the chocolate with a spatula continuously until it has melted.Pour and scrape the melted chocolate into a bowl, then set it aside.
You can also melt chocolate in the microwave by microwaving it for 20 second intervals, then stirring. Chocolate can scald easily in the microwave if overcooked, so when the chocolate is mostly melted, take it out and stir it for around fifteen seconds until it has melted completely.
 When the maple mixture has cooled, scrape it into the bowl of an electric mixer or a large bowl. Mix on the highest setting on the electric mixer, or stir it vigorously by hand until it’s thick and it loses its gloss, about 2-5 minutes., Line a pan with tin foil or parchment paper, then lightly butter. Pour in the newly mixed maple mixture into the pan, scraping the sides of the bowl to get it all out. Then pour the melted chocolate in a layer over the maple mixture., Place the pan of fudge into the refrigerator uncovered. Let it chill for at least two hours, and up to one day, until it is firm to the touch. If you eat it before it has firmed, it will not have the right consistency., When you are ready to eat the fudge, remove it from the refrigerator. Lift it out of the pan by the foil or parchment paper, then cut it using a sharp knife into squares. Store uneaten fudge in the refrigerator in a sealed container.