 If you still have access to your old phone, back up your contacts and data before continuing.


See Back Up an Android Phone on the Google Cloud for tips on backing up your Android data.
Windows Phone: Select “Backup” in the Settings app. Tap “Apps +Settings,” then “Back up now.” Follow the prompts to start your backup.Blackberry: Open BlackBerry Link on your PC or Mac.Connect your BlackBerry to the computer. Select your BlackBerry on the right side of the screen, then select “Backup & Restore.” Follow the prompts to back up your device.
 Skip this step if you have a regular (billed monthly) plan. Prepaid account holders (pay-in-advance) should visit the “Activate, Switch, or Bring Your Own Device FAQs” site and click “Activating a device you’re bringing to an existing line.” Follow the prompts on the screen to complete the activation.
 Now you’ll need to remove the SIM card from the old phone. If you don’t have access to your old phone, you can skip this step.
 If you still have access to your old phone, you remove its SIM card and use it in the replacement phone. The process to remove SIM cards is different across devices, but most can be removed in one of these manners:


Remove the battery cover and look for a small card (if you see two cards, it’s the one that does not say “SD.” If you don’t see it upon first glance, it may be beneath the battery. Once you locate the card, slide it free from its slot. Try not to touch the gold connector on the card.
Insert the small end of a paper clip (or use a SIM removal tool) to pop out the SIM card tray. Then, pull (gently!) the SIM card free from beneath the tray. Be careful not to touch the gold connector.
 Inserting the SIM card into your new phone is similar to removing it from your old phone. Locate the SIM slot on your new device and slide the card inside.



Call (877) 807-4646 from another phone. You can’t use your replacement phone to make this call.
Follow the prompts to activate your replacement phone. You may need to enter information from your receipt or replacement package, so keep those things handy.
 Once the phone boots up, you’ll arrive at a wizard that guides you through setting up the phone. The setup screens vary depending on your model of phone.


You will be prompted to connect to Wi-Fi during the setup. If you have Wi-Fi, tap your wireless access point and enter the password (if required). If not, select the option that allows you to activate your phone over a cellular connection.
If you have a prepaid or Pay-As-You-Go phone, you will be prompted to select your plan information., Again, the screens are different on every phone, but once the initial setup is complete, you will arrive at a screen that says something like “Activate Now.”


The activation process may take a few moments to complete. When the phone is activated, you will see the word “Verizon” at the top of the screen.
Most phones will prompt you to restore from a backup as part of the initial setup process. If you need to restore from a backup but don’t see a prompt, find your phone’s Backup settings and look for a “restore” option.
 If you can't activate your replacement phone, call (800) 922-0204 to speak with a Verizon support, or visit a retail outlet and have it activated in-store.

