 It can be from any cosplay website or maybe a costume shop near you. You may need to alter the wig and dye the bangs on one side to create the asymmetrical look Kid has. If you're already blessed with black, straight hair that curls at the ends, just use hair dye on one side. Do not use paper to do this; it looks incorrect and will lower the authenticity of your outfit. Hair extensions are also an option, but you will need to cut them and weave them in your hair. Dying would be the best option for if it's a hot day you won't need to wear a wig and it lasts longer!;
, Try to see if one of your friends can sew or if they know someone who does. You can try doing it yourself if you have the skill . You can chose to alter your current clothes if you have any that resemble Death the Kid's.You'll want a pair of shoes like kids which can easily be bought online. Most in-store, non-custom-made-cosplay shoes can make your costume look very peculiar so it's safe if you buy it; if you want to just buy them at a local store, Penny wafers may do the trick.
 If not, you will have to make it. If you do make it, its pretty simple: just draw the skull on paper or poster paper, cut it out, trace it on to gray or metallic silver fabric, cut two skulls, sew them together, and draw the face with sharpie. If you happen to have friends who are into blacksmithing, you can get the mould custom made and and ask them to smelt you the skull. This may be quite costly. The rings and guns are a pain to make by non-smithing means, so I suggest you just save yourself the time, effort, and frustration and buy them.

For the actual makeup, use a pale foundation if you don't have natural ivory skin, or if you already have ivory skin, you can use it if you want to hide a few blemishes you may have.
To give your eyes that sharp, comic-esque look, line them with a black eyeliner. Keep the lines thin but extremely dark, because you don't want panda eyes like L Lawliet from Death Note.
If you aren't lucky enough to have natural golden eyes, buy a pair of contact lenses in the golden-yellow-type colour. If there are none, scarcely, there are a few websites and stores that allow you to custom-make contact lenses.
 Practice saying Kid's lines in his voice when you watch Soul Eater. Kid talks in a complete, well-spoken way. Have frequent symmetry fits. This will give your Cosplay a hint of authenticity. Remember; Kid likes symmetry and anything asymmetrical irritates him.
 Kid holds his weapon-partners in this unusual way as his signature of uniqueness.

Make sure your house is perfectly symmetrical. The door doesn't have to be as most house architects do not make the door the centre-point of houses and this can't be helped, but you can make sure your desk is the centre of the room, your chair, your bed, two bedside tables, one symmetrical painting. Little things.
If you're in a situation where you have to sing at a karaoke bar, or you just want to belt out some tunes, try singing Resonance (Soul Eater theme) or Kid's theme (Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Have A Nice Dream)

