 You can often find a sitz bath kit in the medical supply section of the grocery store, or your local pharmacy. If you can’t find a sitz bath kit locally at a store, you can purchase them easily online.


The kit will include a bath basin that fits over a toilet seat; a solution bag for the bathwater; a plastic tube to spray the water; and a clamp to control the flow through the tube.
 Even if your kit is new out of the package, you want to make sure that you’re not exposing your damaged tissue to possible infection. Clean the basin thoroughly with a bleach-based cleaning product. Scrub well and rinse with water.
 Once you get your bath set up, you can just sit and relax while it does its work. But first, you have to set it up.


Place the tube through the hole in the basin that’s used for circulating the solution throughout the bath. Consult the directions that came with the kit if you’re having trouble locating the tube hole.
Snake the tube all the way to the center of the basin and clip it into the bottom of the bowl. Consult your kit’s instructions for a diagram if necessary.
Use the clamp to cut off flow through the tube; you don’t want it to start leaking before you’re ready!
Fill the solution bag with warm water, or whichever solution you’d like to use to treat the damaged tissue.
 Making sure the toilet seat is up, place the basin over the inner rim of the toilet. It’s best if the bag can hang from some sort of hook, but all that matters is that it’s elevated, so the liquid will drain downward.
 You’ll likely have to adjust a bit to find a comfortable position. Feel free to adjust your position as necessary throughout the duration of the bath to make sure you’re not causing yourself unnecessary discomfort.
 Release the clamp that’s holding back the warm solution in the elevated bag. The hose at the bottom of the bowl will begin spraying upward, so make the necessary adjustments to ensure that the bathwater is being sprayed onto the damaged tissue that you wish to treat. This might include adjusting your position or adjusting the position of the hose.


If you must adjust the position of the hose, make sure to cut off the flow of water using the clamp. Otherwise, you’ll make a mess!

, The solution in the bag should be released slowly, not all at once, if your kit is working properly, so you’ll have a few minutes to relax into the spray. Even after the bag has emptied and the hose has ceased spraying, you can simply soak in the water that’s been collected in the basin for as long as you’d like.
 You must be very gentle with the damaged tissue after your sitz bath, so don’t rub yourself dry as you normally would. Use a clean, soft towel, pat and dab until the area has been dried.


Scrubbing or rubbing can cause irritation and further injury.

