 If none of these methods are working for you, you may need to improve your sleep hygiene in order to reset your sleep cycle. This means you should make the activities surrounding sleep and your bedtime and wake-up time consistent and relaxing.


Try only doing bed-related activities in your bed. This means you should avoid working or watching TV in your bed.
Make your room, bed, and bed clothes comfortable every night.
Avoid exercise too close to bed and never drink caffeine or alcohol within a few hours of sleeping., If you are having a hard time adjusting back to your old bedtime because you aren't tired, try relaxing activities before bed. This can include listening to relaxing music, watching a calm movie, or doing some gentle stretches.


The more relaxed you are, the more likely you will be able to go to sleep at your old bedtime., When you are trying to change your sleep schedule, it can be hard to make yourself sleepy earlier. To help, make your bedroom and the room you spend the few hours before bed in darker as your bedtime approaches. This will help increase the production of the sleep hormone melatonin, which is produced when you are in the dark.In addition, turn the thermostat down to around 67–68°F (19.4–20°C).


You can do this by using light blocking curtains if it stays light later in your area or if there are street lights outside your window. This is also helpful if you need to sleep past when it gets light outside.
If you have a dimmer switch on your lights, try making the room progressively darker as you approach your bedtime.
If you are really having a hard time, try wearing sunglasses so your eyes adjust to the darkness and to get you used to switching to sleeping mode.
 If your new sleep cycle requires you to get up before it is light outside, the transition may be harder to make. If you are having a hard time waking up, turn on as many lights as you can in your room and house. This will decrease the production of melatonin, which will help wake you up. 