 You and your estate agent should visit your new home after exchanging contracts. Check to make sure that the property is in good condition.If the seller agreed to install fixtures, then make sure that they have done that.
 Your mortgage lender will hold onto your title deeds until you pay your loan off.


Also be sure to register the transfer with the land registry., You need to make sure that the utility company knows your new address. Also make sure to cancel utilities on the old property.


Make sure to notify the bank and the post of your new address. Your post can be forwarded to your new address.
You also should have your driving licenses updated with your new address.
 You will want insurance on the property.Make sure that the insurance becomes effective the date you exchange contracts.Typically, if a house is damaged during the period between the exchange of contracts and completion, then the buyer cannot get out of the contract. Accordingly, you will need insurance to start the date you exchange contracts, not the date of completion.
The contract might alter this rule. For example, the contract might state that the seller will carry insurance on the building during this period. Check the contract.
 Typically, this happens one to four weeks after exchanging contracts. Although it has become more common to exchange contracts on the same day as completion, there are several risks involved:


The mortgage lender might not transfer money in time. If the transfer is not completed by 3:00 pm, then you will have to wait until the next day to complete the sale.A seller might make an outrageous demand for more money at the last moment. If you are packed and ready to move, then you might feel that you have no choice but to give into the demand.
Accordingly, you may want to schedule completion for several weeks after you exchange contracts.
 On completion day, you get the keys to the property and can move in.Make sure to call your solicitor. The money must pass from the buyer’s mortgage company to the buyer’s solicitor, and then pass from this person to the seller’s solicitor. Be sure to call in the morning and make sure that everything is set.
If you don’t hear anything during the day, be sure to check up on your solicitor. You don’t want the conveyance of money to be slowed down because your solicitor is not giving the matter close attention.

