 Most bolts of fabric in a fabric store will have a label at one end. The label will tell you what the fabric is made out of. Look for something that says 100% polyester. This is very important. You will be using a candle flame to burn away the edges, so you want something that melts under heat. Natural fabric, such as cotton, will burn.


Consider using any of the following types of fabric: organza, chiffon, or satin.Consider mixing and matching different types of fabric to create an interesting texture.
 Make the circles a little bit larger than you want them to be, as they will shrink when you hold them above the flame. The size of the circle will be the size of your flower; you can add petals later.


Consider making the circles slightly different sizes. This will add some texture and variety to your flower.
 The best candle to use for this is a tea candle, but any candle will do so long as it is stable enough.
 Hold the fabric about 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) away from the flame.Slowly rotate the circle until the entire edge is lightly singed. The edges will melt and crinkle.


If the flame is too hot for you, consider holding the fabric with a pair of tweezers.
If the fabric melts quickly, pull the fabric further away. If the fabric doesn't melt, hold it closer to the flame. If the fabric doesn't melt at all, check to make sure that it is 100% polyester.
 This is not necessary, but it can make your flower look more organic and realistic. After you melt edges, cut four slits, about a third of the way, into the flower.Keep the slits evenly spaced. Pull a slit open and hold the flower above the flame. Keep it as far as you can so that the raw edges can still melt, but not burn., Place the circles on top of each other in a stack. Play around with different sizes and textures until you get the layering you want.


Consider using an odd number of petals instead of an even one. This will make your flower appear more organic and realistic., Thread your needle and tie a knot at the bottom of the thread. Push the needle through the center of all of the petals, starting from the bottom flower. Once the needle comes out of the top petal, push it back through the petals again and tie a knot at the bottom.
 You can either sew it on or glue it on. Fabric glue or hot glue would be the best.
 This will make the flower more stable. The felt circle should be large enough to give the flower support, but small enough so that you can't see it when you look down on top of the flower.Try to choose a color of felt that closely matches the color of your flower.
 Once you are happy with the flower, place some hot glue onto the metal hair clip. Press the flower down into the glue.

