 This space should be comfortable and quiet, with adequate light, readily available school supplies, and minimal distractions.Having a specific place to work and study will help your child be more organized, focus better and quicker, and improve their homework performance.


Try to find a space without a TV, games, or other distractions. Or at least make sure electronic devices are off and there is nothing around to distract your child.
If a computer is needed, have your child use it somewhere you can make sure they aren’t getting off track by chatting, playing games, or surfing the net.
Make sure there are pencils, pens, paper, dictionary, and other materials on hand for your child.

For example, when your son gets home from school, he might have a snack, then work on homework for a set period.
Remember to include breaks from studying in the routine. For instance, your daughter might work on her Spanish homework and then take a five minute break before starting on History.
 One big challenge to good school performance is not being organized.Having the materials they need when they need them, knowing which assignments are due and when they are due, and using good time management skills can help your child improve their poor homework performance.


Buy your child a calendar or agenda. Show them how to enter important dates or assignments. Remind them to use it for the first week or so.
Help your child develop a schedule for the day and week. Include time in the schedule for homework, studying, sports, and fun.
Use organizational supplies like pencil holders or desktop organizers to help keep materials organized.
 Remember that your child probably has some negative feelings about their homework. They may feel anxious, depressed, or ashamed. Encouraging them can help erase these feelings and help them try harder to improve their homework performance.


You might say, “I really like the effort you are putting into this assignment. Good job!”
Or you could say something like, “You’re a hard worker and a smart kid. I know that you can do this.”
You might also try, “I know this is a hard assignment, but I like that you are sticking with it.”

, When your child does an assignment well, or completes an assignment, rewarding them can help them improve their homework performance.In the beginning you may to have provide material rewards, but over time, you should be able to just provide encouragement and praise.


With younger children, giving them 5 minutes extra play time, a special snack, or even a sticker can encourage them.
For larger projects or long-term improvement in homework, consider giving your child a reward like extra computer time on the weekends or permission to go to a social event.
Emphasize that your child should be proud of themselves. This helps make their reward the sense of accomplishment they have.
You might say, “You should feel proud of how you completed your work. It took a lot of effort and you stuck with it.”

