 Expect talking back, eye rolls, and moodiness. She is trying to find out who she is, and discover herself.


Try to ignore her sarcastic tone and focus on her message.
Remind yourself that you were a teenager once, also. Understand that she may be having a bad attitude without even realizing it.
Don’t let her attitude push you away. Keep being there for her and being the parent you know that she needs.
 Writing about what you are going through with your teenage daughter can help you get along with her in several ways. For example, it will help you express exactly what you are feeling without blowing up at her. It can also help you to notice patterns in her (or your) behavior that need to be addressed.


Write about the difficult times and disagreements, as well as the happy and fun times you have with your teenage daughter. Write about how these times make you feel.
Write about your fears and concerns for her, as well as realistic ways you can handle your concerns.
Write about the changes that you see in her and the ways in which she is still your same little girl.
You can even use your journal as a slang dictionary and write down phrases that she uses frequently and what they mean.
 You aren’t the only parent trying to get along with their teenage daughter. Talking to other parents about their experiences can provide you with suggestions for how to handle certain issues.It can also help you understand what your daughter is going through and explore what you are feeling about it.


Being active in your daughter’s school and other activities can give you the chance to meet and interact with other parents. So attend her school’s Literacy Night or her gymnastics meet.
Reach out to parents at your religious institution and community and neighborhood associations.
 It can be easy to lose track of sleep and eating when you are trying to get along with your teenage daughter. But, in order to be the best parent you can be, you need to make sure that you are as healthy as you can be.Drink plenty of water and have alcohol in moderation.
Make sure that you are getting enough sleep. It is okay to take a nap during the day every now and then.
Eat regularly and make sure that your snacks and meals are nutritious.
Engage in some form of physical activity. If possible, invite your daughter to participate in the activity with you.
 There will be times when getting along with your teenage daughter seems impossible. There will be other times when you feel as though your life revolves around your daughter’s drama. At these times, you may need to take a little break and do something that makes you smile.Take a few minutes and play your favorite song. Go into your bathroom, turn the shower on, and sing along with the music.
Take a walk or a hike along your favorite path. Take the time to notice how good it makes you feel and what about it makes you feel good.
Treat yourself to small joy like frozen yogurt, a movie, or a day on the lake.

