 If you want to prank your existing friends, you may want to go for the more 'werewolf' type.;
, Everybody knows that werewolves change on the full moon. Well it's the same with Wolfbloods. Every full moon, you should act worried, like you're going to be late for something, keep checking the clock, especially when it gets close to sunset. If you are with friends, or at school, excuse yourself, and rush off home. Don't answer your phone that night if anybody calls to see where you are.
 This is when there is no moon in the sky. Act really tired, not like you can't be bothered with your schoolwork, just super tired. You could even stay awake as long as possible, and get up early to make it more realistic.
 If you are a girl or a boy. Wolfbloods and werewolves just don't wear dresses or skirts. Also, if you wear it, keep the make-up to a minimum. If you can't help it, apply just basic make-up, perhaps black eye-liner. You want to look as normal as you can, as if you are trying not to get noticed, of course, you are trying to get noticed and Show off by playing a game of pretend.
 Brown is often seems in forecasts too, wear brown if you like. If you want to wear muted autumnal colors, that's an option too.
 This is a wolf's sign of challenging or dislike.
, Pretend to be able to see really far and pick up scents.
 Hide a small object that is not easily found, but make sure you remember where you put it. Ask them to help you find it, and, when you are sure they can see you, lift your nose into the air, or take a sniff at the air, and pretend to follow a 'scent trail' to your object. Say 'Oh, look, I've found it.' If you see them looking at you strangely, look a little worried and hurry on.
 Pretend to be obsessed with meat if you are not already. Wolfbloods and werewolves love meat.
 Wolves are afraid of fire, so are Wolfbloods. If your parents light a fire in the grate, hang back and eye it wearily. If you are at a bonfire with your friends, growl/snarl so they can hear you, but others can't. You don't want to be labelled as a psycho, you are just playing a joke.
 As you probably remember, this is a wolf's sign of dislike or challenging.
 They could be another Wolfblood in your pack (perhaps you moved to the school together, to protect each other) or perhaps a werewolf hunter. That would make it interesting, and possibly more fun for you.
 You should tell your mum or dad you are playing a prank if you are going to be keeping up the act at home, so they don't get worried. Make sure you tell them it is a prank/joke, not say 'I'm a wolfblood', or they'll take you to a psychiatrist.
 If you are ready to give up the act, announce to everybody you were pranking that it was all a joke. They will either laugh or be really cross. If they are really your friends, they will get over it, so don't worry. If you want to keep the act up for as long as you know your friends, start on the last couple of years of school so you don't have to keep it up for that long. It will get a bit boring if you have to keep up the pretence all the time, so it's no recommended holding up until University. You can keep the act up for as long as you want, but sometimes it becomes a bit of a chore, it's not meant to be a chore, it's meant to be a game.

