 To make the cheesecake, you’ll need a 9-inch (23-cm) springform pan. Spray it with a generous coat of nonstick cooking spray, and line the bottom of the pan with a piece of parchment paper that’s cut to fit it exactly.If you prefer, you can grease the springform pan with softened butter.;
, Add 1 ½ cups (125 g) of finely crushed graham cracker crumbs, ½ cup (113 g) of melted and cooled butter, and ¼ cup (55 g) of sugar to a medium size bowl. Use clean fingers to thoroughly mix the ingredients until they hold together when you press the mixture.You can buy already crushed graham cracker crumbs at the grocery store, or crush your own by placing the crackers in a plastic bag and rolling over them with a rolling pin or other heavy item. A food processor also works well for crushing the crackers.
 Once you’ve mixed the graham crackers, butter, and sugar together, transfer the mixture to the prepared springform pan. Pack the mixture into the bottom of the pan in an even layer to form the crust.It helps to use a heavy measuring cup or small pot to press down on the graham cracker mixture to ensure that it’s tightly packed in the pan.
 After you’ve pressed the graham cracker crust into the pan, place it in the refrigerator. Allow the crust to chill for at least an hour or up to a day before you plan to assemble the cheesecake.If you prefer, you can bake the crust instead of chilling it to help it set it. Place it in an oven preheated to 325 degree Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius), and bake it for approximately 5 minutes or until the crust looks dry. Allow it to cool completely before adding the filling., Add 2 teaspoons (6 g) of powdered gelatin and 1 ½ tablespoons (23 ml) of cold water to a medium size, heatproof bowl. Allow the mixture to sit for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the gelatin has softened.You’ll be placing the bowl with the gelatin and water in a double boiler after you’ve let it sit, so the bowl must be safe to heat.
 Add 1 ½ pounds (675 g) of softened cream cheese, 1 ½ cups (438 g) of plain, whole milk Greek yogurt, ¾ cup (165 g) of sugar, 2 teaspoons (30 ml) of fresh lemon juice, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract, and ½ teaspoon (3 g) of kosher salt to a food processor. Process the ingredients until the mixture is completely smooth.It may be necessary to scrape down the sides of the food processor bowl a few times during blending to ensure that the mixture is fully combined.
If you don’t have a food processor, you can mix the filling in a blender.
 Fill a small saucepan that the bowl with the gelatin fits over with approximately 1-inch (2.5-cm) of water, and heat it on the stove on medium. Set the bowl on top, and heat it in the double boiler for approximately 2 minutes, or until the gelatin dissolves.Make sure to stir the gelatin mixture constantly as it heats to help it dissolve.
 Once the gelatin has melted into the water, remove the bowl from the saucepan. Turn the food processor back on, and slowly drizzle the gelatin mixture into the cream cheese mixture. Process the filling until it is completely blended, which should take approximately 30 seconds.Be sure to handle the bowl with the gelatin mixture with a pot holder because it may be hot from the double boiler.
 Once you’ve finished mixing the filling, add it to the graham cracker crust in the springform pan. When you’re finished, tap the pan firmly against your counter or table to remove any air bubbles in the filling.To ensure that the cheesecake has an attractive appearance, use a spatula to smooth the top of the filling so it’s even.
 When the filling is in the pan and the top is smoothed, cover it with a piece of plastic wrap. Place it in the refrigerator, and allow it to chill for at least 6 hours before serving.Make sure that you wrap the plastic tightly over the cheesecake so it’s protected in the refrigerator.
You can make the cheesecake up to 2 days in advance and keep it refrigerated until you are ready to serve it.
 When you’re ready to serve the cake, remove it from the refrigerator and discard the plastic wrap. If you like, you can place sliced strawberries on the top of the cake for garnish before cutting it into slices and serving it.You can arrange the strawberries however you like. You can place a single berry in the center or create a ring around the entire edge of the cake. You can also cover the entire top of the cake with sliced strawberries if you like.
To make cutting the cake easier, dip your knife in warm water and wipe off in between each slice that you make.
Store leftover cheesecake in the refrigerator. It should keep for 5 to 6 days.
 If you aren't a fan of strawberries, you can garnish the cheesecake with other berries, such as raspberries or blueberries. If you prefer fruit syrups to whole fruit, drizzle strawberry, raspberry, or blueberry syrup over individual slices before serving.Arrange raspberries or blueberries on top of the cheesecake before slicing just as you would with the strawberries.

