 Prior to making any dietary changes or adding in supplements, talk to your doctor about the safety and efficacy of your diet or supplements.


Many supplements interact with over-the-counter or prescription medications. It's important to get an OK from your doctor prior to making any changes or starting any supplements.
Keep track of the names of the supplements in addition to the exact dosages recommended. This information will be helpful to your doctor.
Also, always follow your doctor’s advice and take all prescription medication. Do not discontinue medication without appropriate advice to do so.
 When you're shopping for any type of vitamin, mineral or herbal supplement, it's important to read the entire label to educate yourself about what it is you're buying.


Supplements are not regulated by the FDA. So it's important to be educated about the supplement, your health conditions and any possible side effects it may cause. Spend some time researching the supplement using reliable sources.
Check your supplement label to see if the ingredients have been verified by an independent quality control organization like USP, NSF, or ConsumerLab.Read the ingredients, supplement fact panel, and instructions. This will tell you what's in the supplement and how to appropriately take it. Follow the instructions on the label, unless directed otherwise by your doctor.
Also be sure to read any warnings or lists of possible side effects. Keep track of these in case you notice any changes or side effects.
 Eating cinnamon either in its natural form or in supplement form has been shown to improve symptoms of PCOS. This is especially true for those experiencing insulin resistance.The typical recommended dosage is 500-1000 mg capsules or 2 tsp of the ground spice, taken daily.
Although not all studies showed significant benefits of using cinnamon to help reduce insulin resistance, some show that cinnamon is especially effective for insulin resistance combined with PCOS., Another supplement that may help manage insulin resistance associated with PCOS is chromium.Chromium supplements may help reduce insulin resistance, help regulate blood glucose levels, and reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases.Those who have insulin resistance and PCOS may choose to take chromium picolinate daily.The recommended dosage is 200 mcg daily.
 This herbal supplement may regulate menstrual cycles, decrease breast tenderness and help improve fertility.The recommended dosage is 20 mg to 40 mg daily for up to 3 months.It’s not clear whether or not chaste tree berry works to improve symptoms of PCOS, since studies have had contradictory results. However, it has not been associated with any serious side effects., This supplement is thought to have anti-androgenic effects which lower the production of male hormones thought to produce the side effect of excess hair growth associated with PCOS.Recommended dosages range from 160 mg to 320 mg 1-2 times daily. Ask your doctor which dosage is best for you.Studies on saw palmetto show very few serious side effects., This is a spice typically used in Eastern style cuisine. A few studies have shown this may help lower blood sugar.Dosages typically recommended are 5 g of fenugreek seeds or 1g of fenugreek extract daily.Some mild side effects can include: gas, bloating and diarrhea.