 Check your kitchen cabinets to see if they go all the way to the ceiling or if there is space above them. Empty space above cabinets causes energy to get stuck there and stagnate. You need to counteract this waste of energy by filling the space with lively positive energy.Bring life with leafy, green potted plants. Don’t crowd the space, but place enough to ensure the space is well balanced.
Install lighting to drive away dark energy.
Place beloved objects on the cabinets that create positive energy.
 It’s a common problem to have a kitchen faucet that leaks, but you may not realize how this negatively affects your house’s feng shui. Water is the symbol for wealth, so a drippy faucet literally means that your wealth is slowly draining away. If you notice that your faucet is leaking, takes steps immediately to get it fixed.Check out this article for DIY faucet fixes.
At the very least, if you can’t get the leak fixed, make sure the water drips into a pitcher or basin so it can still be used rather than going down the drain. You could use this to water the plants on top of the cabinets.
 Because feng shui values open space and minimalism, it is important to sort through your cabinets (and pantries) on occasion to get rid of things that you are not using. Utensils, appliances, and food that are not being used are only collecting energy and wasting it. If you know you don’t use something very often, consider whether it is really necessary or not.Getting rid of old food frequently is important because your kitchen is the source of health in your home and old food does not promote good health.
 If the kitchen represents health in your home, then the stove is the center of that health because it prepares your food. Keeping your stove clean keeps the energy of the food positive, but a dirty and grimy stove reduces the energy of the food which ultimately reduces your own energy.


Use all of the stove's burners regularly to maintain the overall strength of the stove’s energy.
Move your trash can away from the stove to keep the negative energy of the garbage away from the positive energy of the fresh food you prepare on the stove.
When you face the stove, you may be facing away from the entrance to your kitchen. Because of this, it is possible for someone to come up behind you without you knowing it. This is bad energy because it makes you restless and you can’t focus your attention on the food. To counteract this, hang a mirror over the stove to give yourself a view behind you.

