 Determine where on the fingers and on which finger you’d like to place a tattoo, as you have several options.


Knuckle tattoos are generally placed between either the first and second or second and third knuckles of any finger, on the flat back surface. Lettering across multiple “knuckles” is commonly suited to this placement, which is more likely to hold ink well than anywhere else on the finger, given that it is less often in contact with other fingers.
Tattoos can be placed on the side of any finger, as in where two fingers might touch when together. Small images and even words are commonly inked here.
Ring tattoos mimic the band of a metal ring by going all the way around a finger. Note that this and any other finger tattoo that has ink on the inside of the hand can more easily blur and fade because it is frequently exposed to movement, sweat, sun, and washing.;
, Come to a sure decision about the design of your tattoo and whether it will be in color or black and white.


Consider popular designs for finger tattoos, which include simple lettering, symbols, and sentimental or marital themed pieces for a creative alternative to traditional rings and wedding bands.
Avoid very intricate, detailed, or precise designs, as a finger affords very little space for tattoo art, and the ink may not hold color and detail as well as other areas due to the nature of the skin.With any tattoo, it’s a good idea to visit a tattoo artist in your process of deciding on a design, whether you are familiar with their art and want to leave more creative control to them, or you want to see how they’ll interpret a very specific design that you want.
 If you are getting a permanent tattoo done, do your research into any tattoo parlor you’re interested in, as well as the specific artist who will work on you.


Note that there are some tattoo shops and artists who will not perform finger tattoos as a general rule, usually because they believe ink does not take as well to the skin on the fingers. Definitely be sure to check with the shop about their policies ahead of time.
Examine the shop itself for cleanliness and proper disposal methods, as well as looking into the license and certifications of any artist. Be willing to pay more for a quality shop or an artist with more experience.If you are opting for a henna tattoo or other temporary method, search for shops that apply henna or buy your own online or in stores.
 Get used to having a finger tattoo design by creating a temporary one and continuing to redo it to determine if you still like it over time.


Get a henna tattoo with your design for something that will last for up to a couple weeks. You can have the tattoo redone or do it yourself to test it out for an even longer period.
Try a premade temporary tattoo from any store, or make your own using Sharpies or pens, eyeliner, or nail polish. Reapply as it wears off to test the tattoo for a longer period of time.
 Remember that many job industries and those hiring you may prohibit visible tattoos, or visible tattoos may hurt your chances at a job. Consider this before getting a permanent finger tattoo, as they are nearly impossible to cover or hide.


Those in the medical industry, law, corporate offices, etc. are more likely to have restrictions on visible tattoos like finger tattoos. Retail, service, creative, and physical labor industries are more likely to be accepting of body ink.
Keep in mind that even if there are no written restrictions in your current industry or one you plan to pursue a job in, any unexpected job interview in the future may be negatively impacted by tattoos. About 60 percent of human resource managers surveyed in 2012 said a tattoo could hinder the chance of getting hired.