 Changes in your living situation or even your sleep environment could lead to sleep problems. Did you just move into a new home? Are you sleeping in a new room, or with a new partner? Are you sleeping on a new mattress or pillow? These types of shifts, even if they are small, can affect your level of anxiety or stress. This will then impact your ability to get a good night’s sleep.If you think environmental problem are keeping you awake, think about adjusting your mattress with a mattress pad to make it more comfortable. Or keep an item from your old room in your new room. Create a sense of calm and security in your sleep environment to help you go to sleep.
 Working a different work shift or a rotating shift can wreak havoc on your sleep schedule, especially if you rotate shifts on a regular basis.Counteract shift work by adding 30 minute naps to your sleep schedule and lengthening the amount of time you allot for sleep. You should also use caffeine only during the first part of your shift to promote alertness at night and restfulness during the day. Try to minimize the number of shift changes you do to give your body’s internal clock more time to adjust to a new work schedule.
You may want to also talk to your doctor about a prescription for short-acting sleeping pills to help you sleep during the day.
 Adjusting to a new time zone can take several days or even a week. Eastward travel generally causes more severe jet lag than westward travel, as traveling east requires you to shorten the day and your internal clock can better adjust to a longer day than a shorter day.Decrease your exposure to light at bedtime and increase your exposure to light at wake time once you arrive. Spend a lot of time outdoors so your body gets used to the light cues in the new time zone.
Adjust your internal clock by getting a good amount of sleep 2-3 days prior to the trip. If you are traveling west, make minor changes to your sleep schedule by delaying your normal bedtime and wake time progressively by 20-30 minute intervals. If you are traveling east, advance your normal wake time by 10 to 15 minutes a day 2-3 days prior to the trip and try to advance your normal bedtime by 10 to 15 minutes.
Talk to your doctor about melatonin supplements to counteract jet lag. Melatonin is considered safe to use over a period of days or weeks, but its effectiveness on jet lag is controversial. Some studies find melatonin supplements before bed several days prior to arriving in a new time zone can help you fall asleep at the proper time. But other studies find that melatonin does not help relieve jet lag.