 Go ahead and pig out, you’ll probably drool later on from all the foods you can’t have. Chew some bubblegum, eat the pizza crusts, enjoy some daffy taffy and caramel, and drink all the pop you can.


Treat yourself to sticky foods or hard foods. You won't be able to eat these while wearing braces.
Watch yourself. Don't overeat on these foods. Even though you may have to say goodbye to these foods for a few years, always make sure you are healthy.
Study up on foods that will damage your brace brackets. Also, your orthodontist will probably give you a list of foods to avoid.;
, If the toothpaste you like is of the tooth-whitening variety, you may not be able to use it with braces (you might have yellow patches when you take them off). So make the most of it now.


Take a test-brush. After you have brushed the way you normally do, take a test brush to get used to brushing with braces. Do the same for flossing.
 You may be a brace face for the next few years, so take as many pictures as you can, and enjoy yourself.
 Notice exactly what is wrong with your teeth that you are getting corrected. Is your vampire tooth all up there? Do you feel like a squirrel with your front teeth up front like that? Think about how soon, that will be gone, and you will have a perfect smile!

, Having braces tightened can make your teeth sore for the next few days, so think about all the ice cream, milkshakes and good soup you’ll eat! If your school or workplace has a mandatory cafeteria, only being able to eat soft foods will give you an excuse to bring your own lunch.
 If it really hurts, you can always take some pain medication, or tell your orthodontist that what he or she is doing is making you uncomfortable! Think of how everything will be okay, because it will be.
 If that is sweatpants and an XXL sweater, then go for it! Avoid makeup so you can rub your eyes and always bring a chapstick to your next appointment. Having a box set up with everything you will need on that day visiting the orthodontist can ease your peace of mind.
 If you think about it, the “smile makers” they use to open your mouth look kind of funny! Have a good laugh at your future self, dressed in an uncoordinated way and totally freaking out over completely nothing.
 Go outside or stay inside, make a craft, do anything! You can also hang out with a friend who makes you laugh.
 Also, being friendly towards him or her will have your orthodontist being more friendly towards you. You can ask him or her to explain how the whole process will work if that’s what it requires. Just make sure to not take up too much of your orthodontist's time, though, as he or she has other patients to attend to. Ask him or her for how long he or she studied, if he/she likes his job, and so on, it will help your peace of mind.
 Whether it’s altering your breathing, going for a stretch or just taking a walk, there are many methods to reduce stress. Try meditation, counting backwards from 50 and back again, singing nursery rhymes, carrying a stress ball, going to kick a punching bag, and even sleeping. All these will help calm them nerves.
 If you have an impatient nervousness towards the day you have braces, make time go faster by having fun. Or, you can even do something you completely despise, if that’s what it takes to take your mind off things.
 It means recording or videotaping yourself on a daily to weekly to monthly basis and tell the camera everything. Relying on an electronic device to tamper down your nervousness is a good idea. You can edit the video later and watch it when you do have braces, and respond to your past self. Were you hilarious, dead right, or were you obsessing over nothing at all? You’ll see!

, Take some pictures of a close-up of your mouth, print them out and glue them on a poster. Do this every month (or week) when you have braces, and finally, the final result when you have them off! Starting a project can be a great way to stop the stress.
 If you’re nervous, there is a reason. In this case, it’s brace-related. See whether you can relate to any of the next steps, then read how to stop feeling so nervous about each issue.
 If you’re nervous about looking nerdy, think about how that will open you up to a whole new society! If you love video games, and braces make you feel more connected to the online world, than be happy about it! If that worries you, realize that so many people who don’t necessarily game have braces, and that’s just a stereotype. Accessorize your braces by dyeing your hair to match them, and rock it! If people tell you you look nerdy, then prove them wrong. If you like the nerdy look, then good for you!

, If you’re nervous about braces looking bad on you, you can always consider alternatives. If you are a teenager or older, invisalign may be available. It is sort of like a plastic mold you place over your teeth, and it looks nearly invisible, although it is more expensive.


You can always consider clear ceramic braces, which are also a bit more costly, and a clear wire, so only people who look at you from up close will notice a thing.
And you should know that braces look awesome on anyone if you believe you look good. If you try to hide your smile, that will make people think you are very self-conscious, and they will pay more attention to what you are trying to hide. Smile and be proud! People who talk about you behind your back are not worthy of your friendship.
 If you’re worried about being alone in the braces community in your environment, go chat online with people who have braces! Metal in your mouth should not make you feel alone, but original. You are the only one in your neighborhood with braces. Be proud!

, If you’re nervous about not being able to eat the stuff you normally do, realize that most of the no-no foods list are bad for your health and make you gain weight more. You will eat healthier without realizing it, and think of the consequences if you eat those foods to help make you feel better.


Taffy can get stuck in your braces and make you look like a slime monster. Chewing on hard things will take some brackets off, therefore having you visit the orthodontist more frequently.
Soda will emphasize the white patches where your brackets used to be even more, and it’s full of sugar, so you pretty much are cutting yourself off from all the unhealthy stuff! If you are worried about friends chewing gum or eating popcorn in front of you, there are always alternatives!
Usually, sugar free gum can be chewed while braces are on, and brands like Pirate’s Booty popcorn do not have the seeds in them, therefore you can have!
And caramel; think of it as melted sugar (which it pretty much is) when others eat it in front of you, and think of holes in their teeth when they eat too much. Suddenly, you are glad you are restricted from those things.
 If you’re nervous about the future pain you might endure, know that actually getting your braces on for the first time does not hurt. The glue they put on your teeth may taste bad, but it’s harmless! The only pain you will feel is the soreness of your teeth after your wires get tightened, and that’s just because of the tension in your teeth. Enjoy cold foods while this happens, such as ice cream, or suck on ice (don’t chew) and carry an ice pack. The pain, if any, is extremely bearable, and you can always consider over-the-counter painkillers.

