 If you work or walk in an environment where slipping hazards are present, you will want to wear slip-resistant shoes. These shoes are specially designed to grip surfaces and prevent falls, even if those surfaces are slick or wet.Most footwear of this type will be labeled as “slip-resistant.”

, As you walk, pay careful attention to the speed at which you are walking and where you're stepping. The faster you walk or run, the more likely you are to fall, especially if the ground is suddenly or surprisingly uneven. By slowing down and being aware of the environment, you can lower the chances of falling.Be careful walking or running in any areas where the ground may be uneven.
Pay attention when taking the stairs and always use the hand rail.
 If you are performing any task that requires the use of a ladder or similar device, always practice proper safety. Read over any operation manual or safety instructions to make sure you are using the device properly.Always check to make sure any ladder or step stool is secure and is in good working order.
Never ride on a vehicle unsafely. Always enter or mount a vehicle slowly and carefully.
 Whether at work or at home, take a few steps to create a safe environment that removes the most common tripping hazards. Making frequently used rooms and spaces safe from trip hazards can greatly reduce your chances of falling. Review the following list for some helpful tips:Always close drawers after you are done with them.
Don't leave cords or wires in walkways.
Keep the area well lit.
Walk slowly over slippery or dangerous areas, taking small controlled steps.
Consider relocating if you live somewhere with steep stairs and falling is a concern. Otherwise, make sure you have handrails or a banister.
Use non-slip bath mats in the tub and bathroom and consider installing a grab bar in the tub.
Remove small throw rugs or use double-sided tape to make sure they don't flip up or slip.
 Weak legs and muscles can increase your chance of falling. Gentle exercises like Tai Chi can improve strength and balance, making falls less likely., Some medications can cause dizziness or drowsiness, which could increase your chances of a fall.Talk to your doctor about your medications (sometimes the interaction of several medications might lead to these side effects). She may be able to prescribe you something else.

