 Many of those manual scales you might encounter will either be at your doctor's office (where they'll weigh you) or at your local gym.


If you use a scale at your gym, it's very important to make sure the scale is accurate and calibrated correctly. There are most likely dozens of people who step on the scale on a regular basis.
You can use a dumbbell from the gym to help calibrate the scale. Use a 25 pound dumbbell and place it gently on the scale. Move the top and bottom weights so it equals 25 pounds. The needle at the left and right should be floating in the middle of of the little open slot at the ends.
You can also make sure it's calibrated at zero as well. Again, the needles should be floating right in the center of the open slots at the top.If the scale is not calibrated correctly, tell a staff member and have them correct it so you can use it.
 Unless you're at home or at your doctor's office, you don't need to strip down into your underwear to get an accurate weight, especially if you're in a public place; however, taking off shoes, jackets or heavier layers of clothing is appropriate.


Removing as much excess weight as you can can also help you get a more accurate reading for your weight.Remember what you typically weigh yourself in. Try to weigh yourself in the same or close to the same type of clothes each time so you get an accurate trend over time.
 Like a digital or analog scale, you'll need to step on the scale to get your weight.


Sometimes mechanical scales feel a little wiggly when you step on the bottom. Stand as still as you can and balance so that bottom plate is moving around when you weigh yourself.
Slide the large weight along the bottom beam. The large weight has larger scale increments than the small weight (often 10 – 25 pounds).
Then slide the small weight along the top beam. Once you’ve got the large weight in the general vicinity of your weight, use the small weight to zone in on the precise measurement.
Add the top and bottom numbers to get your weight.

