 Loafing time can be defined as time spent in quiet relaxation or pursuing simple, fun, unplanned free-time activities. If, thinking back on the past few weeks, you recall little to no such opportunities, your child is likely overscheduled.Encourage your kids to indulge in spontaneous fun activities, like observing the natural world, blowing bubbles, playing hopscotch, playing kick the can, and more.
To encourage your kids, you might lead by example and teach them your own favorite childhood games. Participating in these activities, even for a short while, can be valuable bonding time.Schedule a loafing day for you child. Say something like, “Today we don’t have any activities planned. What would you like to do for fun?”

, Lower than usual grades can be a signal of overscheduling. Are activities taking time away from homework or studying? Do your kids lack the energy to participate in class? If so, your kids may be suffering from an overpacked schedule.If you find yourself or your child making time at the beginning or end of the day by waking up early or staying up late for homework, cut back on extracurriculars., Have your kids recently started to hate activities that they once enjoyed? You may have noticed they often throw tantrums or mysteriously “misplace” equipment when you’re headed to practice.They may not sing along to their favorite songs or refuse favorite treats, like ice cream. These are indicators of overscheduling.


It can be difficult to determine whether your kids are simply growing out of an activity or overscheduled. When “No” becomes your kids’ standard response, consider cutting back., If your kids are too busy to spend time with their best friends, their schedule is likely overfilled. Before taking action in this regard, check with your kids to make sure there hasn’t been a fight or that they and their friends haven’t simply grown apart.You might investigate this by asking, “I haven’t seen your friend Jane around lately. Is everything OK between you two?” If nothing seems to be wrong, this could be an indication of overscheduling.

