 This step is optional but it helps a lot. If you are a non-member your access to nice clothing is limited (unless you use eCoins), but as a member you can buy anything.;
, You will need stars to buy clothes on fantage. If you become a member you get free stars and eCoins.
 First go to Le Shop the Stellar Salon, Jesters and Loco Boards. Get as much things as you need.


Get at least one outfit for a theme.
Examples Snowy: A jacket, Jeans, boots, pom pom hat

, Go to downtown and go all the way to the right you will see Top Models. Go inside and push play. Try to get in a show with a lot of non-members. You'll have a better chance of winning. You will then be taken to another room. When music starts playing and the lights turn off it has started.
 The host will then choose a theme. For the first round, the theme will always be a color. Click on your inventory (The little clothes hanger) and choose an outfit. To help you get an outfit with the most points, you can use the color filter, which will sort out your items by how many points they have. Once you are done you will get a score.
 After everyone is done with their outfits (or they are out for not being done on time). It is time to pose. You will see little icons on the bottom of the screen. When the posing phase starts you will see little cameras with icons. Go behind the camera and mouse over the icon on the bottom of the screen, the same item that was or still is in the camera. The camera will count down from three. Once you see the number "1", click on the icon. The best you can get is perfect, which will earn you a lot of points to improve your score.


If you get out. If you get out, stay there in the end you will get a little bit of stars. It's better than nothing. Try to save up so you can buy more things.
 You will now go to the second round. Only the top three players go to the next round., The last round is different. There are two different themes. One for boys and one for girls. You'll see a picture of a model and you have to try to copy it the best you can., You may not win, if you do, congratulations. If you did not win, congratulate the winner.