 SoundCloud allows artists to give out a limited number of free downloads for tracks. Downloading the music this way if it is still available shows the artist that you support their music. If there are still downloads available for a song, you'll see a "Download" button next to the "Share" button beneath the track.
 Most of the websites that can rip audio from SoundCloud will have tons of ads, many of which are designed to be misleading. You'll find the download experience much easier if you have an ad blocker installed for your web browser. See Block Internet Ads for instructions on installing an ad blocking extension.


You cannot block ads using Microsoft Edge, as it does not support extensions.
 You'll need to be on the SoundCloud page that only has the song that you want. You won't be able to use this method if you're on an artist's page that has multiple tracks listed. Click the song name to open the song's page.


While you can perform these steps using an Android's web browser, you won't be able to do this on an iOS device. If you're trying to get the song onto your iPhone, you'll need to download it on your computer first and then sync it using iTunes.
 You'll be using a download website to rip the SoundCloud audio and convert it into MP3 format. This is the fastest way to rip SoundCloud audio.
 There are several sites that can download SoundCloud audio in MP3 format. Popular sites include:


anything2mp3.com
scdownloader.net
soundflush.com

, Make sure to copy the entire URL, and that you're copying the URL for the song's individual page. Select the entire URL, right-click it, and select "Copy."

, All of the SoundCloud download sites listed above will have a text field in the middle that you can paste the URL into. Right-click in the field and select "Paste" to paste it.
 This button will be right next to or below the URL field. Be careful if you're not using an ad blocker, as ads will often disguise themselves as Download buttons.
 The download process will be a little different depending on the site you're using. The file may begin downloading automatically after a few moments, or you may need to click the new Download button that appears. If the Download button doesn't work, right-click it and select "Save link as."

