 In order to battle at Pokémon gyms, you must first achieve Level 5. The best way to do this is by catching Pokémon. Learn all of the ways to level up as a trainer.;
, Open the map on your Pokémon GO app (the main screen). Look for the largest structures on the map: the tall columns surrounded by rings and pierced by a vertical beam of light. These are gyms, where Pokémon trainers congregate to pit their Pokémon against one another.


If you can't see any gyms in your immediate vicinity, pinch your screen with two fingers to see a zoomed out view of the map.
If you still don't see any gyms in the area, try heading to your nearest town center. Gyms are generally placed in central locations, so if you live somewhat off the beaten path you may need to travel a ways to find one.
 Unless the gym appears on your map as white, which is quite rare, it will be controlled by either the Blue, Yellow or Red team, and display as this corresponding color.


If you do happen to find a White gym, you can claim it as your own and defend it against challengers (discussed below).
You can only challenge a gym that is controlled by a team different to your own.
 With the Pokémon GO app still open, walk (in real life) over to where the gym is located on your map. Once you are close enough to it, tap on it on your screen to enact an introductory dialogue with Professor Willow.
 In order to challenge a gym, you will need to join either the Yellow, Blue, or Red team. During the dialogue with Professor Willow, you will be asked which team you would like to join. Tap on the color of your preference to join it.


There is no inherent difference between each team
This will only happen during your first visit to a gym.
You cannot change teams once you have chosen one to join., The next screen you see will display the Pokémon you are up against. Depending on how much "prestige" the gym has, there will be a different number of Pokémon stationed there (a gym with more prestige can station more Pokémon to combat challengers). To select your Pokémon:


Tap the icon at the bottom-right corner of your screen.
Tap on the Pokémon you would like to challenge your enemy with.
 button to commence the battle. Make sure you're ready before you commit to battling!

, Pokémon are all categorized by certain "types", and perform differently when pitted against certain other types. Find out how choose Pokémon with the best advantage against the Pokémon you're against using this chart. The arrows point to the types of Pokémon with the greatest advantage.
 The Pokémon you encounter at gyms will often be stronger than individual Pokémon in your pack. In order to prevent your team from getting knocked out, send your Pokémon with the greatest CP level up first to do the bulk of the damage to your enemy.
 Tapping on your enemy will cause your Pokémon to use its primary attack and lower its CP. When a Pokémon's CP reaches zero, it will faint.
 You'll want to dole out as many attacks as you can in as short a time as possible to do more damage to your enemy than it has time to do to you. If possible, use both of your thumbs!

, When you see your enemy launch an attack at you, swipe the screen left or right with your finger! When timed correctly, you'll dodge the attack and preserve your CP. This is an essential tactic when your opponent is stronger than you., Watch the blue bar underneath your CP bar. You'll notice it slowly filling up. When it's full, tap and hold on your opponent to unleash a special attack, which is more powerful than your regular combat moves.


After unleashing a special attack, the blue bar will need to replenish before you can use it again.
 The best way to conquer stronger opponents is to take them on with an ally. Enter a gym at the same time as a friend, and you will be able to take part in the battle against your enemy at the same time.
 To defend a gym, you must find a gym that is already controlled by your team, or you must take control of a gym controlled by another team.
 Defending a gym proceeds by having a trainer choose one Pokémon to "station" while other trainers approach and battle it. When you take over a gym, you will be prompted to station a Pokémon there when you enter it, which will automatically battle trainers while you are away.


Station a strong Pokémon that you do not mind being without.
If the gym has low prestige, the number of Pokémon that can be stationed there is lower, and you may not be able to station one there immediately.
 For every 21 hours that you have a Pokémon stationed at a gym that is under your team's control, you will earn a defender's bonus of 10 coins., This will add up to 100 Pokécoins per day. Not bad!

