 The simplest and easiest way to remove a tough stain is to apply cold water to the tainted area. Blot the stain with a dry towel first first to avoid rubbing the stain deeper into the carpet. Dampen a clean white towel and gently work the towel into the stain and then blot the stain with a clean, dry cloth. Repeat these steps until the stain is gone.Never scrub your Berber carpet. You will damage the fibers and cause fuzziness and snags.
Blot from the outer edge of the stain toward the center of the stain. This prevents you from spreading the stain and making it larger.;
, If water is not working, try a cleaning solution. You can purchase a cleaning solution that is formulated for cleaning carpets or you can make your own using vinegar and water. Mix white vinegar and water using a ratio of 1 parts vinegar to 5 parts water. For example, mix 1 tablespoon of vinegar with 5 tablespoons of water.Test whatever cleaner you use in a small area before you apply it to the rest of the carpet. Try it out in an area that is not visible such as under a piece of furniture or a rug. If it causes damage to your carpet, you can cover it up.
Do not use any cleaners that contain detergent or soap. This will result in soapy residue that you will not be able to remove from the carpet. This residue may also attract dirt.
Follow the same steps you used when treating the stain with water only.
 Baking soda can be used to get rid of the moisture you created while removing the stain. If the liquid has not penetrated your carpet and caused a stain, you can skip the previous steps and only use baking soda to clean up the spill. Cover the spill with baking soda. The baking soda should ball up as it absorbs the liquid. Wait for at least 20 seconds and then vacuum up the baking soda. Repeat this process until the baking soda no longer balls up.You can also blot the area with a clean dry towel.
Berber is tightly woven and retains more moisture than other types of carpet so it will take it longer to dry., Follow-up any stain treatment with a good dry vacuuming. Vacuuming will remove any excess dampness. Berber carpet's varying depth and intricacies make it easy for water to settle and possibly lead to unhealthy mold accumulating in your carpet. Vacuuming up any dampness is a sure way to prevent this from happening.


Vacuuming will also speed up the drying time.
Use slow, steady movements as you vacuum the carpet. Rough vacuuming may damage the carpet fibers.
If you notice that the stain has reappeared after you vacuum, treat the stain again with water or cleaning solution.

