 If it is a sunny day, you may choose to dry your sheets on the clothes line in your backyard. You will save energy and electricity use by using a clothes line.Hang white sheets in the sun and coloured sheets in the shade.Hang sheets from the corners rather than in the middle. This keeps them from getting damaged in the wind.
Wear an apron with pockets for clothespins to make the task easier. Alternately, bring a bucket of clothes pins.You may also choose to use a combination of clothes line and dryer. Try drying them on the clothes line and then putting them in the dryer for just a couple minutes. This way you can save energy while also getting the soft feel of sheets just out of the dryer., If it is raining or you do not have a clothes line, you may choose to use the drying machine. The dryer gives a nice soft feel to your sheets.Use a tennis ball tied in a cotton sock to make sure the sheets dry evenly. Use a lavender dryer bag. Lavender oil can help you sleep and is a natural moth repellent and antibacterial agent.Fill a spray bottle with water and several drops of lavender oil. Shake the bottle to mix the oil into the water. Spray a clean washcloth with the solution and then toss the washcloth in the dryer with the wet laundry. The lavender scent will transfer to your sheets., Generally, it is best to choose a medium or low heat setting. This makes your sheets last longer.You may also want to choose an automatic setting that tells you when your sheets are dry.


Use the less dry or damp alert settings to prevent over drying of cotton sheets. Avoid hot temperature settings. Hot temperatures will lessen the life of your sheets., If you place them flat across your bed while they are still warm, they will fit to the bed. Also, the sheets will look smooth and ironed, even though you have not actually ironed them.Avoid leaving your sheets in the washer. This causes wrinkles, since the spin cycle of the washer will suck the sheets against the washer wall. Instead, take out the sheets right when they are done and place them on the bed., It is likely that you will get a better night’s rest if you make your bed.Start by stretching the elastic corners of your fitted sheet over each of the corners of your mattress. Then, stretch your top sheet over the mattress and tuck the four sides underneath. Last, place your duvet on top.
 You can store each set of sheets in a matching pillowcase. This will keep your drawers neat.Put the top and bottom sheets in one pillowcase. You can also put your second pillowcase in there.Store your sheets in a linen closet. If you own a linen closet, you can keep your sheets in there. It will give you more closet space in the bedrooms.Store your sheets in the room where they are being used. This way your sheets will be readily available when you need them.