 Buildup from makeup is often responsible for clogging pores, so removing it properly is an important step in minimizing their size. Use makeup remover pads or a cotton ball saturated in makeup remover to gently wipe it all away.


Vaseline makes a good natural makeup remover. Rub it over the areas of your face with heavy makeup and wipe it off with a cotton ball.
Never go to bed wearing makeup. Your pores will look larger in the morning.;
, Splash water on your face a few times in a row to remove all traces of the makeup remover. This gentle washing technique is sufficient for removing everyday buildup from your face. Avoid using cleansers that contain sulfates and other harsh cleansers; these irritate the face, causing pores to appear larger.


Use warm, not hot, water to cleanse your face. Hot water can cause skin irritation and dryness, leading to bigger-looking pores.
Blot your face dry with a soft towel, rather than scrubbing it, to prevent skin irritation.
 Exfoliating regularly removes dead skin cells, which can otherwise accumulate, mix with dirt and sweat and clog your pores. Use one of the following exfoliation techniques a few times a week to help your pores look smaller:


Try dry brushing. Buy a small, soft-bristled brush (a baby brush will work) and use it to gently brush dead skin from your face while it's dry.
Use an exfoliation product. If possible, choose a facial exfoliation product made with natural ingredients that won't scratch your face. Many facial scrubs are made with ground nuts or sugar that are rubbed onto your face to lift off the dirt and dead skin.
Make a facial scrub. Make a cup of green tea and add a tablespoon of sugar and a tablespoon of honey. Smooth the mixture over your face and gently rub it in circles to exfoliate your face. Rinse with warm water and pat your face dry when you're finished.
 Keeping your skin hydrated makes your pores look smaller by keeping your skin from drying out and accumulating in your pores. Use oil, lotion or cream every night after completing your washing and exfoliation routine to wake up with smaller pores.

