 There's nothing like a good football game to build camaraderie. If football isn't your thing, there are usually poetry readings, concerts, art shows, dances, contests, or other events around campus. Asking people about local events is a useful conversation starter. But hey, if football isn't your thing and you go to Ohio State or University of Michigan, you should probably go to a game or two to see what the hubbub is about. It's not just about the game -- it's about the social experience.


Go to something completely fun or ridiculous, like a magic show or a belly-dancing contest. Step out of your comfort zone and see who you'll meet in the process.
 You can't make many new friends while sitting in a dark corner of the library unless there are other people just like you sitting in the dark corner of the library. Ask people who take classes with you questions about the material covered. Even if you don't have a question, classwork is a great icebreaker. Other great conversation starters are upcoming events and holidays/vacations, sports, food, music, etc.


When you talk to a new person, remember his or her name. Use it the next time you meet, and the person will be impressed.
State the obvious too. Usually when you are eating, you talk about food and if you hear music, you automatically talk about music.
When you meet someone new, tell them one thing to remember you by. You're the girl who is a triplet, or who has a pet snake. Make them remember you.
 Most dorms have a lounge or common area where you can work instead. When you must be in your dorm for studying, leave the door open. Try to put a TV on or some music to attract more people into your dorm. If you're an outdoors person, go outside to work. While you may not enjoy the same level of privacy, people will approach you in time.


Try studying on other parts of campus, too. The campus has many common areas where you can study and congregate.
 These will be scary at first (loud music, drunk seniors, etc.), but eventually, you will find your groove. College is about having a good time (as well as getting your degree) so have some fun! If you are not the type to go to the hardcore parties, a school or community dance might help too. You can also have small quiet parties if you are not into these big frat parties such as having a movie night, slumber party, or sports party.


Just stay safe and go with a group. In the first few weeks of school, people travel in packs of people usually from their dorm rooms. Try not to get separated from them too much -- keep a buddy system going with one friend, at least.
Embrace the theme. If a party has a theme, dress up. Don't be a stick in the mud.
 Most students get completely wrapped up in their college campus and forget to check in with the outside world from time to time. If you're at a smaller school, you can meet people off campus and in the community. Check out events like movies, the mall, bowling, festivals, fairs, local shows and concerts, and even go shopping at bit. This is a great way to meet people of all ages, not just college students.
 Maybe you're going to college with a girl you knew from math class, or with your second cousin's best friend. Treat these people as valuable resources, even if you don't have so much in common. This will make it easier and your acquaintances will more likely have friends that are like you. You can hang out with your old buddies from high school, but be sure to make sure you get out of your nest and meet new people too.


And you never know -- your old acquaintance can turn in to a best friend.
 Part of being social is making it easy for people to walk up and start a conversation with you. Try to look available instead of furiously tapping into your iPhone or walking to your class so quickly that you can't stop and smell the (conversational) roses. Be nice to other people, open doors for people, help them with their homework. These small things will help you a long way.


Really, just taking the time to smile at people you don't know will make them much more likely to go up and talk to you.

