 Biofeedback is a technique where you work to control your body’s automatic response to something like stress. During biofeedback, you need to be hooked up to sensors that monitor your body’s functions, like heart rate and breathing. During biofeedback, you work towards relaxing your muscles and controlling your breathing, which can help reduce stress by lessening your body’s stress response. Talk to your doctor or therapist to get started with biofeedback.Biofeedback can be done in a doctor or therapist's office.
You can buy devices to wear to help you with biofeedback therapy. The devices connect to your cell phone or computer and produce feedback via an app.;
, Deep breathing exercises are some of the most effective stress-relieving techniques while being some of the simplest. If you feel pain or discomfort due to your ulcerative colitis, you can try focusing on your breath to reduce symptoms or flare ups. You can do deep breathing exercises sitting at your desk at work, lying on the floor, or standing up. You just need to be comfortable and loosen any constricting clothing.Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth.
Breathe in and guide your breath into your belly. Exhale gently as the breath leaves your belly. Try and gain control of your diaphragm and use it to stimulate your parasympathetic nervous system. This will help you to relax and calm down.
Try counting to five as you inhale and then as you exhale.
As you breathe in, your belly should expand. It should deflate or flatten as you breathe out.
 Meditation is a common stress-relieving activity and can help you when you are facing symptoms or stress related to your UC. You don’t have to meditate for hours. A few minutes can help calm you and put your mind at ease. You can meditate anywhere, including work, while exercising, or while waiting for a meeting.You may choose to repeat a calming word or phrase to yourself to calm your mind.
You may try mindfulness, where you focus your attention to the present. You become aware of the moment and accept where you are at the present. Focus on your breath, the smells and sounds around you, and even your thoughts. If you are feeling pain or discomfort due to your ulcerative colitis, you can acknowledge those thoughts, be mindful of them, and let them go.
Practicing mindfulness will help you recognize situations that cause stress and learn how to deal with them.
Let the stressful thoughts enter your mind, and just observe them without any feeling. Then, let go of those thoughts without reacting to them. Accept that you had the stressful thought, then let it pass from your head.
 Guided imagery, also called visualization and guided meditation, is a stress relieving technique that can help you calm your mind and body. When using guided imagery, your mind comes up with images of relaxing places or situations that make you happy or calm you.During guided imagery, you use all five senses.
If you are new to guided imagery, you can use an audio track or video to walk you through the meditation process. You can find many of these online.
For example, you may close your eyes and visualize you are at a serene beach. You come up with the image of gentle waves on the beach, hear the soothing sound of the waves crashing, feel the sand under your feet and ocean breeze against your skin, and smell the salt on the air.

