 Most bullies want to get a rise out of you and show that they can manipulate your emotions. Don’t give them that pleasure by reacting with intense anger, tears, or physical retaliation. Getting into a fight can cause even more problems for you. You don’t have to pretend that nothing is happening, but make an effort to keep cool.Take deep breaths. If you feel yourself getting upset, breathe slowly and count to ten. Try to be present and calm by noticing your breath and your surroundings.Avoid passively accepting the bullying or the bully might think that they can get away with it. You can demonstrate to the bully that their behavior is unacceptable without getting into a confrontation.;
, Walking away or ignoring rude comments on social media is not always easy, especially when peers encourage you to retaliate. Instead, ignore the bullying to show that you don’t care what people think of you. By walking away or ignoring rude texts you are showing the bully that you are unaffected by their actions.Stand tall. If you walk away, do so with confidence. Keep your chin up and stand straight. This type of body language gives the appearance that you are a confident person.
Seek safety. When you walk away from a bully, go in the direction of safety. Walk towards a teacher’s classroom, a group of friends, or to a business where the owners know you., Sometimes walking away just isn’t enough. It is sometimes appropriate to let the bully know that you do not care for their words or actions. Remember to respond in a calm, firm, and neutral tone. You don’t want to get into a verbal or physical fight. Simply state your piece and walk away.


Try practicing a few responses with a trusted friend or family member. You can even stand in front of the mirror and practice a strong facial expression.For example, you might say, “I don’t appreciate that,” or “Stop talking about me like that.”Use humor. If you feel comfortable doing so, use humor to highlight how ridiculous the bullying behavior is. Only do this if it feels right in the moment. Try chuckling and saying, “Wow, you really think you’re funny.”, If you are in physical danger, avoid the bully at all costs. Your safety is most important. In the event that you do encounter the bully, do everything possible to protect yourself.Stick with friends. If you and the bully attend the same school, make sure you walk the hallways with friends. Find a buddy to go home with and avoid problems on your way home.

