 Most people with OCD will still think something is wrong with them even if their doctor tells them they are fine. Many will go to other doctors because they are convinced the doctor is missing something. Try to help your loved one accept the doctor’s diagnosis instead of obsessing that something is wrong.


For example, you might say, “Your doctor ran multiple tests, all which showed that you are healthy. Believe that the tests were accurate and your doctor wouldn’t misdiagnose you.”

, People with health anxiety check for symptoms multiple times a day, sometimes upwards of 30 times each day. You can help your friend stop checking for symptoms by helping them log each time they check for them and slowly reduce the number of times they do that behavior.For example, your friend can count how many times they check for symptoms. If they check 30 times each day for symptoms, suggest that they cut that number by two to four the next day. When they reduce it to 26 or 27 times, suggest they go down two to five more. When they get down to 23, suggest they decrease that, and so on.
Help them decrease the amounts of time they look for symptoms each day until they are below five times each day.
 Hypochondriacs often stop doing things, don’t go on vacations or travel, avoid groups or new places, stop exercising, and even refrain from having sex. Encourage your loved one to do more activities. Go slowly by suggesting they do one thing they used to each week until they are mostly doing their normal activities.You may say to them, “You used to be active, but now your health anxiety is keeping you from living. Let’s work together to get you back to doing your normal activities.”
For example, the first week you may suggest that your friend goes for a short, brisk walk or out to dinner. The next week, your loved one can add something else, like walking up stairs or traveling to a neighboring town.
Continue adding new activities every week or two until your loved one is doing most of their activities.
 Adopting healthy lifestyle changes can help a person with health anxiety feel better and less stressed. Often, anxiety and stress can lead to symptoms that are may be misinterpreted. Talk to your loved one about what healthy habits they can include in their life.Eat a balanced diet. Reducing foods that are high in saturated or trans fats, sugar, or refined carbs can help reduce physical symptoms that may be misinterpreted.

Getting enough sleep can help you reduce symptoms that are related to fatigue or sleep deprivation. Enough sleep also helps you feel better and improves your mood.
Exercise. This is another proven way to reduce stress.
Learn how to reduce stress through yoga, meditation, and deep breathing.

