 Place the adzuki beans in a medium saucepan or glass bowl and fill the dish with water. Let the beans soak at room temperature overnight.


In many applications, it is not essential to soak adzuki beans. For bean paste, however, you should soak the beans to soften them and to remove water-soluble elements that can cause digestive upset.
 Drain the beans by pouring the contents of the saucepan through a colander. Rinse several times under running water and add them back to the saucepan along with fresh, cool water.


Rinsing the beans after soaking them will help clean off any dirt or water-soluble fibers still clinging to the outer skins.
Make sure that there is at least 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of water above the beans when you return them to the saucepan.
Keep in mind that the beans will roughly double in size by the end of the cooking process, so make sure that the saucepan is big enough to contain them.
 Transfer the saucepan to the stove and turn the heat on high. Let the beans come to a boil, uncovered.


Turn off the heat after the water begins to boil. Cover the saucepan and let the beans sit for 5 minutes on the stove with the heat off.
 Pour the contents of the saucepan through your colander again to drain off this initial bit of cooking liquid.


There is no need to rinse the beans this time.
 Return the adzuki beans to the saucepan and pour just enough water into the pan to cover the beans. Turn the heat on high and let it reach a boil.
 After the water reaches a boil, turn the heat down to medium-low and let the beans continue to cook at a simmer. You will need to do this for 60 to 90 minutes.


Keep the beans uncovered as they cook.
Periodically use a slotted spoon to push the beans floating on the top underneath the surface of the water.
Add water as needed throughout the cooking process. The water will evaporate, and as a result, the water level will decrease as the beans continue to cook. You need to have enough water to cover the beans.
On the other hand, adding too much water can cause the beans to move around too violently and break apart.
To test the beans for doneness, pick up one bean and squeeze it with your fingers. You should be able to mash it with your fingers very easily.
 Add the sugar in three separate batches, stirring after each addition. Turn the heat up to high and cook until the beans reach a paste-like consistency.Stir the beans constantly after adding the sugar.
Let the beans continue cooking on high heat even after they reach a boil.
Turn off the heat with the paste reaches the right consistency, but do not remove the saucepan from the stove yet.
 After the sweet adzuki bean paste cools slightly, sprinkle the salt in and give the mixture a final mixing with a wooden or plastic mixing spoon.


The paste should still be warm, but not so warm that it is burning-hot to the touch.
The consistency should thicken further and become more solid as the bean paste cools.
 Pour or spoon the bean paste into a separate container. Cover loosely and let it cool to room temperature on the counter.


Do not leave the anko (bean paste) in the pot as it finishes cooling.
 You can use your finished sweet adzuki bean paste in your favorite Asian desserts and snacks, including mochi, anpan, daifuku, dango, dorayaki, manju, taiyaki, mooncakes, and chalboribbang.


Any bean paste that is not used immediately should be kept in an airtight container and placed in a refrigerator for up to a week or a freezer for up to a month.

