 To start, have two foam blocks sitting on your matt just in front of your face. You will need these when you transition into chin stand. You can buy blocks online or at a sports equipment store. They should be big enough that you can comfortably rest your shoulders on them when your arms are bent into a roughly 90 degree angle., Get onto your yoga mat on your hands and knees. Keep your knees directly below your hips. Place hands slightly forward of your shoulders with your fingers spread. Curl your toes slightly., To begin, lift your knees away from the floor as you exhale. Do not rise too much right now. Keep your legs slightly bent and your heels lifted off the floor., As you lift your knees, move your tailbone upward. As you lift your tailbone toward the ceiling, you will feel some resistance. Work against this and keep lifting, stretching your legs more as you go., Once you've lifted your tailbone as far as you can, stretch out your legs. Place your heels onto the mat. As you do this, straighten out your knees as much as you can without locking them.At first, you may not be able to get your heels to touch the mat. That's okay. Just do the best you can for now.
 Firm your arms and, while doing so, press your fingers into the floor. Keep your head between your upper arms and firm up your shoulders as you pull them back slightly., Walk a few inches forward in downward dog so you're closer to the blocks. Slowly bend your elbows to bring your upper body down. Keep bending until both shoulders rest on the blocks and your head hangs between the blocks., Slowly walk your feet inward towards the blocks. As you walk, raise your hips slightly. Keep walking in until your hips are high enough that your upper body form an almost straight line coming up from the blocks., Slowly, lift one knee in the air. To stay steady, keep your hips square. Spread the back of the knee open while fanning out your toenails for balance. Keep lifting until your leg forms a straight line with your body., Bend the leg on the ground. Give a small hop to lift your leg into the air. Draw your leg up and bring your legs together, hugging your thighs together as you spread out your toes., Hold the pose for as long as is comfortable for you. To hold, keep the core engaged. Continue to lift with your tailbone. Keep your toenails spread. It can help to pretend you're reaching for something on the ceiling.It's okay if your chin rests slightly on the floor, as long as it's not supporting any of your weight.
 The chin stand is a complicated move. If you're new to yoga especially, it's best to practice with someone else. See if you can find yoga classes in your area. A professional will help you make sure you're doing the move correctly and help you prevent injury.
 Eventually, you should be able to do the chin stand without the support of your blocks. However, this can take a great deal of time and practice. Do not attempt to do the chin stand until you can easily go through the movements without a lot of thought. They should feel second nature by the time you remove the blocks.Removing the blocks too soon can cause you to lose balance. This can lead to injury.
 The chin stand pose is not safe for everyone. If you have the following health problems, do not do the chin stand:Back or neck injuries
A heart condition
High blood pressure
Cervical spondylitis
Ulcers, hernias, or intestinal disorders

