 Tax season scams aren't limited to IRS impersonators. There also are scammers who pretend to be employed by tax-preparation services and claim they need additional information to process your return.These scammers typically claim to be employees of major, nationwide tax preparation companies, such as TurboTax or H&R Block. These companies have a communications policy on their website, which you should read carefully so you understand how the company will contact you.
If you receive an email or phone call from a scammer impersonating someone who works at one of these companies, go to the company's website and search for "identity theft" or "impersonation scam" to find out how to report the matter to that company. In the case of emails, there typically is an email address to which you can forward the fraudulent email you received.
 If you receive a scam email that is attempting to get your personal or financial information, you should send it to the IRS at phishing@irs.gov. Once you've forwarded the email, delete it from your computer. There's no need to save it for your records.Make sure you forward the email directly, rather than copying and pasting the text and emailing that. The IRS also needs the header information so they can track down the source of the email.
If you receive an unsolicited fax asking for personal information or claiming to be from the IRS, scan it and email the scanned image to the same email address. Put the word "FAX" in the subject line.
 If someone calls you claiming to be an IRS agent, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) is responsible for investigating the matter.There is an online form on the TIGTA website, under the "contact" tab. Look over the whole form and gather the information you'll need before you start filling out the form.
For security, you will be asked to create a five-digit PIN. If an agent contacts you to request further information about the incident, ask them to give you the PIN you created. If they don't know the number, refuse to provide it, or give you an incorrect number, they are not a legitimate agent.
Read over the information you provided carefully before submitting it. You must electronically sign your complaint certifying that all information in it is true and accurate to the best of your knowledge.
 If you are a victim of identify theft, or if you have lost money to a scammer, the FTC will handle your complaint. You still should email the IRS and let them know what happened.To file a complaint with the FTC, go to the FTC Complaint Assistant website at ftccomplaintassistant.gov. Choose the category that best suits the nature of your complaint, and follow the prompts to submit your complaint.Be sure to provide as many facts and details about the incident as possible. Don't leave anything out, even if it doesn't seem relevant to you. These details help investigators find patterns that can help them identify scammers.

