 People’s eyes can be very expressive and tell a lot about how they’re feeling toward those around them.


Friends will make eye contact with each other during conversation to show interest and respect.Someone with a crush on you will make repeated eye contact with you whether in a conversation or not. A crush may hold eye contact for a few seconds, and then look away from shyness, and find your gaze again later.Dilated pupils are another indication of a crush.Someone who’s in love with you will feel totally comfortable locking gazes for extended periods of time.;
, The amount of space people choose to place between themselves and others can be an indicator of their perceived relationships with those around them.


Someone who is your friend will stand or sit closer to you than an acquaintance.A person with a crush on you will stand near you, lean toward you, and look for reasons to get closer to you- whether it’s intentionally walking past you at a close range, or leaning in closer than necessary to talk to you.People who are in love will stand or sit very close together- perhaps their hips touch when standing side by side or their knees touch when sitting across from one another., Our movements, whether conscious or unconscious, can convey lots of different meanings about how we feel about those around us.


Friends will tilt their heads while in conversations with other friends to show that they’re listening. They may touch each other in light, casual ways on the hand or arm.
Someone with a crush will look for reasons to touch the other person, often in a playful and flirty way. They may seem fidgety or nervous, and may subconsciously begin to copy the movements of their crush.Someone who is in love with you will seem very comfortable and secure around you. They may touch you using gentle, caressing gestures.
 The way a person stands (or sits) when they're around you may give you some clues as to how they feel about you.


A friend will stand with his or her shoulders and face pointing toward you. If sitting, he or she will uncross his or her legs to show that he or she is open to you. His or her palms may be open toward you as well, another sign of receptivity.
When someone has a crush on you, they stand tall and slightly stick their chest out. Additionally, they will point their toes and hips toward you, as a sign of wanting to move toward you (both figuratively and literally).