 Spray an 8-inch (20.3-cm) glass baking dish with nonstick cooking spray. Set it aside.


You won't actually bake the natilla, but you will need to pour it into the baking dish while it sets.
Another option would be to prepare individual custard cups or ramekins.If you wish to remove the natilla from these dishes, grease them with a little cooking spray. If you would prefer to serve the natilla straight from these dishes, you do not need to grease them in advance.
 Pour 1 cup (250 ml) of cold milk into a small mixing bowl and add the cornstarch. Whisk the two ingredients together well until the mixture is smooth, then set it aside., Place the three ingredients in a medium saucepan and set it on your stove over medium-low heat.


Stir the mixture for 2 to 5 minutes. The milk should become warm but should not be allowed to reach a boil yet.
Panela is unrefined whole cane sugar. You can usually find it in Mexican markets or in the Mexican aisle of a large grocery store, but if you are unable to get your hands on it, dark brown sugar can be substituted. Replace the panela with dark brown sugar in even proportions.
 Mix the ground cloves into the panela mixture. Drop the cinnamon sticks in, as well. Increase the heat to medium and continue cooking the mixture until it boils and dissolves all of the sugar.


You may need to boil the mixture for 5 to 10 minutes before the sugar dissolves. Once the sugar dissolves, the mixture will seem less grainy.
Remove and discard the cinnamon sticks as soon as this step is complete. If you would prefer a stronger cinnamon flavor, however, you can keep the cinnamon sticks in for a longer period of time but should remove them before stirring in the butter.
 Carefully pour the cornstarch mixture into the panela mixture, stirring continuously to combine the two evenly.
 Reduce the heat to low and whisk continuously for 10 to 20 minutes, or until the mixture feels notably thickened.You must whisk the mixture constantly at this point to prevent lumps from forming.
Scrape the bottom and sides of the pan with your whisk as you stir the mixture. Doing so can reduce the risk of burning the mixture or causing lumps to form.
If you did not remove the cinnamon sticks earlier, do so after finishing this step.
 Add the butter to the mixture. Drop in the raisins and coconut at this time, too, if you plan to include them. Stir well and remove the pan from the heat.
 Pour the mixture into your prepared baking dish and cover it with plastic wrap. Place it in your refrigerator and chill for a minimum of 4 hours.


The natilla must be cold and firm before you continue past this step.
 Once the natilla has solidified, invert the baking dish over a serving platter and allow the natilla to drop out. Sprinkle the entire block with ground cinnamon, if desired, and cut the block into 12 even pieces using a smooth kitchen knife.


If the natilla does not release from the baking dish on its own, run a thin butter knife around the edges of the pan to help separate the dessert from the sides.
Square blocks of natilla are the easiest to prepare, but you could also use cookie cutters to cut the finished natilla into different shapes.
Prepared natilla can remain good for two days. Store it in a covered container kept in your refrigerator for the duration of that time.

