 Place the ground beef or turkey in a large skillet, and top it with the taco seasoning and diced onion. Cook the three ingredients over medium-high heat until the meat browns and the onions soften.


Use a heat-resistant flip spatula or wooden spoon to break up the meat as it cooks, mixing the taco seasoning into the crumbles as you do this.
Once the meat fat start to liquify and gather in the bottom of the pan, spread out the onions so they sit and cook in the fat. Continue cooking the onions until they look slightly translucent and become more aromatic.
When the meat and onions are ready, drain off any excess fat before continuing.
 Add the salsa, cream cheese, and shredded cheddar cheese to the skillet. Cook, stirring frequently, until the ingredients are evenly combined and the cheddar cheese has melted.For a slightly lower calorie version of this dish, use reduced-fat cream cheese instead of full-fat cream cheese.
The cream cheese does not need to be softened to room temperature prior to adding it, but you should consider cutting the block into three or four chunks before adding it to the pan. Doing so will allow the cream cheese to melt and spread more quickly.
 Spoon the contents of the skillet into an 8-inch (20-cm) square or round serving dish. Evenly spread the mixture across the bottom of the dish.
 Sprinkle the diced tomato over the top of the dish, then garnish the taco dip with a generous dollop of sour cream.


You can add other toppings to the dip as desired. For instance, you might consider adding a handful of shredded lettuce, diced peppers, sliced black olives, or tortilla strips.
 Serve the taco dip while it's still warm to enjoy the best flavor. Pair it with tortilla chips or corn chips.


Cover the leftovers with plastic wrap and refrigerate the dip for up to 3 or 4 days. You can serve the leftovers chilled or at room temperature.
If you decide to warm the leftovers, spoon off any remaining sour cream before microwaving the dip. Add fresh sour cream, if desired, after warming it back up to your desired temperature.

