 Some people are equitably concerned with germs and other infestations. Sanitizing may not be on everyone's agenda but here is what you should do to keep the area where food-borne diseases can transpire :


Put on plastic gloves and spray every surface carefully with a mixture of two tablespoons of bleach and the rest water in an empty spray bottle. You can also add a small squirt of dish-washing detergent if you feel the need.
Aim to wash the dishes and put them all away after every food preparation session.
Spray the dishes free sink, oven and microwave with the spray, and leave everything for a good 5-10 minutes or so before wiping down.
When washing chopping boards, Spray the board with the bleach mixture, leave for 5 minutes and then rinse and wash off thoroughly.
Using a disinfected spray like Glen 20 or Lysol, spray every door handle, knob, button etc. with the spray to remove germs from the areas people touch daily if not hourly.
Keep a squirt bottle of soap at the kitchen sink to encourage washing hands prior to and after the preparation of food.
Hoover and Mop kitchen flooring with a small amount of bleach, floor cleaning product and hot water. Floors are notorious for harboring germs that have been tread in from outside.
 Due to the high amount of traffic in these areas, it's important to keep them sterile to prevent spreading whatever may be brought into the room from outside.


Re-arrange décor if it has been misplaced. ( positioning cushions, straightening picture frames etc).
Replace items that are out of place like DVD's, Remotes and used dishes to the kitchen to be washed and put-away.
Wipe down dining table after every use. Clean daily with the disinfectant spray.
Use a lint roller to pick up lint, fluff and other unwarranted particles from fabric seating before using a steam mop (if you have one)
Hoover and Mop flooring with a steam mop. Some steam mops have different functions but if you have one that can do surfaces, sanitize seating with the steam mop and other immediate surfaces.
Use your handy Lysol or Disinfectant spray on all remotes and other commonly used items. You could choose to keep disinfectant wipes on the coffee table in your lounge room for people to wipe them after each use, if you feel so inclined.
 It's more desirable cleaning ones body in an environment that is clean and sterile itself. It seems to defeat the purpose if thing's are done otherwise, follow these daily steps to maintain a hospital grade bathroom:


Put gloves on and start to clean the toilet with your desired toilet cleaning product. Spray the exterior of the toilet with your handy bleach spray mixture and add a meek splash of bleach to the water in the bowl to sit for a good 5-10 minutes before wiping with paper towel and flushing.
Spray sink, bath, shower walls etc. with the bleach mixture and leave to sit for 5-10 minutes.
While you are waiting, scrub the shower floor with a hospital grade disinfectant liquid. You can also use a splash of bleach and a swig of the toilet cleaning product, it does the same thing.
Wipe down the bathroom mirror with glass cleaner and paper towel.
Wipe and clean down everything that had to sit for 5-10 minutes.
Hoover and mop bathroom with a steam mop or with a floor cleaner and splash of bleach mixture in a mop bucket.
 Notorious for tainted keyboards and germ ridden toys, this room is important and rewarding room to keep sterile.


Using antiseptic wipes, wipe down each toy that's been used and taken out of the toy box ( if you have children).
Use another wipe to clean the computer desk and item on the desk. Also with a single antiseptic cloth, wipe down instrument(s).
Hoover and Steam mop ( If you have one)

, Do the laundry every-day with fabrics, towels and other thing's that are dirty. You can use a meek splash of bleach mixture that's been diluted with water in with the towels to sterilize and bring out stains, spots etc.


Wipe down the machine after every use to prevent a build up of grime, dirt and germs. You can spray a disinfectant spray on the interior and exterior of the machine and wipe it down with a designated micro-fiber cloth that you can keep in reach of the machine.
Sweep or mop the laundry floor with a hospital grade floor cleaner. You could also steam mop (if you have one).

