 Many different kinds of hazards could have injured your child. Your first step should be to identify the hazard so that you can document it. Common hazards include:wet floors
ice or snow accumulations
defective playground equipment
loose handrails;
, You need evidence to bring a lawsuit. Make sure that you document the hazard, preferably with photographs or video. For example, if your child is hurt because a tile falls off the ceiling, then you should photograph the hole in the ceiling where the tile was located.


The hazard might have been temporary. For example, a wet floor might have dried or an icy parking lot could have melted by the time you arrive at the school to photograph the hazard. In this situation, you should get other evidence of the hazard, such as witness statements or your child’s own memories.
 If someone saw the accident or the hazard, then you should get their name and contact information. If the police were called, then witnesses could be listed on the police report.You should get a copy.


Take down the person’s name, address, and phone number. Also, try to get an email address.
 Lawsuits take a long time to resolve. For this reason, your child’s injuries might have healed by the time you go to trial. Take color photographs of the injuries as soon as possible to document any swelling, bruising, and cuts.Tell your child not to smile in the photographs. That gives the wrong impression.
Zoom in to take close-up shots and be sure to always have a whole body shot as well.
Check to see that the pictures came out clear. If not, retake them as soon as possible.
 At trial, you will need to establish the extent and severity of your child’s injuries. Medical records will be key. Make sure to get copies of all medical records from any doctor or hospital that treated your child.You can also sue for emotional distress. If your child is suffering emotionally because of the injury, then make sure to get records from a therapist or psychologist.
 If you win a lawsuit, you can be compensated for money spent treating your child’s injuries. You can be reimbursed for medical care, medicines, and supplies (such as splints, bandages, or wheelchairs).Get a giant folder and put all of your receipts into the folder as soon as you get home. In this way, you will be sure to hold onto all of your receipts.
Periodically go through the folder and create digital images of all receipts by scanning them.
 Each state sets its own rules for whether or not you can sue a school. Accordingly, you need to meet with a qualified attorney who can advise you about whether or not you can bring a premises liability lawsuit against the school.To find a qualified attorney, you should contact your state’s bar association, which should run a referral program. Take your evidence and show it to the lawyer. He or she can advise you about whether you can bring a lawsuit.
You should also think about hiring the lawyer. Many personal injury attorneys will represent clients on “contingency.” This means that you don’t pay a fee. Instead, the lawyer will take a portion of any jury verdict or settlement that you receive. Typically, the lawyer takes 33-40%.If you don’t win the case, the lawyer doesn’t get paid.
Some lawyers might not take a case on contingency if it isn’t worth much. In this situation, you might have to represent yourself. However, ask the lawyer if they offer “unbundled legal services.” In this arrangement, the lawyer doesn’t take over the entire case. Instead, they do only the work you give them, such as drafting court documents or coaching you. Using unbundled legal services is a good way to get the expertise you need while keeping legal bills as low as possible.
 When you sue a government entity, your deadlines are generally much shorter than they would be if you were suing a private citizen. Accordingly, you should act fast. Gather your evidence and schedule a meeting with a lawyer as soon as possible., In some states, you can only sue the government (which includes public schools) if you first give notice of your intent to sue. You give this notice by sending a Notice of Claim to the state.If you are suing a private school, then you typically don’t need to file a Notice of Claim with the state.Suing a private school isn’t usually any different than suing another private citizen, such as your neighbor.
Ask your lawyer if you need to file a Notice of Claim in your state. Also, ask the lawyer if there is an example you can use as a model.
 Your state may have a form you can fill out. In some states, however, you have to draft your own notice. If you need to draft your own claim, then remember to include the following at a minimum:Your name as the person making the claim. If your child was injured, also name your child.
The address where you want notices sent.
Some details about the incident: when and where the accident happened.
A short summary of the injuries suffered. You do not need to go into great detail. Instead, you could say something like: “As a result of the fall, my son suffered a broken leg and a cracked rib. He has been out of school since the accident.”
The names of public employees who may have caused the accident. If you don’t know who is to blame, then simply say, “I do not know the name of any public employee who may have caused this accident.”
How much money you want. Give a high figure.
 Each state has different rules about where you should send the notice. In some states, all notices are sent to a centralized agency. In other states, you will have to send a copy to the school and each individual employee that you are suing.Always mail the notice certified mail, return receipt requested. Hold onto your receipt.
Keep a copy for your records.
 Often, the state will simply dismiss your request for monetary compensation. In this sense, filing a Notice of Claim is simply a procedural hurdle you must clear before bringing a lawsuit. However, after dismissing your request, you can go ahead with your lawsuit.The school might enter settlement talks with you at a later date. Settlement is likely, especially where the school has an insurance policy that will cover your child’s injury., Generally, the school must have been “grossly negligent” in order for you to bring a lawsuit.Gross negligence is more than mere carelessness. Instead, it is reckless disregard which almost borders on a conscious violation.Think about whether the hazard was the kind that the school should have been aware of. If so, was there any signs warning students of the hazard?
In some situations, a school will also not let you sue unless the school had insurance to cover this type of claim.
 If you can bring a lawsuit, then you should start the lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. In the complaint, you identify the hazard and explain how it injured your child. In the complaint, you also make a request for monetary compensation.Your lawyer can draft the complaint about you. If you are representing yourself, then ask the court clerk if there is a “fill in the blank” complaint form that you can use. Many courts now have these.
 Once you have completed the complaint, then make several copies. Take the original (and your copies) to the court clerk. Ask the clerk to file the original.


The clerk should stamp your copies with the filing date.
You will probably have to pay a filing fee.Ask the clerk for the amount and acceptable methods of filing.
 Even if you sent a Notice of Claim, you will still need to notify the school when you file your lawsuit. You will also have to serve a “summons” on the school, which you can get from the court clerk.


Ask the court clerk for acceptable methods of service. Generally, you can have the complaint and summons hand-delivered on the school by either a private process server or by an adult unrelated to the case. You cannot make service yourself.
 The school has a set amount of time to respond to your lawsuit, usually 30 days or less. The school will probably file either a motion to dismiss or an answer. Your lawyer will receive a copy. If you have no lawyer, then you should get a copy of whatever response the school files.


In a motion to dismiss, the school will probably argue that you brought the lawsuit too late or that the school has immunity from the lawsuit. The judge will ultimately have to decide whether or not you can sue the school.
The school might instead file an “answer.” In this document, the school will respond to each allegation you made in your complaint. The school will either admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny each allegation., You can help build your case through a process called “discovery.” In discovery, each side requests helpful information from the other side. Discovery has two purposes: you preserve evidence of witnesses who might not be available for trial, and you uncover facts which will help you at trial.You can request a copy of any helpful document from the school by serving a “Request for Production.” For example, you can get copies of any internal communication which discuss the hazard. These could include memos, notes, letters, and emails. An email or note could be especially helpful if it showed that the school was aware of the hazard but chose not to fix it.
You can also have witnesses sit for a “deposition.” During a deposition, you or your lawyer asks witnesses questions, which they answer under oath in front of a court reporter. Asking the school principal to sit for a deposition would be helpful. You could ask who was responsible for the hazard at the school and why the hazard wasn’t fixed.
 As soon as discovery concludes, the defendant will likely file a motion for summary judgment to try and end the litigation immediately and have the court rule in their favor. To be successful, the defendant will have to persuade the court that there are no genuine issues of material fact and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the defendant will have to prove that even if every factual assumption was made in your favor, you would still lose the case. The defendant will try to prove this by submitting evidence and affidavits.


To defend against this motion, you will submit your own evidence and affidavits and try to persuade the court that there are factual disputes that need to be settled at trial. If successful, the litigation will continue., To successfully sue for premises liability, you must prove the following elements. These elements might differ slightly by state, but you generally will need to prove the following:The school is in control of the property. This element is easily proved if the injury happened on school grounds.
The school must have expected the injured person to be on the grounds. If your child was injured, then this element is easily proved. Schools expect their students to be on their property during school hours. However, the school does not expect people to be on its grounds outside normal business hours.
The school must have been negligent. You must show that the school knew or should have known of the hazard but failed to reasonably protect your child. Some hazards will be obvious—for example, a hole in the floor is an obvious danger. You can also show the school’s awareness through documents (like emails) or admissions made in a deposition.
The school’s negligence caused your child’s injury. For example, your child can testify that their leg was broken when they fell at school.
 Your lawyer can help pull everything together as your trial date approaches. However, if you don’t have a lawyer, then you need to do all of the prep work. You should prepare by doing the following:


Identify your witnesses. You usually have to give the school a list of witnesses you intend to call at trial. You should sit down and identify who has helpful information for your case. Identify people who saw your child get injured or saw the hazard. Remember that witnesses can only testify as to what they observed personally. They can’t testify to gossip or speculation.Serve subpoenas on your witnesses. A subpoena is a legal request for a person to show up at court and offer testimony. You can generally get a blank subpoena form from your court clerk. You will need to fill it out and arrange service on the witness. Make sure to serve the subpoena with plenty of time before the trial.
Make exhibits. You will definitely want to introduce helpful documents into evidence a trial. For example, you should introduce pictures of the hazard, as well as medical reports and receipts for medical expenses. You can turn a document into an exhibit by attaching an “exhibit sticker” to the document. Get these stickers from the court clerk or from an office supply store.Make multiple copies of your exhibits. Ask the clerk how many copies to make. Generally, you need to give the other side a set of all documents before the first day of trial.
 At trial, both you and the school will present evidence. You will go first. You should think about hiring a lawyer to help you at trial, especially if you are nervous. A typical trial will go as follows:If either you or the defendant opted to have a jury, then you will open with jury selection.
Each side then makes opening statements to the jury.
You present your witnesses first, and the school will be able to cross-examine those witnesses.
After you present your witnesses, the school will put on its case. You can cross-examine the school’s witnesses.
At the close of evidence, each side will present closing arguments to the jury, which will then retire to deliberate.
For more information about what happens at trial, see Win Your Personal Injury Claim.
 If you lose, you should consider bringing an appeal. You can appeal if the judge made an error, such as allowing someone to testify to gossip or speculation. You could also appeal if the evidence does not in any way support the jury’s verdict for the school.


If you want to appeal, then you must file your Notice of Appeal promptly. You generally don’t have much time, only 30 days (or less) from the date final judgment is entered.