 It's important to set a example for your siblings by always being respectful. Be respectful to them, of course, but you should also be respectful to your parents, your teachers, your friends, and even perfect strangers! Being respectful will help them a lot in life and if they learn it from someone they really respect, it will become a life-long habit.


Don't talk back to your parents or teachers. Politely argue if problems come up but otherwise do what you're told and show your sibling how it's done.;
, It's also very important for your sibling to learn how to be responsible. Don't do drugs or alcohol and do keep up with your chores and help around the house. Do good in school but be humble about your grades. Get a job if your schedule allows and save your money responsibly. This helps you but it also sets a great example for them. They'll see that hard work and sacrifice pay off.
 Definitely don't teach them every bad word in the book, but using good language also means speaking well. Speak correctly and with the best grammar and vocabulary you can manage. They'll pick up on your language and learn a lot. Good speech is often a sign of a better education and many employers consider it essential, so you'll be setting them up for a lifetime of success.
 You should try not to be violent towards your siblings and set an extra good example by not being violent towards anyone else either. Kids who learn that being violent is cool from their siblings may go on to violent lifestyles that land them in prison or worse. Instead, solve your problem peaceably and by talking it out. If someone tries to goad you into a fight, be the bigger person and walk away.


Boys who witness their parents being violent are twice as likely to be violent themselves, so what do you think they'll do if they see a brother that they really look up to being violent?

, Teach your siblings to respect themselves by always being themselves. Do this by being yourself. Pursue the things that you love and don't let popular opinion sway you. Be individual and forget the trends and doing what will make you the most popular. By doing these things, your sibling will learn to be confident in their own skin.
 Show your siblings that they should always stick up for the little guy and protect people who deserve protection by doing the same yourself. You never know, that little kid getting beat up at school may not have a brother that's able to protect him. Protecting the helpless will teach your siblings how to be good people and will make them respect you even more.
 Do the right thing, especially when it's hard. This also means apologizing or admitting when you're done something wrong. You want your siblings to be able to do the same, to always do the right thing. This will make both of you better people.

