 If your sweaty, clammy hands are a serious problem and you haven't been able to eliminate them with basic home remedies or lifestyle changes, you may want to consider talking to your doctor about medical solutions. One class of drugs that can treat excessive sweatiness (and thus clammy hands) is called anticholinergics. These drugs work by blocking the action of a chemical called acetylcholine in the brain, which, among other things, controls the body's sweating.Note, however, that anticholinergics can have significant side effects, including:


Higher body temperature
Blurry vision
Constipation
Decreased saliva production
Confusion
Drowsiness

, One relatively unobtrusive procedure that can treat clammy hands is called iontophoresis. In this procedure, the hands are submerged in water for about half an hour while a mild electric current passes through it. This closes the pores in the skin of the hands, decreasing sweating.The current is not usually great enough for it to be painful. For best results, multiple repetitions are usually necessary.


While iontophoresis doesn't usually cause side effects, in rare cases, it can cause skin irritation and/or blistering., Though botox injections are most commonly known for their cosmetic uses, they can also be used to reduce sweating in certain cases. Botox treatments work by injecting a very small amount of a poison called botulinum toxin under the skin. In tiny dosages, this toxin tightens the skin and interferes with a chemical that causes sweat glands to activate. Though it may take several applications, a regimen of botox injections can prevent excessive sweating for over a year. Side effects from botox include:Bruising/redness at the injection site
Headache
Flu-like symptoms
Muscle twitching/drooping
In very unlikely cases, dangerous symptoms of botulinum toxin poisoning (trouble breathing, trouble speaking, vision problems, weakness)

, For sweaty or clammy hands that won't respond to any other treatments and are a having a significant impact on a patient's quality of life, surgery can be recommended, although this is usually seen as an absolute last-resort. Endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy (or ETS) is a surgical procedure that involves cutting certain nerve pathways that cause sweating in the hands and under the arms. Though it's sometimes described as a "minimally-invasive" procedure, ETS is in fact a major surgery that requires general (whole-body) anesthetic. Though problems are rare, there is a small chance of serious complications or even death with ETS (as is there with any major surgery).Note that ETS is a permanent procedure — there is no way to reverse it once it's performed.
In addition, it's important to know that the vast majority of people who undergo ETS for sweaty hands or underarms experience "compensatory sweating" (sweating that is as heavy or heavier than the original sweating) somewhere else on their body after the surgery.