 Kids age 6 and under will sometimes react negatively when their parents leave. Understand that they are worried, scared, and feel like they are all alone, and use this knowledge to guide your actions. Don't worry if the kid is quiet, cries a lot, or has a temper in the first hour -- they will usually calm down when they get comfortable with you.


Reassure the child that their parents will be back and that you are there to have fun together.
Have an activity ready right when you arrive to distract the child from their woes, like cards or a board game., Know what games they play, what movies/TV shows they love, their favorite class at school, etc. Knowing small facts about them, like their age or their dog's name, makes the kid feel important. If they collect action figures, ask if you can see the collection. If they love to make art, ask if they will draw a portrait of you. Taking the time to get to know a child will make the night go smoothly for both of you.


Don't talk down to children with baby voices or pats on the head. Make them feel like a friend and you'll be surprised how much respect you earn.
Like adults, all kids are different -- you can't expect them all to love the same games or activities, so you need to adapt to be the best babysitter.
 The kids you watch are on their "home-court." They know all of the fun games, have their own routines, and will naturally gravitate towards things they like to do. Unless they are extremely shy, most kids will want to start playing immediately. As long as you think the activity is safe, go with the flow.
 Whether the kid just gets bored or is too shy to take the lead, there are plenty of times when you are expected to bring the entertainment. The best babysitters are ready with a game or activity at a moment’s notice:



Paper Mache is a great craft that only requires newspaper and glue.
Simple card games like Go Fish, Old Maid, and War will pass the time quickly.
Bring over simple paints, popsicle sticks, glitter, paper, etc. for homemade crafts.
Bring over games or toys from your own childhood, as most kids love getting to play with new things.
 Think of activities that burn a lot of energy, as this will tire kids out and keep them from running wild at bedtime. While some kids can spend hours playing imaginary "Cops & Robbers," other kids will need some convincing to get outside. Try playing tag, going for a bike ride, or taking the child to a playground to get their blood pumping.


If you are indoors, start a dance party. Try "Indoor Olympics," complete with push-up contests, running-in-place marathons, and homemade medals., Kids love it when adults are willing to get goofy and have some fun. While you always need to be responsible, babysitting should be fun. Don't be so serious that you can't have a water balloon battle in the backyard, do crazy impressions or skits, or play a game of hide-and-seek.


Being silly is often the best way to coax a shy child out of their shell.
When you're having fun, the chances are good that the kids are having fun too., Put your phone away and interact with the child. The best babysitters are like older siblings to a child -- they are responsible, but they are also willing to play. If the child senses that you don't want to be with them they will act out to get attention or sit around acting bored. Both scenarios will get you in trouble when the parents come home and keep you from being the best babysitter.


If something happens to the child and you are distracted or not paying attention you may be legally responsible for damages., Hungry kids will get cranky, and hopping a kid up on sugar can cause problems for everyone. If the parents don't provide you with specific food for the meals then try to create decent, well-balanced meals. Talk to the kids about what they like and provide snacks, like carrots and peanut butter or pretzels, every 1-2 hours to keep kids well fed.


Ask about dietary restrictions or food preferences before the parents leave.
Learn a few simple recipes, like pancakes, chicken, and cheese pizza, that you can whip out instantly in times of need.
While you want the child to be happy, this does not mean you should bow to their every whim and give them candy for meals. Try making deals, like, "you get a piece of candy/dessert it you eat all of the vegetables," if they are difficult.
 Most issues with children occur when they have nothing to do. As a result, they decide to act out or make a scene to get attention, or start to think about missing their parents and get sad. Try to limit downtime whenever possible, keeping the kid moving from one activity to the next. If you are in doubt, put on a movie to occupy the child for another 1-2 hours.

