 Since there is no cure for genital herpes, treating it with antiviral medications can help heal outbreaks sooner and lessen the severity of recurrences. It may also minimize the chance of transmitting the virus to other people.It’s important to get a diagnosis and start treatment as soon as you have symptoms of genital herpes, which may lessen the severity of the virus in the long term.Common medications for genital herpes are Acyclovir (Zovirax), Famciclovir (Famvir), and Valacyclovir (Valtrex).Your doctor may advise taking medication only if you have symptoms or an actual outbreak, or she may recommend daily use even if no signs of an outbreak are present.;
, An important part of living with genital herpes is communicating with your partner or partners about the virus. It’s the kind and responsible thing to do and may help avoid problems later.


Do not blame your partner for anything. Remember that herpes can remain dormant in your body for years so it can be difficult to tell who infected you.Talk to your partner about having the disease and the best ways you can minimize the chances of infecting him or having further outbreaks., Whether the disease is dormant or you are having an outbreak of lesions, you need to take steps to prevent your partner from contracting genital herpes. There are several way to minimize the risk of transmitting the disease to you or your partner.Avoid or limit sexual contact to one person who is infection-free if you can.Abstain from sex if either you or your partner have an outbreak of genital herpes.Use latex condoms every time you have sex or make genital contact.If you’re pregnant and have genital herpes, make sure to let your doctor know so that you don’t transmit it to your unborn child., Even though sexual politics have progressed, there are often still social stigmas attached to genital herpes. These stigmas can cause you shame, stress, anxiety, or depression. Addressing the negative connotations and your own feelings associated with genital herpes can help you move forward and lead a normal life.Many people feel shame and embarrassment when they are first diagnosed with genital herpes and they may even wonder if anyone will want to have sex with them again. This is a completely normal initial reaction, but you should know that genital herpes is common and you don’t need to feel this way.Seeing a counselor, doctor, or friend can help you deal with your feelings., Joining a support group of others who suffer from genital herpes can offer you unconditional support from others who understand what you’re experiencing. It can also help you effectively deal with the various aspects of the virus., If you see the symptoms of a genital herpes recurrence, treat them promptly. This may help minimize the length of the outbreak and may make it less severe.The symptoms of an outbreak may include: herpetic lesions, fever, body aches, swollen lymph nodes, and headache.Call your doctor and get a prescription to help minimize and heal the recurrence., If you have external blisters during an outbreak, break and wash them immediately. This may help heal the outbreak and keep it from spreading.Break the blisters in the shower by using clean washcloth soaked in warm, soapy water. Make sure to wash the cloth in a hot soapy cycle in your washing machine before using it again.Clean the blisters with rubbing alcohol on the first and second days to kill any virus and sterilize the area. You can also use warm soapy water if the alcohol is too painful.Cover the area with gauze or a sterile pad to keep any blister fluid from spreading.Do not break internal lesions. Consult your doctor if you have an outbreak that is on the inside of your body., Getting regular exercise regularly, eating a well-balanced diet, and being hygienic will keep you and your immune system strong and healthy. Making sure that your maintain your overall healthy may reduce the likelihood of recurrences.Some people report that alcohol, caffeine, rice, or even nuts can trigger their outbreaks. Keep a daily food journal to see if you can pinpoint any food triggers.
Limit the amount of stress in your life, which can help minimize the recurrence of outbreaks., Sanitary conditions will promote cleanliness and reduce outbreaks. Showering, changing your clothing, and washing your hands can minimize recurrences or help heal ongoing outbreaks more quickly.Shower at least once daily, and consider taking two showers a day if you are showing symptoms of an outbreak.Wear clean, loose clothing and change your underwear daily.Wash your hands regularly to keep from getting sick, but also every time you come into contact with an outbreak.