 Before buying your fish, you need to prepare the aquarium. A typical freshwater aquarium needs:



A tank. Your tank’s size should match the type and number of fish you plan to have. Generally, you should have an aquarium that can hold at least 5 gallons (20 litres) of water.

A filter. Keeping fish without a filter drastically shortens your fish’s life. Filters help oxygenate and clean the water, allowing your fish to breathe better in a clean environment.

Water treatments. Any water you add to your tank should be treated or dechlorinated. This protects your fish’s delicate mucus lining from harsh minerals and chemicals found in our drinking water and keeps it healthy.

Aquarium gravel. Gravel not only helps to keep decorations or live plants in place, but gravel also affects the water quality of your tank.

Heater and thermometer. Most freshwater fish need to live in temperatures ranging from 75 to 80 °F (24 to 27 °C). Some fish, such as tropical fish, will need to be placed in a tank with a higher temperature.Always research or consult with your local aquarium expert about what the correct temperature for your fish tank is.

Lights. The type of lighter you choose depends on what kind of fish or invertebrates you plan to have and whether or not you want to have live plants.

Decorations. These include fake or real plants, as well as rocks, caves, and other picturesque aquarium ornaments.

Airstones or air pumps. All tanks need to be well oxygenated. Airstones or air pumps add oxygen to the water by aggravating it.

Aquarium vacuum. There are several types of aquarium vacuums to choose from: ones that connect to faucets, ones that only suck up water, and ones that you need to pump.

Fish net. You’ll need to remove your fish from its tank for various reasons. Be sure to choose a net big enough to hold your fish.

Aquarium glass scrubber or sponge. Some glass scrubbers act as magnets that stick to the tank’s glass for easy clean up, while some are special sponges that are safe to use in your tank.

A large bucket. You’ll need a bucket or several buckets that can hold a large amount of water for when you need to do water changes.

Aquarium test kits. To maintain your tank’s water quality, you will need to test your tank’s pH, ammonia, and nitrogen levels regularly.

Fish food. Be sure to provide your fish with the correct diet. Not all fish can just eat fish flakes or pellets everyday.
 Never use soap or detergents to clean your tank. Using soaps or detergents can seriously injure and damage your tank inhabitants. Simply wash your tank and equipment with hot water.


Use a sponge or clean washcloth and scrub the inside of your tank. Then hose it down to rid your tank of any impurities.
Wash and soak your aquarium gravel or sand in a bucket. Use a pasta strainer to separate the dirtied water from the gravel.
Wash and massage your filter’s cartridges under the tap or in a bucket. This is very important, especially if you’re using a carbon filter. Massaging or rubbing the filter activates the carbon inside the cartridge.
Wash all decorations in clean water.
 This means putting your tank on its stand, filling the tank with gravel, arranging your decorations and airstones, and setting up the lighting and heating for your aquarium.

If you are using an undergravel filter, place the bottom plates into your tank and attach all necessary tubes, airline, gang valves, and air pumps before adding your gravel.
Don’t plug in your filter. Set it up and place it in the correct position but don’t turn it on until you have water in the tank. Having it on without water can damage your filter.
 It’s vital you treat your water with conditioner to remove chlorine and chloramine. You can find water conditioners at your local pet store with instructions on how much to add depending on how big of a tank you have.


Don’t fill the tank with water until you are sure of your aquarium’s layout. It can get quite messy if you stick your hand in a full tank to move things around.
Place a plate over your gravel to avoid messing up your tank layout. Pour water directly onto the plate so the pressure of a stream of water won’t make a hole in your gravel or move your decorations around. Remove the place once your tank is full.
 This will begin your tank’s nitrogen cycle.


Ensure your tank is safe electrically before turning or plugging everything in. A power cord in the wrong place can cause serious injury to you.
 The nitrogen cycle takes a few days for it to completely stabilize. You might notice your tank becoming cloudy which means the cycle is kicking in.


You can add some hardy fish like feeder goldfish to your tank to speed up the nitrogen cycle. However, don’t expect the fish to survive, as the harsh conditions of a new aquarium can be quite stressful and inhospitable.
Use a nitrate testing kit to ensure your aquarium is at its best quality before adding your fish.

