 The text or call can be simple, and don’t worry; if he is interested it will go somewhere!


Make sure to pay attention to how he responds. If he doesn’t respond much- don’t keep texting.
If the texting goes on for a sustained about of time, consider asking him to get together and do something.
 It could be something as simple as going for a walk and getting ice cream.


Generally, it is a good idea to do something light for a first date, and end your date before it gets too late. This lets both of you assess how you feel about each other, and helps either person from getting attached before both people are sure they are interested in pursuing the romantic relationship.
 After waiting a few hours to a day text something little and wait to see how he responds and whether he is still interested in you.
 This positive feedback will make him feel good while also not giving yourself away. You can let him know that you are interested in getting to know him more without directly say "I like you." These, more subtle, ways of telling him that you are interested will go a long way in making him feel good about your dates while not make you too vulnerable.


He will probably appreciate hearing that you liked spending time with him, even if he is not interested in pursuing something romantic.
 It is natural to get excited about the way you feel about a guy! However, it is also crucial to remember that you are still getting to know him and need to take it easy.


Time will tell if this guy is great for you, but in the meantime be wise, and make sure you don’t set yourself up for unnecessary heart break.
 It is a serious temptation to spend all of your time with the person you like. Resist the temptations and put limits on your hang outs. Think ahead and plan an engagement that you will need to go to after your date, if you have a hard time leaving him.


After spending a lot of concentrated time together, you will think that you know the person much better than you really do. This assumption will not serve your blossoming relationship, and becoming overly familiar with one another can lead to petty fights.
Keep pursuing the things you like to do outside of this relationship. Make dates to meet up with your friends and attend yoga classes, and do not invite him.
 It doesn’t actually have to be on the weekend, but having something to look forward that are a few days away will keep your relationship exciting, as well as help you focus on the things you need to do in your own life.


The plans do not have to be big, but they should be something that both of you want to do. You could plan on seeing that new Pixar movie you have been talking about or going on the hike you have wanted to check out with your friends.
Plan to do things both one on one and with other people. Changing things up will keep things more interesting and fun.
 Life will come up while you are dating. For example, if he is moving, do not hesitate to help him. Show him you aren’t trying to be his girlfriend but that you want to treat him like a friend while you are getting to know each other.


People like other people more if they have done something good for that other person. It can also be something small like asking him to help you understand a concept in a class you are taking together.
Doing real life together can help you build a bond in a way that just going on dates won't allow, so look for opportunities to help each other in real life.

