 Women who develop postpartum psychosis often see or hear things that are not really there. These hallucinations may be frightening, upsetting, or disorienting. They may come and go, or they may persist. Hallucinations are one of the major signs that distinguishes postpartum psychosis from postpartum depression, and it requires immediate medical intervention.;
, Confusion also distinguishes postpartum psychosis from postpartum depression. Even healthy new mothers may seem exhausted and mentally foggy, but these symptoms should not evolve into true confusion or bewilderment. A woman with postpartum psychosis may seem puzzled by what’s going on around her unable to understand what others are saying to her.
 Along with hallucinations and confusion, delusions – strange but strongly held beliefs that a rational person would know to be false – are one of the chief symptoms that distinguishes postpartum psychosis from postpartum depression. Delusions also require immediate medical treatment. They may not cause a woman to hurt herself or someone else, but in some cases, they do lead to violence.


These delusions, perhaps in combination with hallucinations, may make a woman paranoid or suspicious. Someone with postpartum psychosis may think her friends and family members are lying to her or trying to hurt her; she may feel that she is being watched or followed.
 Mood swings are a common symptom for women with postpartum depression and anxiety, and they also play a role in postpartum psychosis. Women who develop postpartum psychosis tend to move quickly from one emotional state to another; they may suddenly find themselves overwhelmingly sad, distressed, irritated, or angry, and they may or may not be able to pinpoint any reason for the abrupt shift in mood.
 Difficulty sleeping is also characteristic of all the postpartum psychiatric conditions, but it may be especially pronounced in women with postpartum psychosis. They may develop persistent insomnia, or they may feel that they do not need to sleep at all.


This symptom can be especially difficult to detect because most new mothers, even perfectly healthy ones, struggle with sleep. Newborns do not sleep reliably, and they must eat frequently, which can disrupt their mothers’ sleeping patterns. For women with postpartum psychosis, though, difficulties with sleep persist even when they are given the opportunity to rest (as when a spouse, partner, friend, or relative agrees to care for the baby temporarily).
 Postpartum psychosis can make a woman seem manic, agitated, or unusually energetic. She may not be able to sit still or calm down.
 Women with postpartum psychosis sometimes articulate the sense that they are “going crazy” or “losing their minds.” Do not dismiss these feelings; get help.
 Technically, postpartum psychosis can develop at up to six months postpartum, but almost all cases occur during the first four weeks. If you are a new mother yourself, or if your wife or partner recently gave birth, pay particular attention to mental and psychological symptoms during this early period.
 Women with a history of bipolar disorder have a much higher incidence of postpartum psychosis, as do women who have had postpartum psychosis before. Family history may also play a role: if a new mother has a family history of mental illness, her risk of developing postpartum psychosis increases. Be particularly vigilant in these cases.


Note, however, that half of all women who develop postpartum psychosis have none of these risk factors. The disorder sometimes occurs for no discernible reason at all.
 If you think you may have postpartum psychosis, see your doctor or go to an emergency room or urgent care center right away. If someone close to you is showing signs of postpartum psychosis, do everything in your power to get that person treatment – she may be too disoriented or unstable to recognize that she needs help on her own.
 The doctor should ask for a complete medical history and a detailed description of any symptoms. Provide as much information as you can, and be honest – do not attempt to conceal the severity of your symptoms or act like you are okay when you are not.


Note that if the person getting evaluated for postpartum psychosis is not you but rather your wife, partner, or friend, you may need to provide some or all of this information yourself. She may not be in a position to speak rationally or to give a detailed account of her symptoms.
 Some of the symptoms of postpartum psychosis can occasionally be caused by underlying medical conditions: a serious infection, a very high fever, or a neurological problem, for example. A doctor should evaluate symptoms and perform tests, usually including basic blood work, to rule out potential medical issues.
 Many women develop postpartum depression after the birth of a baby, and their symptoms can be very debilitating. Some of these symptoms – especially mood swings, extreme sadness, and sleep disturbances – are also indicative of postpartum psychosis. A good doctor will distinguish between these conditions by looking for evidence of psychotic episodes: hallucinations, delusions, paranoia, mania, and the like.
 Knowing exactly what’s going on is the first step to treating the condition and recovering completely. If the doctor rules out underlying medical causes and notes a psychotic component to the mental disturbance, he or she may diagnose you (or your wife or partner) with postpartum psychosis.
 A woman with postpartum psychosis may insist that she needs to be at home, caring for her baby, but this condition requires that you follow medical advice. Doing otherwise poses a threat to both mother and baby.
 Many women with postpartum psychosis need to be hospitalized so that medical staff can monitor them until they stabilize. Entering a hospital – especially a psychiatric hospital, as frequently necessary – can be upsetting, especially for new mothers, who may insist that they need to be at home. But this step is often necessary for effective treatment.


If your wife, partner, or loved one must be hospitalized with postpartum psychosis, try to assure her that hospitalization is temporary and that full-time, effective treatment will help her get home to her baby as quickly as possible. Do everything in your power to convince her that she is doing the right thing for herself and for her newborn.
 Women with postpartum psychosis are typically prescribed some combination of antipsychotic drugs and mood stabilizers. When taken as directed, these drugs are generally quite effective.


These drugs may or may not be safe to take when breastfeeding, so talk to your doctor and weigh the risks and benefits of particular medications. Remember that treating the postpartum psychosis should be the primary concern, followed by continuation of breastfeeding.
 Some women benefit from electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). This is a modern form of shock therapy that is sometimes effective in treating psychotic episodes.
 Postpartum psychosis is a medical condition, and it demands medical treatment. In addition, though, talk therapy may be beneficial, especially the disorder begins to recede. A counselor can help you (or your wife, partner, or loved one) deal with the symptoms of postpartum psychosis and the trauma that the condition can inflict. Moving forward, a counselor can also help you deal with any feelings of doubt or guilt about motherhood, which many women experience after postpartum depression, anxiety, or psychosis.

