 Especially if the man who is asking you out is an acquaintance or a friend, you don’t want to interrupt him while he’s speaking to you.


Even if you know that he’s going to ask you out, and you want to say no, you don’t want to cut him off. Cutting him off while he’s talking makes you appear overly eager to reject him and rude.
Keep a respectful distance from him, and smile slightly. Don’t move closer to him, or give him any body language indication that you might be interested.;
, The worst thing you can do when you’re politely rejecting someone is to string him along. It might hard for him to hear “no” at first, but it will be much nicer in the long run. Don’t make excuses. You don’t need to lie. Unless it’s true, don’t tell him that you’re in a relationship. Don’t give him a line like, “I just got out of a relationship, and I’m not ready to date.” Even if this is true, it might give him false hope that you’ll change your mind, and that’s not fair to him.
Be straight forward, and polite. Say something like, “You seem like a nice guy, but I just don’t like you that way. I appreciate that you thought to ask me.” This makes your stance clear but still seems slightly softer than a blatant no.
Keep it short. You don’t need to give a long-winded rejection just to seem nice.
 If you genuinely would like to be friends with a guy who asks you out, let him know. This will soften your rejection, and let him know that you value him company, even if you’re not interested in him romantically.


If you don’t actually want to be friends with him, don’t say you want to be friends. Simply tell him you’re not interested and that you hope he has a nice day, and walk away.
If you do tell him you want to be friends, make sure he knows that your feelings about the situation aren’t going to change. You don’t want to give him any false hope. Say something like, “Sorry, I’m not interested in you in a romantic way, but I know someone else will be. I like talking with you, and I’d love to be friends.”

, This will affect how the man takes your answer.


Don’t come across as defensive. You have every right to choose who you date. Being defensive can make you sound more aggressive or disgusted than you mean to sound.
Speak with the tone of an apology. You want to sound open and apologetic, even while still being firm in your answer. Try to make eye contact with him at least once when you are speaking.

