 It can be found on Steam for both Windows and Mac OS X, and downloadable for free. Simply follow the Steam client's instructions and it should be installed fairly painlessly.
 For example, you can select your preferred hand, hit marker colors and graphical options. Browse through and customise the game to your preferences.

The higher the graphics are, the slower your computer will run the game. If you have just a modest PC, it is recommended to keep the graphics at an average level.
 This can be done by clicking "Play" at the main menu, then clicking the "Survivors" button. You can change the face, hair, hair colour, beard and skin tone to a few different options. You may change your name and your skillset. Skillsets each grant two skills to cost half the experience, and will remain fully when you die. They will also determine the clothes that you will spawn with in single-player mode.

You and other players' skillsets can be seen by pressing "M" in-game and viewing the small icon near their name.
Buying the Gold Upgrade, which costs $4.99 USD, will grant you access to many more customisation options, but this is not necessary to gameplay.
 This will teach you the basic skills, such as shooting, driving and fishing, and the default controls. Once you have the hang of this, you can move on to the real game., Blood, hunger, thirst, immunity, stamina and oxygen should all ideally be at 100% for easy survival, but they probably won't remain full for long. Most of these bars will cause your blood to decrease upon reaching 0%., Pretty much anything that can harm you in real life will harm you in the game. Once your blood reaches 0%, you're dead. Medkits, dressings, vaccines and many other items will increase your blood. Your blood will also begin to increase when your hunger, thirst and immunity bars are all at a minimum 90%, Once either bar reaches 0%, you will begin losing blood, so keep it up with food and drinks. Some foods will increase only one bar, but some watery foods, like lettuce and corn, will increase both., Once this bar reaches 50%, it will begin slowly decreasing, and once it reaches 0%, you'll begin losing blood. Getting hit by zombies and drinking dangerous liquids will decrease your immunity. Use things like vaccines, antibiotics and vitamins to increase your immunity., Sprinting, jumping and special attacks will decrease your stamina, and you can't perform these movements if you don't have enough remaining. Adrenaline can be used to immediately return your stamina bar to full., Oxygen decreases quickly while underwater, and decreases slowly when you have been at high altitude (i.e. flying an aircraft) for an extended period of time, and running out will result in a quick loss of blood. Standing on the surface will restore your oxygen quite quickly., Shops specialise in different things, and will contain different items to others. For example, food and drink is found in grocers, medicine is found in hospitals and guns are found in gun shops., Military bases and convoys (trails of destroyed military vehicles) are likely to contain powerful ranged and melee weapons. At Summerside Military Base in PEI, for example, you can find Maplestrikes, frag grenades and Desert Falcons, powerful items which cannot be found in civilian locations., Fishing is a quick way to get nourishing food, as long as you have the skill and the patience.

Be sure to cook the fish at a campfire, as eating raw seafood will lower your immunity to disease.
 They can be found in campgrounds and farms, and will allow you to collect water from most water sources as many times as you want.

If the water is unclean, do not drink it as it will drastically lower your immunity. Use purification tablets to clean the water and make it safe to drink.

