 It means that your partner grew up in the family and loves the family more than anything. Keep that in mind and they become much easier to bear and everything will flow freely.


Consider them as family and not opponents: Many people end up spoiling their relationships with in-laws because they frame them as opponents, who always impose demands on them. The biggest culprit behind this kind of assumption is the information that we are getting access to. Try to see any given conflict from their perspective, too; treat them like family and give them the benefit of the doubt, as you enter into a disagreement. If you view things from their angle, you may understand where they're coming from.;
, Stay humble and try to avoid any sort of conflict. The rule is simple and you just need to fill in  empty spaces with love and abstain ego from getting in at any point of time.


Avoid comparing your family to your in-laws. Each family dynamic is different, and your expectations of each other will always be different from those in your family of origin. Accept this, rather than fighting it, and your relationship will benefit.
 After formal introductions, put some effort to know them. Make a special effort with the older people at home, then the siblings of your partner, their partners and their kids, if there are any. We tend to dislike or ignore people only when we don't really know who they are.


Ask your partner to help you draw out a family tree and memorize it if you find it hard to remember all the names and various relationships in the family.

Smile. A smile is a starter to many great things, including good relationships. Whenever you bump into your in-laws remember to give them a genuine smile.
Start a conversation. Take steps to start the conversation since you are the newcomer. They might expect you to make the move first. Be ready to accept any kind of replies or response. Don't be surprised if you get snappy replies. Remember you are there for the best man or woman of your life.
 Kids are always easy to be tackled compared to the adults. Try to play with or tell stories to the kids. Buy them chocolates or candies and let the elders realize that you are a friendly and jovial person.


Respect the beliefs and practises of the families. If they don't allow sweets, avoid them like the plague. If they are deeply religious, praise their beliefs and join in as much as you possibly can, particularly in front of the children.
 Show respect when you talk, eat or even when you are just sitting idle in front of them. Playing with smartphones should be banned completely. Show attention to the conversation or the food you are eating. Attentiveness would reflect your well being to them.


Don't feel afraid of asking about the family history. Show an interest in your partner's heritage and background. If they romanticize the past, grin and bear it.
 Volunteer to help in the kitchen or with the laundry, or find opportunities to buy stuff or to fix a broken item at home. This would bring a special kind of affection towards the family besides showing your hidden talents.
 Just be yourself and you don't have to act to get a place their hearts. Show that you are sincere in every single thing you do and you really mean what you say in every conversation. Originality always attracts. No harm to share with them your drawbacks or weaknesses. Show your talents and abilities rather than tell.
 People are different. Your parents and the in-laws will never be the same. When you compare them, things will get worse. So accept them as they are and show love and affection to them.


Never brag about your maiden family. You may tell things about your parents or birth family but never ever brag or talk big about what you had in your home. This might irritate your in-laws or cause negative remarks.
 If you are not staying under the same roof with your in-laws, find time to text or call them once in a while. They would be definitely touched and it would help a lot in the bonding of your new relationship. Make them feel that you acknowledge them.


Remember birthdays and anniversaries. Use an organizer to keep track of them.
If you have children, keep them updated on the newest milestones reached and make every effort to meet up as often as you can if they're interested.
 This is their family, and always will be. If you put them in the middle of fights a lot, you'll only breed more tension. Just try not to sweat the small stuff, and support your spouse's position in relation to his next of kin.


Praise your partner. Whilst families are well aware of your husband or wife's faults and failings, they don't want you to remind them. Speak highly of your partner and mention their great qualities. Demonstrate the admiration, respect, love and fondness you have for your partner. S/he is a darling son, daughter, nephew, niece, uncle, aunt, grandson or granddaughter too.

