 You could base it on turtle themed things, such as "Green Shell", "Webby" or "Swim Champ" or you could use a name that you just happen to like.


Is your stuffed turtle male or female? This might influence the name you choose for it.;
, Do not leave your toy on the floor where it might get trodden on or lost under piles of clothes. Find a nice place on a shelf, on the bed or on a table for the turtle to rest when you're not playing with it or cuddling it.
 Direct sunlight will cause the colors to fade very quickly, and any pattern on your stuffed turtle may be lost.


Also keep the stuffed toy away from heat sources. This is especially important around naked flames, as many stuffed toys burn very easily.
 Try spot washing before washing the whole toy, as spot washing can lift off stains and leave the toy looking nice again. It's always a good idea to clean the toy as soon as you can after getting a stain on it, as it will come out far more easily when the stain is fresh.


If you want to wash the whole toy, this can be done by hand by immersing it in a basin or bucket of lukewarm water with gentle washing soap. It's recommended that you only do this on a warm day, so that the toy will dry quickly outside. Hang from a clothesline or rest on a sweater drying base.
If you want to wash the stuffed turtle in the washing machine, read the label to see if this okay.
If you want to dry the stuffed turtle in the dryer, read the label. It might be possible on low heat but be aware that not all fabrics and stuffings are suitable for dryers. Moreover, if there are any fluffy bits on the turtle, these may shrink or even fall out if they are dried using direct heat.
 If you like playing with your stuffed turtle a lot, you might like to change its look by adding a few clothes or accessories. Here are some suggestions for you to try:


If it's wintertime, put on winter clothes for your stuffed turtle.
If it's fall, put a light jacket on your stuffed turtle.
If it's summer, put sunglasses on the stuffed turtle's head.
If it's spring, get a flower basket for your stuffed turtle. Pick flowers and put them in the basket.
 Some things to be careful of include:


If you play with the stuffed turtle in the garden, take care not to get it dirty with soil or grass stains.
If you take the stuffed turtle to school, keep it safe and don't share it around too much or it may get dirty or lost.
If you take the stuffed turtle on a car ride, to a picnic or on a trip somewhere, always remember to look for it before leaving, to make sure that you bring it back home with you.
If you go to the beach with your stuffed turtle, be sure to brush the sand off it when you're finished.

