 Most Jammers are attracted to bunnies. If you don't feel like being a bunny, try a seal or a fox. Jammers don't want usually adopt horses or alligators unless they're pets.;
,


For a boy, try a light blue/green/grey and wear the old hoodie and blanket.
For girls, try a light yellow/pink/purple or white and wear the old hoodie and blanket.
 When you get to the Pillow Room (next to the Sol Arcade), say things such as: 'is newborn trapped in box.' or 'is poor and helpless newborn.'

,


Say things such as: 'looks around curiously'.
If your mom/dad puts you in your room, say things like: 'plays with plushies'.
If you really want to be great, say things such as: 'draws picture of mommy/daddy'

, Once you are at your new home, wait for your parents by sleeping at the doorstep. Once they get home, say hi to them, or you could use baby talk if you have free chat. Ask your parents where your bedroom is so if you have a sibling they won't get angry if you accidentally sleep in there bed.
 Always add your parents before leaving the pillow room. Go anywhere that they go unless you're with a babysitter or they tell you to stay at their den, and don't go out on your own until you're older.
 If you have a brother or sister, always be nice to them so there is no big fights, try not to act spoiled and play with them, share your toys or food with them and try not to hog attention unless your a only child (including no pets)

, You can't stay sick forever. If you do want to fake sick, only stay sick for a little while, because your parents can't nurse you if you just keep being sick.
 But don't do these things all the time. If you do, your mom/dad will ground you; or worse, they will send you back to the Pillow Room.


If your mom/dad has a den with stairs, pretend to trip and say 'trips, falls and cries'.
If you want to pretend your diaper is full, say 'diaper is full' or 'made a stinky'.
If your mom/dad has a kitchen, pretend to crawl in and say 'reaches for shiny objects'.
 When sleeping, say "-sleeps cutely-" if eating, say "-plays with food-" etc, its important to do these things so it won't seem boring to your parent.
 If your mom/dad was treating you nicely, help them with chores. Say things like 'helps mom/dad with stuff'.
 Once you've been with your parents for a while, it may be time to grow up into a kid, teenager, or grown up, and maybe even adopt your own kids! You can't stay a newborn forever, because it may cause your parents to get annoyed.
 Your new kid or parents might get annoyed that you're still living with them, so if you do decide to grow up and adopt, make sure your den is a good enough den for kids, (including the basics, bathroom, kids bedroom, kitchen and your own bedroom, or you can add more depending the size of your den like, playroom, garden, pool, etc).


If you're pretending to grow up, say things such as: 'is now eight years old'. For those with no free chat, say 'is now for plus for years old'.
 After you have been to kindergarten, primary school and eventually high school, say to your mom/dad 'mom/dad, tomorrow is my graduation. thanks for raising me'. Then, tell them you're moving out with someone or you've gotten to old. If they say yes, go back to your den. But not before you give them a hug and a nice Jam-a-Gram!

