 Let them know they’re not getting a sale today because you won’t be spending any money. They’ll lose interest in you and avoid you if you let them know you’re just browsing. Politely let them know they’d be better off talking to a customer more interested in actually buying something.Try saying, "Thanks, but I'm just browsing today," or "I don't have any money on me - just looking!";
, Don’t tell the salesperson that you’re not sure what you want to buy or show them that you’re indecisive about anything. They will interpret your uncertainty as an open invitation to sell you something or describe a product. Tell them you know what you’re looking for and would prefer to shop alone.Consider saying, "I know what I'm looking for and where it is, thanks!" Try out, "I don't need help, thank you," or "I know where to find what I need."

, When you’re in a store, avoid making eye contact or smiling at salespeople who appear to be persistent or aggressive. Don’t engage them in small-talk or give them an opportunity to pivot from a nice conversation to sales pitch. You don’t need to yell or look really mean, but you can effectively convey that you’re not an approachable target.Try pretending you're talking on the phone, texting, or otherwise too occupied to engage in a conversation.
 If you’re walking through a mall or market with small shops or kiosks, don't slow down when salespeople try to get your attention. Keep up your pace, so they won’t be able to recite a pitch to you. Give a polite smile or head nod as you pass by, but make sure you keep walking so you don’t seem approachable to them.


Consider saying, "Thanks, but I'm in a rush!" as you pass.
 Alternatively, if you might be interested in what the salesperson is selling, give them a minute to make their pitch. Whether in the store, a kiosk, or elsewhere, listen to their description and deal if you’re in the market for their product or service.


Just make sure you’ll be able to be firm and say no if it turns out you’re really not all that interested. Don’t get pulled into a deal you didn’t really want or need.
As soon as you decide you're not into the pitch, interrupt them and try saying, "Thanks but no thanks!" or "Okay, I've really got to get on my way, thanks for the info!"

