 The worry tree helps you to: recognize what type of worry you are having, turn worries into problems that can be solved, and decide when it is safe to ‘let go’ of worries. There are two types of things not worth worrying about, things that you can do something about and things that you can’t do something about.Use the worry tree plan to check out one of your worries. If it is a worry that you cannot do anything about, you will know that it is safe to stop worrying. You could distract yourself if you find this difficult to do.
If it is a worry that you can do something about, you can “problem solve” it. You will not have to worry about it anymore because you will have a plan.
If the worry comes up again you can tell yourself that you have a plan so you don’t need to worry., In order to fix your issue you first need to be clear about what the problem is.


Answer the question, “What are you worrying about?” Write the answer at the top of your sheet of paper. This will become the main heading of your decision tree.
You can use the information you gathered from the Identifying Your Problem section.
For example, your main issue could be that you failed your math test and you are worried about it.
 The first step to stopping your worry is finding out what you can do to solve it.


Place one line coming down from your main decision tree heading and label it, “Can I do anything about this.”
Then place two lines coming out of that heading, one saying Yes and the other No.
If the answer is NO, circle it. It is safe to stop worrying.
If the answer is YES, make a list of what you could do or how you could find out what to do (on a separate sheet of paper).
 Sometimes we are able to fic the problem right away, while others may take more time.


Place a line coming out of your last answer (Yes or No). Label it, “Is there anything you can do right now?”
Place again two lines coming out of this heading and label them Yes and No.
If the answer is No, circle it. Then, problem solve and make a plan for the future (on a separate sheet of paper). Then, decide when to carry out the plan. Then it’s safe to stop worrying and you can distract yourself.
If YES, then circle it. Then, problem solve, make a plan, and then DO IT. It is then safe to stop worrying and distract yourself.