 It hardly serves you well to begin explaining some of them until you've had a chance to start defining it for yourself, as is your perfect right to do. The fact that there may be temporary agreement on some tenet(s) or other of the philosophy is of little consequence because the name of the game is quite possibly change.

However, generally speaking, the ability of nature to discover and utilize new niches for life is appreciated by possibilitists, and you may join in this appreciation and enthusiasm.
You are encouraged to read and study other philosophies, but always bear in mind that they are merely possible paths to the Truth. Many include exclusions and negations/denials of various aspects of awareness, such as hallucinations or delusions, whereas the possibilitist realizes that such are actual bio-electrical phenomena occurring in the brain, within tangible reality that is, and so must be taken seriously.;
, Learn that the various dictionary definitions of "possibility" are not broad enough or imaginative enough or playful enough! What about "pause+ability" and "Pos+Sybility", for just two examples of how the word may be heard and reinterpreted semantically by the creative mind., Most of all, a possibilitist does not believe in the word "Not"! Why? Because, to deny a premise, one must accept it first, which is on its face absolutely contradictory nonsense. Besides, it is unclear; for example, when someone says something like "not the foot", does this mean the leg, the area around the foot, the volume the foot occupies but without the foot in it? Whatever is meant by "not the foot" is less than clear and is hardly obvious at all. To clarify the statement, "The possibilitist does not believe in the word 'not'" is to state "The possibilitist believes in the word, and/or in silence, and/or in words, and/or in parts of words, and/or in humming, singing, et cetera.", Possibilitists defer to unique definitions by other possibilitists, as is their right to establish a unique possible niche of definition. There is a right way: It is all ways., It is stated as y = e^x^2, or y = e^x^n in some texts, where all possibilities under its curve sum to 100% = 1. This is looked at by possibilitists as just one of many possible curves under which the sum is One = 100% for one thing. And what about the possibilities in the area above the curve? Or under the axis it rests upon? In the third and fourth quadrants -- what about possibilities therein? A possibilitist is not satisfied with the statistical frame of Possibility whatsoever., The possibilitist appreciates an omniscient being or beings who is/are aware of all possibilities and all time everywhere reconciled, as includes time beyond light speed and light speed squared. Just because a thing is less than clearly defined currently, or understood in a particular form or way now, is hardly a reason to believe that it will never become susceptible to the human imagination., The possibilitist appreciates one definition of the past and future as being on the opposite side of every spinning particle in relation to one's perception and the forces acting upon one from the far side of said particle(s). Thus, after a particle is presently facing an individual as it spins, it turns about to become the past, while at the same time still spinning around to become the future. This explains the great continuity we humans sense as reality within time, whereas actually there is only now, the instantaneous awareness of all parts of all particles within and without oneself. The rate at which now occurs is of little consequence once one experiences now (or now experiences)., The possibilitist recognizes that lies and omissions and deceptions are still based upon a kernel of the truth, and in that they contain such, are to be wholly considered as creations of wayward minds, perhaps, yet manifest creations nonetheless. Discerning whether a statement is a deception is important, of course, and yet not as important as considering it as a potential possible condition that may yet manifest, given the "right" (or "wrong") circumstances. The possibilitist keeps an extraordinarily open mind to all statements and is free to modify them at will, according to his or her own grasp of what's possible -- that is, one may grasp the kernel of truth within a lie and expand on that, for example., Within the discrepancy, the discarded and the put aside lie the possibilities. For example, within auditing is the concept of materiality, whereby the financial statements as a whole may not be materially misstated if an immaterial error or misstatement has occurred. But to the possibilitist, such discrepancies are representations of how possibilities are at work in the business world and statements of financial condition -- and they "matter"; they are of interest insofar as how they arose and were allowed to be carried forward, etc. This same concept applies in law, although somewhat differently than in auditing, for a fact that is immaterial in law to the prosecution may be essential to the defense, or vice versa. Such "matters" are of material interest to the possibilitist. The concept of materiality or relevance or statistical significance also arises in physics and other branches of science and the possibilitist is very interested in results that get tossed out of the findings for being too extraneous. The possibilitist often works in the area of the muddled and not obvious, the chaotic and the perturbed -- because this is where the outside (less likely) possibilities are probably coming into play in a given situation or event-series., Possibilitism lets you explore your spiritual side freely. Here is an image depicting that freedom.

