 The horse will not immediately stop. They must trust that being girl will not cause or lead to any discomfort, and that will take time and gentle consistent handling.
 Take time to groom or fuss over your horse if this is what your horse enjoys.
 This will allow you to put the saddle on more smoothly. Place it gently on to the horse’s back making sure the saddle cloth and flaps aren’t rolled up.
, Although bad manners and dangerous behaviour can’t be tolerated, remember that the horse is trying to tell you they are unhappy. Be sympathetic, but correct the behaviour:


Swishing Tail/Pulling Faces: This is the horse’s way of communicating and shouldn’t be punished. Don’t ignore it though. The horse is unhappy about something, if you ignore it the horse may try a more extreme method to communicate it.
Moving Away: When you tighten the girth, if the horse reacts, keep or gently increase the pressure on the girth while moving with the horse. Don’t pull it sharply. As soon as the horse stands quietly release the pressure, ask them to move back to where they were and award the horse.
Threatening to Kick/Biting/Stamping: Wear protective clothing; several layers of long sleeves and gloves, boots with steel toe caps etc. When you tighten the girth, if the horse reacts, keep or gently increase the pressure on the girth. Don’t pull it sharply. As soon as the horse stands quietly release the pressure and award the horse.
Kicking: This should essentially be handled the same as if the horse threatens to kick, but the situation is more dangerous. A more severe reaction is needed just before the horse kicks. This reaction should be “horse aggressive” (snorting, stamping) rather then “human aggressive” (hitting, shouting). Professional help would be a very good idea as timing is essential.
Blowing up: This is when the horse blows themselves up to stop the girth being tighten to much, it is usually a method the horse has developed to cope with rough handling or over-tight girths. Tighten the girth to the correct amount, i.e. so you can fit a hand between it and the horse, regardless of how much the horse has blown themselves up. You may have to use a girth on the large side (so you end up using the hole near the top), a girth extender or some string so you can do up the girth at all. Check and tighten the girth after putting the bridle on, putting the boots on etc. Walk the horse inhand and then check and tighten it again until the girth is tight enough.
 Make sure you instruct anyone that handles the horse.

