 When dealing with a neighbour’s unsightly property, it is important to put things into perspective before having any conversations or making any decisions. Always keep in mind the importance of maintaining positive relationships with your neighbours, when it is within your control. While you can certainly address problems, you do not want to do anything that would unnecessarily create a hostile environment or further diminish the enjoyment of your property.Think about whether or not this is a recent problem that may be soon resolved or if this has been a long-standing issue. The situation may be the result of a health problem that your neighbour is experiencing and they may be unable to do anything about it at this time. This is particularly important when you have elderly neighbours with limited mobility.
 Not everyone has the same standards for cleanliness or the same design aesthetic. What may be unsightly to you may be perfectly acceptable to others. Carefully consider whether or not your concerns are truly warranted and weigh the risks and benefits of addressing the issue. You may decide that your neighbour’s property is good enough for you to let the situation go without pursing it any further in order to keep the peace., Get clarity on the actual issues and gain an understanding of ordinances and zoning codes so that you can speak intelligently about the problem. Perhaps your neighbour’s property is creating a safety hazard or a sanitation violation. A quick Google search will get you startedIt may be worth your time to research affordable services that will help your neighbour with cleaning up their property. While you should not be expected to pay for the services, your due diligence in providing a useful resource may be well received.
 Sometimes talking through the situation with someone else will help you to decide whether or not you want to move forward with a course of action. It could be beneficial to have a calm conversation with a reasonable person to make sure that you are not overreacting. Once you move forward you cannot undo your actions.