 Get a LEGO table or one of those green LEGO platforms. This will be the floor of your house, as well as the yard, if you save room for one.If you build your house in two parts, on two different platforms, you can open it up to see what's inside by pulling the platforms apart.;
, Lay a bottom row of bricks as your "foundation," setting up locations for walls, doors, and the different rooms.Make a living room, kitchen, bedroom, and bathroom if your house is big enough.









Think about what is in a real house and let this be your guide. For example, where should the fireplace go? If you are going to build one, you'll want to lay some bricks for the chimney during this planning stage.
If you're planning to add a second floor, make sure to save plenty of room for stairs. It's probably a good idea to build them while you're still laying the foundation so you know how much room they'll take up.
 Next, build up the exterior walls of your house, row by row.









Hint: your walls will be sturdier if you don't just stack the same kind of brick, one on top of the next. Instead, offset your rows so the "seams" between the bricks don't all line up from one row to the next.
Don't forget to leave spaces for the windows! You can leave these as empty spaces in your walls, or, if you have special window parts, install them.It will be harder to go back and add these later if you forget to put them in while you're building the walls.
 Finish setting up the rooms in the house with walls inside.
 For the living room, you can make chairs and a TV. For the kitchen, you can make a counter, sink, oven, etc. For the bedroom, make a bed and a desk, and for the bathroom, make a toilet, shower, and sink.









If you have them, you can make your furniture more realistic with specialty parts. LEGO makes pieces that look like keyboards, stoves, faucets, and more. These kinds of details can add a lot of realism to your house.
 Once you've finished the basics, you can start adding decorative touches to make your house more unique.









You can add tile floors or a patio using small flat pieces,add light fixtures or a ceiling fan, and landscape the yard with trees and flowers. Use your imagination and the parts you have available to make your house as interesting as you can.
 Adding a roof should be the last step in building your house because once you put it on, it's harder to to move things around inside your house.









You can get around this problem by making a removable roof. Attach it with hinged parts so you can pull it back, or just set it on top rather than locking it in place for easier access.
