 Most states require people performing electrolysis to be licensed or certified. Even if your state doesn’t require it, look for a certification from an electrology school before undergoing treatment. Electrolysis is relatively non-invasive but there are some risks involved.Electrolysis involves inserting a needle into each hair follicle and emitting an electric current to damage and ultimately destroy it.
Electrolysis using a needle to kill hair follicles is the only electrolysis method that will prevent further hair growth in the future.
Look online for reviews of local electrologists, then contact them to ask about their credentials.
If the electrologist says they use electronic tweezers or photoepilators, you should choose someone else, because these methods have proven to not be permanent or last longer than normal tweezing.
 Once you find an electrologist, make an appointment for a consultation. At your appointment, the electrologist should go over the procedure with you, answer any of your questions, and discuss how many sessions will be required in order to reach your hair removal goals. Make sure you feel comfortable in the environment and discuss any concerns you may have with the electrologist.Most electrolysis clinics offer free consultations.
Ask how much each session costs, how long they last, and how long the practitioner or electrologist has been conducting these procedures.
 Prior to your first electrolysis appointment, avoid shaving, waxing or plucking the hair you intend to have removed. The electrolysis procedure requires the hair to be at the surface in order to locate and penetrate each hair follicle. Removing your hair can make that difficult.


Electrolysis is usually done in small areas at once, so you can continue to shave or wax areas that will not be treated until a later session.
 You will likely need to return for a number of treatments, depending on the amount of hair you are having removed and the area of your body. As you have the hair removed via electrolysis, it should be permanently arrested, preventing any further growth from the treated hair follicles.You will likely need to apply a cream with antiseptic to each treated area after your sessions to soothe it and prevent infection.
Electrolysis can be mildly painful, but shouldn’t be overwhelming. If you experience extreme discomfort, make sure to address it with the practitioner.

