 Even if it costs you 17 cents more, or it's a longer walk, or the variety of products is not as good, buying locally stops small business owners from shutting down. Put up with the minor inconvenience of supporting people with an average lifestyle more than supporting companies that make one person absurdly rich.;
, If you find a beggar on the streets, make sure you always have some healthy food to offer this person. Some might not want it, but it's always helpful to be able to offer them some food than giving them money.
 Every time you renew your wardrobe, set apart the things that are functional, but you just don't want to wear anymore. Wash them, and give them to someone in need. Be consistent. Do it every year, and donate them to a person, or a place you know can give them away. Make it a "tradition" and with time, invite some friends, and get clothes from your neighborhood.
 You'd be surprised about the kind of things people with limited resources are in need of. If you know an orphanage, ask them first. For example, few people donate socks, and it's so cheap and easy to buy a pair of socks. Meeting such simple needs can make a big difference when you put your mind to it. Find places with modest needs and you can not only help them yourself, and it's also easy to get others to join in and help too.
 This is the more time consuming one, but it's worth it. Do you know how to knit? Do you how to do math? Science? Do you know how to grow plants? Teach people in need everything you can that might help them make a life for themselves. Every time you give a lesson or workshop, provide the materials. Many places don't give "free" workshops in useful things, because they can't afford the materials. If you want to teach a bunch of ladies how to knit, buy needles and yarn for them, and keep them stored after every lesson. Let them keep whatever they knit, and maybe, even as a gift, give them their own "knitting kit" when they finish the course. The same applies for cooking, crop growing, etc. Also, educate them in everything else, such as how healthy food helps them avoid sickness, how buying from big companies may seem cheaper, but spreads poverty. Teach others to awaken their own conscience.

