 You should know how you sell yourself to a likely employer and your application should give a good first impression. The employers will only take 20-30 seconds in order to read your application, so you should make yours stand out. A letter should gain the attention of the reader in the first paragraph in order to give him a reason for calling an interview. As an example: "If you are searching for a director with an excellent, powerful network of acquaintances and with the skills to increase the profits by 20%, do not to hesitate to contact me.";
, If you use the same CV for all employers, it is time to change strategy. This method pushes employers away because your CV becomes impersonal, and does not fit the conditions that are required by the place of work. Adapt your CV and show that your experience and your skills suit the particular work. As an example, if you send your CV to a magazine company, make sure to mention your experience in magazine designs, applications, etc.
 Do not wait for the employer to answer to your application. Act in advance by calling or sending mail to their office(s) and try to have personal contact. Thus they will give you priority and if in point of fact they have decided to promote your CV then you will have the occasion to answer any chance scruples that they have.
 You may already be using the Internet, but the question is if you use it for your profit. Post your CV online, in an open account with companies that advertise announcements which are related to your search and report your personal elements in order to find you the employers that will be interested.
 Often it is said that the personal constitution is the best way of publicity and that the 70%-80% of all places will never be advertised. So how can anyone learn of these concealed jobs? Create a network of acquaintances. The friends and the collaborators (actual and future) who are found in the same industry with you can have precious information and constitution on places of work, a process that is facilitated a lot through sites such as Facebook and LinkedIn.
 You spend 70% of your time in your workplace, that's why it is very important that you will find organisms, environments and labour cultures that you would enjoy. A lot of sectors are combined. That means you will have a lot of occasions to learn first-hand how the enterprise you want to send your CV functions. So you will have also opinion on the subjects that occupy the enterprise, something that you can use in your favour to propose solutions during the interview.
 This it is not a puzzle. Simply get dressed appropriately for the work that you want, not for the one you have already. Your appearance is the exterior impression of your internal world that allows others to draw conclusions and to make affairs for the personality and your behavior.
 Time is precious in the enterprises and when most workers pass above 40 hours in the work weekly, the directors of engagements should make interviews in their schedule, something that leaves small margin for delayed interviews. Plan your way, forecast potential traffic on the streets and intend to reach there at least 10 minutes before the interview begins in order to fit in. So you might also read the newsletter of the company and be informed for the last developments.
 An interview is a bidirectional process: the employer tries to realise if you are fit for the job and you should see if the work suits your expectations and your requirements. Prepare a list of questions which you would want to ask with regard to the company and the place. This way, you will appear prepared and your interest will be genuine.
 If you receive a letter answering “Thank you for your time, but you are not suitable for the job” and you intend to stop trying , don't despair. You will not find a new job in one night and all the experts estimate that the MO of search of work oscillates from two until ten months. The more the "No"s the closer you are to the final "Yes".

