 Many states have forms for motions to modify custody and parental rights orders.You can only stop visitation rights if a judge enters a court order to do so. Generally, this order must come from the same court that made the initial order for custody and visitation.It is important not to simply refuse allowing the non-custodial parent to see the child. If visitation is scheduled pursuant to a court order, your refusal to allow the other parent to visit the child would constitute a violation of that court order. You could potentially be held in contempt.Depending on your jurisdiction, you may need to file a motion, a request, or a supplemental petition to get the court to modify the original visitation order.Some jurisdictions also may have an instruction form or checklist you can use to make sure you're including all the information and documents the court needs to consider your request.;
, Modification proceedings can be as complex as a miniature trial, so if you feel intimidated by the non-custodial spouse or by the court process you should consider hiring an attorney.


Even if circumstances are horrifying, non-custodial parents rarely lose visitation rights completely. For example, there was one case in Illinois in which the father admitted to use of recreational drugs, had abused the child's mother, and had said he wanted to kill himself, the mother, and the child. The court granted the father supervised visitation with the four-year-old child for a period of six months, at which point the order would be reviewed.If you are trying to eliminate visitation entirely, the odds are not in your favor that a judge will grant your motion. Hiring an attorney gives you a greater chance of ensuring that you've done everything you possibly could to protect your child and look out for her best interests.
If you cannot afford an attorney, find out if your court has a self-help center or family court facilitator who can help you with your motion or petition and review your forms before you file them., Look to other motions filed in your original divorce or custody case to see how your motion should be formatted.


If you were unable to find a form to use, copy the caption and signature blocks from other paperwork filed in your original case.
If you have forms you downloaded from the court's website, don't alter the format of the form when you fill in your responses to the questions on the form., To convince the court to stop visitation rights, you must be able to convince the judge that stopping visitation rights would be in your child's best interest.


Generally, it is up to you and the child's other parent to determine reasonable visitation time. If you and the other parent cannot agree, the court may order a particular visitation schedule in the child's best interest even over one parent's objections.States typically grant non-custodial parents reasonable visitation time unless the court finds that visitation would present a serious danger to the child's physical, mental, or emotional health. As part of your motion, you should include any and all evidence that the non-custodial parent or other party represents a serious danger to your child and should not be granted visitation.Although your opinion typically is given more weight if you are trying to stop the visitation rights of grandparents or some other former caretaker, every state has some law that allows grandparents and other former caretakers to claim visitation to some extent as long as it is in the best interests of your child.
To restrict or stop visitation of others, you also must demonstrate that spending time with those adults is not in the best interests of your child, would put your child in physical danger or impede your child's emotional or mental development.In some situations, your reasons for wanting to stop visitation may be rather neutral. For example, your child may get older and decide she no longer gets along with her father and can't stand to go visit him. If this is the case, you may be able to modify visitation even though her father is not dangerous to her, if your daughter is old enough for the court to consider her opinion on the matter.In addition to considering the best interests of the child, you must show a substantial change in circumstances since the original order was made if you want to convince the judge to modify that original order., Your jurisdiction may have other forms such as a certificate of service, a cover sheet, or a request for hearing that must accompany your motion., If you have any documentation or evidence to support your argument, you should attach copies as exhibits to your motion.


Include records of criminal convictions, if applicable, along with any medical records or other documents that provide evidence of any abuse or other danger the party presents to your child., In some jurisdictions, you must sign your motion in the presence of a notary public if you are not represented by an attorney.


If your court requires your motion to be accompanied by an affidavit, you must sign your affidavit in front of a notary public to have your signature authenticated., Once you've compiled your motion together with any other necessary documents and exhibits, make at least two copies – one for your former spouse or the person whose visitation rights you're asking the court to stop, and one for your own records. The court will keep the originals., You should take your original motion and all copies to the clerk's office of the court where your original divorce or custody case was filed.You must pay a filing fee to have your motion filed. This fee typically will be around a hundred dollars.If you cannot afford the fee, you may be able to request a waiver.The clerk will keep your originals and return the copies to you stamped "filed" with the date.When you've filed your motion, the clerk usually will assign a date for the hearing on your motion.In some jurisdictions, mediation or other meeting may be required before a formal hearing date can be set.
 Once the clerk has filed your motion, you must arrange for the sheriff's department or another process server to serve the person whose visitation rights you're seeking to revoke.


Your jurisdiction also may have a blank response form that you must serve on the other party along with the motion or request that you filed.
You may be able to serve the other party using certified mail. However, if you are using certified mail you may be required to do so earlier to allow time for mailing.After the other party has been served, you must file a proof of service with the court. Make copies of the proof of service before you file it so that you have a copy with you at the hearing in case the judge asks to see it., In some jurisdictions, you may be required to mediate the issues before having a full court hearing before a judge.


Mediation doesn't always work, and you may end up in court fighting over visitation rights – especially if you and the other party have a contentious relationship.You also may be required to attend orientation or other parenting classes or programs before you attend mediation. These requirements are a matter of local views and vary from county to county even within a state.
The clerk at your local courthouse will be able to tell you of any such requirements when you file your motion or request for modification., Arrive in court at least a half hour early so you have plenty of time to park, get through security, and find the correct courtroom.


Bring copies of all documents that you've filed with the court, including copies of the original order as the judge may ask you questions about it.If you intend to call any witnesses, make sure they know when and where the hearing is scheduled. You may want to arrange to meet with them ahead of time so you can all arrive at the courthouse together and don't have to hunt for each other once you get there.
Make sure you've organized your documents so you can find them easily if asked with a minimum shuffling of papers.
Dress conservatively and professionally, and treat all court staff with courtesy and respect. Check with the court before your court date so that you know what types of things aren't allowed in the courtroom, and arrange to leave those things such as cell phones or pocket knives at home., Since you filed the motion, you will present your argument first. If you are representing yourself, you may want to outline your argument so you stick to the facts and don't get off-track.Speak to the judge rather than directly to the other parent, and stick to the facts of the case. Try to avoid being emotional and keep your anger in check – it will not help you.Speak clearly and loudly, enunciating your words so they can be understood. Even though you may be nervous, you should try not to rush. Keep note cards so you know you're addressing all the points you need to address., Much like a full trial, you may bring witnesses and physical evidence in support of your position.


Generally, you must present enough evidence to overcome the standard presumption that allowing the child visitation with her non-custodial parent is in her best interests.If anyone else, such as a relative, a neighbor, or a family friend, has seen the non-custodial parent abusing the child or using illegal drugs in the presence of the child, you should call them to testify to these facts at your hearing.Make sure your witnesses are ready, not just for the questions you intend to ask them, but for possible questions the judge or the other parent may ask them., After you've presented your argument to the court and shown all of your evidence, your ex-spouse or other party will be given the chance to present his side of the story.


Don't interrupt the other parent or any of the witnesses while they are speaking, even if you disagree with what they are saying. You will have a chance to counter anything they've said – simply make a note that you want to mention it when you have the opportunity.
Just as the other parent had the opportunity to question your witnesses, you will have the same opportunity to question theirs, as well as to present a rebuttal of the other parent's argument., After both sides have presented their arguments, the judge may wish to ask you questions directly.


The judge also may ask you questions while you're presenting your argument, or she may ask questions directly to your witnesses. If the judge starts speaking, you should immediately stop talking and answer her question. Typically this will happen if the judge doesn't understand something you just said or is seeking clarification., Depending on the jurisdiction and the circumstances of your case, the judge may issue an order immediately, or you may have to wait a few days or weeks.Keep in mind that even if the child's other parent has a documented history of physical abuse, he still may be granted at least some visitation time. In these circumstances, the judge typically would order supervised visitation, in which the other parent spent time with the child while in the company of a social worker or other trained observer who would monitor the parent's behavior and interactions with the child.Courts generally place more weight on a parent's decision to limit the visitation rights of grandparents or other former caretakers such as stepparents or foster parents. You probably will have more success in eliminating the visitation rights of someone who isn't one of the child's biological parents.In some jurisdictions, you must provide a blank order for the judge to fill out, or a proposed order for the judge to sign if she grants your motion or request.
If such a document isn't provided in your court forms, ask the clerk if you need to bring one to your hearing. #*If one side is represented by an attorney, the judge may ask the attorney to draft the order so she can be sure it's done correctly. Otherwise, the judge also may get a member of her staff to draft the order.If you didn't draft the order, look over it when you receive it and make sure everything is correct and that you understand everything in it. If you are confused by anything in the order, ask someone in the clerk's office or a member of the judge's staff to explain it to you.