 Of one of the most basic and attractive ways of wearing a scarf is just wrapping it in a loop around your neck. Wrap the scarf around your neck to create a single loop, with the tail ends loosely draped in the front. Pull on the loop a bit to loosen it up and create a more casual appearance. If you’re trying to beat the cold, you can wrap the scarf multiple times around your neck.;
, For a slightly more intricate play on a basic loop, knot the tail ends together after wrapping your scarf around your neck once or twice. Loosen up the knot so that it doesn’t fit too tightly, and so the ends lay better. If you want, you can twist the ends into the loop to hide them completely or you can leave them to hang down.
 If you don’t want to worry about your scarf becoming un-looped but still want something basic, wrap your scarf in a hacking knot. Fold it in half length-wise, and then drape this over your neck. Pull the two tail ends through the loop you just created and adjust the fabric to flow well over your body.
 Take the hacking knot a step further to create a figure-8 knot. Fold your scarf in half and drape it around your neck. Take a single tail and and pull it through the loop draped on the other side of your neck. Then twist the loop 180 degrees to create a second loop, and pull the second tail end through that. Pull apart the fabric and adjust the way it sits on your chest., If the figure-8 scarf isn’t quite enough for you, continue the process to ‘braid’ your scarf. Create a hacking knot around your neck, and pull a single tail end through the loop. Then, twist the loop 180 degrees to form a second loop. Pull the second tail end through this loop, and then twist the loop another 180 degrees to create a third loop. Continue this pattern until you run out of fabric to braid.
 Take the hassle out of dangling scarf fringe by making your scarf into an infinity scarf. Lay your scarf out flat on a table, and fold it in half lengthwise. Tie each set of corners together (and if your scarf has fringe, tie the centers together) to create a large loop. Then wrap this around your neck with the ties along your nape. If the scarf is long enough, double up the loop to create multiple layers and to make it a bit shorter.
 This style goes well with a buttoned up blazer or jacket over the top. Wrap your scarf around your neck with both tail ends in the front. Tie them together in a knot at your preferred height, and then knot the ends again. Continue knotting them until you run out of fabric and are left with a long ‘chain’ of fabric.
 Place your scarf around your neck so that both the tails are in the front, draped across your chest. Adjust the scarf so that one of the ends is slightly longer than the other. Tie the longer end into a knot on itself, but don’t pull it tight. Then, slide the end of the other tail through the center of the knot you just formed. Move the knot up or down to your liking.
 Wrap your scarf around your neck so that one side is twice the length of the other. Wrap the longer end around the the shorter one a complete time to create a loop. Then wrap it around the short end again, and pull it through the neck hole from the center of the end. Picking it up from the center should create a small, flat-ish loop that can be pulled and draped over the shorter (now longer) end of the scarf. The tail end of the loop will be hiding behind it.
 Wrap your scarf around your neck with both tail ends in the front. Loosely tie these ends in a regular knot in the front, and then follow the traditional bunny-ear method of tying a bow. Keep the bow big and loose for the most casual appearance.