 Many record labels have promotional teams known as Street Teams. If you join one of these and help out with things like handing out fliers before concerts, they may give you a backstage pass or invite you to promotional parties in your area.


Go to the label website to look for Street Teams opportunities and sign up.;
, Sometimes you will see the musicians going in and out of the venue and will be able to get to know them like that. Sometimes bands will stick around after the show and hang out with fans.


Smaller bands will often recognize fans who have turned up regularly. Try to wear something that makes you stand out, and wear that every time, so you're easily recognizable.But try not to stand out too much!
Many large arenas use Street Teams to help promote productions and shows locally. If they usually play your arena this is another great way to get on a list.
 If you are friendly and enthusiastic (but not crazy), they may be able to get you in.



Consider booking a hotel room where the band often stays. Some bands are loyal to certain hotels in certain towns and their behavior is predictable. Check out the bar area in the hotel after the show or the pool area the day of if it's a nice place.
If you know which bars or clubs the band visit before or after their shows, go there and try to get into the VIP areas. People who seem fun (and sane) are more likely to get in to the popular band hang-outs and be invited into the VIP areas. You may need to buy access into a VIP area.

Be friendly and send over a round of drinks/shots if you're in a bar. Ask the wait staff or band what they are drinking before you do. They often appreciate the gesture and will chat with you and offer a photo opportunity.
 These often include tickets to a show, invitation to a meet and greet, priority seating and sometimes a gift or autographed piece of memorabilia.


These may cost more but often when you pay for such privileges you will have the opportunity to meet the band and they offer package buyers some one on one conversation during a group meet and greet with other package buyers.
They are more likely to speak to you at these than just encountering them while they are out with friends.
 This should enable you to get on the guest list, or better still, a press pass which allows you more access to the band.



Never attempt to invade their personal space without permission.
Ask before you hug, take a picture or interrupt a personal moment.
If they're with friends or family you should acknowledge them, be friendly and perhaps excuse the intrusion if they are being open to your interruption.
Never cry, hyperventilate or be anything other than a friendly person.
Never confuse "meeting" someone with aggressively approaching them, running after them, screaming at them, jumping them or grabbing them. A meeting is a civil introduction and sometimes will lead to a conversation.



Some larger music stores (like Guitar Center) will periodically have instructional clinics. There is usually a lot of interaction with the people that attend the clinics and the crowd sizes are usually limited.
 And that may help you of some sort.
 It makes you more eligible to meet them.

