 Try to get a good night’s sleep before your exam so you will wake up feeling refreshed and sharp.Your memory recall works best after you have had quality rest, so forego the all-nighter and plan to get some sleep.Try to get 8 to 9 hours of sleep., Fueling your body is also key for keeping your mind sharp during an exam. Have a light, protein-filled breakfast. Enjoy some yogurt with fruit or some scrambled eggs and toast. Avoid eating a large, heavy meal, which might make you feel tired and sluggish during the exam., Before you begin solving problems, read through all the instructions and be sure you understand what is required. You do not want to misinterpret the problem and miss a crucial step., To make the most of your time, scan through the entire exam first and find the problems that you are most comfortable solving. If you are struggling with a particular problem, skip it and return to it later. Working through the easier or shorter problems will not only save you time, but it will help get you warmed up to tackle the more difficult, longer, or more complicated problems.Make sure your handwriting is clear and legible so that your instructor can fairly and accurately assess your efforts., After you have completed the math problems that you are comfortable solving, switch your focus toward the most difficult problems. You will be able to use your remaining time to concentrate solely on these more difficult, complicated equations.


If you are solving the problems on a separate sheet of paper, be sure you have written down the equation correctly., If you cannot complete a problem or you get stuck, don’t erase the work you have done and leave it blank. You may be able to get partial credit for some of the work you have completed. Write a note that explains what your thought process was for that particular problem, or briefly explain what you were trying to do and why you got stuck. Your instructor may award you a few points for your attempts, and they will be able to help you understand where you went wrong after the exams have been graded., Even if you finish the exam early, stick around and wait until the end of the allotted time before you submit the test. You may remember an important concept, or you might review a completed problem and realize you worked through it incorrectly.Be sure to review each problem before submitting the exam.

