 Make comments and start conversations around topics and ideas that interest you, rather than objects and possessions. It’s not a bad thing to share your excitement for things, but be mindful about spending too much of your time talking about material items.Set goals for yourself that are meaningful rather than goals that you hope will help get you more attention.
Start conversations that others can join in and share their input instead of stating facts and opinions. A good way to encourage a two-way conversation is to ask open-ended questions and bring up broad topics.;
, The old saying goes, “If you don’t have something nice to say, then don’t say anything at all.” Put yourself in the shoes of the person you’re speaking with and think about how a backhanded comment makes you feel.


Notice the good features of others and make comments about those positive things. Switch out statements like “That sweater looks expensive for your taste” with “That sweater makes you look like a million bucks!”
If you feel yourself about to blurt out a backhanded comment, take two to three deep breaths first. It calms your fight or flight reaction and can help to clear the mind. Thinking clearly is key to speaking with clarity and kindness.
 If you frequently judge other people, then it is likely that you are also judging yourself. It is important to become mindful of this because self-judgment may manifest as low-self-confidence and judgment of other people. Understand that everyone walks around with different kinds of baggage, different experiences and a different upbringing. Look past the exterior to try to get to know someone’s personality and learn from them.


Get out of your comfort zone and talk with someone outside of your normal circle. Attend a networking event or go to a cafe that interests you, but isn’t something you would normally attend. Sign up for a knitting class or learn to code if it’s something you’ve always wanted to try.
Find common traits among yourself and people who look, dress or act differently.
Start up a conversation with a simple statement or question. Comments like “Doesn’t the city look beautiful from this side of the park?” or “I love exploring new places to get coffee, what’s your favorite?”

, Feeling jealous or comparing yourself to other people frequently may indicate a sense of personal lack, which you might try to compensate for by acting superior. Purchase items and gain knowledge of topics only if you truly enjoy them. Understand that not everyone has the same interests, wants and needs in life. Share knowledge and information with others only if you know they have a genuine interest as well.
Avoid the urge to one-up someone else in a conversation.
Don’t devalue the way others live or the way they feel.
Enjoy the differences between yourself and those around you, instead of comparing interests, material possessions and money.

