 Check out your local U-Haul or Budget Truck Rental location. They sell boxes and other moving supplies for less money than you would pay at an office supply store or department store. Buying in bulk will often reduce your price even further.


Negotiate the inclusion of a set number of boxes and other moving supplies into your total rental price if you are renting a moving truck or van.
Check and see if any unused boxes can be returned. U-Haul will allow you to return any unused boxes for a full refund at any U-Haul location. Provide your receipt and return the boxes you did not use. Ask other companies if they will match that offer.
Buy moving supplies online from these rental companies if you do not have a location in your immediate area. Some of them will offer free shipping on products if you spend a certain amount of money.;
, Websites such as boxesdelivered.com and directmovingboxes.com offer packaging supplies and moving boxes that are often less expensive than movers or retail stores. There is often free shipping on orders that reach a minimum total.
 If you have all of the boxes you need for your move, and simply need to grab some last minute packing items such as markers or packing tape, check out your local Walmart, Staples or other chain retailer. You can also find moving supplies at drugstores such as CVS or Walgreens.
 Online sites such as Boomerang Boxes will sell you moving boxes that have already been used, but are in good condition. If the boxes hold up during your move, you can sell them back to the site.
 While people and stores will be unwilling to give away moving supplies such as tape, packaging, markers, and other items that can be used for other purposes, they might be willing to give you their used boxes.


Check with local grocery stores and other retailers to see if they will let you take the boxes that their deliveries arrive in.
Ask friends and neighbors who have recently moved if they have any boxes you can use for your own move.
Look on websites such as craigslist to see if anyone is giving away boxes or other moving supplies.

