 This recipe will also add a moisturizing effect to the bath bombs, while simultaneously cooling and nourishing your skin. You will need:


1 cup (240 ml) baking soda
1 cup (240 ml) powdered citric acid
½ cup (120 ml) cornstarch
⅓ cup (80 ml) finely ground Epsom salts
¼ cup (60 ml) powdered milk
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
2 tablespoons (30 ml) melted cocoa butter
Witch hazel, several drops
Water, to moisten
Essential oils (up to 6 - 10 drops)
Food coloring, several drops

, Mix together the baking soda, citric acid, cornstarch, Epsom salts, and powdered milk in a medium glass mixing bowl. You can use a low-speed mixer, whisk, or your hands, so long as all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated.

Your hands will usually suffice for small batches like the one detailed here, but a whisk or mixer may be required for larger batches.
 Slowly pour in the olive oil and cocoa butter, mixing gently with your hands. Use a spray bottle to add equal parts witch hazel and lukewarm water until the dough is solid enough to be compacted. Don’t add too much moisture, though, as this will cause the dough to begin fizzing before it is even finished.

Mix equal parts witch hazel and water in the spray bottle beforehand, then spritz the bath bomb ingredients with the mixture two or three times. Re-stir the mixture and try compressing it with your hands; if it doesn't stick together, add more moisture and repeat.
 Use one or more essential oils of your choice to add to the mixture. Use up to 6 to 10 drops, knowing that the scent will be a bit stronger when added to the warm bathwater. You can additionally choose to add food coloring to the mix to stray away from a traditional white bath bomb.

Popular scents include lavender, rose, lilac, and eucalyptus, but feel free to use your favorite scent or experiment with scent combinations.
 Pack the powdery dough down into dome or rounded molds to create a shape. Be sure to press firmly so that the dough sticks well and doesn’t form cracks when dried.

Silicone candy molds that you don't plan on using for food are another option worth considering.
 Place the dough in the molds in an area that is cool and dry for at least 24 hours. When the moisture has completely evaporated from the bath bombs and they are dry to the touch, they can be removed from the molds.

If the bath bombs still seem moist after 24 hours, pop them out of the molds and allow them to continue air drying for another few hours in a cool, dry location.
 Place all of the bath bombs in a sealable container away from moisture. When you’re ready to use them, simply place one in your bath and enjoy the milky fizz it creates!Use these bath bombs within a month or two for best results.








