 For best results, dye hair that has been washed the day before. Hair that is either too dirty or too damp will not absorb as much color.;
, Use a brush or comb to detangle your hair, and make sure that there are no styling products (gel, hairspray, etc.) in your hair prior to coloring.
, Place the pot on the stove and bring the mixture to a boil.


Kool-Aid is available in a variety of colors. Try red (cherry), pink (raspberry), blue (mixed berry) and purple (grape). For a more faded color, dilute the mixture with extra water. For a more vibrant result, use less water and/or more Kool Aid.
 Put Kool-Aid into mug or bowl. Dip the ends of your hair into the liquid. Hold the ends in the colored mix for 3 to 5 minutes, and up to 10, if hair is really thick. This will allow the color to set.


Determine how much of your hair you want to color. For just the tips, submerge 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) of hair in the liquid. For a more dramatic look, try dipping 4–5 inches (10.2–12.7 cm) of your hair.
 You can either use paper towels or a bath towel that you don't mind staining (color will leak onto the towel).
 Enjoy your new look!


Remember that some Kool-Aid contains sugar, so after it dries, rinse your hair promptly to get rid of stickiness and avoid attracting bugs.
 The dye will eventually fade over time, depending on the number of washes it goes through. You can slow down the fading process by washing your hair less often than you normally do.
 Use a shampoo made specifically for color-treated hair, or switch to an all natural shampoo that does not contain sulfates or other chemicals that may damage hair or speed up color fading.
 Prolonged exposure to the sun will cause hair color to fade more rapidly. Protect your hair from the sun by using hair products that contain sunscreen, a scarf or a hat.
 Kool-Aid dye can take between one month to three months to wash out, depending on your natural hair color. You can speed up this process by washing your hair more often than you normally do, using any kind of shampoo.
 Fill a large pot with water, making sure to use enough water to submerge your dyed hair into. Once the water is boiling, add 1 tablespoon of baking soda. Remove the pot from heat. Carefully, dip the dyed ends of your hair in and out of the water for about 1 minute. Avoid scalding (hot water burning) your hands, arms, scalp, face, etc.


The water will make a fizzing noise, and the color will drain from your hair into the pot. This method will remove most of the color within a few minutes.
Discard the baking soda water, then wash your hair immediately. Be sure to use conditioner to restore moisture.
 Mix 1 tablespoon of vinegar with 1 cup of warm water. Pour this mixture over your hair in the shower, letting it sit for a few minutes before rinsing. Follow with shampoo and conditioner.

