 You can make these yourself or buy and then activate them in the GE. They give you extra experience you can cash in in bulk after a inventories full of supplies. These don't do much on their own, but the experience adds up over time and helps a lot in the long run.;
, These appear randomly throughout the world, and you can tell there is one nearby when roots start appearing at your feet. You can cut these down and, depending on your level, can receive up to 115k experience per hour chopping these down.
 Once a day, or twice if you decide to reset the limit using vis wax, you can gather resources from divine trees. When possible, you should chop from yew trees. You should not gather from magic trees if you are doing it purely for the experience, as harvesting one magic log counts twice towards your limit.
 If you are in a clan with the Woodcutting skill plot, you can cap your resource limit there for a rate of 95k experience and hour with a tier 7 plot and rank 3 fealty.
 You can get the Lumberjack outfit from completing the Temple Trekking minigame and killing the undead lumberjacks. These offer 1% experience bonus per piece of the set you get, meaning the full set can yield a 5% increase in exp. Summoning the Beaver familiar can invisibly boost your level by 3, letting you chop logs faster, but not chop higher level trees.
 You should always use the highest level hatchet in available to you. An easy way to do this is to buy a dragon hatchet early on and put it in your toolbelt, and until you get the level for it it will act as the highest level hatchet you can use. The crystal hatchet is the highest level hatchet in the game, however it requires access to Prifddinas, so when you can use it, you should.
 Chop normal trees. The best place to do this is the area West of the Varrock east bank. Here are a lot of normal trees, and it is pretty close to a bank. There are also oak trees here, so its easy to move up levels.
 Chop oak trees. You can do this is multiple locations. The best include West of Varrock bank again, however they are spread out pretty far. You can also go to Draynor Village north of the bank, where there are four in a square formation. You could also go to Seers Village where there are 2 directly south of the bank.
 Chop willow logs. The best place to do this is south of the Draynor banks, right by the fishing spot on the ocean. This place can get crowded, however, so if there are too many people there, you can go North of the Seers Village bank and chop there.
 Chop teak logs. You need 100 trading sticks, which you can buy on the GE, to enter. Here are lots of teak and mahogany trees. Banking is not recommended, as it is a long walk to Tzhaar city to bank, and it is quite far from the lodestone. If you have porters, it is great money to teleport them and their special logs to the bank and turn them into planks.


Alternatively, you could keep chopping willow trees to 45, then chop maples until 60, and yew trees until 68.
 Cut chopping Ivy. There are a variety of places to do this again. You could either cut this behind Varrock Castle or on the south wall of the Falador walls. These don't give you any logs, removing the need to bank and making these very AFKable. These do drop bird's nests however, so keeping your sound on and listening to these is a good choice.
 Chop crystal trees. These trees become active and inactive on a 2 hour rotation, meaning joining a friends chat dedicated to chopping this could be a good idea. These also give no logs, meaning again they are very AFK.


If you wish to gain lots of money from this in exchange for slower EXP, at level 95 you could start cutting elder logs. These logs are worth nearly 5k a piece, meaning a full inventory is worth over a hundred thousand.

