 If you find mature termites, there are probably larvae somewhere in the colony. While there are a few different types of adult termite, you can typically identify them by their pale, soft bodies. Worker and nymph termites look like larger versions of the larvae while soldiers have a dark, hardened head. Only the reproductive termites that lay eggs have wings.
 While you may need a professional exterminator to find most termites, you can do a basic check inspection to see if you can notice any signs of infestation. Start by inspecting window sills, window and door frames, support beams, and places where concrete structures join wooden ones. You should also check in the basement, in crawl spaces, and under the porch. Use a flashlight to peer into cracks and dark spaces.


Note that termites often live deep within the walls, and they can infest a home for years without being noticed. Just because there are no external signs of termites does not mean that you do not have them.
 Using a screwdriver, gently tap the wood or surface of a wall. Listen for any hollow or rustling noises coming from inside the wood. This may indicate that there is something living inside the wood., Termites may build mud tubes to travel between areas of their colony. These may look like branches or lines of mud crawling up the wall or foundation. You can break a tube open to see if there are any termites inside. Note that if a tube is empty, it may still mean that there are termites elsewhere in the building., Termites can live deep within a structure, and they often keep their larvae within the most protected parts of their nest. To measure the extent of the problem, you should consult with a professional pest control company. They will be able to tell you if you have termites or another pest. They can also identify the larvae for you.


When in doubt, the best way to know what type of larva or insect is infesting your home is to catch a few in a glass jar. Show them to an exterminator or local pest expert.

