 Talking about the problems in an attempt to clear things out will help you to better identify the actual problem as perceived by the family members in question and can get all of you started on making amends.;
, They can act as the go-between and come up with suggestions for moving ahead on impasses.
 In this case, you aren't going to change their perspective but you can change your reaction to their griping. Acknowledge their concern, validate their importance but stop putting yourself in the position of being an adversary to their problem. They have problems but you aren't going to be either a part of those problems or a solution. Stay polite and kind.
 Is it sufficient? If not, what can you do to improve things and make more time to spend together?

, Go on a picnic, visit a museum, go to a sports match, etc. Use joint interests to arrange fun things to do together on a regular basis.
 Listen to music, read, watch movies or TV, garden together. Everyday activities can be a way of spending more time together and making things more interesting for one another too––use chore time as a chance to talk and catch up on each other's news.
 Are you being difficult in certain ways? Are you making things hard for certain family members on purpose? Do you back talk to, refuse to be supportive of or dismiss concerns of family members? If so, think about why you're doing these things and what you might be able to do to turn these things around.


Does that family member really deserve your demeaning or thoughtless treatment?
Notice the mistakes you've made in the past and don't repeat them.
 Improve your attitude and work on the things that family members comment on. Perhaps there is a nub of truth in their complaints about your grades, your work attitude, your commitment to a relationship or your lack of goals. Don't presume it's all nagging and pushiness. Some of what they are saying is most likely for your own good, in that they're trying to protect you from life's hardships and motivate you to be the best you can be.
 In turn, expect them to be the same. Set the standard by being trustworthy and trusting them.
 Attempt to be rock solid in the face of the outside world, so that people perceive your family members as a supporting unit. There are enough people ready to make life tough for you without it starting at the home front too.
 Follow the give respect and take respect policy; even a basic thing like saying "good morning" each day will make a big difference.
 Help your family members out. If your parents come home late at night after work; try to make a simple dinner such as feta cheese salad for them, instead of making your mother cook for you again. If your sibling is not doing well at school, show him or her how to succeed with the subjects. If your cousin is getting bullied, explain ways to cope. If your grandparents are struggling financially, discuss the options for downsizing and budgeting with them.
 For example, don't ask your father to wake you up in the morning; instead set an alarm clock beside your table. Or, don't expect your parents to bail you out financially all the time, especially not as an adult.
 It's your parents, siblings, cousins, aunts, uncles, grandparents, etc. You know what will make them happy, so do your best to try and achieve that regularly.

