 You typically need to have an email account in order to use online payment.If you don’t already have an email account, then you should create one. There are many free email providers:Gmail
Yahoo Mail
Outlook.com
AOL Mail;
, You can find the appropriate website by searching for “your state” and “child support payment online.” Many states use the ExpertPay service website for online payments.Once at the website, look to see how you can create an account. There should be a link.
 Not everyone can pay online. For example, if you are subject to an Income Withholding Order, then you can’t pay online.Instead, the money should be deducted from your paycheck. Your state’s website should tell you whether you can make an online payment.


Non-custodial parents are usually subject to Income Withholding Orders. Go through your paperwork and check.
If you are out of work or if you don’t have a Withholding Order, then you can generally pay online.
 You might not need to create an account to pay online, depending on your state. However, creating an account can make the process easier by allowing you to view prior payments. Find the appropriate link for creating an account and provide your personal information:name
date of birth
Social Security Number
address
phone number

, You will need your court-ordered case number to make payment. You can find the case number by looking at the child support order you should have received from the court.You might also be able to find your case number at the state’s website. For example, at the Florida website you can search by entering your Social Security Number and Last Name.
You can also call your local Child Support Office and ask for your number., Return to your state’s website for electronic payments. There should be a link to “User Login” or something similar.If you intend to make many online payments in the future, then you should bookmark the page so that you can find it easily.
 Most states allow you to schedule recurring payments. Depending on your state, you may be able to set up recurring monthly, weekly, or semi-monthly payments.The money is then automatically deducted from your credit card/debit card or from your bank account.
 If you don’t want to set up recurring payments, then you can make a one-time online payment. The amount of information you enter will depend on whether you have an account or not. You will probably have to enter the following:your Social Security Number
your case number
amount of your payment

, Your state will probably charge a “transaction” fee, also called a “convenience” or “processing” fee. The amount will differ by state. Identify the amount so that you aren’t surprised when you look at your bank account or credit card statement.


In Indiana, for example, you will be charged 2.25% of the payment amount as a convenience fee.In Florida, you will be charged a service fee of 3.5%., Payments should be posted quickly when you pay online. For example, in Indiana, any payment made before 3:00 pm will be posted on the same day. If after, the payment will be posted on the next business day.You should probably pay at least a day early to give your payment time to post.

