 This can go from not having a camera to take a picture of something, or needing to call someone for an emergency.;
, Do they actually use them? How often have you called your friends cell phone, only for it to go to the voice-mail? How often have you actually seen them using it? Chances are, if they don't need it, they probably just got one as a fashion statement, or gave in to peer pressure.
 Chances are, you probably borrow someone's phone or use a home phone when you need to make a call. Are you getting by just fine, and secretly want a phone because your friends show off theirs to you?

, What if your ride didn't show up due to an emergency? What if you are stuck somewhere due to a cancellation in plans?

, Make a chart or list with the necessary criteria. Look at your list and see what the reasons are. If your reasons go more along the lines of communication purposes (calling, texting, email, etc.) then you likely may find a cell phone very useful. If your list goes along the lines of how flashy and cool you want your cell phone to be, and more as a show off tool then you may quickly lose interest in your phone, and not use it very much.
 Do you often miss your dad/mom? Having your own phone would be a good way to connect without depending on your parent., By now, you should have made a non-biased decision about whether or not you need a mobile phone. If you need a phone, try to discuss with your parents why you feel you need a cell phone, and show them all the work you have done. This shows maturity and responsibility. It is always a good idea to show specific phones that address the needs that you have. Try to find the cheapest one possible.
 Although you might need a phone, evaluate how you have dealt with valuable objects in the past. Have you always given your money to your parents because you've lost it in the past? Have you ever dropped an electrical item in the water? Your parents may use these against you, despite how impressed they are by the work you have put into this project. Consider your own age, as well. If you are under 11, there really shouldn't be any need for you to have a cell phone, unless your parents feel the contrary. Many parents have their own views on an appropriate age for you to get a cell phone (keep in mind that your generation is the first to have a cell phone as a child-your parents probably only got one very much later in life since cell phones came around in the 80's!)

