


Unlike a pitch for a work of fiction, a non-fiction book does not have to be completely written before you pitch it to an editor. You can prepare your proposal after writing 3 to 5 chapters. While a fiction proposal consists of a 1 page query letter describing the story and the author's background, your non-fiction book pitch will include several components.
Overview: The overview or query letter is a brief 2 to 3 page introduction that informs the editor about the subject of your book, provides some information about you as an author, and describes your target audience.
Proposal: Your proposal page should include the expected length of your completed book and the planned date of completion. You may also include a short explanation of how your book is different from similar ones currently in the market.
Synopsis: The synopsis is a 2 to 3 page summary of your book as a whole including the primary theme, the questions it will answer for the reader, and how the material will be helpful to your reading audience.
Author Biography: Your biography should include the qualifications and experience that make you the right person to write the book you are pitching. Your biography should answer 2 questions: why are you writing the book, and what makes you qualified to write the book. Include the titles of other books you have written. In this section, you will also report your promotional experience such as television, radio, and print media interviews and appearances as well as seminars and/or speeches you have presented.
Marketing: This section should include research you have conducted on your potential audience including who your audience is and what they will get out of your book offers. Focus on a narrow audience that your book can be marketed to directly.
Competition: Choose 4 to 5 books on the same topic as yours, list the title, author, publisher, page number and price of the books and write a summary that includes an explanation of how your book will be different from each one.
Outline: The outline consists of a table of contents and a summary of each individual chapter of the book. Also include a description of any charts, illustrations, tables, etc. that will be a part of the completed book.
Sample Chapters: The final component of your book proposal is the inclusion of 3 sample chapters. Be sure to include the first chapter and 2 of your strongest chapters that will provide the editor with a solid understanding of your book.;
,


Read the dedication pages of books that are similar to yours and identify the editors who worked with the authors. You can also search for editors in writer's directories that list book publishers and the names of editors who work for them. Research the editors on the publisher's website and gather current contact information, submission guidelines (whether they want pitches sent via email, regular mail or through an online submission form), and information on the subject areas they are interested in publishing.
Create a list of editors along with their contact information and submission guidelines. You will refer to this list when sending out copies of your book pitch.



Send your complete book proposal package to the editors on the list you compiled during your research. Make sure you have proofread and edited every page of your package. Include your contact information (name, addresses, telephone number and email address) on every page of your proposal and a self addressed stamped envelop for the return of your proposal if the submission guidelines require a hard copy. Digital submissions will either be submitted through an online form or as an attachment to an email.
Be persistent in submitting your book pitch to editors. Send your proposal to all of the editors on your list. While you are waiting for responses to your proposal, add editors to your submissions list as you continue to research books similar to yours.
A response to your book pitch can take 4 to 6 weeks. If you have not heard from an editor within that length of time, send him or her a short email or letter to inquire about your proposal and when you can expect to receive a response.

