 When attending a team sporting event or practice, be a cheerleader for the entire team. Avoid encouraging negative competition among the players, and don’t undermine the coach’s instructions. You don’t want to make your child or other kids think it’s okay to treat each other with disrespect, or to undermine the coach’s authority.Whenever another child scores a goal or makes a great play, cheer for them just as you would your own child.
Try to communicate with other parents about being a great support system for all the kids on the team: create a strong community and family atmosphere.
 Encouraging competition can be an effective way to motivate your child to do their best, as long as you define what healthy competition is. Explain to them how valuable it is to challenge themselves and to always try to exceed their personal best. Don’t focus on doing better than other kids, but place emphasis on reaching their own potential.When encouraging your child to compete against themselves, don’t define competition and success on winning and losing alone. Put the emphasis on acquiring and developing skills and abilities.
Show respect for the differences between all kids’ skill levels and developmental stages. Avoid comparisons between kids of different ages and abilities.
 Remember that sports are for having fun, developing self-esteem, social skills, and a sense of community.Encourage your child to be competitive and want to work hard to improve abilities, but not for the outcome of winning alone. Help them to set and define goals for the purpose of developing their sense of self and helping them to take pride in their accomplishments. Help them understand that it’s wrong to use competitiveness or being great at something as a means of putting others down.


Tell them how important you think it is to help another person work on a particular task once you’ve mastered that task. Give them an example of how you became good at something, then took the time to share that skill with another person.

