 Yelling or panicking may fuel the dogs’ aggressive behavior during a fight. Dogs are very sensitive to the body language and reactions of the humans around them, so it is important to control your breathing and remain composed.


If your dog is fighting, it is important to control your breathing to help you release any anxiety and fear. Steady your breathing by counting to 10 as you breathe in and out. Breathing deeply will help you control your emotions, help you remain calm, and may help put the dogs at ease, too.;
, Do not try to separate the dogs with your hands, and do not wedge yourself in between them. This vulnerable position makes it easier for the dogs to accidentally bite or injure you. In addition, this interference could reroute the dog’s aggression toward you., Try to divert the dogs’ attention by making a loud noise. Hit a metal dish, smash pots together, blow a whistle, or create loud noises by dropping something on the floor like a heavy book. This distraction may be enough to distract the dogs and cause them to lose interest in fighting.


If the dog is fighting in the house, ring the doorbell. Many dogs are tuned into that sound, so your fighting dog’s interest may be piqued when it hears the bell. It may leave the fight to go investigate the sound.If your dog gets into a fight while on a walk or in a dog park, rattle your car keys loudly to distract it., If you have multiple dogs that fight frequently, keep a spray bottle full of water on hand. When a fight does break out, remain at a safe distance and spray the dogs with the water. Being hit by a stream water may surprise the dogs and divert their attention away from the fight.If you are outdoors, spray your dogs with a hose if one is easily accessible.While on a walk or in a dog park, use the water from a water bottle or from a dog’s water bowl to sidetrack the fight., If two people are present and the dogs have not ceased fighting, each person should carefully grab one of the dog’s hind legs. Gently lift the legs off of the ground and walk backward a few steps. The dogs should halt the fighting at this point, but it is important to remove both dogs immediately., Once your dog has been properly secured on a leash, removed from the situation, and has had time to calm down, check it for any injuries. Any open wound is prone to infection. Look out for bleeding, swelling, limping, and difficulty breathing.Your dog should be examined by your veterinarian. Even a minor wound can cause serious problems for your dog


Use pressure to stop any excessive bleeding, but do not use a tourniquet.
Depending on the severity of the injuries, your veterinarian may prescribe antibiotics, pain medications, treatment with intravenous fluids, or even surgery., Some dogs may behave in an aggressive way due to a medical issue. Dogs with thyroid problems, orthopedic issues, epilepsy, or other cognitive issues may exhibit hostile behavior. Diet may even play a factor in a dog’s aggressive tendencies. Be sure to talk to your veterinarian first about any potential underlying health issues.Let your doctor know if your dog has been having any health issues or changes coupled with signs of aggression. “My dog’s hair has started thinning, and I have noticed that it is more prone to growling and snipping lately. Could this be a sign of something else?” This information will help your veterinarian diagnose and treat your dog.
 Before your dog is one year old, be sure that it is neutered or spayed. This can help prevent male aggression and thwart fights caused by a female dog in heat. In addition, these procedures can help your dog live a longer, happier, and healthier life., Try to understand what is causing your dog to behave aggressively and try to remove that influencing factor. Evaluate the situation. Think about the dog’s behavior prior to its most recent fight and search for clues or patterns that may help you identify what caused the outburst.


Some dogs show aggression over their possessions, which means that they may guard or protect their food or their favorite toy. Try to remove the objects that your dog covets when other dogs are present, and organize to feed your dog by itself., Aggression problems are difficult to diagnose, and properly training a dog to behave a certain way can be very challenging for a pet owner. Look into hiring a professional animal behavior specialist to properly diagnose and treat your dog. A professional will come up with a comprehensive and personalized plan to help your dog, and the trainer may identify any quality-of-life problems that may be the cause of your dog’s aggression.Talk to your veterinarian about hiring a professional trainer for your dog.
 When desensitizing a dog, you gradually introduce your pet to particular situation to pacify its fearful and hostile reactions. This technique must be done slowly and deliberately to be effective.With time and patience, your dog will begin to understand that it does not need to be violent around other dogs.


Figure out how close you can bring your leashed dog to another dog without it showing signs of aggression. If your dog can watch another dog that is 50 feet away without barking or growling, then start at that distance. Gradually bring your dog closer to the other dog, provided that it does not begin to behave in a hostile manner., In conjunction with practicing desensitization, counter conditioning can help teach your dog a new response to a situation. When you provide your dog with a treat and praise each time it exhibits the desired behavior, your dog will begin to view the once scary situation as a positive one.When your dog gets closer and closer to another dog without barking, lunging, or exhibiting other aggressive behaviors, give it a treat and praise. With repeated attempts, your dog will begin to remain calm around other dogs with the hope of earning a tasty treat., Changes to your dog’s behavior will be gradual, so it may take a long time before you notice significant changes. Don’t be discouraged! Progressing too quickly will not be effective or helpful for your pet. Practice these techniques consistently, and keep a record of your day-to-day training sessions to notice your dog’s incremental improvements.


If you are rewarding your dog for a particular behavior, such as giving it a treat each time it gets closer to other dogs without growling, be sure to consistently reward it on each occasion. An inconsistent rewards system may cause your dog to lose sight of the big picture and the lessons will be lost.
Be on the lookout for small changes. Perhaps one day your dog will quietly growl at another dog in the dog park, and a few days later, your dog will wag its tail when it sees one. This small change shows that your dog is beginning to associate its good behavior with a reward, changing its overall perspective.

