 A girl may not be interested in you if you seem insecure or lacking in self-confidence. Women are more likely to be interested in confident men, so it is important that you show her how confident you are. There are lots of different ways that you can project your confidence, but some of the most effective ones include:Make eye contact. Making direct eye contact is a great way to show a girl that you are interested and also project an air of confidence.
Take up space. Taking up space projects your confidence as well, so walk around and stand tall.
Joke around with your male friends. Demonstrating that you are social by laughing and joking with your male friends is another way to show her that you are confident.;
, Strike up a conversation with her and show her what a great guy you are.Research has shown that you can increase someone’s interpretation of your physical attractiveness if you have a great personality. But if you never talk to her, she may never get to see how great of a guy you are.Try asking a favor to break the ice. Ask her if she can pass you a napkin or ask if she will watch your stuff for a minute while you run to the restroom.
Try asking a question. Ask if she is enjoying her meal or ask how she usually takes her coffee.
Try making a statement. Say, “I love this restaurant!” or “It’s a beautiful day today!”, Everyone has something that makes them special and some people may find these talents or resources attractive. Figure out what you have to offer as a special talent or resource that she may appreciate and then, look for an opportunity to show her this talent or resource. Just make sure that you find a genuine opportunity to show her this side of yourself. Avoid showing off or concocting an unrealistic situation to show her.For example, if you play in a band, invite her to one of your shows. Or, if you are bilingual, find an opportunity to use your second language it in front of her. Or, if you collect movie posters and you know that she is a movie buff too, mention your collection during a conversation and invite her to come and see it.

