 Many rayon garments are hand wash or dry-clean only. Check the label to see if your rayon purchase is washer-safe. If it is not, know that you will have to put in extra effort to care for the fabric.


Some rayon composite fabrics won’t require hand washing or dry-cleaning. If you prefer machine-washable fabrics, look for pieces that are a combination of rayon and a sturdier fabric, such as cotton.
Handle with great care during laundering due to the fragility of rayon. Rayon can even dissolve during laundering, so it's finickiness needs to be taken into account.;
, One of the easiest ways to care for rayon is to have it dry-cleaned. Take your rayon garment into a professional cleaner, and let them know that you are looking for help caring for your rayon garment.Know that dry cleaning can add up. A shirt may cost anywhere from one to five dollars depending upon your location and your cleaner, while something like a blanket or quilt might cost up to thirty dollars.
 Your tag will tell you what, exactly, you need to take care of your rayon piece. The general standard, though, is a mild detergent and warm water.Fill a clean sink or basin with water slightly above room temperature. Add a mild detergent, such as one that says it is made for delicate fabrics.
Soak your rayon fabric in the basin until it completely wet. Then, gently swirl your fabric around the basin using your hands. Avoid harsh or rapid movements, such as those that would cause a splash.
Agitate your fabric for three to five minutes.
Remove the fabric from the basin and rinse under a faucet of warm water until suds stop forming.
Gently squeeze the excess water out from the fabric. Avoid harsh wringing and twisting of the fabric.
 It will need the short, delicates cycle in your washing machine on a medium to low temperature.Understand that rayon fabric may shrink or deteriorate in the machine, especially if it is not recommended for machine washing.
 Dry rayon knits flat. Use a sweater drying cage to drape the rayon over, or lay the rayon over the top of a drying rack so that it sits flat across multiple bars. Woven rayon can be hung to dry. Simply clip to a drying rack or use a hanger.Avoid using a dryer or anything that may tumble the clothes, as this may damage or rip the fabric.
A knit fabric will stretch in all directions, while a woven fabric will only stretch diagonally. Try stretching your fabric lightly both side to side and diagonally to tell. If it only stretches diagonally, it is woven.