 A few days after hibiscus flowers bloom, their petals start to wrinkle and wilt. Eventually, they will fall off. Wrinkles on the petals are a sign that the plant is ripe and ready to harvest.

Hibiscus plants are capable of blooming year-round. They are most likely to do this during the spring and summer when the weather is best, but they can even bloom in the winter in suitable climates., At the base of the hibiscus flower should be a round, bulb-like part that connects it to the stem. This is the calyx. If the plant is ripe, the calyx will be firm and red. Pull the entire flower (calyx and petals) from the stem — it should snap off. Remove the petals to expose the calyx., Inside each calyx is a single spherical seed pod. You want to remove this before you make the tea while keeping the calyx as intact as possible. The easiest way to do this will usually be to simply cut a vertical slit in the side of the calyx and pop the seed pod out with your fingers. Don't worry too much about mangling the calyx as you get the pod out. It won't affect the taste — it's mostly for presentation's sake., Wash the calyxes once all the seed pods are removed. They're now ready for use in your tea. Use the calyxes just like you would use dried hibiscus in either of the recipes above., If you don't want to use the hibiscus to make tea right away, pat the calyxes dry with a paper towel, then let them dry completely before storing them. There are several ways you can do this:

Seal the flowers in an airtight container with silica.This is the same chemical used in the drying packets sometimes found in clothes pockets. You can buy silica desiccant (the kind used for drying) from chemical supply retailers.
Put the hibiscus on a rack or tray in the oven at a low temperature (like 100 degrees F) for several hours. See our article on drying flowers for details.
If the weather's hot and dry, you can also leave them on a drying rack in the sun. Try to put them somewhere animals won't get to them.

