 Part of your unhappiness could arise from connecting success and happiness to an end result. In truth, happiness and success are fluid.They are found in the journey. The steps you take in between goals are what bring about powerful growth. You can become more aware of this when you take time out to regularly observe your progress.


Start a Month (or Week) in Review practice. Spend some time at the end of each month appreciating the challenges and milestones you overcame, and reflecting on the lessons you learned. You can also revisit your larger goals to ensure you are taking steps each day to reach them.
Reviewing your progress regularly can result in greater contentment for the overall process and invigorate you to keep pushing forward.
 If you are future-oriented, it can be difficult to find joy in the journey.However, if you are honest with yourself, you’ll realize that the present moment is all you ever have. Starting a mindfulness practice can help you learn to actually be in the here and now rather than always being caught up in future goals and successes.


An easy way to adopt mindfulness is to implement the practice into everyday monotonous activities. For instance, choose a daily activity such as washing dishes and bring greater focus to it. Think about the actions involved in doing this chore. Notice the smells, sights, sensations or sounds. Pay attention to your thoughts as you wash dishes. Move through this task being fully engaged. If you catch your mind wandering, refocus your attention on the chore.Mindfulness or meditation classes can also help you get started with your mindfulness practice. Such practices get easier over time, but taking a class in the beginning can help you develop mindful habits and stay motivated early on.
 Discontentment after reaching a goal may also come from desperately trying to control everything. When one thing doesn’t go like you think it should your satisfaction with the entire process dwindles. Releasing yourself from harsh judgment and the need to control can open you up to more possibilities and joy in life.Explore more in life by shifting how you go about your daily activities. Take a different route home from work. Be a tourist in your hometown, visiting museums and shops that you’ve never explored. Start a day off without a rigid plan and see how it unfolds.
Implementing small strategies like this can help you realize that things are no less enjoyable simply because they don’t happen exactly as we want them to. There is joy found in the familiar or the unexpected, too.

