, Place each half in the areas of the board labeled "Category 1" and "Category 2.", Hand them out according to the color of their game piece.,,,, That player turns over the top card from the Category 1 pile and then names three items from that category. All players write them in the left hand column of their pad., The top card of the Category 2 pile is then revealed and the time started. Players then have 90 seconds to think of an item in the second category that shares common ground with the items listed.

Only one response per item.
 When the time expires, players add up the total number of letters in common for the three responses. The player with the highest total wins the round and advances five spaces.

In the event of a tie, the payers involved play an instant round where the next category cards in each pile are revealed simultaneously, and the first player to call out an item from each category that shares common ground, wins the tiebreaker, and advances five spaces.
Instant rounds also take place whenever a player lands on the same space as another player, and the instant round involves only those 2 players.
 Next the players select an option card (No Action, Roll & Advance or Super Instant Round) and place it face down on the board. When all have done so, they flip them over simultaneously.

No Action - This means that the player wishes to not use an option card at this point.
Roll & Advance - Player rolls the die and advances accordingly. These are played in order beginning with the player to the left of the player who started the round by listing items. Roll & Advance cards are played before any Super Instant Round.
Super Instant Round means that the player is calling for an instant round involving all players and the winner advances four spaces in this case. If more than one player chooses to play a Super Instant Round card at the same time, only one Super Instant Round shall be played and the other Super Instant Round cards are forfeited. Once any Roll & Advance card is used it cannot be used again.
, Look at two consecutive letters at a time, shifting through different pairs of letters across the word. Then try it with three consecutive letters, and so forth.,, Or, look for pairs of vowels and change the consonant before or after each pair.,,, A player must be in the End Zone and win a Normal Round or a Super Instant Round. A player doesn't need an exact roll of the die to enter the End Zone.

