 Talking to others is a great way to feel more prepared for a pregnancy. Draw on naturally available, realistic sources of information––family members and friends who have already experienced raising children. Discuss the emotional nature of pregnancy and parenthood with trusted friends and family members.Individuals who have experience with pregnancy and parenthood can provide you with helpful advice and resources that can prepare you for the emotional changes that you will experience and the lingering emotional transformation caused by a newborn baby.
Ask your friends to be honest. You can say, "What was the hardest challenge of your pregnancy?"
Be respectful. Before asking personal questions, ask your friend if she minds discussing these personal issues with you.
 Many women state that meditation is incredibly helpful during a pregnancy. It can relieve anxiety and help promote restful sleep. Consider adding meditation to your pre-pregnancy routine.If meditation is already a habit, it will feel natural to keep doing it when you are pregnant. Meditation has many emotional benefits, such as keeping you calm.
Look for an app that has guided meditations. Begin by practicing for 5 minutes a day.
Find a comfortable place to sit. Try placing a comfy cushion on the floor, closing your eyes, and concentrating on the mediation.
 Some couples have trouble naturally conceiving. This may not happen to you, but it can be helpful to address the problem before it occurs. Talk to your partner about whether or not you will be open to trying other methods of having a child.


There are many ways that a doctor can help you conceive. Consider whether or not you would be comfortable trying hormone therapy or IVF.
Remember that adoption is an option. Many couples decide to adopt a child if they are unable to naturally conceive.
Have an honest conversation with your partner about how important having kids is, and what you are willing to do to have them.
 Consider how you feel about giving birth. Would you like to work with a doula? Or have a traditional hospital experience? Thinking about these things in advance can make you feel more prepared.It can also be reassuring to plan to attend birthing classes regularly and inquire about after-birth baby care classes, too.
Talk to your doctor and your partner about what type of experience you would like to have.
You can also read books about the experience of giving birth. Blogs are also a great way to learn about individual stories.
 Many women and their partners find emotional relief and stability when they tackle pregnancy-related tasks one at a time. Make a list of tasks that you need to complete. Once you're pregnant, you can begin working on the list.Consider drawing up a timetable and marking in suitable times for each thing you'd like to achieve. Most of all, aim to be as rested, contented and un-rushed as possible.
Be aware that many women experience what is commonly called "nesting instinct" toward the end of pregnancy, a period of intense activity arising out of a boost of energy that lets you get baby's room and requirements ready. This can help you to get those last minute things organized with pep.
 Communicate regularly during a pregnancy. The best way to emotionally prepare before and during a pregnancy is to regularly communicate about your fears, your hopes, your desires and your anxiety. Communicating with your partner, your parents, siblings and friends will help to ease the emotional burden that is often associated with a pregnancy.

Remember that you are going through a physically and emotionally challenging time and it is important to use the support of others to bolster your morale. This will help you feel like you can cope.
Even if you live far away from most family members, there are always hospital and midwife resources on which you can draw for added support. The internet can be another source of support if you join some online pregnancy support groups.

