 The concept of adoption will likely be lost on a toddler. However, you can attempt to make them “get” adoption by using words and concepts that they can understand. Keep things simple, and they are more likely to grasp what you are trying to convey to them.


For instance, you could tell them that sometimes, parents aren’t able to care for their babies. When this happens, other parents are able to make them their own children and take great care of them. You could also explain how families like your own may take in these children to give them a proper home. Keeping it basic is the best way to prevent confusion and promote acceptance.It is a good idea to start having these conversations early in life, but keep in mind that it may require several conversations of increasing sophistication as the child grows.;
, A variety of books and movies cover the topic of adoption. Your children may better understand the concept when it comes from a character they really like or in a fun and entertaining way. View the movies and read the books before you introduce them to your child to ensure that you are comfortable with the way the information is presented.


Speak to a pediatrician or therapist about material that they recommend. They likely have experience in this situation and can steer you in the right direction., When children, especially those that are younger, hear about parents essentially giving their children away for others to raise them, they often start to wonder if it will happen to them. They may believe that if they are bad or if you become angry with them, you may give them away. Assure them that this situation would never happen, and help them to understand that no matter what, they will always be yours.


At the same time, tell them that the children didn’t do anything to deserve this. That the kids aren’t “bad” and the reason they were put up for adoption has to do with grown up problems, not the child at all. Doing so can help them treat any children you have adopted the same as they would their other siblings. Also, make sure to explain some of the common reasons why a parent may put their child up for adoption and that this is something that usually happens at birth.

