 Since Facebook's built-in features don't let you schedule posts from your personal timeline, third-party developers have created apps and programs that can do this for you. There are many quality choices available for free. Just a few include:



Hootsuite (Note: the rest of this section will include instructions for this app.)
Postcron
Massplanner

, In this section, you'll see how to use Hootsuite, one of the recommended options above, to schedule personal profile posts. Start by visiting the Hootsuite site here. Click the blue Facebook button to sign in with Facebook from your computer. HootSuite will use the same information from your Facebook account to register you.


To download and install HootSuite on your mobile device, click here.
 When you first sign in to HootSuite, click the "Add Social Network" button. Click the "Connect with Facebook" button at the bottom of the pop-up window. Click "Okay" for all 3 prompts to connect your Facebook Profile, Pages, and Groups. You'll need to do this in order to schedule messages on both your Facebook profile and pages.


When you're done, click the green "Continue" button to proceed. Then, click "Done Adding Social Networks" to go to your dashboard.
 Choose whether or not to proceed through the brief Hootsuite tutorial. When you're done, at the top of the main HootSuite page, click in the "Compose Message" box and type your post. As above, don't post your message yet.


You can also click on the paperclip icon to add images or files to your post.
 Below your message, you will see a small icon that looks like a calendar. Click this to proceed to the scheduling menu. Select the desired date and time using the calendar and clock options in the pop-up menu.


Additionally, note that you can also choose to have the message sent to your email once it has been posted by checking the box near the bottom of the menu.
 Click the “Schedule” button at the bottom of the scheduling window to confirm.
 You can find this icon on the left side of the screen in the vertical HootSuite toolbar. This will bring up the HootSuite Publisher page where you can see all of your scheduled posts.


You can use the options on this page to filter your scheduled posts by profile, edit your posts, and even delete them.

