 Using over-the-counter painkillers can inhibit the production of prostaglandin, the substance responsible for pain and inflammation in your body. Do not take these drugs continuously for longer than 10 to 14 days. Any of the following can be tried for pain control:Naproxen (275-500 mg twice a day). Naproxen works by inhibiting the release of inflammatory substances, COX-1 and COX-2. This is the medication of choice for treating joint inflammation, because it has been proven to be effective in joint diseases.
Ibuprofen (200-800 mg every six hours). Ibuprofen provides fast-acting pain and inflammation relief when taken in liquid gel form.
Acetaminophen (500-1000 mg every four to six hours). This does not help with inflammation, but can serve to combat pain.
 These are available over-the-counter or by prescription. Your best bet is to speak to your dentist if simple over-the-counter painkillers have not been sufficient to control your pain. Your dentist can then advise you on which type of muscle relaxant is most effective, or he can recommend another treatment altogether depending upon the nature and severity of your TMJ pain.A short-term course of long acting benzodiazepines, such as Valium, can be used to treat severe acute TMJ symptoms.
 These drugs, in low dosages, can help to relieve TMJ-related pain. An example of this medication is amitriptyline (Elavil). Start from a low dose of 10 milligrams, to avoid side effects. The dosage can be increased over time until the pain is relieved.For patients who also experience anxiety and/or depression, treating the condition with methods such as medication or relaxation/stress management training can also be helpful for TMJ pain.
Tricyclic antidepressants are generally considered after lifestyle changes, NSAIDs and muscle relaxers have shown to not be effective.
Once the effective dose of the tricyclic has been determined, it is generally prescribed for up to four months and then tapered down to a lower dose.
 Corticosteroids mimic your body's natural adrenal production, causing a reduction in inflammation and pain due to TMJ. Steroids are used when other treatments for TMJ have failed to relieve your pain and discomfort. Your dentist can inject the corticosteroids into your TMJ joint, to help relieve severe pain.
 If you have the habit of clenching your jaws and grinding your teeth, your dentist can take a teeth impression and make acrylic splints to fit on your upper and lower teeth. TMJ is weakly associated with teeth grinding (bruxism).These splints help reduce your clenching and grinding habits by preventing the teeth from contacting each other.


The shape of the splints also helps to keep your teeth in their appropriate positions and to correct bad bites.
You can wear the occlusal splints throughout the day, except when you are eating.
You can use night guards that are similar to splints during the night if you have a habit of grinding your teeth.
Your dentist will advise you on the exact splints or mouth guards that will suit your TMJ problems.
Using a splint in addition to making lifestyle changes is more effective in treating TMJ pain than using the splint alone.
 Replacing missing teeth by applying crowns, bridges, and grinding uneven surfaces helps to distribute the biting and chewing forces equally between all your teeth surfaces; however, correction and adjustment rarely provides full relief from TMJ problems., In osteopathic manipulative treatment (OMT), your dentist uses special forceps placed in between your upper and lower teeth to gently open your mouth. The mouth is gradually opened more and more on each visit. With the help of OMT, your ability to open your mouth will improve, even without muscle relaxants.
 In TENS, a current or pulse of electricity is applied by a device to stimulate your nerves and contracted muscles. This stimulation makes the muscles contract and relax, almost as if they were massaging themselves. TENS also stimulates the production of endorphins, which are natural pain-relieving agents. It is a non-invasive method, and 30 – 60 minutes in each session of TENS normally provides a good result.

