 This is the first requirement. One can not always rely upon the dentist so he must take necessary steps at home to prevent any dental problems. Healthy and strong teeth add charm and beauty to one’s smile, so it is important to keep them healthy and protect them from any diseases.


Tooth decay is the major problem caused due to cavities. One should use toothpaste that contains fluoride. Also consult a doctor so as to take some tips from him.
Various gum diseases are caused due to plaque on the gum line causing infections. So caused infection weaken the bone holding the teeth that can result in tooth decay. This disease is also known as gingivitis. This problem can be treated by regular brushing and flossing. If one finds that there is much bleeding, consult the dentist immediately.
Many diseases are caused due to dry mouth that means insufficient formation of saliva. Lack of saliva may make it difficult to taste, eat and swallow and sometimes to speak even. To avoid this problem drink as much water as possible and avoid alcohol.
Over the age of forty oral cancers may happen thus treat it before it starts bothering. The early symptoms are severe pain and bleeding. Regular dental checkup will be a good idea to prevent oral cancer from spreading. Avoid tobacco products like chewing tobacco, cigarettes, pipes, cigars and snuff. Use high quality toothpaste and mouthwash only.
Bad breath also called as halitosis is also caused due to bacteria. This bacterium grows due to remains of food inside the mouth creating a major problem. One must brush twice a day and always floss after eating anything so that mouth get cleaned properly and bacteria does not found any friendly environment.
Some diseases are also caused due to bacteria found on tongue thus a tongue scraper should be used for oral hygiene. One can use this to remove plaque from tongue to get a fresh breath.;
, This gives an environment to bacteria to grow and get multiplied causing severe diseases. Try to clean teeth from front as well as back side and brush for at least 4-5 minutes that too twice a day.
, Follow the instructions provided by dentist and can also search over internet for best instructions to brush and floss.
 Chew slowly and eat non-sticky food to avoid plaque to capture teeth.

