 Get to know her favorite things and surprise her with them.If she has a favorite flower, Don't buy it for her until you have developed a relationship with her.
Offer to carry her heavy backpack or books to class.
Bring her favorite treat or snack to school or other activity.
Help out with a school event she is involved in.
 Don't spread or listen to gossip about the girl you like.Gossip is a hard thing to deal with in high school, especially for girls.
If someone says something bad about the girl you like, defend her.
Don't let your friends spread rumors or gossip about her social group.
 Offer to take her to see a movie she likes or an activity she will enjoy.


After you have flirted with a girl for awhile, you can try to ask her out on a date.
Close the deal by saying "So, are you busy on Saturday? I would like to get tickets to a movie" or something along those lines.
If you know she has expressed an interest in going to a specific event, offer to take her. Say "I heard you wanted to go to the dance on Friday. I would like to take you, if you still want to go."
Make your offer for a date about her and her interests.
Don't ask forcefully or be rude if she turns you down.
It doesn't have to be an expensive activity or date. The importance of a date is to be able to spend time together one on one.
If you or the girl you like is shy at first, try suggesting a double or group date to take the pressure off.
 This is a huge turn-off.


Give her some space. Don't always hang around her.
Don't follow her around school or extracurricular activities. Let your interactions flow naturally and don't force them.
Don't be too overly attentive. If she has said she isn't interested, don't continue to pester a girl.
 Whenever you see your crush, you will want to look your best. Whatever your personal style is, make sure your clothes are clean and not wrinkled.
Make sure your appearance is tidy.
Make sure you are practicing daily hygiene—showering, using deodorant, brushing your teeth, etc.
Wearing nice clothes will make you appear more confident in yourself.

