 If you are having a difficult time staying motivated when you first start working out again, plan a few weeks’ worth of exercises. This will help you establish a routine and make you less likely to bail on exercises. If you have no other conflicts of interest, you do not have an excuse to avoid working out.You can use a planner or an online calendar app, such as Google Calendar, to schedule your workouts.
 Electronic fitness trackers are a great way to get motivated and stay invested in your exercise regimen. Trackers, made by companies like Fitbit and Garmin, make it easy for you to monitor your exercise and track your health objectives. They also allow you to share that information with others, which can be fun and motivating.You can also download fitness apps, like Strava, that track your exercise from your smartphone., A workout buddy will help hold you accountable and motivate you to keep on working out. Talk to a friend or family member about starting an exercise program together or working out at the same time. A workout partner will give you someone to talk to and make working out again a little less difficult.It is important that you and your partner hold each other accountable. Otherwise, you may just end up reinforcing each other’s bad habits. Make sure that you push and support each other to keep going.
 Purchasing new equipment, paying gym memberships, or hiring a personal trainer can all be great motivators to keep working out. The thought of losing money may keep you going to the gym. There are also apps, like Pact, that allow you to wager money on your workouts. You start by wagering a sum of money and, if you meet your exercise goals, you earn money. However, if you do not work out, you lose your wager., Exercise classes at your gym or the local YMCA will provide your exercise routine with a little more structure, which is great for staying motivated. The structure of a class will give you set times each week to go work out. In addition, you will exercise with other people, which can be fun and encouraging.There are classes for a variety of different exercises, ranging from beginner to advanced skill levels. For example, you might join a beginner’s yoga class at your local YMCA to work on building your flexibility.
 If you have the resources, a personal trainer is a great motivator. They will push you to complete your workouts while ensuring that you are performing them correctly and safely. A personal trainer is a great option if you do not have an exercise buddy or if you really want to focus on working out.Most gyms will have personal trainers that you can hire to help with your workouts.

