 A color wheel presents the primary colors of red, yellow and blue, as well as all of the colors created by combining these primary colors to create others. There are basic color wheels which use only the primary and secondary colors. Consider using an advanced wheel which includes various tints, hues and shades., In order to identify the complimentary color, you need to start with the exact placement of your blue paint on the color wheel. Don’t judge the hue based on the title of the paint. Rather, apply the paint to a small bit of white paper and allow it to dry. Compare this color to the color wheel and match the hue to the most accurate section of the wheel., A complimentary color is the color directly across the wheel from the blue you have identified. This should be some version of orange and is the color you will mix with your blue to darken it.A good place to start would be mixing Burnt Sienna with Ultramarine Blue.
Another possible color combination is Cadmium Orange and Cobalt Blue.
 It is better to have too much paint than too little in order to avoid having to mix more and attempt to match your shade a second time.


It is a good idea to save some of your blue paint in case you add too much orange and need to adjust the shade by adding blue back into your mixture.
 It is best to keep the orange near the blue and mix a little at a time. You will want enough to work with, but you do not need as much orange paint as blue paint., Be sure not to take much orange paint on your first attempt. Adding only a little orange at a time will give you the chance to see how it changes the shade of blue.
 Fold the orange paint into the blue paint using a mixing tool like a palette knife or make cross-hatches with your paint brush. Using complimentary colors can create a vibrant dark blue, so it is best to avoid too much mixing. Allow just enough to asses the shade and keep from dulling the color., Avoid the urge to move on to adding larger amounts of orange. If the orange exceeds blue, you will be moving away from dark blue and blend into a shade of orange. Continue adding small amounts of orange and assessing the outcome until you create your perfect shade of dark blue.


If you accidentally mix too much orange into the blue, have some extra blue paint on hand to even out the ratio.

