 Many people choose to order ready-to-use screed mix, which contains additives that slow down the setting so you do not have to work as quickly.If you would prefer to mix your own, try this simple recipe:


Select clean sand with a variety of grain sizes.
Combine 4 parts sand with 1 part Portland cement.(A standard Type I or Type II A cement is fine.)
For greater strength, replace 1 part sand with aggregate.Avoid grain sizes above 10mm (0.4") to reduce cracking.Add water slowly until you can form the mix into a ball, then break it into clumps without water escaping., Professional sometimes make their own dividers using the screed mix itself, but it's much easier to use a timber batten for a DIY project. Use the straightest battens you can find, and cut them to the eventual height of the screed layer. Follow these steps:Lay down about 3 cm (1.2") of screed to keep the battens in place.
Wet the batten so you can remove it more easily after screeding.
Set the battens down to divide the room into strips 3 to 4 meters (10–13 ft) wide. The length of each strip is not important.Use a spirit level to confirm that each batten is level along the top, and level with adjacent battens in the room.
 Dump screed onto the section farthest from the entrance, using enough to fill about 60 cm (2 ft) length of the strip.Spread it out with a trowel, compacting as you go by "chopping" it down with a screed board (straightedge), and by tamping the edges with a hand tamper.Poor compaction is one of the most common problems with a home screeding job.For best results, rent a vibrating screed board or other compacting tool.
Apply each batch of screed within 45 minutes of mixing., Once you have laid enough screed, place a screed board or a very straight piece of lumber over the battens. Push the straightedge across the surface of the screed in a side-to-side sawing motion. Tilt the lumber slightly so the corner forms a cutting edge to make the screed level.
 Trowel on, compact, and level the screed in stages until the first section is filled, then move on to the next. Once you have two sections filled, remove the batten between them and fill in the gap. Continue until you have screeded the whole floor.


If you cannot screed the floor in one day, install day joints at the edge of the screed.
 It's a good idea to bull float the screed right away to remove imperfections. Float a second time once the concrete has stopped bleeding and excess water has evaporated (or after you have removed it).For final finishing instructions, refer to your flooring manufacturer or use these suggestions:To create a textured finish, swirl a wood float in an arced motion across the surface. This works well under ceramic tiles and carpets.
For a smooth finish, use the same motion with a steel trowel instead, held flat against the surface. This works well under vinyl tiles.
 One way to cure the screed is to place it under polyethylene sheeting, sealed at the edges. Leave the screed undisturbed for at least 7 days, or longer if average temperatures fall below 10ºC (50ºF) in a 24 hour period., Even after curing, your screed will need time to dry. Avoid vehicle traffic and do not install floor for at least three weeks. As a rough rule of thumb, the screed takes one day to dry for each mm (0.04") of depth.If you are bonding ceramic or stone tiles, terrazzo, or synthetic resin floor to the screed, cut stress relief joints every 5–6 meters (16.4–19.7 ft), in straight vertical lines halfway through the screed. You can do this with a trowel now, but it may be easier to align with the tiles if you wait until the screed hardens and cut joints with a saw (within 3–4 weeks).