 Sounds obvious, but if your accommodation and travel arrangements aren't confirmed, your fun weekend might turn into a nightmare. Confirm your flights and accommodation the night before you leave. Print off any receipts for travel and accommodation you've paid for online in case you need them.


If you're lucky enough to be flying to your weekend destination, don't forget ID. You'll need ID at the airport when you check in.
If you are staying at a friend's holiday house, make sure they're still expecting you and that you know where to collect the keys from. *Check if they have a DVD/Ipod player where you're staying. If they do, you can always take your Ipod and a few DVDs with you.;
, What are you going to do for the time you'll be away?


Are you headed somewhere tropical and warm? You'll need sunglasses, short sleeved tees or singlets, light trousers/shorts or skirts, and flip flops or sandals.
Headed somewhere cold? You'll need warm pants, sweaters, gloves, socks, warm shoes and something warm to sleep in.
Headed out for dinner to fancy places? Take a smart/casual outfit and shoes to match.
Pack things that won't crush or crease in your bag, unless of course, you enjoy ironing!

, At a minimum, you'll need:


Two changes of clothes - and enough underwear- for each day you'll be away.
An evening outfit especially if you know you're headed somewhere fancy.
Swimmers, sunglasses and sunblock if you plan to swim or sunbathe.
Running shoes and clothes if you plan to exercise while you're away.
Stuff to sleep in - unless you are comfortable with your travel companions knowing you sleep naked!
Always pack one light sweater or jacket in case the weather changes.
,


Pack everything the night before you go. Don't forget your cell/mobile charger. If you have a book you've been dying to finish, throw that in too.
Most hotels have decent toiletries, but if you know you prefer your own (or you have skin allergies and need your own stuff) pack them. *It's always a good idea to put toiletries into a zip lock travel bag, or even into plastic bags, in case they break/ leak during transit.
Solid perfume is a good travel alternative to perfume bottles. You can avoid a perfume/aftershave bottle breaking in transit by putting it inside a shoe.
 If you couldn't bear to lose it, either hide it well in your luggage, wear it every day you're there or leave it at home.
 Seasoned travellers leave room in their bag for the goodies they buy and bring home, or take an empty tote bag they can fill up later.
, Can you do a tour or visit a famous site? Do some research online and make notes of anything fun you'd like to do while you're away.
,