 One of the best ways to deal with travel anxiety is to simply take your mind off it.Have some work, school, or recreational activities planned so that you’re distracted from whatever is making you anxious about the trip.


Practicing art or writing is a great way to distract yourself from your anxiety during a trip. Bring along a loose-leaf journal with plenty of paper. Try sketching or writing a creative story.
Crossword puzzles, Sudoku, and other games are popular options for passing time during travel.
Taking along a laptop or portable gaming device will greatly expand your options. Have some games or tasks you can complete available offline in case Wi-Fi isn’t available for your trip.
 If you feel an anxiety attack coming on during your trip, try deep breathing. It is a great way to calm your nerves and take your mind off your anxieties. Better yet, you can do it anytime, anywhere.Open your month and gently sigh to let the air out of your lungs. Let your upper body and shoulder muscles relax as you do. It may help to close your eyes.
Keep your mouth closed and slowly inhale through your nose until your lungs are full. Try to pause for a second or two once they are full.
Open your mouth slightly and slowly exhale until your lungs are empty. Repeat several times until you feel like your nerves are under control.
 Traveling with someone will help ease your anxiety. Try to think of topics of conversation ahead of time so you can start talking whenever you feel the anxiety come on.If you don’t have a companion, try making conversation with the person next to you.
Have a trusted friend or loved one you can call while stressing if you feel an anxiety attack coming on.
 Making yourself comfortable will go a long way to lessening your anxiety and calming yourself during an acute episode. It may be difficult to sleep while experiencing travel anxiety but just making yourself comfortable can ease your tensions. Bring along a plush blanket and small pillow that you can use while seated upright.You may want to bring along a sleep blindfold and earplugs as well.
 People with anxiety disorders often comfort themselves with a predictable routine. Travel can throw this routine off but you can still try to replicate it as much as possible during your trip.


Consider things like when you eat, when you wake up and go to sleep.
 If you’re in an unfamiliar place, research local doctors ahead of time so you can react quickly. Prepare traveling companions by explaining your condition so they can help. You can also plan to contact a friend back home via video messaging or phone if you find them comforting. Make sure you have any other resources that you would typically have for dealing with an attack at home.Don’t be afraid to ask for help from locals or other passengers if you’re experiencing the symptoms of a panic attack, especially if it’s as simple as needing someone to talk to.

