 You can connect with the MS community by joining an online group. Online groups are geared towards the specific interests of those living with MS. The group connects you with others who are in a similar situation as you or interested in the same things.For example, you may connect with people in your age group, those who have just been diagnosed, people who are single, or other caregivers.
 One of the best ways to connect with the MS community online is to get involved in forums and message boards. These platforms put you in direct contact with those living with MS, along with caregivers and experts. Most MS organization websites offer a forum or message board for members or visitors.Most forums have different topics you can post under. This helps you find posts that interest you or find a place to post your comments or questions.
You can reply back to people on forums and message boards, which allows you to connect with others and offer suggestions based on your own experience.
You can make your own posts to share your experience, ask questions, or talk about living with MS.
 Blogs are another way you can connect with others online in the MS community. Many MS organizations have blogs you can follow and interact with others on. You may want to find personal blogs of people living with MS. Blogs by those living with MS sometimes focus more on the personal aspects of MS than the research or informational aspects an organization blog may have.For example, a personal blog may discuss a person’s specific difficulties, emotional setbacks, sexual problems, social difficulties, and personal triumphs. The information is not back by medical experts, but the tips and stories come from people living with the condition.
 If you want to share your story about living with MS, you may want to contribute a post to a blog or start your own living with MS blog. Some organizational organizations and personal blogs allow member contributions to their blog. You can connect to the community by contributing a post to one of these blogs.If you feel you have more to say than can fit in one blog post, consider starting your own blog. This can be a place where you share your struggles and successes, your treatment, and your lifestyle management tips. You can interact with your visitors and commenters, helping you to connect with people dealing with the same thing.
 You can also connect with others who have MS through social media. You can join Facebook groups or follow organizations and others with MS on twitter or instagram. This connects you with others who live with MS and allows you to interact with them on a daily basis.


If you feel uncomfortable with people in your real life knowing about your MS or having that much access to your private life, consider getting separate social media accounts just for your MS friends and contacts.