 Most vegetables need 6-8 hours of sunlight per day, so access to bright sunshine is the first thing to think about when planning your vegetable garden. Select a location where your veggies can soak up some rays.
 After sunlight, water is the next most crucial component to a vegetable garden. Whether you plan to water by hand or employ an irrigation system, you need to be sure you can regularly and effectively water your garden. Veggies are notoriously sensitive to drought., Test your soil to see what you have in your area. Plants like vegetables grow better in rich, well-drained soil. You can add mulch or compost to your soil to bring in more organic matter if necessary., When planning the size of your garden, you will want to be realistic. If this is your first vegetable garden, it may be wise to start small. A well-maintained 10 feet (3.0 m) by 10 feet (3.0 m) garden will produce more food than a weed-filled, unkempt 25 feet (7.6 m) by 25 feet (7.6 m) bed.Choose an area that is flat. In some cases, you can tear up earth and level it out, but it may need extra leveling in the future as the dirt compresses.
 Select the vegetables you want to grow based on which plants are compatible with your region, and which vegetables you would like to eat! You will also need to decide how much of your garden will be “direct sow” (seeds planted right into the earth) versus “transplanted” (plants started somewhere else and then transferred).Some direct sow plants include beets, carrots, parsnips, peas, and radishes.
Some veggies you are more likely to transplant include broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, and cauliflower.
Transplants can be purchased (which is more expensive), or started yourself in an indoor location.
 Before you can plant, you’ll need to know the average date of the last spring frost in your region. You will want to start planting as soon as possible after the risk of frost has passed. This can be a gamble: you want to achieve the longest growing season possible, but a late frost can damage what you’ve planted. Based on the projected last frost, you can select a date to begin planting.


You can check with a local nursery or look into a farmer’s almanac to determine the date for your region.
If you are planning to start your own transplants, work backwards from your planting date, and decide when you’ll need to begin growing your transplants.
 Before you begin planting, take some time to plan the locations of your vegetables. You will want to place taller vegetables in the back and shorter vegetables near the front, so that they don’t compete for sunlight. Plant in rows, so that you can separate types of plants and create walkways between the rows.Start with four foot (1.2 meter) rows and two to three foot (60 to 90 cm) pathways between the rows.

