 Getting involved in a charity, community organization, or professional association isn’t just a way to show others that you are worldly and sophisticated. It’s also a way to take a talent, interest, or value that you have and make an impact in the world.


Volunteer time with a community organization to show that you want to share your worldliness with others in your area.
Donate to a charity supporting a cause you believe in to show that you are worldly enough to help others.
Get involved in your field’s professional organization to connect with colleagues and mentor the next generation.
 Worldly people strive to be successful in their professions. If you put your heart into your work, it can show how much you value it, and that you draw something meaningful from it. This will impress others. To show that you love your job and approach your work in a worldly way:Avoid complaining excessively about your job.
Seek opportunities for advancement, to gain new skills, or to work with new teams.
Jump on any opportunities your job offers for travel. It will impress people when you tell them you’ve got to go catch a flight to Jakarta for business, and you will increase your knowledge of the world at the same time.
 One of the benefits of being a worldly person is getting to experience life beyond the mundane. Familiarize yourself with fine wine, exotic cuisine, and high fashion. Learn about modern art and the latest trends in interior design. Visit the orchestra for the season opener gala, or stop by your local museum to see the latest exhibit. Whether it’s fancy cars, exclusive society, or high art, savor the best of what life has to offer!, Worldliness won’t replace less tangible values that are even more important, like being loved and accepted, caring for others, mindfulness, or spirituality. Make sure that you are also staying focused on having good relationships with the people around you, accomplishing things that truly matter to you, and bettering yourself. That way, you’ll impress others with your worldliness, but also be true to who you are.Signs that you are taking it too far include feeling stressed or anxious about constantly trying to impress people, or suffering financially because you are overspending on luxury items or travel.
If you have authentic relationships with your friends, on the other hand, you'll be able let your hair down around them, and be happy just spending time with them watching Netflix, grabbing a pizza, or goofing off in whatever way you all enjoy.

