 Bella doesn't have a very high self esteem, but she still has the confidence to stick up for herself and what she believes in. But beware, you may end up with consequences like near death from pregnancy! She's often described as stubborn, especially by Edward.;
, If you want to truly act like Bella, this is actually pretty important. Don't fall or break things on purpose, of course. But if you do fall or trip, shake it off and don't worry about it. Bella is also described of being extremely non-athletic, which sort of ties in with the clumsiness.
 Bella is physically beautiful, but she never spends time on her looks. She always wears jeans and t-shirts in muted or neutral colors, and sneakers. You could try Converse or flats as well. Bella has long, dark brown hair. Stephanie Meyer has said that she pictured Bella with straight hair, but in the movie she has wavy hair. Either one is fine, but sticking with your natural hair would be best. Wear a headband or small clips to keep your hair away from your face. Makeup is a no-no, but if you do wear it, it should be kept natural. Foundation, lip balm and maybe a little mascara is enough. Keep the look fresh and clean. Effortless beauty is key. Bella is beautiful naturally and so are you.


Bella has pretty pale skin. This really is not essential, especially if you have a darker skin tone, but always remember to wash your face in the morning and at night and wear sunscreen. The sunscreen won't only help keep a paler complexion, but it will also protect from skin cancer and signs of aging from the sun.






Bella has a habit of biting her lower lip.
 Bella is very shy and introverted. She's a lone wolf who hates attention and blending in with the crowd. If you are outgoing, however, you should not attempt to stifle such antics, and realize that it is folly to ever try to be anything that you are not.


Bella is a softly spoken girl, don't be loud while talking to people.
 Bella is very curious, loving, headstrong, sometimes sarcastic, persistent with meaningful things (not materialistic items), and only scared of things that she thinks will hurt her loved ones/ family (when she met him she believed Edward had the strength not to hurt her).
 Bella is an excellent student because she works very hard. It's mentioned in the books that she was in AP classes back in Phoenix. Study hard and do your homework.


Bella is dumb, but tries her best at school. She doesn't do very well, though she also enjoys reading school books and doesn't have other interests!







, Bella helps Charlie often, even when she isn't asked. Just keep your room clean or offer to wash the dishes after dinner. She also cooks dinner every night since Charlie is pretty much incapable of cooking an edible meal.
 It's Jane Austen, Shakespeare, Chaucer, and Faulkner. All authors were on Bella's reading mentioned in the books that Bella likes to read and reads quite often. Try reading Wuthering Heights or Anne and the Green Gables. Both are great classics, not to mention reading makes you a lot smarter.
 Bella is not wildly popular in Phoenix or in Forks, but she does have a few good and trusting friends like Alice, Jacob, Eric, Angela, Mike, and Jessica. Even though Bella is very reclusive, she does have a few good friends to talk to and spend time with.


Although Bella is shy, people still love her, but she hates to talk.
 Remember, Bella is a loner. She wasn't even interested in having a boyfriend until she met Edward. Be patient: eventually the right guy will come around.


Bella spends most of her time with the Cullens, with Edward, studying, listening to music or reading. But occasionally she does go out with her girlfriends and other friends to go shopping or to see a movie. Neglect any friends but also do the right thing!






Bella doesn't go out with a lot of guys, but she's a romantic who prefers to wait until true love comes along.
 Bella is always soft, gentle, reticent, peaceful, and diffident unless someone is mean to her or her loved ones. She also stares a lot sometimes. She comes across as shy but when she slowly gets to know you she loosens up and becomes less shy. Bella isn't outgoing, doesn't like being center of attention and would rather be unknown (she doesn't like drawing attention to herself). She is also sarcastic when she opens up!

, Bella is fine with what she has and helps out around the house, does a lot of chores and everything without being asked. Seeing as her dad's a bad cook, she knows how to cook (ask your parents to teach you some basic meals).


Bella hates birthdays (because of aging) so she is ungrateful for her presents.







