 Place the frame glass-side down on top of a flat working surface. The back of the frame and all its associated hardware should face you.
 If the picture currently has a hanging wire or wire mounts attached to the back, you may need to remove them before disassembling the rest of the frame.


You should be able to remove the wire mounts without clipping the wire off.
Locate the screw in each wire mount. Loosen the screw with a flat-head screwdriver, then carefully lift it and the corresponding mount off the back of the frame.
Set aside the hardware for later if you plan to reuse the frame.
 The spring clips are metal bars located beneath the top and bottom of the frame. They hold the contents of the frame to the front using tension, and you'll need to remove them to loosen those contents.Slip the head of a flat-head screwdriver or awl beneath the cutout area at the end of each spring clip. Press down on the end of the clip to loosen the tension, then gently drag the clip out from beneath the frame.
Work carefully as you remove these clips. Since they are spring-loaded, they can pop toward you and may cause injury if they do.
 Choose one side of the frame, then unscrew the corner mounts on either end of that side.


In most cases, you can choose any of the four sides. It might be easiest to choose either the top or bottom, though, rather than the right or left side.
You'll need to remove both corner mounts connected to your chosen side. Remove the screws with a flat-head screwdriver, then lift the loosened mount away from the frame. Set the hardware aside for later if you plan to reuse the frame.
Since the edges of these corner mounts can be sharp, you may want to wear gloves while handling them.
 Once the metal corner brackets are loosened and removed, you should be able to slide your chosen side away from the rest of the frame without the use of additional tools.


Grab the side with your hand and lift it straight away from the rest of the assembly. The remaining three sides of the frame should stay intact.
Set aside the loosened side in a safe area until you're ready to reassemble the frame.
 Slide the backboard out of the frame by lifting it straight out of the newly opened side.


You can also remove any existing picture and glass from the frame while removing the backboard. Slide each of these components out through the open side.

