 Look for a guy that you either know is interested in being mates with you, has the same interests as you, or that would make a good friend. It's quite good if the guy has at least one interest similar to you, otherwise you would have nothing to do or talk about.;
, Watch out for any flirting from either of you - you don't want them getting the wrong impression! Find out what they like, and encourage that in small talk. Let the guy know that you want to talk about his favorite topics too!

, Give that guy some room, let him go to other people and see new faces other than just yours. If you see that guy during the day, say "hi" or wave, let him know you're there without getting in his face. He will hopefully realize that you're being friendly. Again ,be watchful for flirting. The last thing you want is that awkward wrong impression.
 It's always better to be with a group and get to know each other than in a tight area with just you two. Being in a crowd simply lets him know that you want his attention for talking and hanging, not anything more. Once he's comfortable with your friends and you, ask him if he wants to hang out. If he says he can't, don't be worried.
 If he is annoyed by you, you can easily tell. Don't be put down if he says no to your suggestion of hanging out. If you are becoming friends, then there will be plenty of other opportunities!

, Find things you're great at, and praise yourself. It may seem silly, but repeating, "I'm great at _______, and I'm proud of it," in the mirror for ten times a day will help. Guys want to hang around confident people. Who would want to hang around someone who hates themselves?

, Shower frequently and use deodorant. Trim your nails and get your hair cut. Wear clothes you would wear normally. Don’t overdo the makeup and perfume. Some guys hate makeup used in excess, and others are allergic to perfume. But don't look or smell like a slob!

, See if your school has a club that deals with your favorite activity. If you’re home-schooled, there are many businesses like art programs that would love to have you join them. There are guys who go to art programs.
 If he’s in your club, there you go! Instant conversation! If you want to talk about something else, talk about something like:


How gross the lunch was today – “Was there something crawling in the meatloaf surprise?”
How the weather is today. An old standby, but still a great conversation starter.
How the football game went. Many guys like sports, and if you went to or heard about the big game, he would love to talk to you about it.
 If you liked your conversation, tell him you have to go but would love to talk to him again. When you see him again, talk to him! The more you talk, the better bond you’ll grow. It may be embarrassing being seen with a boy if you’re younger, but it pays off. Many friendships grow and bloom, and sometimes even become “something more.”

, Tease him and have fun with him. Just don't go to far or do it too much because he will start to think you're fake. Your friendship will become as strong as ever! Good luck!

