 Each of the nine characters has three Milestone achievements. These are earned after completing a certain number of other character-specific achievements. Each Milestone achievement will earn you an item for that character.


Soldier, Demoman, Engineer, Sniper, and Spy earn Milestone achievements at 5, 11, and 17 character achievements.
Scout, Pyro, Heavy, and Medic earn Milestone achievements at 10, 16, and 22 character achievements.
 Several of the achievements in Tf2 will earn you a special item:Ghostly Gibbus - Dominate a player wearing a Ghastly or Ghostly Gibbus.
Frontline Field Recorder - Get 1,000 YouTube views for your TF2 replay movie.
Horseless Headless Horsemann's Head - Defeat the Horseless Headless Horseman on the Mann Manor map.
MONOCULUS! - Defeat the MONOCULUS boss on the Eyeaduct map.
Full Head Of Steam - Complete seven of the Foundry Pack's achievements.
Gentle Munitionne of Leisure - Complete seven of the Doomsday Pack's achievements.
Skull Island Topper - Reach Skull Island in the Ghost Fort map.
Bombinomicon - Reach Loot Island in the Eyeaduct map.
Pyrovision Goggles - Dominate another player wearing Pyrovision Goggles.
 Several games on Steam will allow you to earn special items by completing specific achievements:


Alien Swarm Parasite - Earn the "Hat Trick" achievement in Alien Swarm.
Black Rose - Earn the "1st One Down" achievement in Alliance of Valiant Arms.
Bolt Action Blitzer - Earn the "Key to the City" achievement in CrimeCraft GangWars.
Iron Curtain, Enthusiast's Timepiece, Lugermorph, Dangeresque, Too?, License to Maim - Earned by completing the "Special Item" achievements in Poker Night.
Long Fall Loafers, Necronomicrown, Samson Skewer, Bloodhound, Dapper Disguise - Earned by completing the "Personality Goes a Long Way," "Book 'Em," "Orb 'n' Legends," "Banjo Hero," and "Trophy Wife" achievements in Poker Night 2.
Spiral Sallet - Earned by completing the "Mission Accomplished" achievement in Spiral Knights.
Triclops, Flamingo Kid - Earned by completing the "All-Star Agent" and "Rookie Agent" achievements in Super Monday Night Combat.

