 In addition to seeing a doctor, you should consult a therapist if you’re experiencing depression. Schedule a dental appointment, too, if your nutrient deficit is causing dental problems. It is important to correct your nutrient deficit as soon as possible to ensure you have a healthy, full life. Ask your doctors what you can do to ensure you’re getting all the nutrients you need., A healthy diet built on a cornerstone of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains is the surest way to meet all your nutritional needs. A small amount of lean protein (not exceeding 20% of your daily calories) will also help you maintain good health.


Lean proteins include nuts, peanut butter, soy beans, and tofu.
Vegetables like broccoli, celery, and carrots are great with hummus. You could also try a fresh summer salad with spinach, radish, and arugula.
Fruits are great for a snack or mixed in with granola. Try a banana or blueberries instead of candy and chips.
Seek public assistance if you’re having difficulty accessing food for any reason. Contact local food banks, soup kitchens, and local food aid organizations if you don’t have enough money to feed yourself or your family three balanced meals daily., Multivitamins are widely available for children of any age. Children who receive supplements in appropriate doses enjoy decreased mortality and better health. If you or your child are deficient in a particular nutrient, obtain a commercially available version of it and administer it as needed. Most supplemental vitamins and minerals are available as pills, though some might be available as a liquid.


Check the label to figure out how much you should be taking. Usually, you will take one capsule daily.
Vitamins and supplements are almost always water-soluble, meaning you will pass excess in your urine and cannot overdose on them.
Always follow the manufacturer's directions when using supplements.
If correcting nutrient deficits in children, don’t use gummy vitamins. They don’t offer the same level of absorption that regular chewable or capsule vitamins do.

