 Getting the hairstyle right is probably the most important part of perfecting the emo look. In fact, if you have the right hairstyle, you can basically wear anything you like and it will still look Emo. The number one priority when it comes to emo hair is to get choppy bangs, which sweep across your face, basically covering one eye. For both guys and girls, the bangs should be long, coming down as far as your ear.


Although it's possible to cut your bangs yourself, or get a friend to do it, for best results you should really go to a hairdresser who can get the cut right. Try finding some pictures online which you can bring to the hairdresser's for inspiration.
Once you get your bangs, you should practice your head toss, so you can get the hair out out your eyes for a minute or two before it falls back into place. Very emo.
 Another essential feature of the emo hairstyle is the color. Obviously dyeing your hair is a little more extreme than just getting it cut, but if you're truly committed to achieving the emo look, it is a step you should be willing to take. Darkest black is probably the most popular option, for both guys and girls, but platinum blonde is also cool.


You can switch up the look a little bit by adding different colored streaks to your choppy bangs. For instance, a lot of emos will dye their hair black, but have streaks of white blond going through the hair at the front. Alternatively, you can reverse the look and wear your hair blonde with streaks of black.
You can also add streak of bright colors for a particularly funky take on this look. Red, pink, green, blue and purple will all work well with either black or platinum hair. If you don't want to go as far as actually dyeing your hair neon shades, you can buy clip-in extensions which will help you to achieve the same effect.
As with the choppy bangs, these kinds of dyeing jobs can be difficult to achieve and maintain at home, so you are probably better off going to a hair salon to have it done professionally.
 Straight hair is best when it comes to pulling off the emo look, so make sure you have a decent hair straightener easily at hand if your hair is naturally frizzy or curly. Straightening can be a pain, and you'll probably need to get up a half hour earlier in the morning to do it, but the results will be worth it!


Make sure to use a heat protection spray before straightening your hair, as the high temperatures can cause your hair to dry out, especially if it's already been dyed or bleached.
Another thing you can do is use a crimper to crimp the front part of your fringe for a cool, alternative effect.
 Once the color, cut and straightness of your hair have been taken care of, the next thing to do it style. Of course, the choppy bangs should always be left alone, swept to the side and covering one half of your face. The back of your hair, on the other hand, you are free to style.


If your hair is cut short at the back, use hair gel or wax to spike it out from your head or mold it into a sort of mohawk.
If your hair is long, try backcombing it to produce a messy, voluminous look which makes it seem like you never brush your hair.
 Although emos don't aim to be as white-faced as their Gothic counterparts, being pale is still a requirement. You should basically look like you spend all your time indoors, at least during the day. If you naturally look like this, great! If not, try to get your hands on some liquid or powder foundation that's a shade or two lighter than your natural skin tone. Being tan is fine.


Apply the foundation every day using a sponge or powder brush. There's no need to cake it on. A light, even layer will do.
You can buy special white face powders at stores like Hot Topic, which are made specifically for achieving a gothic, punk or emo look. However, any foundation brand which produces lighter shades will do the trick.
 No self-respecting emo would be caught dead without lashings of black eye liner, so learning how to apply it properly is essential. Liquid eyeliner can be very tricky to master (though it does produce very precise lines) so it's probably best to start out with a pencil. You should apply the eyeliner all around the eyes: across the eyelid, on the inner rims and underneath your bottom lashes. Don't worry about it being very exact, as smudged eyeliner is also a good look.


The staple eye liner in your make-up bag should be jet black, however, every now and again you can mix it up with a colored one, such as purple, blue or green.
Applying a pink or red colored pencil to the inner rims of your eyes can make it look like you've been crying, if that's a look you'd like to experiment with.
Although eye liner is the essential feature, you can go a step further by adding some smoky black or grey eye shadow and a layer or two of black mascara.

