 Before you start the process of glittering your lips, get all your materials in place. You can find most of your materials at a local department store or makeup shop.You will need lipstick in your chosen shade, as well as makeup grade glitter in your chosen shade.
You will need a small makeup brush to apply the glitter.
You will need a liquid base to get the glitter to stick to your brush. You can buy a liquid makeup base at most beauty stores.You will need lip liner that matches your lipstick and glitter.You will need a cotton swap or thick makeup brush to apply the glitter.;
, To start, outline your lips to make them look more defined. Take your lip liner and gently draw a line on the outside of your upper and lower lips.If your lip liner is not sharp enough, make sure to sharpen it before you begin the process.
Go slowly so your lip liner is smooth and not smudged. It should follow the natural outer lines of your lips.
 You should apply your lipstick a little heavier than usual. This will help the glitter stick to your lipstick. It's a good idea to add a couple of layers of lipstick.Blot your lipstick after applying each layer. While you want a slightly heavy layer of lipstick, if it's too thick the glitter will slide. You can use a tissue or paper towel to gently blot your lipstick., Open your glitter container. Take your liquid base and gently squeeze or shake out about two drops of your liquid base onto the lid. Gently dab your makeup brush in this base.You don't want your brush to be dripping wet. It only needs to be damp to apply glitter.
 Dab your brush in your container of glitter. As the brush is now wet, the glitter should easily stick to the brush.For best results, press either side of the brush into the glitter.
Tap the brush on the side of the container when you're done. This will get off any excess glitter.
 Using soft, dabbing motions, press the glitter across your lips. Start pressing the glitter on in the center of your lips. Then, work your way outward in either direction.Use pressing, tapping motions. Dragging and sweeping motions will smear the glitter.
Reapply glitter as necessary to get one layer of glitter on your lips.
 You can add as many layers of glitter as you want. Simply add more glitter to the brush and then apply another layer, starting at the center of your lips and moving outward.Remember to use patting motions instead of dragging or sweeping the brush. You do not want to smear the glitter.
 This will help hold the glitter in place. Press your lips together tightly and hold for a couple of seconds. You should also stick one finger in your mouth, purse your lips, and remove the finger. This will remove any glitter form the inside of your mouth., Glitter has a tendency to get everywhere. There's a good chance there are some stray bits of glitter on your face. After applying glitter to your lips, grab a clean makeup brush. Gently dust any excess glitter off your face using this brush., A lot of makeup glitter is very large and clunky. If you're looking for something theatrical, this can work great. However, if you want something a bit more subtle, go for finer glitter. You may have to experiment with a few different types of glitter until you find one that works for you., It's very easy to get glitter on your teeth when applying it to your lips. To avoid this, do not apply glitter too far inside your lips. Just apply the glitter on the outside of your lips.