 You should have clean hands whenever you are touching the area around your band-aid to prevent the spread of bacteria and possible infection.Use clean water from a tap to wet your hands. Warm or cold is fine.
Turn off the tap and apply soap to your hands.
Rub your hands together to create a lather with the soap making sure to coat the back of your hands, between your fingers, and underneath your fingernails.
Continue scrubbing your hands for 20 seconds. This is about as long as it takes to sing the “Happy Birthday” song twice in a row from beginning to end. Rinse the soap off of your hands with clean water from the tap.
Dry your hands with a clean cloth towel, paper towel, or you can air dry them.
As an alternative to washing your hands, you can use a hand sanitizer that is at least 60% alcohol., Like washing your hands, cleaning the area around your band-aid can help prevent infection or the spread of bacteria during removal.


Fill a clean bowl with clean tap water and mild liquid soap. Warm or cold water is fine, although warm (not hot) water may feel more comforting.
Soak a clean washcloth in the soapy water and wring it out to remove excess moisture.
Gently wash the skin around and on top of the band-aid with the wash cloth. Avoid putting direct pressure on top of the band-aid as you do this. Instead, give it a quick wipe with the cloth.
Gently pat the area dry with a clean, dry washcloth.
 You’ll need a firm grip to keep consistent tension and angle for this method.


This method may work especially well for waterproof band-aids., Pulling parallel to your skin encourages the adhesive to release rather than stick to your skin.


It is normal for the band-aid stretch slightly with this method.
This can be an awkward movement, but when you get the hang of it, you’ll feel the adhesive release from your skin.
 Consistent tension keeps the band-aid from sagging and re-sticking to your skin.


For the final bit, you may have to pull up more vigorously and finish with a quick jerk up and away from your skin.
It will help if you have “follow through” with your movement so you don’t get stuck at the very end.
Keep this movement as steady and smooth as you can so you don’t prolong any discomfort.
Alternatively, you can peel the band-aid off diagonally across the wound. Some people find they are better at controlling the band-aid with this method.
The tingling feeling you have on your skin where the band-aid was should subside shortly.

