 Proper filtration is extremely important for soft shelled turtles because they can get infections very easily. Consider buying the more expensive (but more effective and easier to clean) external pumps, rather than ones that are submersible inside the tanks. They are more expensive but worth it because you will get a higher quality filtration and an easier cleaning process., The air in your turtle’s room should be between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit. If you live in a warm climate, you could potentially keep your turtle outside, but more likely you want to keep your turtle in a room in your house that you can heat or cool to this temperature all the time., The water temperature should be only a little bit colder than the air, between 70 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit. You may need to purchase a water heater for the water in your tank. Titanium heaters are suggested because they are more difficult to break if your turtle swims around a lot. Keep a thermometer in the water to ensure that the temperature remains between these temperatures.
 The basking area is the area completely out of the water where your turtle will leave the water to dry out and enjoy the heat of the heat lamp you provide. This area should be between 90 and 100 degrees Fahrenheit.Put a thermometer in the basking area to make sure that the temperature is suitable.
 Go to your local pet store and find water conditioner that is suitable for turtles. The water that your turtle should live in will be free of chlorine, so find a water conditioner that dechlorinates water. Your water should also be slightly acidic and oxygenated.


To make the water more acidic, first buy a pH testing kit and test your tank’s current pH level. Your tank should only be slightly acidic, so somewhere between 6.0 and 6.5.Once you’ve tested your tank, determine if you need to make the water more acidic or more basic. From there, buy the correct kit (either for making your water more acidic or more basic) and follow the instructions on the package from there. Then, test your water again.

