 The glottal stop is made when you close off airflow in your throat during a word to pronounce your "t’s". Think of it like an absence of sound. For example, if you were to say "glottal stop" with a Scottish accent, you would say "glo’al stop".
The glottal stop is not used for every "t" sound in a Scottish accent. If you have a "t" at the beginning of a word you would still pronounce the "t". For example, "that" would sound like "tha". And at the end of the word, you would constrict your throat to stop the airflow.
 Roll your "r's" only once. Do this especially after a "d", "t" or a "g".


Words like "draw", "trip", and "grand" all get a rolling "r" sound.
Words like "where" can get a bit of an "r" roll, but here you want to touch the tip of your tongue to the roof of your mouth after the "r" sound. This action forms a sort of "de" sound. So "where" becomes more like "wherde". This is also called tapping your "r’s".
 Aitken’s law is the vowel length rule that characterizes how different Scottish vowels are formed. Before learning each specific vowel pronunciation, you can generalize vowel pronunciation to help you get a feel for speaking in a Scottish accent. Generally, vowels which are followed by consonants are short.
Short vowels appear in words like "bead" which is pronounced "bid". In a Scottish accent, the word "mood" rhymes with "good" as you don’t elongate the "oo" in "mood".
Long vowels occur when a word ends on another vowel. For example, you would pronounce a word like "key" as "kee". The same applies for a word like "done". Here it would sound more like the word "dome" but with an "n".
The vowels are key in a true Scottish accent. As a general rule, vowels are less hard sounding in a Scottish accent. Vowels may be short or long, but you pronounce the vowel with more of an open mouth. Remember to keep your jaw loose and not clenched.
An exception to Aitken's law is the last name "Livingstone." You do not pronounce the "o" in it a long vowel sound, although this word did end on a vowel. Rather, you pronounce the "o" as the "o" in the word "ton."

