 You must lower the vault for safety reasons. You do not want the preschooler running at an apparatus that is at head height. If the budding gymnast messes up and goes face-first into the vault, the individual can be injured, have confidence shattered and lose willingness to try the apparatus again. As a rule of thumb, the vault apparatus should not be higher than the middle of the chest.;
, These will be put on the side of the vault opposite the approach (the landing area). Not all stations require a landing mat. Follow the guidance for each individual station.
 Young gymnasts are light, so it is likely that they will not get any bounce if more than three or four springs are installed.
 If they do not know how to hurdle, they will likely get injured. Get them to focus on form and technique-- first by showing, then by doing. Do not allow sloppy habits to form or persist.
 This will allow good circulation of the young gymnasts will and minimize waiting. You will be able to pack more "hands on" practice into each session, so the kids will progress faster.
 Take a springboard and set it up in a safe location so that the kid using it will not hurt anyone. If you have a Tumble Trak, you can also set up the station on the track.
 Stand next to the vault between the springboard and the vault, and help them jump up to the vault. You can position a hula hoop for them to jump through. And, if you make it so the vault goes into the pit, this becomes a super fun station. Of course, fun activities help the learning process immeasurably and should be used whenever possible. In this case, the more fun, the better.
 Emphasize running fast as they can. Give them tips and encourage them through praise and gentle guidance.
 For this exercise, bend your knees and place your hands on floor. Jump up as high as you can and, as you land, assume the same position. The chest should stay up the entire time.
 Jump from a low surface (no more than two feet high) and practice bending the knees and properly positioning the arms. Instruct, observe, and provide corrective guidance.
 Donkey kicks are otherwise known as heel drives, but for the kids, donkey kicks are more fun and intuitive. Hands go on a surface at chest height (vault, block mat, etc.). With help, they bring their feet up with knees slightly bent and kick out like a donkey. When their feet touch the springboard, they bounce up again. Repeat three times (or more).

