 Rinse the squash under cool, running water. Scrub it gently with a vegetable brush to remove any dirt or grime.


Dry the spaghetti squash thoroughly after cleaning it. If the squash is still wet, it may slip around as you attempt to cut it, which could cause you to accidentally cut yourself.;
, Saw the squash in half lengthwise, working from top to bottom.


To make it easier to keep the squash from rolling around on the cutting board, slice away the top or bottom first. Stand the squash on its now flat end and cut it as it stands.
Use a large, heavy kitchen knife. The knife can either be serrated or smooth-bladed, but it needs to be sturdy and sharp either way.
 Use a metal spoon to scrape away the seeds and stringy pulp. Continue scraping until the inside is clean.


You could also use a melon-baller or metal ice cream scoop to remove the inner pulp.
 Position the cut squash in microwave-safe baking dish with the cut-sides facing down.


Use a dish that is small enough to fit inside your microwave but large enough to fit both halves in a single, flat layer without any overlap.
 Pour about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of lukewarm water into the dish and around the spaghetti squash halves.



If your microwave rotates, you do not need to turn the squash at all during the cooking process.
If it doesn't rotate, pause the microwave after 6 minutes, turn the dish 180 degrees, and finish microwaving for the remaining 6 minutes.
The squash is done when the exterior is soft enough to be pierced with a fork.
 Wait until the squash is cool to the touch before attempting to serve it.
 Rest each half of the spaghetti squash cut-side down.


Keep the halves flat and in a single layer. If your dish is too small to fit both halves, microwave each half one at a time rather than piling them on top of each other.
 Seal the wrap around the mouth of the dish. Leave a small gap of space between the plastic wrap and one side of the dish to allow some, but not all, of the steam to vent.


Make sure that the plastic wrap is microwave-safe. Many types and brands are, but not all.



If your microwave does not rotate, pause the cooking every 3 minutes and turn the squash 90 degrees each time. Otherwise, it may not cook evenly.
 Use tongs to carefully pull the plastic wrap off the dish, starting with the side opposite you so that most of the trapped steam escapes away from your direction.


The built-up steam can burn you if you aren't careful.
Allow the squash to sit for 10 to 15 minutes or until it becomes cool enough to handle.
 Use a sharp paring knife to pierce the spaghetti squash in 10 to 15 places, spacing the cuts evenly apart.


It is very important that you pierce the squash before microwaving it. Otherwise, it could overheat and explode in the microwave.
Piercing the squash can be difficult, and you may need to use a forceful, stabbing motion to successfully work the knife through the exterior. Work carefully, however, so that you do not accidentally cut yourself in the process.
Do not follow the preparation instructions for cutting the squash.



If your microwave does not have a rotating turntable inside, rotate the squash 180 degrees after 5 or 6 minutes to make sure that it cooks evenly.
 You do not need to it to be cool to the touch, but allowing the squash to cool down for a few minutes will give it time to release some of the hottest steam and liquid through the cut marks.
 Use a sharp knife to cut the squash open lengthwise, from top to bottom.


Wear oven mitts or hold the squash with a towel as you do this. It will still be hot.
Cutting the squash open should be very easy. If it isn't, you may need to microwave it for another 2 to 3 minutes.
 Dig the seeds out with a metal spoon. The stringy pulp connected to the seeds should also come out, but be careful to avoid scraping out strands of flesh.
 With the flesh-side facing up, use a dinner fork to scrape the flesh of the squash away from the shell and toward the hollowed out center.


Move around the entire perimeter of the shell, gently pulling the flesh away in spaghetti-like strands and "fluffing" those strands toward the center as you work.
If you have difficulty doing this with one fork, use two. One fork can be used to hold the squash in place while the second is used to scrape away strands of flesh.
 Use the fork to gently lift and pull the strands of flesh completely out of the shell and onto the platter.


If the shell is still hot, you may need to hold it with oven mitts or a kitchen towel.
 Add these ingredients to the platter and use two forks to gently toss them into the spaghetti squash.


You can serve spaghetti squash in a variety of other ways, as well. For instance, if using it as a substitute for actual spaghetti, you could add a tomato-based sauce and Parmesan cheese.
Alternatively, you could also toss it with a 2 to 4 Tbsp (30 to 60 ml) of fresh chopped herbs, like basil, parsley, or chives.
