 In OpenOffice.org, a database file is always required for a mail merge; however, you can still create your data in a spreadsheet first.


From your primary document, open the File menu and choose to create a new database file.
In the window that appears, select the “connect to an existing database” option. From the drop-down menu, select “spreadsheet,” and then click Next.
On the next screen, direct OpenOffice.org to the spreadsheet file you wish to use. You can choose whether or not to password protect the database by checking the box underneath the file location. Click Next when you're ready.
On this screen, choose whether to register the database for easier access later, and decide whether or not you want to open the database file to edit it right now. (You probably won't have to if you just created the spreadsheet file.) Click Finish to save the database.

Be sure to give the database a name you can easily remember.
 Now that you've linked your information to a database that OpenOffice.org can understand, it's a simple matter to use that database for mail merging, as long as you know where to look.


From the Insert menu, select 'fields,” and then “other...” from the sub-menu. Alternatively, you can type control-F2.
On the window that appears, click the “database” tab.
Click the Browse button in the lower right part of the window and find the database file you just created.

Once you've selected your database, it will appear in the list titled “database selection” on the right side of the window.


From the “type” list on the left side of the window, select “mail merge fields.”
Click on the + next to your database and a spreadsheet file should appear underneath it. Click on the + next to that, and you will see the field names you chose when you created your spreadsheet.
Select whichever field you want to insert and click Insert to place the field in your primary document.

Remember to place the cursor where you want your field to be inserted before you Insert, or you will have to cut and paste to move it to the right position.
As in Office, text fields are treated like alphanumeric characters in your primary document. You can move them with the space bar and delete them with the delete key.
 Double check every field for proper placement. When you're ready, print your primary document. Mail merge will print one copy for each set of entries in the file you merged to the document.

