 Commentators should make their arguments by offering factual evidence to back their claims. This is true for any type of argument.Reliance on conjecture or pure opinion isn't credible.


Consider how often a commentator makes verifiable factual statements. For example, if a pundit is criticizing a politician and says: "This is exactly the sort of thing he/she always does," does the commentator then provide concrete examples? Or does the commentator simply make a vague statement of opinion?
As a rule of thumb, the more controversial the claim being made, the more evidence the commentator should present.If a commentator unveils a conspiracy theory suggesting hidden forces are controlling the government, a great deal of concrete evidence should be provided. A few pieces of information that could be coincidences or require the reader or listener to "connect the dots" aren't enough.;
, A credible commentator should consider all sides, even those he or she disagrees with. When evaluating a commentator, consider the following:


Does the commentator ever cite information from sources that don't support his or her views? For example, if a commentator is conservative, are moderate or liberal sources ever cited?
Does the commentator seem to present the other side fairly? Does his or her description of opponents views seem like a fair characterization of what people on the other side actually think, or are they only being presented to discredit the opposition?

, Not even the best journalist gets every story right all the time. Both journalists and commentators make mistakes now and then. Credible media professionals will make a correction to set the record straight when this happens.If a commentator makes public corrections when they get something wrong, admitting to the error, this is a good sign for credibility.
By contrast, if a commentator never acknowledges missteps, or denies ever having made them when others point them out, this a poor sign.
Too many corrections could also be an issue! A commentator who constantly gets stories wrong should be taken with a grain of salt, to say the least.

