 Choose a fabric you want to make a belt out of. Get a plastic belt buckle to go along with the fabric. You should buy a plastic belt buckle that doesn’t have a tongue. You can find these belt buckles at craft stores, or you can buy them online at Etsy where there is a variety of stylish belt buckles., Depending on where you want to wear your belt, measure around your body. Use a measuring tape, and have a pencil and pen out to write down the measurement. You will add 6 inches to account for sewing on the belt buckle and the overlap of the belt.
 The inside width of your belt buckle will determine how wide your belt is. Write down the measurement.
 Cut three strips, two of the strips should be fabric and one is the interfacing. Use a pair of sharp scissors to cut your fabric.


Interfacing is a stiff fabric that is used to reinforce fabric, think of the material in the shirt collar that makes it stiff., The first layer should be print side facing up. The second layer should be print side facing down and the third layer should be the interfacing. The interfacing should be on the top. Use straight pins, and pin together the fabric down each of the long sides of the interfacing.
 Lay your belt buckle over the strips to see how wide you need your strap. Use a pencil and measuring tape, and mark the width you want. Then draw straight lines down the length of the fabric to the correct width. These lines will help you sew a straight line and should ensure that you are making a strap that is the right width. Typically, you will stitch about a ⅕ of an inch away from the sides.
 Use a sewing machine and removing the pins as you stitch, sew down each side of the fabric following the stitching line. Do not sew the ends of the fabric yet.
 First, lay your belt buckle back on the fabric to verify it is the right width. Then on both sides of the stitching, you should trim away the excess fabric.


If the stitching is too wide for the belt buckle, go over the fabric again with your sewing machine to make the strap the correct width.
 Hook a safety pin (the bigger the better) to one end of your fabric strap. Push the safety pin through the tube to the other side. You will have to bunch the fabric as you go to get it through.
 Using the cotton setting, iron down the length of your belt. Iron so that the belt is as wide as possible.
 Fold a small amount of the fabric in the tube. Using your sewing machine, sew over the end to neatly sew the bottom of your belt closed. Trim off any excess threads.
 Fold an inch or so of the fabric over the belt buckle, and then stitch it closed to secure the buckle in place. You can sew this fold in place by hand as most sewing machines probably won’t be able to fit between the buckle and the place you are sewing.


Sew the fold so that the edge will be hidden by your belt buckle.

