 Double-click on the icon of your preferred Internet browser to open it.


You can usually find the browser icon on your desktop; if not, find it in your programs list and click it from there.;
, On the address bar at the top of the browser, type in https://app.box.com/, hit Enter, and you’ll be directed to the Box home page.
 Type in your username and password for Box on the fields provided then click the “Log in” button to continue.
 Navigate through your Box folders by clicking on them until you see the folder you want to use as your collaboration folder. All the files and folders under this folder will share the same collaboration settings.
 On the far-right side of the files and folders in your view, click on the small box with the downward arrow to bring up the “More” options. Select “Share” and then “Invite Collaborators” from the sub-menu.


A pop-up window will appear. On this window, enter the names or email addresses of the people you want to invite as collaborators in this folder.
People you invite to be collaborators need to have their own Box accounts as well.
 After inputting the collaborators, you need to set their access levels. Click on the drop-down list to select among “Editor,” “Viewer,” “Co-owner,” “Viewer Uploader,” “Previewer Uploader,” “Previewer,” and “Uploader.”


Each of these access levels have predefined actions that they can execute on the collaboration folder.
An Editor can add, edit, and delete contents on the file while a Viewer can only see the files but cannot change them.
 The last thing you can do on the pop-up window before sending out the invite is to include a message. This is a free text field, so you may write anything.
 Click on the “Send” button to send your invite to those names or email addresses you included in the invitation.
 After you’ve sent out the invite, the folder icon changes from the default yellow folder to a blue folder; this clearly indicates that it as a collaboration folder.
 Click on the folder to get inside it.
 Collaboration folders will have a section on the right side of the page listing the collaborators. This section gives collaborators a quick view of who are in the team.
 If you want to change a specific collaborator’s access level, just hover over his or her name to bring out a short menu then look for the Access link. His current access level is stated there. Click on this link to change his access level.


You can also remove him as a collaborator here by clicking “Remove” on the same menu.
 If the collaborator hasn’t accepted your invite yet, you may want to resend it. Hover over his or her name to bring out a short menu. Look for the Resend Invite link and click on it. The invite will be resent to his or her email address.
 If you want to send a specific collaborator an email, you don’t need to leave Box and go to your email client to do so. Simply hover over his or her name to bring out a short menu. Look for the Email link and click on it.


A pop-up box will appear where you can write your message. Type your message then click the “Okay” button, and your message will be sent.
If you want to send the same message to all the collaborators, click the Mail All link found right under the Collaborators section title.
 One easy way to add more collaborators in this folder is through the Collaborators section. There’s a field there where you can type in names or email addresses. Input the names or email address of the additional collaborators and click the “Invite Collaborators” button.


A default access level will be assigned to these additional collaborators, so you will need to set permissions to change this if needed.
 Go inside your collaboration folder, and click on the “More” button from the header menu. Select “Properties” then “Security” from the sub-menu. The Folder Properties will come out.
 Under the Restrictions section, there’s a check box for “Hide collaborators.” Tick this option if you would like your collaborators to remain anonymous to each other.


Your collaborators won’t know who’s inside the folder working with them. They can only see “Someone” listed under Collaborators.
Only the Owner and Co-Owners can see the names of the collaborators and invite more people to join. This can be useful if you’re working on a secret project.
 Go inside your collaboration folder, and click on the “More” button from the header menu. Select “Properties” then “Security” from the sub-menu. The Folder Properties will come out.
 Under the Restrictions section, there’s a check box for “Only Owners and Co-owners can send collaborator invites.” Tick this option if you want to limit collaborator invites to be done only by the owners of the collaboration folder.

By default, all collaborators can extend invites to join the folder.

