 You can do this using a whisk or fork. For a sweeter crust, add ¼ teaspoon of sugar. Mixing the dry ingredients together will give ensure that everything mixes in evenly.
 You can also use a fork or two crisscrossing knives as well. Keep blending until your mixture resembles coarse, pea-sized crumbs. Make sure that the shortening is cold when you add it in, or your dough won't turn out right.Alternatively, you can pulse the mixture a few times in a food processor or blender.
Some people have had success using solid coconut oil instead of vegetable shortening. Others have found that this makes the dough too soft., Keep mixing and adding water until everything comes together to form a ball. Be careful not to over mix, or your crust will be too tough.,, Next, roll the dough out until it is a few inches wider than your pie dish; you need to include the height of the dish, or the dough won't fit into it.

Sprinkle the dough with more four as necessary to keep it from sticking to the rolling pin.
If you do not own a rolling pin, you can use a glass bottle instead.
 You can do this by folding it into quarters, placing it into the dish, and then unfolding it. You can also do it by gently rolling it onto the rolling pin, then unrolling it over the pie dish.Once you have the dough in the pie dish, trim off any excess with a knife. At this time, you can also pinch the edges of the crust to make it more fancy.

If the dough breaks apart, simply press it back together using your fingers.
If the dough got too soft during the rolling, refrigerate it for 30 minutes before moving onto the next step., Once the baking time is up, reduce the temperature to 400°F (200°C) and bake the crust for a few more minutes. This will give your crust that nice, golden brown color., As the crust cools, you can start preparing your pie filling. You can make a tofu-based one, or soy-free based one.,, Make sure that you are using plain, pureed canned pumpkin and not the "pumpkin pie filling." The canned filling is not vegan. You may also want to cut the tofu into smaller cubes first.

If you don't have a blender, use a food processor fitted with blades instead.
If you can't find all of the spices, you can use 2¼ teaspoons of pumpkin pie spice instead., If the filling is not blending evenly, pause the blender, and use a rubber spatula to scrape any unmixed filling down the sides and towards the bottom. If the filling is still too thick, ad 1 to 2 tablespoons of non-dairy milk (such as almond, rice, or soy) to thin it out, and blend again.
 Use a rubber spatula to scrape all of the mixture out of the blender and to smooth down the top of the pie.
 The pie will not be completely baked, which is fine. You will continue baking it the rest of the way at a cooler temperature.
 The pie is ready when a knife poked into the center comes out clean.
 If the pie is not setting, let it cool down to room temperature first, then put it into the fridge until it sets, about 3 to 4 hours.
, The molasses is not completely necessary, but it will give the pie a more complex flavor. Also, you can use canned pumpkin purée, but make sure that you are using plain pumpkin purée, and not the "canned pumpkin pie filling." The pumpkin pie filling version is not vegan.

If you can't find any cornstarch, you can use arrowroot powder instead.f you can't get all of the spices, use 2½ teaspoons of pumpkin pie spice instead.Alternatively, you can use ¼ to ¾ cups (60 to 180 milliliters) of full fat coconut milk instead of almond, rice, or soy milk for something richer., If the ingredients are not blending smoothly, pause the blender, and scrape any unmixed filling down towards the bottom of the blender with a rubber spatula., Use a rubber spatula to help guide the filling into the crust, and to scrape any mixture leftover out of the blender. Smooth the top of the pie down with the spatula, if necessary., The pie is ready when a knife poked into the center comes out clean., The pie will need to finish setting first before you can serve it. If the pie is still too soft, let it chill for another 1 to 2 hours.