 Have your Illusion skill reach level 100 to become a Master Illusion. You can easily do this by continuously casting illusion-type magic spells like Clairvoyance, Courage, Fear, Calm, and more. Reaching level 100 Illusion Skill will take time so be really patient.


You can check the level of your Illusion by pausing the game and opening the In-Game Menu. Select “Skills” from the four options and you should see the level of your Illusion skill here, along with other skills of your character.;
, Winterhold is the city found on the northeastern corner of the map. The city houses the faction of mages in Skyrim called the College of Winterhold. From the city of Dawnstar, take the road heading eastward. This will take you straight to Winterhold.
 Once you’re in the city, cross the Winterhold Bridge to get to the college. Once you’re in the courtyard of the college, enter the room on the right side called the Hall of Countenance and you’ll find a Dunmer (a type of race in Skyrim) called Drevis Neloren.


Drevis will tell you to find four Master Illusion books. He will also give you the Vision of the Tenth Eye spell, which allows your character to see invisible objects.
 Go up the stairs of the Hall of Countenance. Once in the second floor, open your in-game menu and select “Magic.” Select “Illusion” from the menu panel on the right-hand side of the game screen and choose “Vision of the Tenth Eye.”


Enter the first room on the right where you’ll find some crates and barrels. The first book can be found placed on top of a barrel. Approach it and press the “Take” button on your controller to add the book to your inventory.
 Head outside the courtyard and enter the room call the Hall of Attainment right across the Hall of Countenance. Once inside, go up the stairs to the second level.


Turn to the left, and if you use the Vision of the Tenth Eye spell, you should see a book under a bench. Approach it and add the book to your inventory.
 Head back to the courtyard and enter the largest building of the college. Once inside, turn right and take the stairwell up to the college’s library called the Arcanaeum. Once inside, turn left and you’ll find the third book on a wooden table.
 Head back to the main courtyard and take the path outside the leads around the largest building. Around this area you’ll find a trap door that leads up the college dungeon called the Midden.


Enter the Midden and follow the path all the way to the main hall where you’ll find a circular platform with candles all around it.
Just before the entrance to the main hall you’ll find a wooden table and chair. On top of the table you’ll find the fourth book.
 Go back to the Hall of Countenance and give the four books to Drevis Neloren. He will then award you of the Hysteria Spell tome. The quest will now be completed, and you can choose to use the spell tome right away or save it for later.

