 To help keep things tidy, you should teach your children at a young age how to put their clothing away. While a young child may not understand this right away, you can help them by putting their clothing in a place that is easy for your child to reach and handle.Some ways to keep the space accessible include:


Installing a low bar for hanging clothing
Putting in child-height shelves
Using soft-sided bins
Hanging clothing on child-sized hangers

, If you want to keep a minimalist design in the children’s bedroom, hiding shelves and drawers in the closet is a great way to go. When the door is closed, the clothing is hidden out of sight. You can do this by adding cubbies or shelves in the closet.


Cubbies with pull-out bins are easy for children to handle. You can store folded clothing inside of these. You even can buy modular cubbies. Modular cubbies are ones that you put together yourself. You only have to buy exactly how many cubes you need or have space for., The back of the closet door can be used for hanging storage. This makes the room look tidy when closed, but it provides a great way for individual storage for things like socks, underwear, scarves, belts, jewelry, and shoes.You can hang a string on the back of the door as a DYI clothesline. Hammer two nails directly across from one another on the back of the door, leaving a centimeter of space between the head of the nail and the door. Tie the string to the nails. You can tuck scarves and belts over the string.
Command hooks can be attached to the back of a door for jewelry, scarves, belts, or bags.
Soft hanging boxes can be used for shoes, underwear, socks, or accessories.
 To avoid clutter in their bedroom, make sure that your child knows where to put their clothing when it is dirty. Put a small laundry bin in their room. This can be in a corner, by the bed, or in the closet. Teach them to always put dirty clothing in the bin when they are done wearing it. This will prevent clothing from messing up their room.


Teach your children by showing them where the basket is. If they are young, hand them the dirty clothing and say, "Put it in the basket." Let them do it themselves to learn the habit.

