 Every organ of the human body is affected by smoking. The lungs, heart, esophagus, larynx, liver, stomach, and pancreas are some examples.;
, It causes more deaths than HIV, illegal drug use, alcohol use, motor vehicle injuries, and firearm-related incidents combined.


Smoking causes 90% of lung cancer deaths. Lung cancer is one of the more serious cancers, and smoking increases the chance of getting lung cancer. Moreover, only 10% of lung cancer deaths aren't related to smoking.
A smoker's lung is bombarded with radiation. The units are measured in picocuries per liter, or pCi/L. The average amount a human receives is about 0.2-1 pCi/L a year, and a smoker's lung is over 1000 times that at 200 pCi/L a year.
 Compared to a nonsmoker, people who smoke are more likely to contract heart disease, stroke, and lung cancer. All of these complications can be avoided by choosing not to smoke. Of course, there is a small chance that these complications will occur even without smoking.
 Smoking increases the chance of contracting life-threatening diseases. People who smoke are 2 to 4 times more likely to contract coronary heart disease, 2 to 4 times more likely to have a stroke, or 25 times more likely to contract lung cancer. Other health risks include cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, and various cancers.
 Pregnant smokers can have serious complications. Because smoking is linked to various complications, the baby will be directly affected.


Smoking while pregnant may result in an early delivery, stillbirth, low birth weight, sudden infant death syndrome, ectopic pregnancy, or orofacial clefts in the infant.
In addition to health complications, smoking can lower the chances of becoming pregnant. Starting a family could be challenging if both parents smoke cigarettes. In addition, infants are likely to have growth complications if they are exposed to cigarette smoke.
 Being in a room with a smoker for a half hour is the same as smoking one cigarette. It's recommended to avoid being in the same room as somebody who is smoking to minimize exposure to the toxic chemicals.


Don't be afraid to get a little angry. Smoking in public areas is selfish. People who choose not to smoke don't want to be exposed to secondhand smoke. Some public places have designated smoking areas.
 Studies have proven that smokers are at risk for a multitude of health problems. Within ten years of quitting smoking, most health risks will be less likely from occurring. However, the odds will never be as good as a non-smoker's.
 A year after quitting smoking, the risk for a heart attack drops sharply. Heart attacks happen at random, and smoking increases the chances of having one. Only after one year of quitting smoking, the risk of a heart attack drops sharply.


Anywhere between 2 and 5 years after quitting, the risk of stroke drops to about the same level as a non-smoker's. Within 5 years, the risk for certain cancers will drop by half. After ten years have passed, the risk for lung cancer drops by half.
 Tell them to avoid smoking in the first place. Most of the aforementioned health risks can be avoided. It may seem convincing to try a cigarette, but it won't be worth it in the long run. Young people are more prone to try a cigarette, so it's important for them to learn how much of a bad habit it is.
 An average pack of cigarettes contains about twenty cigarettes and costs up to $14.00. Some states have lower prices, but the cost of smoking can quickly add up.


Smoking a pack a week can cost up to $416.00 a year. Smoke three packs a week can cost up to $1,248.00 a year.
Some states, such as New York, charge up to $14.00 for a pack of cigarettes. Higher prices are meant to reduce the amount of smokers, but once addicted, it is not easy to quit. These states should use the taxes earned from cigarette purchasers to invest in quitting programs.
 Instead of spending hard earned cash on cigarettes, ask them if they have anything on their wish list. This way, they will be more compelled to save their money rather than waste it on cigarettes.


Emphasize how much money they will save. As previously stated, smoking is not a cheap habit. By reemphasizing how much money they will save by not smoking, it is more likely that they will never start.

