 If you have the suburban or nice apartment dream or ambitions to be a traditional business person or manager, then this is probably for someone else, another person.


Zippies received media exposure during the American 1972 Democratic and Republican National Conventions in Miami Beach, Florida, when the term was worn on t-shirts by counter-culture activists and groups working to end US involvement in the Vietnam War.



Eat fancy restaurant leftovers for free -- if you wash a few dishes or something?;
, They are found as various youths who have taken up the term and may differ from the earlier groupings. They may interact with other "Zippie tribes" from across the planet and communicate, or just do their own versions as a group or individual life style.
 Be an informal computer-geek or technician (in techie culture).Wikipedia:Yuppie:

,


"There's a new and rapidly spreading cultural virus ripping through the British Isles. The symptoms of those infected include attacks of optimism, strong feelings of community and lowered stress levels. Will their gathering in August at the Grand Canyon be the Woodstock of the '90s?"This is also revealed in the magazine Encyclopedia Psychedelica (EPi), that identified them as "Hippies with zip." EPi says, a zippie is
"someone who has balanced their hemispheres to achieve a fusion of the technological and the spiritual. The techno-person understands that rationality, organization, long-term planning, consistency and single-mindedness are necessary to achieve anything solid on the material level. The hippie understands that vision, individuality, spontaneity, flexibility and open-mindedness are crucial to realize anything on the spiritual scale.", They called zippies "Liberalization's Children," and defines one of that subculture as

"a young city or suburban resident, between 15 and 25 years of age, with a zip in the stride. Belongs to generation Z. Can be male or female, studying or working. Oozes attitude, ambition and aspiration. Cool, confident and creative. Seeks challenges, loves risks and shuns fears." Indian zippies carry no guilt about making money or spending it. They are, says one Indian analyst quoted by Outlook, "destination driven, not destiny driven; outward, not inward, looking; upwardly mobile, not stuck-in-my-station-in-life.", doing zip for zip: