 Many pets that are exposed to marijuana have difficulty moving because of it.If your pet is disoriented and is having trouble moving, and it has not had these problems in the past, then it may have been exposed to marijuana. In this case, you should take your dog to the veterinarian immediately.


Watch your dog or cat eat. Is it having trouble ingesting its food? This could signal that it is having problems with its motor control.
Is your dog or cat having trouble getting up or walking normally? If it has not had previous episodes of trouble with movement, then it could be under the influence of marijuana.
 Dogs and cats that ingest marijuana are prone to depressed or antisocial behavior while under the influence of the drug. If your pet's personality has shifted suddenly and they are acting out of character, this could be a sign that they have ingested marijuana.This shift in personality is understandable on some level, as they do not understand what is happening to them and may be very disoriented and scared.
 If your dog or cat has ingested a large amount of marijuana it may lose control of some of its body functions. Even if the pet is house broken, it may urinate or defecate in the house. It may drool uncontrollably. It may also vomit due to the ingestion.One way to tell if your pet has ingested marijuana is if the marijuana is visible in your pet's vomit.
 If you suspect that your pet has ingested marijuana and it is experiencing severe side effects, then you should call your veterinarian or call poison control to get advice about what to do.Your veterinarian may be able to induce vomiting or give activated charcoal to minimize the effects of the marijuana.They can also give fluids and oxygen, give calming medications, and give general supportive care.Tell the veterinarian when you think the dog or cat ingested the marijuana and what their symptoms have been. Say: "I think my dog may have ingested marijuana - he's vomiting and looking unwell."
It can be embarrassing to admit to your veterinarian that your dog or cat has been exposed to marijuana. However, for the health of your pet, it's important that you do. That will allow your veterinarian to understand the situation better and to help your pet for effectively.
It is especially important to take your pet to a veterinarian if you suspect that it has eaten marijuana that was combined with another drug. Be honest with the veterinarian about what you think your pet has eaten so that the vet can treat your pet quickly and effectively.

