 Stretching your muscles before driving will improve circulation and flexibility. You should stretch your back as well as your arms, since back strain and misalignment can cause arm pain.Stretch your hands by extending your fingers and holding them outstretched for 10 seconds. Relax them, then bend your fingers at the knuckles, hold for 10 seconds, and repeat the sequence.Hold your hands palm to palm in front of you in a praying pose. Keeping your palms together and elbows up, more your hands downward and hold for 10 seconds. Return to the praying position and, with your palms still together, point your fingers to the left and right.Inhale and extend your arms up and around you as far as possible to trace an imaginary circle around yourself. Exhale and trace the imaginary circle downward to bring your arms back to your sides.
While standing, bend over to reach for your toes to stretch your lower back. Count to 10 as you hold the stretch. Bend your knees slightly if necessary.;
, Use a loose grip on the steering wheel, and change your grip frequently. Move your fingers around to keep your hands and wrists from cramping. Your arms should be relaxed with your shoulders and upper arms by your sides and your elbows slightly bent.Avoid locking your elbows or gripping the steering wheel with tense, fully extended arms.
 It’s safest to keep both hands on the steering wheel at all times. However, if you’re on a long drive and can safely do so, take 30 seconds to relax one arm. Hold it by your side completely relaxed, then rest the other arm for 30 seconds at the next safe opportunity.


A low-traffic area with minimal turns would be a good opportunity to rest an arm for at least 30 seconds. If your route has a lot of traffic and turns, you should keep both hands on the wheel.
 Place mints, tissues, sunglasses, or any other items you anticipate needing within a foot of the driver’s seat. Avoid reaching uncomfortably for the glove compartment or toward the passenger and back seats. Keeping items within easy reach will help prevent awkward reaching that can result in arm pain.Pull over if you need something that’s not easily accessible.
 If you’re on a long drive, avoid forcing yourself to make the trip without taking breaks every hour or so. Give yourself at least an extra half hour so you’ll have time to stop and get out of the car. During your breaks, stretch your arms, hands, and back, and walk around for a few minutes.