 Every week, Joan will appear in your Animal Crossing town. To find her, make sure that you check the entire outdoor map by running around.


Joan will only appear on Sunday from 6AM to 12PM.
If you have time traveled, then Joan will NOT be selling her red turnip seeds, and there is no way for you to purchase one until following week (provided that you don’t time travel again).;
, Once you’ve found Joan in your town, talk to her by pressing “A.” She will have options to buy either white turnips or red turnips.
 To acquire a red turnip seed, choose the option for red turnips.


Red turnip seed cost 1,000 bells.
 Unlike white turnips, which Joan sells to the player as grown turnips, the red turnips come in seed form only. This means that you will need to plant the seed and let it grow before you can reap the benefits.


To plant the seed, dig a hole (by pressing “Y”) outside with your shovel and plant the bag of red turnip seeds.
The red turnips take 6 days to grow fully.
 To water the red turnip seed, simply equip your watering can, stand next to the turnip, and press “A.”


Red turnip seeds must be watered every day.
If you don’t water the red turnip every day, it will wither and die, and you will make no money off of it.
Overwatering is also harmful to the red turnip, so you will have to be precise and take care to water it once and only once every day for 6 days.
 Your profit is based directly on how long you allowed the red turnip to grow. The following illustrates how the number of days the seed has been planted affects its selling price:


0 days (same day as planted) — 2 bells
1 day (day after it was planted) — 100 bells
2 days — 500 bells
3 days — 2,000 bells
4 days — 4,000 bells
5 days — 8,000 bells
6 days — 16,000 bells

, Once your red turnip is grown, simply equip your shovel and press “Y” next to the red turnip to dig it up. Then with the red turnip in your inventory, head over to Tom Nook’s store.
 Do this by pressing “A,” and you will be able to sell him your red turnip.

