 Preparation is key when planning your precipitation themed party! Start at least 1 month before your event so you're not rushing at the last minute.;
, When deciding when you want your party, keep your guests in mind. This doesn't mean planning your entire event around one person, but in general, try to be considerate about other people's plans.
 Whether you're hosting the event at your home, a friend's house, or renting a space, make sure you have enough room for all your guests. Also, if you're having the party at a rented space, ask the employees if you can hang things like signs and décor.
 The amount of guests you have all depends on the size of your soiree. If you want a small get-together, 5-10 people is appropriate. However, if it's a larger party, you should expand the list to 10 or more. Just make sure its filled with people you enjoy and that there's enough food and room to keep everyone happy!

, Your guests first impression is very important, so be sure to make the invites interesting by incorporating whimsical aspects like umbrellas, rain boots, and puffy little clouds. Also, include the date, time, location, dress code, and an RSVP. There are several websites such as Shutterfly and TinyPrints where you can make your own custom invitations. If you prefer to make them yourself you can create great looking cards on Microsoft Publisher. However, if you choose to do this avoid using plain printer paper (it looks cheap) and use proper cardstock instead.
 This is the best part of any party! Music is essential for getting everyone dancing, laughing, and having a good time. If you want to blend rain into the music, throw in some shower focused songs here and there. Be sure to sprinkle, not downpour these tunes throughout the night or the novelty will get old.


Here are some suggestions:

Rain- The Beatles
Sunday Morning- Maroon 5
Purple Rain- Prince
Coming Clean- Hillary Duff
Brown Eyed Girl- Jimmy Buffet
It's Raining Men- The Weather Girls
Umbrella- Rihanna



, Ok, THIS is the best part of any party. Make sure you have MORE than enough food for everyone. The rule of thumb is you want people to be able to walk away with leftovers. Some great themed food items are cloud cupcakes and umbrella-shaped cookies. After baking the cupcakes, freeze them. This way, you won't have to worry about making them on the day of your party and you can simply whip-up the frosting. For non-desserts try easy appetizers like lettuce wraps, wings, and fried wontons. Finally, buy the ingredients ahead of time, it will make things easier on the day of the party.
 Drinks are another very important part of your party. To put a dewy-themed spin on your refreshments, make a blue cocktail and top it off with some fresh fruit.*For non-alcoholic options try this recipe for Blue Punch (serves 20).


1 package of unsweetened blueberry drink mix
1 liter (0.3 US gal) bottle of Sprite (or any other lemon-lime flavored soft drink)
1 bottle of cranberry juice
1 cup of white sugar

, décor is crucial in establishing the mood of a party and creating an experience. Here is where your April Showers Party really comes to life. Utilize DIY projects to sprinkle a bit of kitschiness throughout your event. One idea is to fill children's' rain boots with flowers for a table centerpiece. Another is making three dimensional hanging clouds out of wire and polyester filling. The possibilities are endless if you think out of the box (and take advantage of creative ideas on the internet!). For timing, start crafting at least 3-5 days ahead of time. The night before the party, start putting out all the decorations, including setting the table. To avoid dust that may fall overnight, lay down a light tablecloth over the table.
 So today's the big day. Try to wake up relatively early in the morning to give yourself a good start. Begin preparing your food by taking the cupcakes out of the freezer, and a little later on start the icing. You may want to recruit some friends over before the festivities start to help you with the overall set-up. Another thing to remember is parking. Depending on how many people show, you may have to warn your neighbors that there will be more cars than usual on the street. Finally, start the music a little before the guests come over. This will help you get excited and also make it feel like the party has already started when the guests walk in.
 You made it. Remember during the party to relax and have fun. Try not to get bogged down in what might go wrong, enjoy the moment, and have fun!

