 If you donate regularly to MADD, you can advertise your support of the organization to others. For example, you might want to sign the MADD pledge or tie a red ribbon on your car.Not only can you tie a ribbon on your car as part of MADD's "Tie One On" program, you also can distribute red ribbons to your friends and neighbors to advocate support for the organization. The ribbons remind drivers to stay sober.
Signing the MADD pledge also demonstrates your support for MADD's mission.
 A victim advocate provides emotional support and resources for victims in person, over the phone and via mail. You also can work in one of MADD's call centers as a helpline volunteer.Before you can work as a volunteer victim advocate, you must undergo extensive training. Any education or experience you have in counseling or victim advocacy may be helpful.
 From the MADD website, you can find contact information for your state and national representatives. Talk to staff in your local office about what issues to raise with your legislators.If there is a law pending that is related to drunk driving, your local office may have a script you can follow to call or write your legislator.
 If there is a law pending in state, local, or national government that would impact drunk-driving enforcement or punishment, MADD may draft a petition expressing the organization's position on the law.Your local office will have information on any petitions that are currently circulating. You also may be able to find information about online petitions from the MADD website.
 Every year, the MADD national organization as well as local offices hold a number of rallies all over the country to raise awareness about drunk driving and gain support for their cause.You can work at these events behind the scenes. You also may be called upon to introduce speakers or help recruit volunteers.
 If you are someone who has been personally affected by a drunk driver, you can speak out on victim impact panels or as a featured speaker at a community event sponsored by MADD. Talking about your loss may inspire others and help prevent drunk driving.Even if you haven't experienced any personal loss as the result of a drunk driver, you still may be able to get involved with victim impact panels or community events as an organizer or coordinator.
For example, if you have a connection with a local high school where a student was recently arrested for drunk driving after a collision, you might work with the school principal and your local MADD office to bring a speaker to the school to talk to the students.

