 The inner parts of your ear are crucial for both your sense of hearing and balance. Swelling due to the condition can lead to an impairment of both, which then has other cascading effects. The most common effect by which to recognize labyrinthitis include:Vertigo (a spinning feeling when standing still)
Difficulty focusing due to your eyes moving on their own
Dizziness
Hearing loss
Imbalance
Nausea and vomiting
Tinnitus (ringing or other noises in your ears);
, Recent viral illnesses (colds and flus), as well as respiratory and ear infections, significantly increase your risk for labyrinthitis.However, a number of more controllable activities can raise your risk for the condition or worsen the condition once you have it. These activities include:Overconsumption of alcohol
Fatigue
Severe allergies
Smoking
Stress
Certain medications (such as aspirin)

, OTC antihistamines are used to treat allergies, and they can help reduce the congestion from a recent infection, which may be what’s causing the swelling leading to the labyrinthitis.Common antihistamines include diphenhydramine (Benadryl), cetirizine (Zyrtec), loratadine (Claritin), desloratadine (Clarinex), and fexofenadine (Allegra).Many antihistamines can cause drowsiness, so read the effects on the packaging closely, and always stay within the recommended dosages., Since labyrinthitis is most often caused by a viral infection, you must often wait for your immune system to do its job and beat the virus. During this time you can help reduce any associated dizziness with an OTC medication.The most common OTC medicine for dizziness is meclizine (Bonine, Dramamine, or Antivert)., The effects of labyrinthitis usually come as attacks rather than a continuous set of symptoms. When you have an attack of vertigo due to the condition, you can take several steps to help reduce the effects. You should:Rest as best as you can and try to stay still without moving your head
Avoid changing positions or making sudden movements
Resume activities slowly
Get help walking so you don’t injure yourself in a fall
Avoid bright lights, television (and other electronic screens), and reading during attacks

, There are some exercises that can help you to reduce the feeling of vertigo. The most effective exercise is called the Epley maneuver.This maneuver can help to reposition the small particles in the canals of your inner ear called otoliths. These particles, when knocked out of place, can induce vertigo. To perform the maneuver:Sit in the middle of your bed at the edge with your head turned 45° toward the direction that induces the vertigo.
Quickly lay down backward with your head still toward the direction that produces the vertigo. This will likely lead to a strong vertiginous response. Stay in this position for thirty seconds.
Turn your head 90° to the opposite direction and hold for another thirty seconds.
Rotate both your head and your body in the same direction (you will now be on your side with your head over the edge of the bed pointed 45° toward the ground). Hold for another thirty seconds before sitting back up.
Repeat this five or six times until you no longer experience a response of vertigo to the maneuver.
 While the most severe symptoms of labyrinthitis usually last about a week, you can still have milder symptoms for three weeks (on average).Sudden dizzy spells while driving, climbing, or operating heavy machinery can all prove dangerous as you recover.Take the necessary precautions and consider consulting a physician regarding when it is safe for you to resume these activities.

