 More than anything else, calcium is essential to good bone health; if you do not get enough calcium, your body will borrow calcium from the stored supply in your body. If this happens on a regular basis, the bones in your body will become weak, porous and brittle. Once your bones weaken, you have an increased risk of fracturing your bones. When you were a child, milk was a great source of calcium, but when you reach adulthood, milk should not be the primary source of your calcium intake for these reasons:


Most dairy products are high in saturated fat, which increases your risk of developing heart disease. Consuming high fat dairy products will also add calories to your diet, which could result in obesity.
Milk, even organic milk, contains natural estrogens. Recent medical studies suggest that increased estrogen may be linked to certain forms of cancer, particularly cancer of the reproductive organs. You may think that drinking organic milk will provide the calcium you need, but not endanger your health, but what you may not realize is that there are hormones in organic milk that has been obtained from a pregnant cow. The estrogen is a result of hormones in the milk, and your body cannot distinguish between natural and artificial hormones. Stick to skim or low fat organic milk, because there are more hormones present in milk fat.
As you age, your body is less able to digest lactose, which is a sugar found in milk and other dairy products. Symptoms of lactose intolerance range from very mild to very severe. If lactose is a problem for you, buy dairy products that are labeled, “lactose free.”;
, The following vegetables contain very high amounts of calcium:


Collard greens
Kale
Turnip greens
Garlic
Arugula
Broccoli
Mustard greens
Sun dried tomatoes
Spinach (raw)
Okra

, (Don’t add vinegar or wine to the stock; they will deplete the bones or shells of calcium.)

, There are abundant amounts of calcium in the tiny, soft bones.
, Flaxseed oil is particularly good, but try to include unrefined, organic olive oil and sunflower oil as well.
, The phytoestrogens contained in soy products slow down bone loss. Look for recipes that call for tofu, miso or tamari sauce. If you already eat a lot of foods containing soy, add some sea vegetables high in iodine to your diet because the increased iodine will provide a counter-balance to the thyroid-lowering factors found in soy.
 Silicon is a natural element that increases calcium absorption. Include in your regular diet these foods that are high in Silicon:


Millet
Apples
Almonds
Oranges
Onions
Cucumbers
Honey
Pumpkin

, Sunlight contains vitamin D, which your body needs to properly absorb calcium. Sit in the sun without sunscreen on your skin for fifteen minutes a day, preferably early in the morning when the sun’s rays are weaker. Sunscreen inhibits the body’s ability to synthesize vitamin D. If you absolutely cannot tolerate the sun, take a vitamin D supplement every day. Ask your doctor for advice on what amount you should take.
 Take about 500 milligrams at a time, and space the doses throughout the day because your body can’t absorb doses larger than 500 to 600 milligrams at one time. Ask your doctor what the recommended calcium dosage is for you, and whether or not calcium supplements will interfere or interact adversely with any prescription medications you may be taking.

