 Cats need space to walk, climb, and explore. Your cat should have access to multiple rooms within your home. They should also have plenty of scratching posts and toys available to them in these rooms. This will give your cat room to exercise while encouraging them to play.Cat condos, perches, and climbing trees can help provide extra space for your kitty in tight quarters. These give your cat multiple platforms at varying heights to jump and climb on., Cat trees help satisfy two urges for cats: climbing and scratching. Both of these activities help the cat strengthen their muscles and stay active.A good cat tree will have platforms, hiding holes, and sturdy posts which the cat can scratch. It should be tall enough that your cat can fully stretch while scratching.If your scratching post has several tiers, you should put it in a central location where your cat can watch the daily activity of the household or look outside. This will encourage your cat to climb the cat tree.You should have several smaller scratching posts in most rooms around your home. This will help prevent your cat from scratching furniture while strengthening their muscles.
 Cats love to hide and climb into things. Cardboard boxes and paper bags, such as the kind given at grocery store, will let your cat hide, jump, and play. You can add some catnip inside and watch your cat chase it around the room.


Remove the handles from a paper bag first so your cat does not get stuck in them.Do not use plastic bags. These can suffocate your cat.
 While your cat may live indoors, they may enjoy sitting outside in a protected environment. An outdoor enclosure allows the cat to play outside in the fresh air and sunlight without risking an escape or injury. Look for one with screen walls and a stable roof.You can buy outdoor enclosures online and occasionally in pet stores. Alternatively, you can build your own. Some websites sell do-it-yourself-kits.
If you do not have a yard or room for a full enclosure, you may also consider a window box.
Some people add tunnels or perches to their enclosures to encourage their cat to run and jump.
 Cats can play with each other, boosting their social interaction skills and providing them an important outlet of exercise. If you only have one cat, you might want to think about whether or not you can take in another one.Think about your lifestyle. Do you have enough room for another cat? Can you afford another cat? You might also want to consider your cat’s feelings. Does your cat do well with other animals? Do you think they would appreciate another pet?
Young cats may get along better with one another than older cats.

