 A qualified attorney can look at a draft lease and recommend changes or additions. You can also call a lawyer if you have any questions while drafting your sporting facility contract. Because you are creating a legally-enforceable agreement, you should make sure to have all questions answered and make the contract as comprehensive as possible.


Your company may have a lawyer on staff or a private attorney on retainer. If so, you should schedule a meeting and talk about the contract. Your attorney can draft it for you.
If your company does not have a lawyer, then you should find one. Call your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.After you have the name of a lawyer, you can schedule a consultation and ask any questions that you have.;
, There is no “one size fits all” sporting facility contract. They differ depending on the duration of the contract and who is leasing.


For example, a lease agreement for a professional sports team to lease a stadium on a long-term basis will be very extensive.The lease agreement will need to cover topics that a short-term agreement will not need to cover, such as who is responsible for making capital improvements to the stadium.
By contrast, a short-term lease agreement is more basic.
If you are drafting a long-term lease agreement for a professional or collegiate team, then you should consult with a lawyer, who can advise you about how to draft the lease.
 You should begin by setting up your word processing document. Set the font to a readable size and style. Times New Roman 12-point works well, but set the format to anything which is comfortable.


Also add the title to the top of the document: “Facility Rental Agreement.” Center the title and put it in a larger font than the rest of the document., In the opening paragraph, you will include the date and the names of the parties. Set up the paragraph like a template, using blank lines. This way, you can use the sporting facility contract multiple times.


Sample language might read, “This Facilities Rental Agreement (‘Agreement’) is made and effective this , by and between (‘Lessor’) and (‘Lessee’). Lessor and Lessee are each a ‘Party’ to this Agreement and collectively are referred to as ‘Parties.’”, You might have multiple facilities for rent. For example, you could have a stadium, field house, an auditorium, and other buildings. If you have more than one facility to rent, then list them with a check box beside each.The lessor will then check the box of the facilities they want to rent.
 Every contract involves two parties giving up something in exchange for something from the other party. This language creates the legal contract. You need to include your mutual promise language here.


Sample language: “Whereas, Lessor, for and in consideration of the performance by Lessee of all covenants, conditions, terms and agreements hereinafter contained, agrees to grant Lessee the non-assignable right to use the Facility in its present condition. Now, therefore, the Parties hereby agree as follows.”, You should decide what kind of events you will allow to be hosted in your facility. You might let anyone host an event if they can pay your fee. By contrast, you might want to limit what kinds of events can be held in your facility.


You might want to state that you won’t rent to any event considered potentially dangerous to your organization’s reputation or to the facility itself.You should also include a provision stating that you will decide the extent of personnel required for the event. Personnel include ushers, security, and other staff members.
 You should include a section on how someone can contact you in order to rent the facility. Be sure to tell them how much notice in advance they must give you and who they should contact. You also should require the potential renter to include the following:the nature of the event
the dates they are requesting
the time of the event
any event details, such as equipment needs

, Sometimes the lessee needs to cancel, so you should state how much advanced notice you need. Also state whether you will refund the deposit. For example, you might choose to refund the deposit if cancellation is made at least five days before the event.


Sample language could read, “If an event is cancelled five business days or more prior to the approved dates, the Deposit will be refunded. There will be no refund with less than a five business day notice. Notice of cancellation must be made in writing.”, You should tell the lessee where to mail a letter if it needs to contact you. Identify a representative for your organization who can receive and process communications, such as cancellations.


Sample language might read, “Any notice delivered under this Agreement will be deemed received on the third day after being sent by United States mail, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the organization at the address indicated below.” Then type the name of the contact person and the address., Insert a blank line so that people can write in the dates and times they want to rent the facility. Sample language might read: “The term of this Agreement shall be for the inclusive dates and times listed” and then insert your blank line., You will want lessees to purchase public liability insurance. You should talk with other sporting facilities in your area to see how much they require lessees to purchase in insurance. Also request that the lessee give you a copy of the insurance policy before the event.


You could write, “Lessee shall obtain at its own cost public liability insurance to cover Lessee’s use of the Facility for its schedule function. The insurance shall be in a sum of not less than $250,000 for each person injured or killed and not less than $500,000 per occurrence for the injury or death of one or more persons, and property damage insurance in the sum of not less than $250,000 for each insurance. Lessor shall be named as an additional insured. Lessee shall, at the execution of this agreement, furnish Lessor with a copy of said insurance policy or certification that such insurance has been issued.”, You should state how much it costs to staff the event. Since you will decide the staffing needs, you should tell the lessee how much it costs per employee per hour. Be sure to list the general categories of employees and how much you charge per hour:Facility Operations Full Time Staff
Facility Operations Student Staff (if you are a college or university)
Electronics Full Time Staff
Electronics Student Staff (if applicable)
Security or ushers

, You might charge rent by the hour or by the day. You can also rent by "half-days," which would be about four hours or so. However you calculate it, include a brief description of how much you charge.For example, you could write: “The rental rate is $1,000 per half day (up to four hours) or $2,000 for a full day (more than four hours).”

, Sometimes lessees think that they can sign a lease and then sell the lease to someone else. This is called “assignment.” If you don’t want the lessee to be able to assign the lease, then you should include a no assignment provision.


You could write, “Lessee shall not transfer or assign any of its rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of Lessor.”, This clause legally protects you in the event that a crisis or disaster beyond your control makes the performance of the contract impossible or unwise. Force majeure clauses typically cover natural disasters but also strikes or rioting. Without the clause, a court could find that you violated the contract even if it was dangerous to try and keep the facility open.


A sample force majeure clause might read: “If performance of any obligation of either party is prevented by an act of God, regulation of any public authority, civil disturbance, epidemic, strike, war conditions, or other similar causes beyond the control of either party, then it is understood that there shall be no claim for damages for failure to perform the obligations that were thus prevented.”, You want the lessee to agree not to sue you in case something happens, such as an accident during the sporting event. You can try to protect yourself by including an indemnification provision. To make this provision stand out, you can type it in all caps. A sample indemnification clause could read:


“Lessee shall indemnify and hold Lessor, its officers, and employees harmless from any claim, suit, or proceeding arising out of the subject matter of this agreement, and Lessee shall indemnify Lessor, its officers, and employees for all expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred in defending such claims.”, If you are sued, then a judge might find that some provision in the contract is illegal. Generally, judges will void the entire contract if even one provision is illegal. However, you can make sure that the remainder of the contract is in force by including this clause:


“If any provision of this Agreement is ruled invalid in an arbitral or judicial proceeding, such finding shall not affect the validity of any other provision of this Agreement as a whole, which shall remain in full force and effect.”, You must state that the written contract contains the entire agreement. If you don’t, then the lessee could claim that you had an oral side agreement which trumps the written agreement. You can prevent this from happening by including a merger clause:


“This Agreement embodies the entire agreement between the Parties and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, if any, relating to the subject matter hereof. All proposals, negotiations, notices, and representations concerning matters covered by this Agreement are merged in this instrument. No amendment shall be made other than in a writing signed by the Parties or their authorized representatives.”, You should state which state’s law will be used to interpret the contract if there is a lawsuit. Although you can choose the state’s law, you typically will choose the law of the state where the facility is located. A sample choice of law provision could read:


“This Agreement, including without limitation, any disputes arising out of or relating to this Agreement, shall be governed by the laws of the State of , without regard to its conflict of law provisions.”, At the bottom of the document, insert signature blocks for you and the person renting the facility. Insert blank lines so that you can use this form more than once. Include a line for:signature
printed name
title
date

, After lessees read and sign the contract, you should make a photocopy for them and safely store the original contract in your filing cabinet. Make sure that you attach any proof of payment or other document related to the lessee.

