 Pick your scarf up loosely to create natural folds in the fabric. Wrap the scarf around your neck a single time, and then tug at the loop you’ve created to drape it over your chest. You leave the tail ends of the scarf in the front or the back of








, Fold your scarf in half, creating a loop at one end with two tail pieces at the other. Wrap the scarf around your neck so that both the loop and tails are in the front above your chest. Then, pull the two ends through the loop, and adjust the fabric to your liking.
 Lay your scarf out flat on a smooth surface. Fold it in half and tie each set of corners together to create a large loop. Then, wrap the scarf around your neck, multiple times if necessary, so that no loose ends are left dangling down.
 Wrap your scarf around your neck so that both the tail ends are laying across your chest. Pick up one end of the scarf, and tie a loose knot in the middle of it. Then, slide the other tail end through the center of the knot. The knot can be moved up or down to create a tighter effect on the fabric.
 Create a hacking knot around your neck with the scarf by folding it in half, looping it around your neck, and then sticking the tail ends through the loop. However, instead of putting both tail ends in the loop, place a single tail end through. Then pick up the loop and twist it 180 degrees to create a second loop. Put the second tail end through this loop, twist it 180 degrees again, and then repeat the process with the other tail end. Do this until you run out of fabric.
 Drape your scarf around your neck so that both tail ends are in the front, but adjust them so that the right side is twice as long as the left. Then, wrap the right end across the left, and pull the right end up through the gap created below your neck. However, pull the right end from the middle, and drape the loop that you’ve pulled up over the left tail end. You should be left with a small, flat loop draped over the left tail end (the short right tail end is hidden behind the loop).
 Wrap your scarf around your neck but adjust the lengths so that the right end is twice as long as the left end. Wrap the right end around the left in a complete loop, and then cross it across the left end again. Instead of wrapping it all the way around the left again, pull it up through the center hole (below your neck) and then tuck the tail end into the loop you’ve just made by wrapping it around the tail. Pull the right end through and adjust the fabric to your liking.
 Drape your scarf around your neck so that both ends are laying across your chest. Tie them together in a single knot, adjusting it to a height of your liking. Then continue adding knots to create a chain, stopping when you run out of fabric or like the appearance of the scarf chain.
 Unfold your scarf completely so that it is totally flat. Drape it over your shoulders like a cape or shawl. Then, grab the two ends and tie them together in a double knot in the front.
 A long scarf is perfect for a big, flouncy bow. Tie the scarf around your neck in a loose knot, and slide it to the side a bit. Then use the ends to create the classic bunny-eared bow. Spread out the fabric a bit and loosen the bow for a more casual look.







