 Good bouquet holders contain floral foam and wicks capable of providing water to the flowers. Holders that have slanted handles rather than straight handles are ideal for cascading bouquets.
 Using professional-grade flower food is an important step in extending the life and freshness of the flowers in your bridal bouquet., A finished bouquet can get heavy, and it may cause a non-weighted vase to topple over. Use stones, marbles, or coins to weigh the vase down., Use two smaller stems of greenery to form the upper edge of the triangle along the top of the bouquet. The longest stem of greenery should drape downward, forming the lowest point of the triangle.

The heads of the flowers will extend past the greenery by approximately half a head, so you should determine the length of your greenery based on how large you want the finished bouquet to be.
 Do not fill in every empty spot. If you do, you will run out of bare foam for your flowers. Instead, use just enough greenery to connect and expand your basic frame.

Do not make your greenery flat. The greenery should form a slight dome when viewed from the side.
 The focal flowers should be the largest flowers and should match the main color used in your wedding's theme. They must face directly outward when viewed from the front., Line the flowers along the outside edge of the bouquet, allowing them to extend just a little further out than the tips of your greenery.

You must trim the flowers' stems based on their position in the bouquet. Flowers cascading down toward the bottom point of the bouquet must have longer stems than flowers at the top of the bouquet.
 Position the flowers so that they do not all face forward. Instead, you should have flower heads that face outward at every angle.

Front flowers should face straight out when looking at the bouquet directly.
The next circle of flowers from the center should tilt away from the center.
The final circle of flowers, along the edge of the bouquet, should face straight out to the sides.
 A secondary flower can be an entirely different flower, or it can be the same flower in a different hue or size. Tuck them into the empty gaps left between your primary flowers. The stems should be shorter than those belonging to primary flowers., Filler flowers, such as baby's breath and miniature roses, have small stems and are useful in covering any blank spots or exposed hardware., Use a satin ribbon or one made of similarly glossy material to create an elegant appearance., Store it in a refrigerator or similarly cool place until the ceremony.

If your bouquet holder has a wick, keep the flowers in a weighted vase filled halfway with water.
If your bouquet holder does not have a wick, frequently mist the flowers and the foam using a water bottle.

