 In Virginia, as in most states, you can select from several different options for the form of your business. Most people are aware of the corporation, but any of the other business forms could suit your needs better. This article will primarily address filing to create a for-profit business corporation, but you may wish to familiarize yourself with the other options:Corporation. A corporation is an “artificial person” or legal entity that has a board of directors to make decisions and one or more officers to conduct the daily operations of the business. In Virginia, there are stock corporations, which issue stock to shareholders and generally operate to make a profit, or non-stock corporations, which are usually organized as charitable organizations.
Limited Liability Company (LLC). A limited liability company (LLC) is also a separate legal entity that gives you some of the protection from personal liability that a corporation provides. The owners share in the profits and losses of the company, but do not become legally responsible for the company’s obligations.
Partnership. A partnership is an association of two or more people to carry on a business operation for a profit. Each partner contributes money and/or time to the partnership, and each shares in the profits and debts of the business. The partners are liable for their share of the obligations of the partnership.;
, The name of the corporation must be “distinguishable” from other existing corporations within the Commonwealth of Virginia. You may use the search feature at https://sccefile.scc.virginia.gov/NameAvailability to check the availability of the name you wish to use.
 Once you have found a name for your corporation that is unique, you may wish to reserve it. Without a reservation, names are given away on a first come, first served basis as companies file their Articles of Incorporation. Running a search does not reserve the name. To reserve a name, you need to file a reservation application form, which is available at http://www.scc.virginia.gov/publicforms/177/scc631.pdf.


The reservation will hold the name for 120 days.
You must pay a fee of $10 to reserve a name. If you wish to renew your reservation for an additional 120 days, you need to pay an additional $10 fee.
When the reservation application is complete, submit it to State Corporation Commission, Office of the Clerk, P.O. Box 1197, Richmond, Virginia 23218-1197, along with a check for the filing fee in the amount of $10.00, payable to the State Corporation Commission. DO NOT SEND CASH.
If you have any questions, contact the Clerk’s Office at (804) 371-9733 or toll-free in Virginia, 1-866-722-2551.
 The home page for the Virginia SCC is www.scc.virginia.gov. From the home page, you can select the link to “Business Entities” and then to “Office of the Clerk” for information about creating a new corporation. From there you will find links to a wide variety of information about corporate filings.


This article will focus on the procedure for filing Articles of Incorporation for a domestic (in state) stock (profit) corporation. If you wish to file a different form of business, you will be able to follow this general procedure but apply different specific forms.
 The Virginia SCC has prepared a common form that satisfy the requirements for filing Articles of Incorporation for a new business. You are not required to use this form, but it does satisfy the minimum requirements for a filing. An attorney may be able to advise you on the form and help you decide if it addresses all your needs for your corporation.You can find a link to the the Articles of Incorporation template form at http://www.scc.virginia.gov/clk/dom_corp.aspx. Be sure to select the correct form for the type of business entity you are filing.
 The first item on the Articles of Incorporation is the corporate name. You need to provide the exact name as you reserved, if you chose to file a name reservation. If you submit a new name that you have not reserved or have not checked for availability, and if it turns out that the name is not available, your paperwork will not be accepted.


All stock corporate names in Virginia must contain one of the words “Company,” “Incorporated,” “Limited,” or “Corporation,” or one of the abbreviations “Co.,” “Inc.,” “Ltd.,” or “Corp.”, This should be the number of shares that the corporation is authorized to issue at its outset. The corporation may choose to issue fewer, or none. The minimum requirement for the Articles of Incorporation is to set a number for authorized shares of common stock.


Setting up the stock structure for a new corporation could be the area that most requires the assistance of a lawyer. For help developing a strategy regarding number of shares, types of common or preferred stocks, and how to set the par value, consult with a corporate attorney.
In general, the “par value” for a stock is the minimum price that must be paid to purchase it. The price may increase. No designation of par value is required in Virginia, but you may set a par value if you choose., The registered agent is the person who will accept legal service on behalf of the corporation, if it becomes necessary at any time. You must select one of the two following options as the registered agent:An individual who is either a director of the corporation or an attorney; OR
A corporation or other company that is designated to do business in Virginia.
Many corporations will choose a professional company to serve as the corporate agent. By doing this, that company will always be able to receive important documentation on your behalf, and you will separate any legal process from the regular operations of your business.
You must provide the registered agent’s name and address.
 This step is not required, but you may report principal office address. If you choose to report this, you need to include the street address, city and zip code.
 There are spaces provided for up to three directors, and their home addresses. If you have more than three, you may add a sheet of paper with more names.
 The incorporators are the people who completed the information for the Articles of Incorporation. The incorporators may be the same as the directors, but they do not have to be. You must include the printed name of each incorporator along with the signatures., The information on the approved form of Articles of Incorporation is the minimum that is required to form a corporation. After you consult with an attorney, you may choose to provide additional information. If you do, you must type the full document as a new original form. You may not use the template form and simply attach things to it., From the home page of the Virginia State Corporations Commission, http://www.scc.virginia.gov, you will see a link to “SCC e-file.” Make that selection to begin using the online filing service., The first thing you need to do is create an online user id and password, so you will be able to file your Articles of Incorporation and conduct other corporate business in the future.


From the SCC eFile page, select “Get Started” under the “New Businesses” heading. You will be directed to the “New Entity Formation” screen.From that screen, select “Form a Virginia stock corporation.” A box will pop up for you to enter your log in information. If this is your first visit, you will need to select “Create an Account.”
On the “New User Account Creation” screen, complete the required information. You will need to enter your name, address and email, and then select and verify a password. You will also be asked to provide information for two security questions, in case you need help remembering your password later.When you have completed all the required information, select “Submit” at the bottom of the screen.
 Return to the SCC eFile screen, and select “Form a Virginia Stock Corporation.” Enter your new log in information, and you will be directed to a screen to begin inserting the information for your Articles of Incorporation., The eFile Express Entity Formation screen will prompt you to enter the corporate name, shares of stock, registered agent, office location, and directors. If you leave any portion of the information incomplete, you will be prompted to complete it before you can go on.
 The filing fee for the Articles of Incorporation is $25. You also are responsible for paying the “Charter Fee,” which is based on the number of shares of stock that the corporation authorizes. The filing page has a scale with the amount of the Charter Fee. The minimum is $50, for anywhere from 1 to 25,000 shares of stock., You will “sign” the document by typing your name in the signature line. If the person signing the form is an individual, then you will select the “Individual” button and type in your name. If the person signing is working on behalf of another business entity, select “Business Entity,” and then identify the name of the business and the name and title of the person completing the form., After you have entered all the required information, you can select “Preview Document” at the bottom of the screen. This will show you the completed, typed form of your Articles of Incorporation.If the completed document does not appear immediately on the screen, review your form. The completed document will not appear if you have omitted any of the required information.
 Select the button “Pay and File” after you are satisfied that the information is all correct. You will be shown a final warning to check the accuracy of the information. Any future changes, once you have paid the filing fee, can only be made with additional formal filings (and the payment of additional fees). When you are ready, proceed to submit your payment information., You will be prompted to provide your identification and credit card billing information. You will be charged for the $25 filing fee, the $50 Charter Fee (or more, depending on the number of shares of stock you authorize), and a service fee of $1.95 for the online filing. When all your information is entered, select “Continue.”

, After you have completed the online filing, you will receive a notice that your filing is complete. However, this does not complete the creation of your corporation. You need to wait approximately three to five business days for your submission to be reviewed by the staff at the Secretary of State’s office. You will receive a formal Approval Certificate acknowledging your filing by email.
 The Articles of Incorporation must be typed on standard, white, 8 1/2 x 11 inch paper. If the template form suits your needs, you may download it from the Secretary of State’s website.Alternatively, you may type the document yourself and include such additional information as you deem necessary.
 The Articles of Incorporation must have the signature of the incorporator. If at least one incorporator does not sign the Articles of Incorporation, the filing will be incomplete and will be delayed or returned to you.
 The filing fee for the Articles of Incorporation is $25. Additionally, there is a Charter Fee of $50 for up to 25,000 shares of stock. If you choose to issue more shares, the fee will increase. You can research the fee schedule on the State Corporation Commission website.Without the proper filing fee, your paperwork will be returned to you.
If you are filing by mail, you must submit payment by check payable to “State Corporation Commission.”
If you are filing in person, you may pay by cash, check or credit card.
 Make sure that your filing package is complete. You need to include the original Articles of Incorporation, the filing fee, and any additional paperwork you wish to attach.


To file by mail, send your package to Clerk of the State Corporation Commission, P.O. Box 1197, Richmond, VA 23218-1197.
To file in person, take your filing to 1300 E. Main Street, Tyler Building, 1st Floor, Richmond, VA 23219. A clerk will receive your filing submission and your payment for the filing fee and Charter Fee.
 New filings are processed in about three to seven business days. After that, you will receive an Approval Certificate, by mail, to the address that you indicated in your filing.

