 You'll use these rolled up sections of newspaper as the spokes and weavers for your basket. Get a thin stick, like a thin knitting needle or a pine skewer or 3mm dowel.Cut the newspaper in half horizontally and then again horizontally.
Place the stick at a corner of the piece of newspaper at an acute angle to the newspaper. Start rolling the newspaper around the stick, making sure that you're doing so tightly.
When you've rolled it all the way to the other corner, glue it onto the newspaper roll to hold it in place. Remove the dowel or knitting needle.
One end will usually be a bit narrower than the other on the newspaper sticks, but that's how it is supposed to look. When you're weaving you'll stick the narrower section of one newspaper stick into another to make them longer.
 Cut out two rectangular pieces of cardboard whatever size you want your basket to be. On one side of one of the cardboard pieces, put double sided tape. Lay out your newspaper sticks along the sides (you'll want to do about 13 on the long side and 7 on the short size).


Always use an odd number of sticks when making your base.
Use double sided tape on the second piece of cardboard and press into place a piece of fabric, whatever color you'd like. Put glue on the side that won't be facing out and glue the two pieces of cardboard (one with the fabric and one with the sticks) together. Put something heavy on them and leave to dry (about and hour).
 Start at one of the corners. Take a newspaper stick (a weaver) and fold it in half. Thread it around the corner stick. Using each half of the weaver weave around the upright sticks, with one half of the stick and the other half in back.


Keep the upright sticks parallel to one another and pulled upright, and keep the weavers pulled tight. You don't want them too loose.
At the corners you'll want to do an extra twist (over and under) before continuing the twist down the next side.
 As you reach the end of a tube, you'll need to add another stick to it, so that you can keep going. This is a lot easier than it sounds! All you have to do is insert the narrow end of the second stick into the first and push it in enough that it is secure.
 Once you've added rows until you've reached the height you want, it's time to finish the basket. This is very easy. Cut the leftover upright newspaper sticks to about 1 inch (2.54 cm).


For every other upright stick you'll fold into down into the basket and glue it in place. Use a clothespin to dry it in place.
For the sticks you didn't fold into the basket, you'll fold down on the outside and weave into the upper part of the basket.
 This is a completely optional step, as newspaper baskets look cool just as they are, but you can also paint them a color of your choosing. You could use a white acrylic paint and add a tinted varnish (which makes them look like a more 'authentic' basket), or you could use a bright, bold spray paint.