 It is not enough that you know the basics of swapping these colored candies; you should also know what will happen if you align 4 or even 5 candies of the same color. Knowing the “power” of these power-up candies will make a huge difference on your success in clearing Candy Crush Saga levels.


The striped candies will clear all candies on its alignment when swapped with a normal candy. This depends on which direction you produced the striped candy. If you created the striped candy while adding the 4th candy horizontally, it will have horizontal stripes. If vertically added, it will have vertical stripes.
The wrapped candy can be produced by creating two 3-match combination in just a single move. Swapping the wrapped candy with a normal candy will destroy all the immediate candies surrounding it.
The most powerful power-up candy of all is the color bomb. This can be produced by aligning 5 candies of the same color. When swapped with a normal candy, it virtually destroys all the candies in the scene which shares the same color as the swapped candy.;
, There is nothing more than satisfying than watching a bunch of candies getting cleared with combos in just a single move. Doing so just requires your knowledge in power-up candy combinations.


Swapping striped candies will result to clearance of candies horizontally and vertically regardless of their stripes’ orientation.
Swapping wrapped candies will result into a 5 by 5 explosion of candies surrounding it.
Swapping color bombs will literally destroy all the visible candies in the play area.
Swapping a striped candy with a wrapped candy will result into a super candy clearing 3 rows/columns of the candies both horizontally and vertically.
Swapping a striped candy with a color bomb, it will upgrade all the candies with the same color as the striped candy to actual striped candies that will all detonate at once.
Swapping a wrapped candy with a color bomb, it will clear all the candies on the same color as the wrapped candy and a random colored candy mass clearance as a bonus.
 Sometimes we get too busy creating combinations that we forget what the main goal of a level is. It's obviously not always about reaching the highest score. There are different kinds of winning conditions in Candy Crush Saga.


Moves levels. The condition simply indicates that you should meet an allotted score before you run out of moves.
Jelly levels. These tricky levels require you to clear all the jellies in the level to proceed. A classic example of it’s not always about just clearing candies.
Timed levels. These levels will really require your strategy and combination prowess in playing. You prevent bombs to detonate by making candy combinations near them. When the bomb reaches zero – it’s game over for you.
Ingredient Drop levels. Your objective on these levels is to successfully drop the required number of ingredients to the bottom part of the play area before you run out of moves.
Candy Order levels. It is a collection level requiring you to collect certain colored candies, special candies, or combinations to proceed.
 Simple logic for this move is because most of the times, especially during limited moves, clearing candies at the bottom create additional combinations while the candies collapse. Of course, this is no guarantee but very high in probability.
 Threats such as chocolates and bombs should be prioritized more than anything else. If you don’t take care of the chocolates, it will rapidly consume the candies in your play area. This will make clearing candies tougher for you. With bombs, simple enough, if you let the bomb detonate, the level instantly goes to failure.
 Out of reach jellies and those on the play area’s edge are the jellies you should focus on clearing first. Once you clear these jellies, the middle jellies will surely be affected in the process. Besides, they are much easier to clear compared to those located on the edges.
 Even in times where you have time limit, make sure not to rush the level resulting to poor decisions. Remember, you can always pause the game and take a break and evaluate the scenario. Especially if you have power up candies – make sure you use them appropriately!

, Upon entering a level and you noticed an unfavorable candy positioning, without making a single move yet, you can back-out of that level and re-enter without costing a life. You can do this until you find the initial positioning of the candies favorable to you.
 If you have Facebook friends that need additional lives and you can help – by all means, do so. This generosity will be very useful when it is your time to ask for favor such as requesting additional lives or proceeding to the next location in the map that requires friends’ help.
 Candy Crush Saga has some extra items that could actually purchase to help you clear levels. Mind you, these items and boosters are not for free so think very carefully before deciding to purchase anything. Besides, the challenge is to clear levels with just what is provided by the game alone. That’s where real satisfaction sets in.
 In times you already used all your lives and prompted to wait 24 hours to replenish, you can always just adjust your device’s time to “cheat” the system. Adding an additional day to your time will result into 5 fresh lives! Just don’t forget to re-adjust your time after playing. But be warned, doing this technique will cause your next legal wait to an absurd amount of time.

