 You should regularly see your baby’s pediatrician in order to effectively support your baby’s development. Your baby’s pediatrician can let you know if everything is okay, give you advice on supporting your baby’s development, and help you take care of yourself as well.


Early on your baby will need to see their pediatrician frequently. As they move from newborn to infant and older, they will see the pediatrician less.
Talk to your pediatrician about anything going on with your baby that concerns you.
For example, it’s okay to say, “I’m not sure if I’m feeding her correctly. Could you help with that?”
Or, for example, “Could you share some resources about my baby’s development with me?

, This will help protect your baby from some potentially devastating diseases like measles, polio, and pertussis. Not only does getting your baby vaccinated on time support your baby’s development, it could also prevent your baby’s death.Ask your baby’s pediatrician for a copy of your baby’s immunization record.
Make sure that you keep appointments with your pediatrician so that you can stay current with your baby’s vaccination.
If you miss a schedule vaccination, talk to your baby’s pediatrician about rescheduling it as soon as possible.
 At each stage of your baby’s development there are different milestones, or things that your baby should be able to do. Knowing what to expect at each stage will help you support your baby’s development.Learning about milestones will also help you recognize any possible developmental delays early on.
Talk to your pediatrician about what milestones your baby should be reaching and how to help your baby reach them.
Check out books on infant and baby development from your local library to learn specific details about your baby’s developmental milestones.
 You won’t be able to support your baby’s development effectively if you are fatigued, sick, or depressed. Make sure you are doing things to support your own physical, mental, and emotional health.


Get some rest. Make sure you are getting enough sleep each night. If you need to, take a 20-minute nap during the day.
Eat healthy meals at regular times. It can be hard to stick to a meal schedule when you have a baby, but eating nutritious meals at regular times will give you the energy you need to support your baby’s development.
Be physically active. Supporting your baby’s development will take a lot of interaction, energy, and movement on your part.

