 It's at: http://klout.com/.



 ;
, This will give you a good idea of how it works and the returns it brings. For example, add in your Twitter name and see what returns. You will see your Klout Score and Influence Matrix. You'll need to sign up to get your Score Analysis, or to measure your influence through other social networks.
 Simply start by clicking on the button that says "Sign In" using your Facebook and Twitter account only.
 You will be taken to a page where it requests that you accept or deny the application to have access to your Twitter account. If you accept, click on Accept and you'll be redirected back to the Klout application.
 A standard box will appear and you'll need to fill in:


First name






Last name






Email address







, You'll be taken back to Klout and you'll see your own sphere of influence. Is it what you expected or better... or worse? You can start doing a lot to change those numbers!

, You'll find it after 24-48 when your account is updated:


Klout score – This is the measurement of your overall influence online. The scoring goes from 1 to 100. The reach is the size of your engaged audience. Influence is your ability to drive people to "action". Network influence is the influence level of your engaged audience.
Influence matrix – This is a holistic look at your influence and how you use it. There are 16 possible classifications.

Content analysis – This shows a list of the topics you're most influential about. If it's #followfriday, you're probably a great interactor but you need some more ideas!

, In your Dashboard, you can find ways to increase your Klout. If you haven't already added in Facebook and LinkedIn, add them as well now.

Click on Dashboard. Find the Facebook and LinkedIn buttons.






Facebook will ask for permission to access your information. Press Okay.






It will return you to the Klout application, advising you that there is a 24-48 hour wait before it's updated.






Click on Sign in with LinkedIn. Press "OK, I'll allow it". (You can change the access duration if wished, it's at the base of the request.)






It will return you to the Klout application, advising you that there is a 24-48 hour wait before it's updated.
 Check out other people's Klout!

