 It is in the shopping district—simply head north, past the train station, and follow the cobblestone under the arch. The Nookling Store can be found to the left.


Unlike shaking trees for bells, getting money from rocks requires more than just your bare hands. You can use either a shovel or an axe to hit the rock, which will cause it to drop bells. Because the axe is incredibly brittle and breaks after so many uses, it is recommended that you use the indestructible shovel instead.;
, If there is no shovel, you will have to either wait for a day to pass, or manually change the date yourself, for it to appear.


To manually change the date, save the game and go to the starting screen. While talking to Isabelle, you can change the date. After changing the date a few times, the shovel should be available for purchase.
 To purchase the shovel, approach it, and hit the A button. Tom Nook will ask if you’d like to purchase it; select “Buy” to purchase the shovel. It costs 500 bells.
 Open your inventory by pressing Y. Select the Shovel, then select your character, and drop the shovel in the character’s slot. The character image will change to show it holding a shovel.
 Rocks are scattered all over town; run around and look for them. Once you find one, approach it.
 There are two ways to prevent kickbacks in Wild World. The first, and usually the most-used method is to dig holes around you. This means that once you’re facing the rock, do an about-face and then hit the A button. Your character will dig a hole in the area he is facing. Face the side, and dig a hole there; do so on the other side too! If you dig a hole in the wrong space, simply hit the A button while facing the hole to fill it in. Once you’re finished, your character should be facing the rock with a hole behind him and to his sides.


The second method is to stand between the rock and a stationary object. That is, if the rock is near a tree or a cliff or another stationary object (a house for instance or another rock), just wedge your character between the rock and the object. The object behind your character will prevent kickbacks as well as digging holes, only this time, you didn’t have to go through so much trouble.
 Now that you’ve dug the holes, or positioned yourself between a stationary object and the rock, you won’t get kickback when you hit the rock. Face the rock and press A. If you’re lucky, the rock will be a Money Rock! If it is, continuously hit the rock as fast as you can with your shovel until the rock will no longer produce bells.


If you didn’t get a Money Rock, run to another rock, dig more holes the same way as described here, and hit the rock. Continue until you get the Money Rock!

