 Remember that what’s good for kids’ teeth is good for yours as well -- and you don’t get a replacement set!

, A rice grain sized amount of toothpaste is recommended for children under 3, and a pea-sized amount for kids ages 3-6. While you should emphasize the need to spit out toothpaste, swallowing this small amount is harmless.


There are fluoride toothpastes formulated specifically for infants and toddlers. The often have fruit flavors (and cartoon characters on the packaging) that appeal to kids.
 Show them how to start the brush at a 45-degree angle against the gum line, then clean the front (and back) of each tooth with short, round strokes. Brush the biting/chewing surface of each tooth with short, sweeping strokes.Don’t expect miracles when it comes to a kid’s brushing technique, but do emphasize the importance of cleaning all surfaces of each tooth, as well as the gumline. It is also good practice to brush the tongue to remove germs and improve bad breath.
Also stress the importance of spitting out the remaining toothpaste when finished. Tell them that even though the paste still tastes fruity-yummy, it is now yucky from cleaning off the teeth and needs to go down the drain.
Demonstrate on a doll or stuffed animal with teeth that can be “brushed” utilizing the correct methods.
 Most kids love to show how “big” they are by trying to do things all by themselves. When you feel comfortable putting the brush in your child’s hands, do so but supervise carefully. Hold your hand over his/hers to start if that helps.


If you are concerned about the quality of your child’s brushing, try taking turns -- he or she brushes all by herself in the morning, you do the work at night, for instance., Yes, your child will likely squeeze toothpaste everywhere and make a big mess repeatedly. Focus on instilling the right habits and demonstrating the right techniques, and allow time for your child to develop the skill and dedication to brush correctly and regularly. Really, it’s just like anything else you try to teach a child -- patience is a virtue!

