 If you have a smartphone, use an emoji to send your kiss. Emoji means “picture letter” in Japanese and is an image used to convey some kind of message.Most smartphones have free emoji keyboards that you can install to send virtual kisses.


To use emoji on an Android smartphone, download and install the emoji keyboard app. From your home menu, access Settings and then Language & Input, then check the box next to emoji keyboard.When you’re texting and want to insert an emoji, click on the button to change the keyboard languages to the emoji option.Choose which of the many kissing or puckering lips emojis you want to send.
To use emoji on an iPhone smartphone, download and install the emoji keyboard app. From the General Settings, choose keyboard and then international keyboards. Select "Add New Keyboard" and pick the emoji option.When you’re texting and want to insert an emoji, press the small "globe" key next to the space bar to enable different language keyboards, including emoji.Choose which of the many kissing or puckering lips emojis you want to send.;
, One of the newest apps you can use to send a kiss to someone is the Bitmoji. Part emoji, part picture of yourself, this avatar can be a somewhat more personalized way to text a kiss.You can get the Bitmoji app either on iTunes or Google Play.Once you have the app, design your Bitmoji to look however you like. There are many different looks from which you can choose so that the avatar is the best reflection of yourself.
Make sure to enable the Bitmoji app under your keyboard settings so that you can access the personalized avatars and send someone a kiss via Bitmoji text., If you don’t want to send a digital avatar to convey a kiss, you can use the more traditional method of taking a picture of yourself puckering up, or making a “kiss face.” If you have a smartphone, taking a selfie is the best way to do this.


Use your smartphone camera to take the picture of yourself puckering up. Most smartphones will allow you to turn the lens of the camera on to yourself so that you can see how you look as you take your picture.
Some smartphone even have a timer so that you can properly position yourself for the picture.
It’s a good idea to take several pictures so that you can choose the best photo of yourself to send as a kiss.

