 Asthma tends to start during childhood, though it can affect both men and women of all ages. Adult women tend to be at higher risk than adult men, however, during childhood more boys than girls have asthma.Other factors play a role in asthma as well. Along with environmental factors, there are genetic factors. If someone in the family has asthma or atopy (extreme allergies) the risk for asthma is increased., In asthma, the breathing airways (bronchi, bronchioles) are inflamed. This pattern of inflammation causes the airways to swell and to be sensitive to a number of inhaled substances that act as triggers for an asthma attack.


During an asthma attack, the airways become even more swollen and narrowed, making it very difficult to breath.
Also, part of the inflammatory response in the lungs includes the production of mucus. During an asthma attack, even more mucus is produced, increasing the difficulty of getting a full breath and getting enough oxygen.
 There are two main types of asthma, intrinsic (non-allergic) and extrinsic (allergic) asthma.Extrinsic asthma is more common, directly involves an immune response and is triggered by inhaled substances. Intrinsic asthma is triggered by cold air, exercise, dry air and stress. The immune response is somewhat less critical in intrinsic asthma, but both involve an inflammatory response. Both forms of asthma can be mild, moderate or severe and both can be intermittent. Diagnosis is usually by a history of symptoms and family history-- you need to have a diagnosis from your physician.
 The most common symptoms of asthma are: coughing (often worse at night or early in the morning), wheezing (a whistling or squeaking sound that occurs during a breath), tightness in the chest, and shortness of breath.These symptoms can be triggered by a number of different substances or events.
 It is not altogether clear what causes asthma. However, there is some solid evidence that the lack of exposure to bacteria, viruses, fungi, molds and other pathogens early in life is at the root cause of asthma. This is called the “Hygiene Hypothesis.”


The immune system discriminates between “self”and “non-self.” Part of the way the immune system learns to do this is by being exposed, from birth, to a variety of pathogens, such as bacteria, fungi and viruses. Because modern society puts so much emphasis on sanitation and cleanliness, we spend a good deal of time sterilizing our environment. As a result, it is proposed that our immune systems do not learn those essential early lessons and tends to over-react in some cases (autoimmune diseases, atopy, allergies) and under-react in other cases (increased number of infections).One bit of evidence that supports this hypothesis is that children who are raised on farms and around animals tend to have lower rates of both asthma and allergies (atopy)., Medications can include short-term medications (rescue medications) such as inhalers with short acting beta agonists to open up the airways. These include albuterol (ProAir HFA, Ventolin HFA, others), levalbuterol (Xopenex) and pirbuterol (Maxair), ipratropium (Atrovent) and short-acting corticosteroids. Long-term medications are also used and include:Inhaled corticosteroids to reduce inflammation. These include fluticasone (Flovent HFA), budesonide (Pulmicort Flexhaler), flunisolide (Aerobid), ciclesonide (Alvesco), beclomethasone (Qvar) and mometasone (Asmanex).
Other anti-inflammatory medicines, such as Cromolyn.
Long-acting beta agonists to open the airways. Examples include salmeterol (Serevent) and formoterol (Foradil, Perforomist)
Biological medicines that can reduce the response to triggers and decrease inflammation. These include Omalizumab (Zolair) and Leukotriene modulators such as montelukast (Singulair), zafirlukast (Accolate) and zileuton (Zyflo)
Theophylline acts to open airways.
Combination medications.
Treating the allergies that can trigger an asthma attack with allergy shots, Omalizumab (Zolair) and Cromolyn.

