 To calculate the acreage of a parcel of land you first need to calculate its area in another unit of measurement, which you can then convert into acreage. This is most commonly done with feet, yards, or meters. If the area you are trying to measure is of a regular shape, with four sides, such as a square of rectangle, the calculations are relatively straightforward. The first thing to do is measure the length of the area.


Length is the longest dimension of your property

, One you have the determined the length of the area you will need to measure the width of the area. The width might also be referred to as the breadth and is the horizontal line across the shape you are trying to measure. If you are trying to measure a large area outside consider using a surveyor's wheel that you can push along as you walk.


Width would be the shorter dimension of your property.
 In order to calculate the square size you need to multiply your recorded height by width. Be sure that you measured both using the same unit of measurement otherwise the calculation won't work. Once you have multiplied these figures you will have the square size.


For example, an area that has a width of 500 feet, and a length of 700 feet would be calculated by multiplying 500 by 700. In this case the area is 350,000 square feet.
Once you have the total size in square feet, meters or yards you need to convert this into acres.
Multiplying length by width gives you the area, or the space inside the boundary of your property. Acreage is simply one measure of area. An easy way to remember the formula for area is A (area) = L (length) x W (width), which is the exact calculation done in this step.
 Once you know the size of your land parcel in an alternative unit of measurement you can convert this into acres with some relatively straight forward arithmetic. In order to do this you need to known the conversion values for whatever measurement you are using in relation to acres. Some of the most commonly used conversion rates include:


1 acre = 4840 square yards.
1 acre = 43560 square feet.
1 acre = 4046.8564 square meters., To convert the total size from square feet, yards, or meters there is a simple calculation you need to complete. All you need to do is take the total size in square yards, meters, or feet and divide it by the conversion rates above that are relevant to that unit of measurement. For example, if your parcel of land is 50,000 square yards you can determine its acreage by dividing 50,000 by 4840. The answer is 10.33. So 50,000 square yards is equivalent to 10.33 acres.


You can repeat this with the other units of measurement. 50,000 square feet is 1.147 acres.
50,000 square meters is equivalent to 12.35 acres.
There are many online tools that can make this conversion for you if you have the size in an alternative unit of measurement.