 One of the quickest ways to end up back in a sickbed is to push yourself to be active too soon. Yes, you probably have a lot to do and might be missing school or work, but letting your body recuperate from an illness is extremely important. Don’t try to do too much until all of your symptoms have subsided. Relaxing and getting lots of sleep should be #1 on your priority list until you feel like you are 100% better.


Healthy adults need between 7.5 and nine hours of sleep every night, and someone who is sick will need a great deal more. Make sure you are allowing yourself adequate time to rest, whether this means calling in sick to work or school, canceling plans, and/or going to bed early.;
, Being sick can take a lot out of you; it is always an exhausting experience, both mentally and physically. Help your body bounce back faster by drinking plenty of fluids. Be sure to drink an 8 oz. glass of water every few hours throughout the day to replace fluids lost during your illness. You should also drink a nutrient-rich drink like orange juice or soup broth a few times per day even after you feel better., Getting back into the swing of eating after a bout of illness can be unappealing at best. However, it is very important to revive your body with much-needed nutrients and sustenance so you can keep getting better. Since you have probably only eaten crackers, dry toast, or broth for the past days or weeks, start reintroducing some healthy, nutrient-rich foods into your diet again. Some tips:Avoid eating any rich, fatty foods.
Eat smaller, lighter meals more frequently throughout the day instead of three main meals.
Try eating a fruit smoothie once a day. It will help you to ingest a lot of nutrients that are key to getting you back on your feet.
Soups, in particular chicken noodle soup, tom yum, pho, and miso soups, are a great way to reintroduce proteins and vegetables back into your diet.
 Part of feeling better after you’ve been sick is dealing with associated symptoms like soreness and muscle aches. You might not be coughing every five minutes anymore, but your back might hurt still from all the hacking. The best way to alleviate any associated soreness once you start feeling better is with heat treatments. For example:Relax in a nice long bath. Try adding a cup of Epsom salts or a few drops of relaxing, anti-inflammatory essential oils like eucalyptus, peppermint, or lavender to promote additional healing and relaxation.
Try using a heat pad to help with site-specific pain. For example, if you’re having lower abdominal cramping post-stomach flu, you can heat the pad up and place it on your abdomen for some relief.
Carefully massage pain relieving ointment like Tiger Balm wherever you feel sore. Like the heating pad, use this ointment to treat any sore areas, like applying a dab to your temples for any associated headaches. Just be sure to wash your hands afterward, as these rubs are very potent and whatever skin it touches will heat up!

, Getting up and moving around after being sick will get the blood flowing and help flush toxins out. But wait until you are completely recovered to begin exercising, and avoid intense workouts completely for at least two to three weeks after being sick. Get back into working out slowly, giving yourself a week buffer after being sick before you start a moderate workout like walking or jogging short distances. You could also ease back into exercising with a hot yoga class where you’ll sweat out any toxins or remaining congestion.Just remember to stay hydrated!

, Being sick can take a real toll on your appearance. All of that sneezing, coughing, and wiping can leave you with raw, red skin. Once you’ve started taking care of the inside of your body, turn your attention to your neglected skin. Purchase a moisturizer that has lanolin in it and dab it onto areas like your nose for instant relief from painful, chapped skin. Consider also purchasing a lip balm that contains ingredients like coconut oil or argan oil, which are excellent for chapped lips

