 It is the last, non-purchasable campaign level you have to beat in the single player campaign.;
, You must get through the map to the crate at the centre of the cheese planet. Unfortunately, you don't start with any weapons, but you can unlock some by collecting the three crates available on the level. There are two sentry guns on either side of the planet under two ledges, guarding the two utility crates. Of your three worms, two have 1 health each and one worm has 30.
 As this worm only has 1 health, it will die, but at the same time, it will collect the utility crate, containing a pneumatic drill, for your other worms to use.
 This worm will need to destroy the sentry gun on this side - to do this, simply jump off the ledge about halfway between the oil drum there and the edge so that you land near enough to the sentry gun. Your worm will take falling damage, blow himself up, and if you're close enough, this explosion will knock the right sentry gun off the level into the water below.
 Since there is no sentry gun there, this worm will not be killed. The utility crate will give you a ninja rope, which you will need for your next step.
 You will need to carefully swing around the outside of the cheese planet until you are directly below the central core. You can begin by either launching your ninja rope at the satellite to the right of the planet and swinging back to the underside of the planet, or by abseiling down the planet's side until you reach the bottom. Whatever the case, you will need to swing carefully and make sure you don't hit any terrain when you are swinging, as this will knock you off your rope.
 Do this by pressing A on your Xbox 360 controller twice in quick succession while swinging in a forward motion, all the while making sure you are as high up enough from the water below so as not to drown, but low enough so as not to hit the terrain and drop off. You will need to take extra care when you reach the very bottom of the level, as you will only be swinging a very short distance from the water below.
 You will need to swing out and then press A again very quickly - ideally when you do so, your ninja rope will latch onto the top of the shaft and you will be able to rappel upwards to the centre of the level. If you instead latch onto the sides of the shaft, try reversing your rope and 'bouncing' up to the centre, or by swinging out once again and hoping you latch onto the top of the shaft this time.
 This weapons crate contains the Armageddon weapon. Don't be tempted to set it off yet however, as you will be knocked into the water as well unless you follow the next step.
 This will place you at the bottom of the cheese planet and out of harm's way for when you set off the Armageddon weapon in the next turn.
 This will rain burning meteorites down on the level, throwing most of the enemy worms in the water and killing the ones which aren't. After they are all dead, you should receive 1,000 gold to purchase items with at the worms marketplace. Congratulations, you just completed Level 30 and the single player campaign!

