 When the chicks are at least two months old or have grown their wing feathers, they will be ready to move outside to their larger coop. Ready-made coops can be purchased from farm supply stores, or you can build your own. A coop should provide shelter from inclement weather, protection from predators, and a cozy place to sleep. Make sure it has the following features:An elevated, enclosed roost. The coop should have a place for the hens to sleep comfortably several feet from the ground. Chickens naturally prefer to roost off of the ground when they sleep, since this protects them from predators.
Nesting boxes. In the roosting area, make sure each chicken has a separate box about 10 inches wide in which to lay its eggs. Line the boxes with straw or wood shavings. Larger nesting boxes can fit more than one chicken.
Space for the chickens to run. Chickens are happiest when they have space to run around and forage. The coop should have a door leading to an outside area that's at least four by eight feet for three to five chickens. The chickens will be safest if the area is fenced on both sides an overhead (to protect from hawks). The holes in the fencing should be no larger than 1 inch squared., Now that the chickens are over two months old, start buying "laying mash" (also called "poultry pellet") so they have the nutrients they need to lay eggs. It's available at the farm supply store. You can feed older chickens organic kitchen leftovers, fruits and vegetables, and garden weeds as well. Put the feed in a chicken feeder that you clean out once every week and a half.


Chickens like raw fruit and vegetables of all kinds, cooked pasta, cooked rice, cooked beans, and any other type of grain.Don't feed them food that's high in fat or salt.
Put a bowl of sand or finely crushed eggshells in the coop. The chickens use it to digest their food, since they don't have teeth to grind it up. Eggshells also provide extra calcium.
Provide water in a chicken waterer. In the winter, you may need to use a heated waterer to prevent the water from freezing.
 The straw in the nesting boxes and the floor shavings should be shoveled out and replaced with fresh materials every week and a half or so. Every four months, clean out the entire coop by shoveling out the waste, spraying it down with a hose, letting it dry out, and adding fresh bedding. Neglecting to do this could lead to diseases spreading in the coop.
 Even as young adults, chickens like to be around humans. Name them, pick them up, and pet them. You can feed chickens by hand to help build trust. After awhile, your chickens may come when you call, just as a dog would. Many people find that chickens make intelligent and fun-loving pets.
 Hens, also called pullets, will start laying eggs between 20 and 24 weeks of age. Depending on the breed, most hens lay five or six eggs a week through the spring, summer and into the fall. When the daylight drops below 12 hours, the egg production will also drop off.Collect eggs daily to encourage more production. Don't leave eggs sitting in the roosting boxes for too long.
Hens will produce eggs for an excess of 8 years under ideal and stress-free conditions and when fed a species-specific diet (void of hard grains, flax, fish meal). Most commercially raised egg layers will slow production after about 2 years, but your happy, healthy chickens should be laying eggs for a very long time.

