 Since dogs do not have sweat glands on their body, which would allow them to cool off via sweat evaporation, they cool themselves primarily by panting. If your dog has been panting for a long period of time (over 30 minutes) or panting with excessive force, they may be overheating.Dogs often do not stop physical activity when they become overheated. Your aging dog may not realize it’s too hot; it’s up to you to monitor the animal if it’s at risk for overheating.;
, These are common symptoms of overheating which, when coupled with panting or heaving breathing, almost certainly indicate that your dog is overheating and may be approaching heat exhaustion. Other symptoms include bright blue or red gums and, in severe cases, collapsing or convulsing.As a result of the diarrhea and vomiting, overheated dogs often become dehydrated as well, which worsens their condition. Prevent this by giving your dog access to cool drinking water.
 A dog’s natural temperature is slightly warmer than that of humans: around 101°F.If your dog’s temperature rises above 103°F, it is overheating, and brain damage can occur if the animals temperature rises above 106°F.


To take your dog’s temperature, you’ll need to use a sanitary rectal thermometer.Oral thermometers are not an effective instrument to take a dog’s temperature.
To use the thermometer, first coat the tip of the instrument in petroleum jelly, to act as a lubricant. Then insert the tip of the thermometer about an inch into your dog’s anus; the thermometer will display a result within 60 seconds.Wash the thermometer after each use.
 Older dogs are likely to overheat they spend hours in a hot environment, and lack the presence of mind to leave a hot environment. To help your dog cool down, remove it from the hot environment—this could be a hot car, a field in which the dog has been running, or the outdoors on a sunny day.You’ll also need to stop your dog from engaging in activities that raise its body temperature, including running and playing. Have your dog sit or lay down in a cool environment for at least 20 minutes.
Avoid careless mistakes which may lead to overheating, like leaving your dog in the car or forgetting to provide shade for your dog if it’s left outside on a hot day., As dogs age, they lose the ability to regulate their own body temperature as easily as they could when they were younger. You may need to accommodate for this by keeping your home at a slightly cooler temperature than you’re used to, to prevent your dog from overheating.Turning down the thermostat by a degree or two could make senior dogs more comfortable—especially if your dog is already prone to overheating.
 Drinking water is an important way for your dog to lower their body temperature and stay hydrated during hot conditions. Your dog should always have access to clean drinking water, but if you suspect that the aging dog is overheating, you may need to place a bowl of water in front of it and encourage the dog to drink.If you can, make sure that the dog’s drinking water is not hot. If you leave a bowl of water outside for your dog, position it in the shade. Water left in direct sunlight will quickly heat and may raise your elderly dog’s body temperature.
 If your dog is overheating outdoors, you should bring it inside to cool down. If it’s a hot day, your basement or pantry may be the coolest room in your house.Lead the dog here, and have it sit or lay down in the room. If you have a small house fan, you can put this in front of your dog to help it cool off.


If you are away from your home and cannot quickly bring your dog indoors, you’ll need to provide your dog with access to shade. Lead your dog under a large tree, or into the shade of a building. This will help prevent your dog from overheating more.
 Cup your hand and fill it with water, then rub the water on your dog’s head, ears, and belly. This will help your dog cool down quickly. If you’re near a natural body of water—such as a lake or stream—gently submerge your dog’s body into the water. If you’re at home, fill the bathtub with cool water and place your dog in the tub.If you have the supplies, rather than splashing or fully immersing your dog, you can wet towels and apply these to the dog’s back and abdomen.
 If your dog is unconscious or if its temperature does not drop below 103°F, take it to a vet immediately. This is an emergency situation; heat stroke can be deadly to pets, and elderly dogs are already more susceptible. Even if the dog is conscious and its temperature has gone down to normal, it’s still important to take the dog to the vet. Heat stroke can cause problems you may not notice, including blood clots and kidney or brain swelling.Explain the situation to the vet. Say something like, “My dog was running in a field near our house, when she started panting excessively and began to vomit. I ran water over her in the bathtub and took her temperature. She was at 104 degrees, so I brought her in immediately.”
Also ask something like, “My dog often plays outside; how can I prevent her from overheating again?”
Consider asking: “Is it likely that this heat exhaustion caused any permanent mental or physical damage to my dog?”

