 Serrated knives need different sharpeners than straight-edged blades. Most serrated knife sharpeners are rod-shaped, usually with a taper to accommodate different sized serrations.;
, Serrated knives generally do not look the same from both sides. On one side, the face of the blade will continue at the same angle until the blade's edge. On the other, the face of the blade will angle down slightly just before the serrated edge; this is called the bevel. Only apply a sharpening tool to the beveled edge.
 Choosing an angle is easier for serrated blades, because you can use the angle of the bevel as a guide. This is typically between 13 and 17 degrees compared to the edge of the blade, which is shallower than you may be used to sharpening knives.If the knife also has a straight edge portion, the bevels are usually ground to the same angle — about 20 to 25 degrees.If you want a better guide, draw on the gullets with permanent marker. You'll know you're hitting them at the right angle if the marker is removed., If your sharpening rod is tapered, locate the rod in the gullet at the point where the rod's diameter is the same size as the gullet's, or slightly smaller.
 Run the sharpening rod along the first groove in several short strokes. Push in one direction away from the edge of the blade, toward the spine. Rotate the rod as you push it for a more even grind.Push only to the point of the rod with the same diameter as the gullet, to avoid enlarging the gullet.
 Run your fingers along the backside of the groove to check for a "burr," or metal shavings. As soon as you can feel a burr, you have sharpened the groove sufficiently. This often only takes a few strokes.


Try running your fingernail along the back edge. If you feel it catch, there's a burr., If the knife's serrations are different sizes, adjust the position of the tapered sharpening rod so that the rod just fills the groove.
 The burrs are the metal shavings that you filed off when sharpening the blade. To remove them, rub the back of the knife against a sheet of fine-grit sandpaper. As an alternative, you could lightly run the sharpening rod against the backside of each groove, being careful not to apply more pressure than necessary to remove the shavings.
 If your knife is only serrated along a part of the blade's length, sharpen the remaining length with a whetstone or other sharpening tool. Don't attempt to use the serrated knife sharpener on the straight portion of the blade.

