 One purpose of a voodoo doll is to provide meditation and focus. While holding your voodoo doll, focus on the desired effect you hope it will bring. You can buy voodoo dolls online that symbolize aspects of life like fertility, marriage, luck, prosperity, etc. or that represent one of the spirits.


This process may require patience and clearing your mind of distractive thoughts. That is why it's also referred to as meditation because it's the practice of calming your soul in order to be more spiritually in tune with your desires.
You can bring about good not only to yourself, but to others. If you'd like to bring others good fortune, use the same process but have a doll that represents them instead and focus on the desires you wish for them.
 There are traditionally seven colored pins you can use to indicate areas of your life you want to focus on. This technique goes hand in hand with the focusing technique, but focusing and meditating comes first, and then using the pins follows. After you have decided what aspect of life you'd like to change, prick the corresponding colored pen into your voodoo doll. The head represents things that have to do with knowledge, the heart is used for emotions, and the stomach is used for gut feelings or intuition. So, if you desire power in your life or a friend's life, then use the red pin to prick the head. If you desire love, use the blue pin to prick the heart. These are the different colors and what they symbolize:Yellow: success
Green: money
White: healing
Red: power
Purple: spirituality
Blue: love
Black: repelling negative energies

, Loa, the twins, and the dead are all spiritual beings of Voodoo that interact to bring you different things. In order to summon the spirits, a voodoo doll of the spirit must be created or obtained, you must focus on the desires you hope the spirit will bring you and light a candle in the appropriate color of the spirit, and then a sacrifice must be offered to the spirit. It may be helpful to create an alter for your doll so that you can light a candle to the spirits and offer your sacrifice there.


Loa interact with people of the Earth and they are the spirits of the major forces of the universe--good, evil, reproduction, health, and all aspects of daily life.There are so many different types of loa and so they can not all be listed, but with adequate research you should be able to find the loa you wish to appeal to.The twins are a mysterious set of forces of contradictions: happy and sad, good and evil, ect. When honored, they may help you have the better side of life.
The dead are the souls of one's own family members who have died, but family has not yet "reclaimed" them. If the family dead are ignored they can be dangerous, but if honored and cared for they can be helpful. 