 Choose bands of the correct length and secure them over the top of a pull-up bar. Adjust the length or the band so that it does not reach the ground when you are standing on it.You may have to adjust the length of the band several times to get it correct.
You should be able to hang off the bar and place your feet in the band without your feet touching the ground.
If you're looping the band around your knees, you'll need to adjust it so that it's shorter.;
, You can do band-assisted pull-ups either by standing inside the band or looping the band under your knees. If you loop the band under your knees, you'll need to keep your knees bent as you perform your pull-ups.You also can put only one foot or knee in the band, if this is more comfortable. The band may provide less assistance this way.
 To perform a pull-up, you want to use an overhand grip. Chin-ups are another exercise similar to pull-ups that use an underhand grip. Chin-ups are more difficult than pull-ups because the muscles used for pull-ups are larger and stronger.In hanging position, your arms should be completely straight with your elbows locked. Take care not to hyper-extend your elbow.
Grip the bar with your hands a little wider than shoulder-width apart. Your arms shouldn't touch your ears. Don't grip too wide, however, or you'll significantly decrease your range of motion.
 Take a few deep breaths, then pull yourself up in a slow, steady motion, driving your elbows towards your side in a pumping motion. The band will make it easier for you to lift your body weight.Avoid swinging or pushing from your hips. You should be pulling up your body weight, not using any momentum from your lower body.
You also want to avoid jerky movements. Your pull-up should be a relatively slow, controlled movement.
Raise your entire head and neck over the bar. Don't strain your chin or neck to reach over the bar – the work should be done by your arms, making sure to keep your shoulders down.
Keep in mind that the band will provide progressively less assistance as you pull yourself up.
 Once you've completed your pull-up, follow through with the rest of the exercise by controlling your movement when you lower so that your muscles are doing the work to actively lower your body.Simply allowing your body to drop after the exercise can put you at risk for injury.
Aim for your descent to take between three and five seconds.
The bands will assist you to some degree to control your movement and lighten your load as you lower your body.
 When you hang from the bar, lock your elbows. Breathe deeply and remain in this position for one or two seconds before you do another pull-up.Pull-ups are challenging exercises, so don't overdo it. A couple of sets of between 5 and 10 reps is sufficient.
If you're just starting out with pull-ups, do fewer reps at first. You can add reps as you get stronger and more skilled.

