 Throughout history, all sword-wielding cultures have trained and sparred with wooden swords. The two most popular kinds are the bokken (used in Eastern martial arts, and properly called a bokuto in Japan) and the waster (used in Western martial arts).


As a beginner, start off with a relatively inexpensive wooden sword made of bamboo or any other type of lightweight wood.
Choose one with a well-crafted handle and guard to ensure that the sword fits securely in your hand.
 Because of its toughness and durability, a hickory-crafted sword is the preferred training tool for the serious swords collector. Also, hickory is a heavy wood, so swords made of it are closer to the weight of an actual sword.Synthetic wooden swords made of heavy grade polypropylene are also great for serious training because of their extreme durability.
These synthetic versions are not as stiff as their wooden counterparts., Test for a lighter, more ideal weight by holding the practice sword in your dominant hand for about ten minutes. If you don’t feel any discomfort in your arm during that time period, the practice sword is light enough for your training purposes.


Move the sword around a bit and try a few practice thrusts. You should be able to manipulate the sword easily without straining any of your arm muscles.
Make sure the practice sword features a blade that is dull (to prevent injury) and somewhat flexible., These make great training tools because they allow you to engage aggressively while sparring, offering a more realistic combat experience.


Minimal armor is required, but keep in mind that foam swords can still be a little painful when used at full force.
Minimal armor in this case would be a helmet and groin protection.
 They closely approximate a real sword in almost every way, but the possibility of injury is greatly diminished.


When training with blunted steel tools, armor should always be worn.
An inexperienced user should not wield one of these, since they can be dangerous.

