 If you or a loved one has been diagnosed with cerebral palsy, your first step in looking for a support group should be to talk to your doctor. He will probably know of several organizations that can get you started on a larger search.If your child is diagnosed with cerebral palsy, a support team may help you create a Life Care Plan to help figure out what your child needs and your financial capabilities. While drafting this plan, you may be put into contact with a support group for your child as well.;
, Once you have found a few organizations to talk to and consider, ask them for additional advice. They will probably know the support groups out there, and can help you find one to address your particular needs and concerns.Some major CP organizations include the March of Dimes, Cure CP, the Cerebral Palsy Foundation, and Reaching for the Stars., Look for groups like volunteer organizations, community centers, churches, or even public libraries. These groups can be especially helpful in finding local support groups. Places like libraries and churches may even host a support group, giving you a place that may already be familiar and comfortable.Some CP organizations that have local chapters that may already be in your area include United Cerebral Palsy (UCP), The Arc, Easter Seals, and Parent to Parent USA., The internet provides a variety of options when looking for support groups. In particular, this will also help you find online-only support groups. These use chatrooms, message boards, forums, and other online tools to allow people to connect and communicate without having to go to meetings, or even be in the same place.Another way to use online searches is to get a list of organizations and support groups, then check them with your other sources. They may be able to more specific advice about certain groups rather than stating the ones that they are most familiar with.
Online support groups can be good for people who are more comfortable remaining anonymous, or want to get information from a larger network of respondents. If it is difficult for you to get out of the house and go to meetings, these can also be effective ways to communicate with others while remaining at home., Some are smaller groups dedicated to sharing information between people and providing emotional support. Other groups focus on fundraising for research or advocating for more public support. The support group you join needs to fulfill your needs, so look at what different groups try to do for their members., Once you have found some CP support groups, you will want to make sure that you are joining a group that fulfills your needs. Different organizations provide certain services depending on the level at which they operate, so make sure you find a group that provides what you are looking for.Larger national organizations provide support groups and social networks for parents, and work to raise money for research and public advocacy. Along with their local networks, they may also hold larger events which can expand your support circle. Some of these organizations include the March of Dimes, Cure CP, and Reaching for the Stars. Reaching for the Stars also founded the CP Kids Coalition, a place for kids with cerebral palsy to meet and talk.
Some groups organize local chapters for more direct help. These groups will have support groups along with a variety of available resources to help those with cerebral palsy live normal, healthy lives. Some of these include United Cerebral Palsy (UCP), The Arc, Easter Seals, Parent to Parent USA, and Family Voices.
Make sure you find out when and where these groups meet in your area. When you join a support group, you’ll want to take full advantage of what they offer, which you can’t do if you don’t regularly show up to meetings and events. Make sure the group is located in a place you can get to, and will feel comfortable talking in.
 Some groups are set up to provide medical and emotional support specifically for children suffering from CP rather than for a parent or family member who acts as a caregiver. Different groups may also have medical professionals there as well to provide additional information., Online support groups can be good for people who are more comfortable remaining anonymous, or want to get information from a larger network of respondents. If it is difficult for you to get out of the house and go to meetings, these can also be effective ways to communicate with others while remaining at home.Online groups will have social networks for people to communicate, as well as a set of links to other kinds of products and services. They tend to be most helpful for parents and other caregivers. Some of the biggest are Special Needs Moms for Moms and Mommies of Miracles.
 If your support group has regular meetings, make sure you go to them. The point of the support group is to share experiences and provide mutual support. Once you have a place to go, show up and let people know you want their help and want to help them.


Support groups can do a variety of activities, including social gatherings, equipment swaps, and workshops. Taking part in these events is a great way to learn new information and get to know your fellow group members better., Many of the issues surrounding cerebral palsy are going to be fairly common across sufferers. Your story may be difficult, but it isn’t unique. Other people have probably gone through the same or similar experiences, and will use the support group as a way to share things that worked (or didn’t). Pay attention to the kinds of issues they address. This will help you deal with similar problems, or prepare yourself to handle them in the future.Some groups also include health professionals, who can provide more scientific advice. Talking to a medical professional in this more informal setting help you feel more comfortable when discussing issues during an appointment in a hospital or doctor’s office.
Some of the important advice you can get from members of a support group includes recommendations on doctors and other health care workers, certain milestones or signs you should be watching for, and even advice on how to deal with legal difficulties.
 Some of the main purposes of a support group are to relieve stress and let people know that they are not alone in struggling. Sharing your good experiences can help others facing similar problems, while talking about your struggles may give someone else the opportunity to share how they overcame the issue.Remember that about 764,000 children and adults currently have cerebral palsy in the United States, and about 10,000 babies born each year will develop it. Considering both those who suffer and those who take care of them, that is a lot of people who will recognize what you are going through and be able to give good advice., If existing nearby support groups just aren’t providing the emotional or material help you and your family need, consider starting your own group. Talk to other people in your area or circle of friends who might need the kind of support you are thinking about to make sure you will have potential members. Figure out a time and place to hold your meetings, and make sure people know to show up.You may find it easier to consult a national organization, like UCP or Easter Seals, to discuss setting up a local chapter if one doesn’t exist in your area.

