 Elsa is very protective of her younger sister Anna, and these feelings are a primary motivation for her character. If you have a younger sibling or siblings, be sure to always keep them out of harm's way.


Don't ever let your words or actions hurt your sibling. Elsa may have accidentally hurt Anna with her ice powers, but she would never do anything to intentionally harm her. To be like Elsa, you should never insult or hit your younger sibling. Speak in a gentle, kind manner.
Protect your younger sibling from bullying. If you see him or her getting pushed around, step in and tell the bully off. If you aren't around when the bullying happens, encourage your sibling to tell an adult. Be supportive and reassure him or her that the bully is in the wrong.If you think your sibling may be hanging out with a bad crowd, talk to him or her about finding more positive friends.
Be a positive role model for your sibling to follow. A younger sibling is likely to want to be more like you and may copy your actions. Lead by example with positive behaviour and respect.Remember that sisters tend to have a positive effect on their siblings, making them less likely to feel lonely or self-conscious.Foster a good relationship with your sibling by always being there to support him or her.
If you don't have a younger sibling, you can play this role with a younger cousin, a smaller friend, or even a pet.;
, Remember that Elsa typically acts like the proper queen that she is. In contrast to her younger sister, Elsa displays a lot of grace and poise., Try your best to always be respectful of others and to follow proper etiquette. A major part of being regal is showing people respect. Be humble and show gratitude to others. Never pick petty fights.
Practice good posture. Keep your back straight and never slouch. Always keep your shoulders back and your chin up. Hold your head high. A good way to help you maintain good posture is to pretend to carry an item on your head without letting it fall off. A classic way to practice at home is to walk with a book balanced on top of your head., Because Elsa had to hide her magical powers for most of her life, she is used to concealing who she is and how she feels. While you should never be afraid to show people your true self, you can be like Elsa by being quiet and occasionally secretive.


Remember that by the end of the film, Elsa begins to find a happy medium between being completely detached and overwhelmed by her emotions.
 Because of her powers, Elsa spent most of her life in isolation and as a result is independent to a fault. Don't go to this extreme, but if you want to be like Elsa, you should try to be independent. Learn how to take care of yourself and enjoy time spent alone.


Learn to create your own fun without needing other people around. Take up a solitary hobby like art to occupy your time. Instead of only reading books assigned to you at school, check some out from your library. Explore new ideas on your own. Be creative!
Get a job if you're old enough. Having your own source of income will let you take care of more things, like buying food and clothing, without help.If you're too young to work, ask your parents about volunteering. You can develop your independence while helping others.
 Always be mindful of how you treat others, especially your loved ones. While you should be in touch with your emotions, anger is never an excuse to hurt anyone. The major conflict in Frozen is caused by Elsa letting her emotions overwhelm her and accidentally hurting her sister with her powers. No matter how angry someone makes you feel, never lash out with violence or hurtful words. When you start to feel angry or frustrated, try one or more tricks to calm yourself down:


The best way to combat anger is through mindfulness. When you feel yourself start to get upset, try to pause and count to ten. Think about why you're getting angry and whether there's a more positive way to react to the situation.
Talk to a friend or an adult about your feelings. Explaining your emotions with another person will help to diffuse them.If you can't talk to someone immediately, try writing everything out in a journal.
Distract yourself to keep from dwelling on whatever is making you upset. You can listen to music, watch TV, read a book, or engage in your favourite hobby.
A positive way to diffuse all that energy that gets pent up when you're angry is to exercise. Going for a run is a great way to improve your mood.Remember to apologise if your temper does get the better of you. Be sincere and try to make things right., A major part of Elsa's popularity as a character comes from her powerful singing throughout the film. Her solo song "Let It Go" has been an especially big hit and actually made the creators of Frozen decide to change Elsa from a villain to a flawed hero., This is an aspect of Elsa that you will really need to use your imagination for. Try to make the cold seem like your element.


When the weather starts to get chilly, keep wearing your summer clothes a little longer than everyone else.
No matter how bad the weather gets, never complain about the cold. Instead, pretend you don't feel cold at all and talk about how much you love the winter.
Keep your room a little cooler than average.
Take up skating or another ice-related activity and talk about how you feel at home with the ice.
Be careful not to let yourself get too cold, or you can hurt yourself or become very ill.