 You never know, the main actor in that film you saw or the new artist with videos on YouTube may be just what you're looking for! Just watch or listen to something different,and see if you like it. If you are looking for someone else, this may be the way to go about it.;
, Look up facts on them, visit a fan club site, look at pictures of them. Get to know their history - their career - anything that hints at who they are and what they've done.
 You could do such things such as listening to their music or watching one of their films. Or, if you prefer to be really creative, how about making a fan book about them? Get a good quality notebook, write about them, stick in images or notes, whatever to make your book special.
 Put them up on your bedroom wall so you can look at them whenever you like. Or, if you reckon you're a good at drawing, you could have a go at drawing a picture of them! Do so carefully. Put it up in your room, and when people see they can know how much you love the celebrity!

, Don't worry if they have never heard of him or don't like him/her that much, just because she/he is not the most popular celeb on the street, that you like him is the only thing that matters!

, Write to their fan mail address and write a bit about yourself and why you like their work so much. However, be careful not to be tempted to scribble 'I love you! You're so hot! Will you marry me?' all over the page as it may seem a bit over the top to them. A celebrity's favorite fan is a respectful one, who won't fill the page with such content. Remember to say thank-you for reading the letter! Who knows? - You might get a reply!

, Lots of celebrities are into writing autobiographies etc., and a great way to show your appreciation of the celebrity is to read their literature. If you're feeling brave, write a review!

, There's nothing wrong with being a great fan, but it's important to keep a grip on your own life. You're unlikely to have a conversation with them, so it may be wise to be a fan, but not to dream too much about the celebrity. That's not to say you should give up!

, Take notes on things you like about them, like helping charity, as you could do this too. You could make them your role model, if you're really fanatic, and get into activities they like!

