 This article will show you how to make a simple and serviceable bag. It will have one main pocket and one small pocket at the front of the bag. You will learn how to add a handle to this bag and fasten the main pocket with a drawstring.


Note: You can change the size of the bag and its handle as per your choice and material at hand.
One way to determine the size of the fabric is by roughly understand the size of the items you intend to fit inside the bag. You can increases the size of the fabric by about 5inches more than the objects size.;
, Measure and cut the sturdy fabric into four pieces, as follows:


Two rectangles measuring 22 inches by 29 inches (56cm x 73.5cm).

The 22 inches is for the horizontal measurement and 29 is vertical.


One rectangle measuring 11 inches by 14 inches (28cm x 33cm). Eleven inches will be the horizontal measurement.
 Cut a small rectangular piece measuring 7 inches by 14 inches (18cm x 33cm).
 Cut a five foot long (152cm) length of sturdy twine or cordage. Prevent fraying by either tying the ends.

In case of a nylon type rope, you may melt the ends in a flame to prevent their fraying.
 Pin or baste in place.
 Pin or baste in place. If the fabric is particularly slippery, you may also wish to press or starch the folded edges with a hot iron.
 This top stitched edge will be the top edge of the pocket.
 Do this by folding the rectangle "hot dog" style, so that the two long edges lie parallel and together. Use pins or tailors chalk to mark the center line.
 Measure up along the center line from the short edge. Mark the 7 inch (18cm) point with pins or chalk.
 These three points will make the lines on which you need to place the pocket., Take care to place the top stitched edge up.
,, Fold the 13 x 7 inches (33cm x 18cm) rectangle with right sides together. Fold it "hot dog" style, so that you create a 13 x 3.5 inch (33cm x 9cm) rectangle.
,, About half of the flap should overlap the top edge of the pocket., (This pocket measures 10 x 12 inches (25cm x 30cm) when finished, a good size for some children's books or a notebook.)

Note that if you place the folded edge of the flap down over the pocket, that the opening left for “turning right side out” will be stitched closed as you top stitch the flap to the bag., Sew down one side, across the bottom, and up the other side. Miter corners and finish the seam with either zig zag stitch or rolling the seam while stitching to hide any raw edges and prevent fraying.
 Stitch the seam allowances flat on either side of this to hold them down and out of the way when your drawstring is pulled through.
 Be sure that the "right" side (patterned side) of the fabric is facing the outside of the bag. Pin or baste in place.
,, Tie or sew ends of the cordage to create a loop. (Prevents the cord from getting lost or pulled out of the channel.)

, Just keep in mind that bags intended for small children should be devoid of anything which they could tear off and swallow. (Fabric paints are a good alternative.), Enjoy the feeling of accomplishment and goodwill you have created with your simple act of generosity.

