;
, Enter in your information by clicking on the respective boxes and typing in your information. Once logged in, you will be brought to your main Yahoo Mail page.
 Look on the far right side of your screen for the small gear. Click on that and choose "Settings" from the options.
 You will notice the very first option says “Yahoo Account” and will list your Yahoo ID. There will be three links below it:


Change your password
View your Yahoo profile
Edit your account info

,, This will bring up a new screen. The top box will say “Profile Information.” Inside this box you will see a blue link that says “Update your contact information.”

, You will be taken to the screen with all of your contact information.
 The first thing you will be able to edit is your name. You can click each individual box to enter your title, first name, and last name.
 Below that you are able to add a new e-mail address. When you click on "Add E-mail," it will ask you for another e-mail address to add. You can type in any e-mail address that you wish to add.


From this point forward, you will notice a small drop-down menu next to every individual line. You can toggle between “No one” and “Everyone” to select which information you want visible on your profile.
 Messenger name. Now you can add another Y! Messenger name by clicking "Add IM" and typing in your alternate IM name.
 You can click the box and simply type in a new phone or fax number to change this information. They list in the following order:


Mobile
Home Phone
Work Phone
Home Fax
Work Fax

, Below the phone and fax numbers is your address. You can add your country, street, city, zip code, and state. They are all individually added by clicking each box. If you want to leave your state and country and nothing else then that is fine. It is your profile, do what makes you comfortable!

, Remember, this is very sensitive information; if this is something you do not want to make public that is completely fine.
 You can link your Facebook, Twitter, or work-related site from here. If you need to add another website, just click the Add Website button and enter the URL of the website into the box.
 When you are finished read over all of the information you entered to check it for accuracy.
 After you are sure everything is correct, click on the gold "Save" button at the bottom of the window. Your contact information is now updated!

