 A party to celebrate fall harvest can be based on your own farm or garden harvest. If you don't have any food to harvest, the party can be based around a bounty of food you've brought home from the farmers market. Many bargains are to be had on large quantities of good food at harvest time.;
, It might just be an excuse to get together and reminisce over summer while eating good food. Or, it might be a chance to try out new recipes and ask those coming to bring a plate too. If you want to do something really constructive, the party could involve canning, baking, freezing, etc., some of the fall harvest as a group. When the activities are done, everyone can take home their own preserved food for the winter season ahead.
 Send invitations your your siblings, cousins, nephews and nieces and friends. Invite along everyone you know will appreciate a fall party.


If you're planning on making the party activity-based, consider who would like to be involved in doing the activities. Not everyone will find turning up for canning and baking much fun! Also consider having babysitting available, so that people are not distracted if they're busy doing things.
 Focus on autumn crops as the theme for the party. You can use real food (such as squash, pumpkins, apples, pecans, etc.) and replicas of food, such as a cornucopia basket filled with artificial vegetables and fruit.


Pumpkins are ideal for decorations. They're associated with fall and they're sturdy, colorful and interesting decorations. You can display them as they are, or dress them up with ribbons,

, Oranges, yellows, reds, browns, amber-tones, copper-tones, golds, etc. are all perfect color themes for your fall harvest party. The theme can be amplified by using ribbons, bows, streamers, balloons, tablecloths, napkins, etc. that are in any of these colors.


Bring in some changing leaves from outside to decorate with. Strew these around the room, such as on the tabletops, on display items and hanging as a garland.
If partying outdoors, make use of hay bales. Use these as decorations, seats and game props.
 At the front door, have a harvest display, such as a mound of squash and pumpkins, a basket of apples, nuts in their shells or other bounty from the harvest. Include a sign that says something like "Welcome" and "Happy Harvest Season". A fall wreath is a perfect touch for the front door.


You could hang a banner across a wall or over the door with the welcoming words on it.
 Once again, focus on all the foods that are directly related to the harvest, such as berries, squash, pumpkins, corn, nuts and seeds, fruits, etc. You have an enormous choice here but the best thing to do is to focus on locally-produced crops. This will vary depending on where you live, and ensures that you make food using the freshest and cheapest harvest produce available.


If cooking party food from your own harvest, be sure to leave plenty for your own use in the coming months.
There's no need to sweat over a hot stove unless you want to. Try simple but delicious food, such as berry salad and roasted vegetable panini.
A popcorn bar is fun. Put popcorn into a large basket or half-size basket barrel. Arrange fall-themed candies (such as orange, red, yellow and brown M&Ms) in front with scoops. Let people help themselves to a mix of whatever they like the most.
 It's up to you what sort of music you have but you might like to find songs about harvesting, such as "Combine Harvester" or "Harvest Home". A quick online search for "Harvest songs" will reveal many choices you can use.
 If they're bringing food or harvest contributions, set these aside on a table or in the kitchen.
 Depending on what sort of a party you're throwing, here are some of the things to get underway when the party has started:


Play games based on harvests, fall and resourcefulness. Game examples include: Pumpkin ring toss, find the toy in the haystack, pin the tail on the donkey, guess how many , stacking apples, an obstacle course that uses pumpkins and other fall produce, harvest bingo (do a search online for printable forms or make your own using a table format), bobbing for apples, candy corn bean bag toss, pumpkin rolling races, pumpkin tic-tac-toe on the hay (use sticks for the squares), standard games using fall colors/items, etc.
Include activities for the kids if kids are coming. This might include making pumpkin shapes or hats from disposable bowls and plates, drawing/painting fall produce, making corn with finger painting on pre-cut corn shapes, playing in a pumpkin-themed sensory bin, decorating cookies shaped as pumpkins/corn, etc. Ensure that the activities are age-appropriate (no small pieces for the little kids).
Encourage guests to eat the food that is available. This can be assisted by placing out on a buffet, with easily-obtained plates, utensils, etc. Also place snacks at various places around the party, to ensure that everyone gets something.
Get everyone dancing. A few country-style jigs might be appropriate.
If you are canning, baking, preserving food, hand out aprons, recipes, tools, etc. and let everyone know where to take their places and how to get started. Guests could follow their own recipes or ones that you've provided, and different roles can be assigned according to levels of interest or skill. For example, if someone doesn't want to any actual food processing, they might sterilize the jars or write the labels instead.
 These can be a little different from the usual. For example, you can give away excess harvest crops, such as a bag of zucchini or squash, a basket of nuts or apples, or some pumpkin cupcakes.


Include some fall recipes in the goody bag.
Candies made from fall produce could be a fun inclusion, such as pear fudge, toffee/candy apples, or peach chews.

