 By paying to attend the official event, you won't need to wait outside, hoping for a glimpse.


Get the best seats you can afford. The closer to the stage you are, the more likely they will see you. Some performers are very interactive with their audience and may take photos or chat with you.
You can also pay for a VIP ticket that includes a Meet and Greet session. While very expensive, these opportunities usually come with great seats to the film, play, or concert, and a guaranteed photo of the two of you at the end. Most booking agents will explain exactly what is included with a VIP package.
 Celebrities will often promote themselves at book signings, both for their own books and books that are related to a project they work on. (For example, in 2012 Jennifer Lawrence signed copies of The Hunger Games at a New York City Barnes & Noble to promote literacy.) Many of these events are free. There are websites that can alert you to what is going on when and where.


Contact the bookstore in advance to find out if the line is likely to be very long, what the photograph and autograph policies are, etc. Large bookstores handle many signings a year and know exactly what to expect.
It may be difficult to get a photograph with a celebrity at a book signing; the bookstores usually want the line to keep moving. Don’t make yourself a nuisance, or you will be unlikely to be allowed to return.
Most book signings do not allow people to get an autograph, or to join the line to meet the celebrity, unless the person has bought the item.
Consider buying more than one book. This may give you more time to speak to the celebrity while they sign.
 If you have tickets to a play or show, find where the stage door or back entrance is. After the play, head straight there and wait for the person to exit. There will likely be many people waiting, but you may still get a photo or an autograph.


Some performers may be very tired after performing a show and will not want to sign autographs or pose for photos. Always be polite and respectful and don’t hassle anyone.
 Shows such as The Daily Show, morning talk shows, and late night talk shows all have many celebrity guests per week. You can find taping schedules online so that you know when your favorite celebrity will be a guest.Like theaters, talk shows also have stage doors. Often arriving and leaving a taping is a staged event, complete with paparazzi and fans, but you may be able to score a quick meeting, depending on the celebrity and their schedule.

