 Wrap the yarn over the crochet hook three times, working from back to front around the hook.Wrap the yarn in between the loop already on your hook and the opening of the hook. Note that each consecutive yarn-over should be made in between the last one and the opening, not in between the previous yarn-over and the starting loop on your hook.;
, Slide the tip of the hook into the stitch indicated in your pattern instructions.


Only insert the tip of the hook. Do not draw any of the yarn already on your hook through the stitch.
Keep the working yarn behind your crochet piece as you continue along.
 With the opening of the crochet hook still behind the piece, wrap the yarn over the hook once, letting this yarn-over slide into the opening of the hook.


Wrap the yarn from back to front.
 Pull the crochet hook back through to the front of the stitch, bringing the most recent yarn-over with it. Note that the yarn-over has now turned into a loop.


There should be five loops on your hook at this point.
You may need to keep tension on the previously worked portion of the piece using the thumb and index finger of your non-dominant hand (the hand not holding onto the hook). Doing so can make it easier to slide the hook in and out of the stitch.
 Wrap the yarn over the tip of the hook once more time.


Work from back to front again.
Let the yarn-over slip into the opening of the hook.
 With the previous yarn-over caught in the hook opening, draw it through the top two loops previously on your hook.


If you have difficulty drawing the yarn-over through the loops, gently twist the hook so that the opening faces down and try again.
You should be left with four loops on your hook at this point.
 Yarn over the hook, then draw the yarn-over through two loops. Repeat this three more times until you are left with only one loop on your hook.After the first repetition, you will have three loops left on the hook.
After the second repetition, you will have two loops remaining on the hook.
After the third repetition, you will only be left with one loop on the hook.
Once you complete this step, you have completed one DTR (double treble crochet) stitch.
 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook using a slipknot and create a foundation chain. Your foundation chain needs to have five stitches more than the number of double treble crochets you want in your first row.


For example, if you want to create a row of 10 double treble crochets, you need to start with a foundation chain made of 15 chain stitches.
If you do not know how to make a chain stitch or a slipknot, please check the "Tips" section for additional help.
 Skip over the first five stitches next to your hook and work one standard double treble crochet into the sixth stitch. Use the same method described in the "Double Treble Crochet Stitch" section of the article.


Yarn over three times.
Insert the hook into the stitch to be worked. In this case, it is the sixth stitch.
Yarn over once.
Draw the yarn-over back through to the front of the stitch to create a loop.
Yarn over once.
Draw the yarn-over through two loops.
Repeat three more times: yarn over, draw it through two loops; yarn over, draw it through two loops; yarn over, draw it through two loops.
This completes the stitch.
 Work one double treble crochet into each chain of your foundation chain. Continue doing this until you reach the end of the chain.


To complete a straight row, only make one double treble crochet per stitch.
Once you reach the end of the chain, you have completed a first full row of double treble crochet.
 If you have not done so already, flip the crochet work over so that its front becomes the back and its back becomes the front.


Note that this technique applies if you are working on your second row or any row after that. It will vary slightly from a row of double treble crochet completed from a foundation chain.



The purpose of a turning chain is to extend the yarn up to the finished height of your next row, and the height of that turning chain is based on the type of stitch you will be making in that row. For a row of double treble crochet, you need a chain of five stitches.
When counting the stitches in this row, you will count your turning chain as one double treble crochet.
 Work one standard double treble crochet stitch into the second stitch of the previous row, counting the stitches starting at your hook. When the time comes, insert the hook into both top loops of the stitch, working from front to back. The double treble crochet you make now should follow the basic instructions provided in this article.


Yarn over three times.
Insert the yarn into the stitch to be worked. In this case, that should be the second stitch. Make sure that you insert the hook into both top loops from front to back.
Yarn over once.
Draw the yarn-over into a loop at the front of the piece.
Yarn over once.
Draw the yarn-over through two loops on your hook.
Repeat three more times: yarn over, draw it through two loops; yarn over, draw it through two loops; yarn over, draw it through two loops.
When you only have one loop on your hook, the stitch is complete.
 Make one and only one double treble crochet in each stitch of the previous row. Continue until you reach the end of the row to complete a full row of double treble crochet.


Note that for future rows, you will need to make your last double treble crochet into the fifth stitch of the turning chain from the previous row.
You can complete as many rows of double treble crochet as desired using this technique.

