 Flooring choices include sand (fine beach sand, playground sand, silica sand), gravel/stones (lava rock, pea gravel, polished stones), wood and paper products (bark, mulch, butcher paper, newspaper, paper towels, shavings), soils and mosses (sphagnum moss, potting soil, Spanish moss), or litter (cat litter, clay litter, alfalfa pellets).The type of substrate you use will depend on the needs of your reptile.


When in doubt, seek professional advice from a reptile specialist. Some substrates, for example sand, can readily cause gut impactions if the lizards eats some when feeding off insects.
Wood is best for arboreal species of reptiles, such as lizards, that do not spend a lot of time on the ground.Paper towels and newspapers can be shredded and placed on the bottom of the cage. These materials are inexpensive and are easy to clean up, but they do not help with odor control.
Coconut fiber is good for reptiles that need a high humidity environment and helps control odor. It is also good for reptiles that like to burrow and hide.Moss is good for high humidity reptiles and is good for reptiles that like to burrow as well.Sand works for desert species reptiles; however, it can be harmful if large amounts are ingested.Never use soil, grass, bark or other substrates from the park or your yard. They may contain organisms and bacteria that may be harmful to your reptile., All reptiles need an external heat source because they cannot control their own body temperature and many of them come from warm climates. If your reptile spends most of his time on branches or in the upper portion of the cage, he will need basking heat. If your reptile spends most of his time on the ground, you will need ground heat. All cages need a thermometer as well. The ideal temperature is between 20 and 32 ºC (68 to 89.6 ºF).Ceramic heaters, basking lamps, and basking lights can be used to provide basking heat. Basking lights are used to create a desert environment. Basking lamps have time limits (14 hours in the summer and 8 hours during the winter) and must be monitored.Heat mats and pads, hot rocks, and heat cable and ropes provide ground heat. Heat mats and pads provide constant heat. Hot rocks are best for nocturnal reptiles, but may malfunction from time to time. Choose your hot rocks, mats, and pads carefully. Some mats get too hot and the reptile could burn his belly lying on it. Heat cables and ropes are flexible and can be wrapped around different objects. Heat cables and ropes get very hot. You will need to use a rheostat to monitor the temperature.
Do not place a basking light above a heat pad. This can cause the temperature of the heat pad to reach unsafe levels and can hurt your reptile.
 Most reptiles need full spectrum lights that provide either UVA or UVB light. Proper lighting will keep your reptile healthy and happy and provide adequate levels of Vitamin D3 and calcium. The specific light you use will depend on the type of reptile you have.Lights should be placed 12 to 18 inches from where the reptile will lie.
Lights that provide 4% to 10% of radiation as UVB are best, depending on the animal.
You will most likely need at least two UV bulbs. It is best to switch your lights on and off — including the UV — to mimic day length in the habitat in which your lizard lives in the wild.
Lights should be replaced every six months, regardless of whether they appear to be functioning. This is because the UV levels emitted drop off markedly after six months.
Incandescent lights will add heat to a cage. While you can use this type of light as a heat source, take care that it doesn't make the cage too hot.
Install lights outside the cage if possible. If you choose to install a bulb inside the cage, build a shield around it so the reptile doesn't come into contact with it.
 Put in tree branches for species that like to climb and flat rocks for those who enjoy basking under a heat lamp. Give your reptile places to hide, ideally one hide at the warm end and one hide at the cool end of the cage. Purchase the furnishings from a pet store or trusted online retailer. Branches, sticks, and leaves from our natural environment may be harmful for your reptile.


Consider your reptile's water and food needs. Some need a large dish they can climb into, while others need a drip bottle to drink from.
 Place your reptile inside and observe his behavior closely to make sure he is comfortable. A reptile that acts strangely or is constantly trying to escape may be in distress, requiring that you make adjustments or build a more suitable cage.

