 This is true when you want to know anyone's sexual orientation, not just if they are pansexual. But also understand how many times particular individuals have probably had to tell others about their sexual orientation. Respect that they may not want to tell you and understand that it's perfectly okay for them not to want to share it with you. Don't assume that they are or are not pansexual based on them rejecting your request to tell you their orientation. There are plenty of other sexual orientations that they could identify as. Assumptions are never a solution.;
, This includes abbreviations such as pan. You should always use the full word "pansexual" when asking about orientation. The same rules apply to when asking someone about any orientation. bi, homo, and other abbreviations can appear offensive and should be avoided. Jokes are never okay. Puns off of the double meaning in "pan" are quite common and offensive. Ask politely- Your sense of humor is never appreciated when it is used to make fun of another person's sexual orientation or the way they were born.
 As a label may make someone's sexual orientation easier for others to understand, some people see their orientation as a much more fluid subject. Therefore, if someone chooses not to label themselves as pansexual despite having been involved with men, women, transgender people, and gender queer people, you shouldn't go out of your way to consider them pansexual. Respect their identity, or lack thereof.
 See the variety of genders of people they've dated in the past and make an educated judgement. Keep step three in mind, however. Although an educated guess is okay, don't begin calling someone pansexual simply because you believe they are based on their pasts.
 If you know someone has dated someone that you know to be transgender or gender queer, then you may be in the position to ask them about their orientation. For example, "I heard you were in a relationship with xyz. I was curious, and I hope you don't mind me asking, but are you pansexual?" or, "Feel free not to answer if this is personal, but what is your sexual orientation?" However, be careful when doing something like this and know how to read the conversation. If said without true, factual prior knowledge about someone, your asking could appear to be a quickly designed assumption and read to be very aggressive and offensive.

