 What are your favorite colors? Designs? Shapes? What do you want to be seen on your laptop? Your laptop can be an expression of yourself, so make it accurately reflect you. Choose a design because you like it not because it's popular.;
, For example, if you like blue, then everything, your wallpaper, your cover skin, your screensaver etc. should have a bit of that color. Having one overall color links everything up and makes your computer look more whole.
 These fit right on your laptop, come in color, and protect it from scratches and other everyday wear and tear. You can find them at an Apple store, or even order them online, at Speck. The cool thing about Speck is you can choose the model of your laptop, so you're guaranteed that it will fit perfectly. You can also find the model at Speck, then order on eBay. Other sites also have skins though they might not be organized by model. Keep in mind your color scheme when choosing the color.
 If you do, choose something that represents you. Unless you got a clear cover, realize that you will probably have to put the sticker on top of the cover-skin, so choose one that is durable. Make sure you like it; some of the stickers are permanent or hard to take off.
 Your wallpaper should be something you like, because this is what you're going to be looking at every day. If you feel the options on your computer are too limiting, Google "free mac wallpaper" or a similar phrase. You'll find many sites which offer free abstract backgrounds as well as other cool designs. Keep in mind your color scheme when you look at different backgrounds.
 Your computer usually comes with some pretty cool screensavers, but if you want to get one online, it's the same as finding a wallpaper. Remember your color scheme, but a screensaver is the least important factor in your color scheme since it won't be seen most of the time.
 Choose those according to your color scheme.
 Is there anything you want to change? Remember, this is your computer, so you should make it look the way you want. Also remember: it doesn't have to stay the same; your computer's look can evolve. If you want to add a sticker, or change your desktop, feel free. Your overall look doesn't have to remain constant; just as your personality changes, your computer's look should.
