 There are plenty of foundations on the market made for anyone struggling with wrinkles and fine lines. Look for formulas containing retinol, peptides, and antioxidants, which all have smoothing and collagen-boosting benefits. Additionally, look for sheer foundations that is branded with words like "light-reflecting" or "illuminating." A little bit of a glow helps to reduce the appearance of lines., When your skin looks particularly dry, any wrinkles and fine lines will be accentuated. When you're choosing a foundation, look for ones that have moisturizing qualities. Ingredients like glycerin and hyaluronic acid will help your skin retain moisture throughout the day, while foundations containing salicylic acid can dry your skin out even more. Finally, avoid matte foundations., You can also apply sunscreen with your makeup. Before you invest in expensive "fountain of youth" products, don't forget to pick up some basic sunscreen. Sun damage to your sensitive facial skin can make you appear much older than you actually are. Avoid new wrinkles and sun spots by making SPF a regular part of your routine., If you don’t exfoliate regularly, this is a great routine to pick up. Mature skin can look dull and colorless, which won’t do your wrinkles any favors. Scrubbing off the dead skin cells will help to brighten your complexion. Exfoliation can also increase the production of collagen, the protein responsible for keeping skin plump and tight., Mature skin is often dry, and dry skin can make wrinkles look more prominent. A couple minutes before you’re ready to start doing your makeup, apply moisturizer to your entire skin to give it some much-needed moisture. If you’re willing to spend a bit more, find products with hyaluronic acid. These can help plump up the skin, reducing your fine lines., A makeup primer is key at any age, because it creates an even base for your makeup to go onto. When you have wrinkles, primer is even more important. Apply it over your entire face. Make sure that you get primer into your wrinkles, rather than glossing over them. You may need to pull gently at the skin to open up the wrinkle a bit, allowing the primer to get into it.Look for primers with a silicone base. These will help smooth out the skin and conceal fine lines.
 Choose a thin, light foundation. With thicker foundations, you run a greater risk of having product collect in fine lines. Just like you did with the primer, make sure to get your foundation into the wrinkles. Rather than smoothing it over the wrinkles as if to cover them, you want to make sure the product is being evenly distributed all over your skin. This will help give your skin an even, more seamless appearance., Run your Beauty Blender or similar makeup sponge under a bit of lukewarm water, and squeeze the excess out. By using a damp sponge to apply your foundation, you'll ensure even, natural looking coverage. Then, gently pat out your foundation with your sponge, making sure that everything is thoroughly smoothed and evened out. If you applied your foundation using a foundation brush, this will also get rid of any accidental lines., Pull your lid taut as you gently dab your concealer into the skin. This will ensure that the product is going into the fine lines instead of sitting on top. After you’ve covered your lid, use that same foundation below your eyes. Cover up any dark circles or discoloration by gently dabbing the product under your eye in an upside down triangle shape., These powders are perfect for anyone with wrinkles, because it sets your foundation and concealer without adding any more coverage. By using only a light coat, your products will stay put without looking cakey. Apply the translucent powder evenly to your entire face with a fluffy powder brush.If you don’t set your face with powder, your foundation will slip and slide, eventually settling into wrinkles and making them more defined.
 Using a smaller foundation brush, sweep a bit of bronzer on your cheekbones. Blend it upwards to your temples, adding a bit of warmth anywhere the sun would hit. Then, apply a bit of blush on the apples of your cheeks. These products helps to warm up the face, giving you a youthful glow that will make you look young and healthy. Make sure to blend both your bronzer and blush thoroughly.Make sure to put your bronzer on your cheekbones, rather than underneath them as you would in contouring. This can make your face appear more sunken, but the goal is to achieve a natural-looking glow.
 Use a small amount of illuminating powder or cream to make your face glow. Apply it over the very tops of your cheeks, towards your temples, to create dimension. Use a soft hand while applying to create a soft shimmer, rather than a bold highlight. This highlighter, in conjunction with your blush and bronzer, will make your skin appear youthful and glowing.Again, make sure to get highlighter into the fine lines, rather than brushing over them.
 A setting spray helps to hold the makeup in place. Once you’ve carefully applied your products and your skin is looking lovely, you don’t want anything to smudge or collect into your wrinkles. Close your eyes, and spritz a setting spray over your entire face. It will air dry quickly, and you’re all set!