 If you suspect that your teen has an eating disorder, speak to a doctor first. A doctor will be able to help reinforce the messages you are trying to provide to your teen. Additionally, they may be able to notice other changes in the teen's body, or talk to them about their eating problem in a way you cannot. A doctor will be able to assist with finding your teen a dietitian, and a counselor if needed.The doctor will also make sure your teen is not experiencing any medical complications from an eating disorder.;
, Begin the conversation by stating your concern and asking your teen if they are having an eating problem.Approaching the conversation this way is non-threatening and opens the dialogue for further discussion. A large factor in eating disorders is control. Starting the conversation in an inquisitive manner allows the teen to keep the control. You should still be prepared however, that your teen may deny they have an eating problem. Try the following.


”I've been worrying about something lately. Do you have time to talk to me about it?”
”I've noticed some changes, and I'd really like to talk to you about it.”
”I'm wondering if you have been struggling with eating lately.”
”I'm concerned about your health. Do you think you might have an eating problem?”

, Talking to your teen about bulimia is likely going to be a very difficult conversation to have. It's important to keep a loving, calm, and focused tone while you are talking. Try and remain as respectful and positive as possible to keep the conversation non-confrontational.It is especially important to keep your tone calm and consistent if your teen begins to become angry, upset, or defensive. Remind yourself that it is about what they are feeling and what they need.


Offer your support for whatever they need.
Make it clear you will be there for them, no matter what.
Ask how you can help.
 While you are talking it is important to avoid accusations, judgments, or criticisms.Instead approach the conversation as if it is a medical condition with the focus being on getting healthy.Try not to “win” the conversation with arguments, but rather make it an open discussion of the situation. Use the following tips.


When you are speaking use “I” statements instead of “you” statements.Instead of saying, “You are lying and sneaking food,” say “I'm worried for you.”
Take the time to explain bulimia, and the dangers of bulimia nervosa.
Don't demand that they change or get into a power struggle with them about their habits., Appearance is such a sensitive topic for your teen, it is better not to comment on it at all. Focus instead on the behaviors you have been noticing such as missed meals, exercise schedule, etc.Avoid commenting on your teen's body or physical appearance, even if it is positive. Instead praise them for their efforts, opinions, and achievements.Talk about what you have noticed in regards to their exercise behaviors, their eating, or major changes in their attitudes. Try, “I've notice you have been exercising a lot more than you used to,” or, “I've noticed you don't eat with us as much as you used to.”
Steer clear of identifying any prejudice about body size you may have.Avoid making statements such as, “You're not fat,” or “But you're already skinny.”

, This is going to be a difficult conversation and it will be hard to know what it is like for your teen if you don't listen. They may express how they feel about themselves, or the changes and social pressures they are under.Listen to what they are saying and reflect it back to them to make sure you are understanding them correctly.


For example, you can say, "I hear you saying you're feeling a lot of pressure trying to keep up with school, sports, your chores at home, and your job. Is that right?"

, Your teen is experiencing a wide range of emotions while dealing with this ranging from anger and sadness, to shame and frustration.While discussing their eating disorder with them, focus on feelings and relationships rather than body, weight, or food.Ask them how they are feeling, emotionally.
Share how you feel about what they are going through.
Ask them how they feel about themselves.
Talk about your relationship and the supportive relationships they have with others.
 Make sure to touch upon health eating habits. Talk to your teen about how what they are doing to their body can affect their appearance, energy level, and overall health.Utilize your research from before to have a discussion about what you think is unhealthy. Additionally, it may help if you try the following.


Make a habit of eating with them.Make sure you are providing healthy eating options in your home.Demonstrate healthy eating habits for your teen.
 The goal of talking about their bulimia, should be to determine what kind of help is needed and to start getting that help going for them.After discussing with your teen, use the information you have learned to determine the best plan for care or treatment. Remain firm and solution-focused while trying to let them direct the plan, so they can maintain the feeling of control.


Avoid giving simple solutions such as “just stop” to your teen. It is rarely ever that simple.
Follow up after making the plans. Once you decide on a plan, make sure you are both following up on it to ensure it is being put into action.
Go with your teen to any appointments, if they need or want you to for support.
Regularly check in with your teen about how they are feeling and what you can do to help. This will help them feel supported and cared for.
 Educating yourself about bulimia begins with being able to recognize the signs and symptoms. While bulimia can affect any teen, statistically, girls are at a higher risk for developing eating disorders.One main symptom to watch for is an unhealthy focus on their weight.Look for the following additional symptoms of bulimia in your teen.Sneaking food, or hiding empty containers of food they've eaten.
Avoiding eating around others, fasting, or skipping meals.
Vomiting after eating, using water pills or laxatives, or exercising excessively.
You may notice the teen disappearing right after a meal or going to the bathroom frequently. They may run water to cover the sound of vomiting.
 True, eating disorders are about food and weight, but they are also ways for teens to deal with emotional problems and stress-related issues.Learn about the possible underlying causes of their bulimia or eating disorders in general. Consider recent changes to your teen's life and behavior. Some possible sources can include:


Distorted self image or low self-esteemSocial pressure or bullying
Anxiety or feeling out of control
Painful thoughts or emotions, In order to know if their behaviors are out of the ordinary, learn what healthy eating and exercise looks like. Educate yourself on proper nutrition in general as well as the proper nutrition for a teenager. It may also be helpful to learn about any new diets which are popular that your teen might be trying.


Healthy eating for a teenager includes teens trying to avoid fast food, sugary drinks and energy drinks.It is important for teens not to skip meals as well. Teens should eat fruits, vegetables, whole grains and proteins.Healthy exercise for a teenager can depend on what sports or activities they are involved in, as well as how much they are eating. Teens should make sure they are not burning more calories with exercise than they are taking in. Athletes should not train for more than five days a week., In addition to the eating disorder, other negative side effects could be occurring within your teen's body. It is important for you to identify what these health risks are. Bulimia health risks can include. Weight gain
Dental problems
Heart, kidney, and stomach problems

, There are many treatment options to help assist with eating disorders such as bulimia. Deciding on a treatment option for your teen will depend on their circumstances. A good way to educate yourself before speaking with your teen is to be familiar with what help is available. With a variety available, it is easy to make sure the treatment plan addresses both the physical and mental aspects of bulimia.Online resources such as the National Eating Disorders AssociationTherapeutic treatment such as individual or group therapy
Dietitian or nutritional counseling
Family physicians
Guidance counselor or school nurses
Eating disorder facilities or residential treatment

, You will likely be preoccupied with your loved ones health during this process. Make sure you do not neglect your own needs and health in the process. Try attending a support group for family and friends of teens with eating disorders. If you cannot find one in your area, most addiction support groups also include eating disorders as addiction behavior. Attending a support group will give you a place to voice anxieties or frustrations as well as help you remember it is not your fault.If you are hesitant about attending a support group, then make sure you are obtaining support from a trusted friend or an individual therapy session to ensure you have a place to talking about your feelings., You are often unaware of how the way in which you view yourself affects others. Complaining about your weight, body shape, or stating that you think you are fat will have far-reaching negative effects.It can not only do harm to your own self-image but will also be observed by younger individuals in your life. Examine your thoughts and feelings about your own body and begin to work on getting to a healthier, happier place with them.
 Make sure you are practicing what you preach and examining or changing your relationship to food, if necessary. If you are constantly dieting or using food to cope with emotional issues as well, it may be more difficult to help someone else.Use this as an opportunity to address any bad behaviors you have in relation to eating and exercising so that you can be the best example for others.
 Much like you are trying to help your teen do, focus more on your behavior rather than your appearance. Make lists of your strengths, achievements, and things you admire about yourself.Share your accomplishments with others, and be proud of yourself. Treat yourself well by taking care of yourself physically, mentally, and emotionally.

