 Sometimes home treatments don’t work as well as you’d hope, and that’s okay. The next step is to ask a professional for advice. Laser resurfacing is option. Basically, a laser will stimulate the production of collagen in your skin. There are several different types of laser treatments. Ask your doctor what type is best for your skin.You will need to take some time to rest after laser resurfacing so that your skin can heal.
 Ultrasound therapy is a technique to consider if invasive techniques make you a little nervous. This therapy would lift and tighten the parts of skin you consider “problem areas,” like your frown lines., A chemical peel is exactly what it sounds like—layers of damaged skin are removed from your skin. This may sound scary, but it’s a pretty common practice. The dead layers are exfoliated away, revealing fresher, smoother skin. You can choose to get a glycolic acid peel if you’re looking for a lighter peel that will help with fine wrinkles. Or, choose a deep peel using chemicals like salicylic acid to reduce coarse wrinkles.Deep peels requires a long recovery times, and it is not ideal for people with heart problems and dark skin due to potential skin discoloration.
 If done by an experienced professional, this technique can produce some great results. Dermabrasion is done by “sanding” the skin, or using controlled surgical scraping to reduce wrinkles, although it is also used to remove problems like scarring after an accident. Recovery time is usually between a few days to a week.This is not a good option for those with darker skin because it can cause discoloration.
You can combine this technique with a chemical peel.
 An injection, like Botox, is an option that definitely produces results, but only lasts for several months. The Botox is injected into the skin, relaxing the muscles produce frown lines. This is a good option if you are looking for quick results. Make an appointment with your doctor to ask about this method., Plastic surgery could mean a facelift or a brow lift to improve frown lines. This is another method that produces quick results, but this method will last. There’s absolutely nothing wrong with choosing this technique, but you should take some time to consider it since you would have to have surgery. Talk to your doctor for advice.