 You’ll want a container large and sturdy enough for your particular purpose that includes a plastic lid, like a can of nuts.


Empty the container of its contents.
Wash and dry the inside.;
, Make sure the lid is sitting so that it’s resting flat against the cutting surface for stability.Find the largest coin you have (like a quarter or half-dollar). Using the coin as a guide, trace the outline for the slot opening with a permanent marker or felt-tip pen.
 Using the outline you traced, cut a hole for the coin slot with a craft knife.Be extremely careful when using the craft knife, as it’s quite sharp. If a child is doing the project, perform this step for them.
 Using the same coin, test the slot you’ve cut in the lid to be sure it’s big enough.


If the slot is too small, carefully use the craft knife to trim the edges until it’s the right size.
 Using a flexible measuring tape or ribbon, measure the container so you can wrap it with the right amount of paper or fabric.


Measure the circumference of the container; write down the measurement, adding one or two centimeters for overlap allowance.Measure the height of the container and write it down.
 This is what will turn your can from a boring food container to an attractive, personalized money box.


Choose or cut out a piece of paper or fabric large enough to wrap all the way around the container.
Lay the paper or fabric face-down on your cutting surface.
 Using the height and circumference measurements you wrote down, use a ruler to draw a rectangle of the same height.


Use the circumference (including the additional centimeter or two) for the width of the rectangle.
 After tracing out the rectangle, cut it from the paper or fabric using the outline as a guide.Once the rectangle is cut, wrap it around the container to make sure it fits properly. If it’s too large, trim it down to size. If it’s too small, begin again with a new piece of paper or fabric.
 Before securing the paper or fabric to the container, lay it down right side up and write or draw any of the decorations you plan to use.


It will be significantly easier to perform this step while the paper or fabric is lying flat than when it’s wrapped around the container.
 When you’ve finished adding any desired writing or drawings, flip the fabric or paper upside down.


Spread a thin layer of glue over the entire backside.
Slowly and carefully wrap the paper or fabric around the container, smoothing it with your hand as you go.
The paper or fabric should ideally overlap, but if it doesn’t and a small strip of the container is visible, cover it with a ribbon, a strip of colored paper, or another decoration.
 After the paper or fabric is secure, add any additional decorations you may want.


At this stage, you can add decorations like buttons, ribbons, jewels, etc. Use hot glue if the decoration is heavy or won’t stay in place with regular glue.
 Finally, place the lid with the coin slot on the container.


When the glue is dry, your money box will be ready for use.

