 It's located at https://groups.google.com/forum/#!overview. You can create a new email list here.
 This red button is below the search bar that's near the top of the page.

If you aren't signed into your Google account, clicking this button will prompt you to enter your email address and password before continuing.
 You'll do this in the field at the top of the page., You won't enter a full email address here since the email address will register to @googlegroups.com., If you don't see "Email list" in the "Group type" section, click the box to the right of "Select a group type" and click Email list in the drop-down menu., It's a red button at the top of the page., If you recently logged into your Google account, you may not need to perform this step., This blue button is at the bottom of the page., It's a grey option on the far-right side of the page., This is a green button at the top of the page., It's beneath the "Members" heading on the far-left side of the page., To do so, you'll type an email address into the text field at the top of the page, follow it with a comma and a space, and type another email address in, repeating as necessary.

As you type, suggestions based on your contacts will appear below the "email addresses" field. You can click these suggestions to automatically place the corresponding email address in this field.
 It's a blue button at the top of the page., This button is at the top of the page.

You may first have to click the "I'm not a robot" box again to continue.
 It's located at https://www.mail.google.com/. If you're already logged into Gmail, this will open your inbox.

For mobile, open the Gmail app.
If you aren't logged into Gmail, click SIGN IN in the top-right corner of the page and enter your email address and password.
 This button is on the left side of the page.

On mobile, tap the white pencil icon on a red background in the bottom-right corner of the screen.
 This field is at the top of the "New Message" window on the right side of the page (desktop), or at the top of the screen (mobile)., The message goes in the large space below the "Subject" field, which is directly below the "To" field., It's a red button in the bottom-left corner of the "New Message" window. Your email will be sent to any members' email addresses that you've added to the Google Group.

On mobile, tap the "Send" arrow in the top-right corner of the screen.

