 You can make some using your favorite recipe, or you can buy some unglazed doughnuts from the bakery. You could even use mini doughnuts for a cute treat!This recipe makes enough to cover about 12, regular-sized doughnuts.;
, Sifting the sugar first will help reduce any lumps or clumps. It might be a good idea to have a few cups of extra sugar on hand, in case the icing is too thin., Start with 3 tablespoons (45 milliliters). Keep stirring until everything is smooth and no lumps remain. The icing should have a syrup-like consistency. If the icing is too thick, add another tablespoon (15 milliliters) of milk. If the icing is too thin, add more icing sugar, 1 tablespoon (7.5 grams) at a time. Whisk well after each addition.

For more flavor, add 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract.For a lighter icing, use water instead of milk., Plan on using two different colors.You can use liquid food coloring or gel food coloring. If you are using liquid food coloring, simply squeeze a few drops straight from the bottle. If you are using gel food coloring, use a toothpick to scoop a small amount out, and dip it into the icing.You can use more than two colors. Be sure to use a new toothpick for each color.
 This goes for both liquid and gel food coloring. Do not over-stir the food coloring, or it will mix into your icing and make a muddy color. A few stirs is all that you need. You want the dots to turn into streaks., Pick up a doughnut and hold it upside side with the bottom facing up. Dip the top of the doughnut into the icing. Hold it in the icing for a few seconds, then pull it out., Hold the doughnut upside down and wait for the excess icing to drip off. Turn the doughnut over and set it down on a wire cooling rack.For easy clean up, slip a sheet of wax paper or parchment paper under the wire rack. This will catch any drips from the icing and keep your work surface clean.
 At one point, your icing may turn white again. If this happens, simply add a few more drops of food coloring and swirl them together with another toothpick.

If you are glazing mini doughnuts, the icing may get stuck in the hole. If this bugs you, use a clean toothpick to open up the hole again., This will take about 1 hour.If you want to add some sprinkles, let the wet icing dry for 1 minute before shaking any on. Let the icing dry completely before serving.Store any leftover icing in the fridge for up to 1 week.