 If you have a spider infestation in your home, basic spider killer sprays can be purchased to treat the infection. These are usually used outside the home. You spray the perimeters of your home, as well as any cracks or crevices spiders may use to enter your house.Choose a spray at a local department store. You should know the basic build of your home before going in so you know what sprays are safe for your house.
Go around the perimeter of your home. Spray around the house's foundation. Also, look for potential entryways for spiders. Pay special attention to cracks in windowsills and garage entryways.Specifics regarding safe use depend on the type of spray you're using. The bottle or package should provide safety instructions. Always read these carefully before using any spider sprays.
 If you're wary about using chemicals around your home, essential oils can help. Try creating a mixture using essential oils and see if you notice a difference.









Spiders tend to dislike the taste of essential oils. You can purchase essential oils online or at a local health store. For best effect, use neem oil and tea tree oil.Mix about two tablespoons of dish soap into warm water. Then, add 5 drops of tea tree oil and an ounce of neem oil.Sprinkle this mixture around your home in areas where you've noticed spiders.Be careful, however. Make sure you do not leave the spray close to children or pets. Tea tree oil can be harmful if swallowed.
 There are a variety of insecticides you can use to ward off spiders. Stop by your local hardware store and review your options.









Dust insecticides are best used if you're treating cracks and crevices. They can be easily applied to hard-to-reach places in your home.Powder insecticides work best for spot treatment. If you've only seen spiders in a few spots in your home, consider a powder insecticide.If you're trying to create a boundary around your home, look into a liquid insecticide. They are usually mixed with water and then used to cover large areas around the home.As always, make sure to carefully review safety instructions of any products you buy prior to use.
 Many people feel more comfortable with electronic repellants as they don't involve spraying your home. Electronic repellents generate electromagnetic waves that repel spiders and other pests. You can find them online or at a hardware store. Read product reviews carefully before making a purchase, however, to make sure the repellent works for most people.
 If you have a serious spider infestation, you may not be able to treat it on your own. In this case, you should hire a professional exterminator. You should be especially proactive about this if you live in an area where poisonous spiders are common.

