 There are many websites that will allow you to create a profile and begin selling your crafts. Many of these sites are free to use and easy to sign up with. Because there are so many sites like this, you will need to do a search and narrow down your choices. Try looking online for a site that you think would be a good fit for your crafts.Etsy is one of the largest sites that allows people to create a store and start selling their crafts.
Amazon is developing its own store for people to sell their handmade crafts through.
Zibbet, Handmade Artists and UncommonGoods are some additional sites that you might want to sell your crafts through.;
, Not all websites will be a good fit for your crafts. Some sites will cater to any style or type of craft while others will only allow very specific types of crafts. You'll want to make sure that your crafts will be a good fit for whichever site you are considering.Certain sites will only allow for handmade items to be sold.
Some sites may require that you create your own crafts, forbidding resales.
You may need to be approved by some sites before you can begin selling your crafts.
 Each site that allows you to open up a virtual craft shop will have different practices when it comes to billing and payouts. You'll want to carefully examine the site to make sure it's a good fit with your financial and business goals. Take a look at some of these common methods craft sites use to bill and pay you: Some sites are totally free, allowing you to list a few items and keep all profits for no cost. Generally, you can pay a monthly subscription fee to post more items and expand your store.
Other sites will allow you to post any number of items for sale. However, when you make a sale, these sites will take a percentage of your profit.
Instead of allowing a direct payment, some sites will auction off your items.
 After you've found a site that you want to work with, you'll need to set up your account. Each site will have it's own specific way of opening up your store's profile. However, there is some basic information that you will want to have ready when opening up your shop. Take a look at some of the information you'll want to have ready when opening up your shop:


You'll need to have the name of your shop ready.
You will likely need to enter in a brief description of your shop and what it sells.
To sign up for payments and sales, you'll likely need to enter in your billing information.
Many sites will require you to have a valid bank or credit card to register.
You may need to enter in personal information, such as your telephone number, name and address.
 Once your shop's profile is established, you can begin listing the items that you want to sell. You'll be able to make a detailed listing for each item you want to sell, allowing customers to get a good idea of what they might be buying. Keep some of these points in mind when listing an item on your site:You'll want to have a few high-quality photos of your item.
You will need a description of the item. Keep your description short, concise and in a tone that you think your audience will like.
For example, if you are selling an oven mitt, you might say something like "Handmade oven mitt. One size fits all. Keeps your hands safe. Stylish design. Ships immediately."
It can be a good idea to write the description in a way that is informative and engaging.
Make sure you know the price that you want to sell your item for.
 Now that your store is open and you've got some items up for sale, you can begin selling them. Customers will be able to view your website and order whatever it is they might like. You will then need to fulfill this order, packaging and shipping it to your customer in a timely fashion. Keep an eye on your sales, fulfill orders and promote your site to help it grow into a successful online craft shop.


Working quickly to fulfill and ship an order will result in good customer feedback.
Highly reviewed sites will generally attract more business than those without or with low reviews.
Try to identify which items are selling the most and when they are selling. Knowing which items are popular can help you focus your efforts and build your business.

