 Inevitably, someone around you, be it a friend, co-worker, or family member, is going to get upset, and this is likely to disrupt things for everyone around them.


Use the E.A.R. method to settle the situation.Empathy — Show the other person that you understand he is upset with statements like, “I can see how upset you are,” or “I understand that you are feeling frustrated,” and indicate your willingness to help him.

Attention — Ask him to explain the problem and listen attentively. “Tell me what’s bothering you. I want to understand.” Body language can help you here as well. Make eye contact with him and sit or lean forward slightly to show your attentiveness.

Respect — People, especially those prone to conflict, often need to feel respected when they’re upset. Acknowledge this as best you can with statements like: “I respect your commitment to this,” or, “I can tell you’ve put in a great deal of effort here and it shows.” , Someone who is very angry may not be receptive to discussion until she has had a chance to cool down. You can help this process along by redirecting her anger and acting appropriately to reduce the level of tension.


First, try to communicate respect for her needs or concerns. Acknowledge their importance, and refrain from openly judging them. Try to do this with non-aggressive body language by not moving quickly or taking an aggressive, chest-out posture.Cooperate with the angry person, so long as it does not cause harm to others. The objective is to not escalate the situation any further. Effective listening will help here too. Don’t interrupt her, but take the opportunity to ask clarifying questions, both to avoid misunderstanding and to slow things down.Redirect her aggression by rephrasing her concerns in a less confrontational manner.Restate, “I want to beat Janet with a pipe,” as, “So, you are upset with Janet for scratching the paint on your car and want her to make it right.” This, when successful, can leave the person calmer and more open to a constructive discussion of her problem.
Disengage yourself from the interaction if your efforts are not working or you find yourself getting angry as well. Your safety is paramount, and you should get away from the person, and call security, a supervisor, or the police as appropriate., Research shows that being humble and kind to others can materially improve your relationships at home, at work, and socially. Being good to others, it turns out, can be good for you as well.


Being kind to others can make you physically and mentally healthier, an NIH study has found.Humility — a willingness to self-critique — can also help repair damaged relationships.Kindness is also linked to happiness. Acts of charity and kindness release dopamine and endorphins in your brain, giving a chemical element to your happiness.