 CMS is good for research papers and essays with a lot of sources and quotations.
 After each in-text citation, you must added a superscript reference number. (It looks like this:1) Each superscript number correlates with either a footnote or an endnote. Footnotes are found at the bottom of each page and include all of the bibliographic information for the work that you are citing. Endnotes appear at the end of a paper, similar to how Works Cited pages look, though endnotes are formatted differently. (The differences will be discussed in the following steps.), Regardless of the length of the quote, insert a raised number after each quote. This number will correlate to the footnote that will appear at the bottom of the page.The people who worked in the meat factories of Chicago at the turn of the century “were tied to the great packing-machine, and tied to it for life.”1



, Both notes are formatted in the same way. If you choose to use footnotes, place them at the bottom of a page that has superscripts. Only put footnotes on the page where their correlating superscripts are. You must have a footnote for every superscript you use. If you choose to use endnotes, put them on their own page under the title of ‘Notes’ following the text of your essay. You must have an endnote for every superscript you use.
 You must list: the author’s firstname lastname, Title of Book (Place of publication: Publisher: Year of publication), page number.The people who worked in the meat factories of Chicago at the turn of the century “were tied to the great packing-machine, and tied to it for life.”11Upton Sinclair, The Jungle (Doubleday, Page & Company: 1906), 99.
 You must list: Firstname Lastname, “Title of Web Page,” Publishing Organization or Name of Website in Italics, publication date and/or access date if available. If the web page does not have an author, list: “Title of Web Page,” Publishing Organization or Name of Website in Italics, publication date and/or access date if available, URL.With an author:
John Doe, “Citing Sources,” Organization of Writing Fanatics, last modified August 23, 2013, www.blahcitingblahblah.com

Page without an author:
“Citing Sources,” Organization of Writing Fanatics, last modified August 23, 2013, www.blahcitingblahblah.com



, For an unpublished interview, list: Name of interviewee, (job) in discussion with the author, date. For a published interview, list: Name of interviewee, interviewed by Name of interviewer, Company or Organization, date. For personal communication, list: Name of person, type of communication, date.Unpublished interview:
John Doe, (musician) in discussion with the author, Aug 23, 2013.

Published interview:
John Doe, interviewed by Jane Doe, Music Lovers, Aug 23, 2013.

Personal communication:
John Doe, email to the author, Aug 23, 2013.
 This is optional. Refer to your specific instructions to see if you need a works cited or bibliography. Title the page ‘Works Cited’ if you only list sources that you actually cite in your paper. Title the page ‘Bibliography’ if you list every work you used in research that you didn’t cite, along with the works that you cited in your paper. List all works and resources in alphabetical order. To list materials, follow the specific format for the kind of source you are using (listed below):





Book with one author:Lastname, Firstname. Title of Book. Place of publication: Publisher, Year of publication.

Book with two authors:Lastname, Firstname and Lastname, Firstname. Title of Book. Place of publication: Publisher, Year of publication.

Book with no known author:Title of Book. Place of publication: Publisher, Year of publication.

Web page with author:Lastname, Firstname. “Title of Web Page.” Publishing Organization or Name of Website in Italics. Publication date and/or access date if available. URL.

Web page without an author:“Title of Web Page.” Publishing Organization or Name of Website in Italics. Publication date and/or access date if available. URL.

Published Interview:Lastname, Firstname of interviewee, place where interview was held, by Interviewer's Firstname Lastname, date.



