 This kind of pom is great for cheering on your team from the stands -- especially if you have your team's colors. Get at least two different colors and enough tissue paper to fill the hands of all your family members. You'll need:


Tissue paper (in its just-bought state -- no scraps)
Popsicle sticks
Rubber bands
Scissors;
, Generally speaking, tissue paper comes in quite long pieces in a tri-fold arrangement. Generally. If yours doesn't or isn't already folded, do fold it up until it's about six inches (15 cm) across -- it'll be easier and quicker to work with that way.


If your tissue paper is regulation size (that is to say, just short of 2 feet (.6 m) long), cut it in half length-wise once folded. If your pom pom is 2 feet (0.6 m) long, that's one droopy pom pom!

, But don't cut all the way! You want strips about 1" (2.5 cm) wide along the length of your paper that stop about 3" (7.5 cm) from the bottom. This uncut part is the base of your pom pom and will go near the handle.


They don't have to be even. Eyeballing it is just fine. The only thing you need to be concerned with is ripping!
You can cut as many pieces of tissue paper at once as you think your scissors can handle. Half a dozen sheets at a time shouldn't phase a normal pair, but once you get too bulky you risk having jagged edges and creating tears.
Cut as many pieces as you need. 8-12 sheets make for a fluffy pom pom.
 You should now have a whole bunch of pieces that look like the fringe on a cowboy's chaps (sort of). Take the stick (the thicker the stick, the better) and place it at the edge of the pile, overlapping the 3" or so you left uncut.


It is as this point that if you have any pieces of shiny, decorative paper you add them in. Simply cut them to size and line them up with the tissue paper.
Start wrapping the top of the stick over and over with the tissue paper. If your stick is too short or too thin (you need to be able to hold onto it easily), use multiple sticks. Wrap it over and over and over until you reach the other side of the tissue paper and your pom pom is virtually formed.
 Tada! Your pom pom! If you don't trust the rubber band, tape is your second best bet -- glue just gets messy and tissue paper does not take well to it.


Shake the pom pom out like you would in the stands. It'll fluff out a bit as you loosen it up.
Decorate the handle with glitter glue, markers, stickers, or any other spirited embellishments you have laying about the house.

