 A few of the most familiar food gums that are used as thickening agents are xanthan gum, agar, pectin, and guar gum. They are popular because they only require small quantities to thicken, and they don’t alter the color or taste of sauces.Xanthan gum is a versatile thickener that can be used in most dressings and sauces, and will also act as a preservative.
Agar (sometimes referred to as agar agar) is often used commercially to thicken dairy-based products, and can be used as a gelatin substitute in fruit preserves and desserts. It comes powdered or in flakes.
Pectin is often used in jams and jellies, and fruit-based sweets, but it can also be used to thicken yogurt and dairy products.
Guar gum will thicken when it’s cold and can be added to baked goods to increase their fiber quantity.It’s most often used in salad dressings.
 Both agar and guar gum need to be mixed with other liquids before being added to sauces or dressings. Agar gets mixed and heated with water first, and guar gum can be added to oils already called for in the dressing recipe.


For agar flakes, use the ratio of one tablespoon of flakes per cup of liquid; for agar powder, use one teaspoon of powder per cup of liquid. Dissolve agar into four tablespoons of warm water in a saucepan. Bring to a boil on the stove, and boil for five to 10 minutes. Mix into sauce you want thickened.To thicken dressings with guar gum, use only one-half teaspoon per two and a half cups of liquid. Whisk or blend guar gum with oil called for in your dressing recipe before incorporating other ingredients., In the last 15 minutes of cooking, pectin and xanthan gum can be added right into your sauce. Pectin must be brought to a boil for at least one minute to activate the gelling action. Xanthan gum will thicken without being boiled.


Add three-quarters of a tablespoon of pectin per one cup of savory sauce, or 2 tablespoons of pectin per cup of sugar used in a sweet sauce. Whisk vigorously as the pectin comes to a boil and while it’s boiling.
Using the weight of your liquids as a base, add between 0.1 and one percent xanthan gum depending on the desired consistency. Vigorously whisk or blend xanthan gum into your sauce.