 Most people get worried or anxious from time to time. However, as you grow, you can learn to deal with your worries. You still may be worried, but it won't affect your life or mood as much. The first step is identifying what you're worried about.For instance, maybe you're worried about your grades, your family, or your friendships. Maybe you're worried about an upcoming test or exam. On the other hand, maybe you've been watching the news a little too much, and you're scared about where the world is. Try writing about what you're scared about in a journal or notebook.;
, It's best to talk to your parents, if possible. If you can't for some reason, find someone else you trust, such as a coach or teacher. If you're worrying all the time, an adult can help you sort through what to do.

Even if the adult can't solve your problem, just talking to someone can help you feel better., If something you're worried about has a solution, work to bring that solution about. If you can't come up with a solution, make sure to ask your parents if they have any ideas. Because they have more experience, they may be able to figure it out., When you find yourself getting worried, take a moment to stop and breath. Deep breathing can help calm your stress.All that means is you close your eyes and focus only on breathing deeply. Try counting to four in your head as you breathe all the way in through your nose. Breathe out through your mouth, also counting to four in your head. Keep breathing until you feel yourself calm down.
 When you're starting to get worried about something, find someplace that's calming to you. Maybe it's the garden in your backyard, or maybe you find peace in the kitchen, where your family is. Many people find being in nature to be calming, so take a walk if you can. Finding a place that calms you can help you deal with stress and anxiety., Anxiety can crop up more when you're not being healthy. To help cut down on your stress, eat your fruits and vegetables. Be sure to drink plenty of water, and get out and exercise every day.

If you're over 13 years of age, you should be drinking at least eight glasses of water a day.To make sure you are drinking enough, try keeping water with you throughout the day. If you don't like plain water, add a squeeze of lemon or orange to help add flavor.
Some exercises you could try include swimming, playing kickball, playing tag in the backyard, jumping rope, swinging, or running. Try to get outside and get moving every day. If the weather is cold, ask your parents if you can get a membership to the local YMCA or try playing video games that encourage you get up and move.
 If you're not getting enough sleep, you're going to be cranky. If you're cranky, you're going to be worrying more. Make sure you are getting to bed on time so that you are getting the rest you need. Depending on your age, you may need anywhere from 8 to 10 hours of sleep a night.

