 If soaking in warm, soapy water is not enough to dislodge any particles from your jewelry, you can lightly brush it clean with a soft brush. A toothbrush is a good option for this, but make sure that it is clean and sterile. Designate this brush as only for cleaning your jewelry. Dip the brush in new soapy water and lightly brush the piece clean of debris.This will most likely be necessary for pieces that have been in longer, for times when you have gotten dirtier than usual, or for jewelry with extra crevices.
 If your jewelry has a complicated shape or small spots that a toothbrush can’t reach, a cotton swab is a great tool for cleaning jewelry. Again, you can dip the swab into soapy water and gently brush away any any remaining dirt.
 If you don’t want to use soap, or you already did and the piece needs further cleaning, boil a small pot of water and place your jewelry in it for about 5 minutes. This acts both to loosen any dirt or debris on the piece and kill bacteria and sanitize the piece. Remove from water with a clean utensil like tongs or a fork to avoid burning your hands.Dry with paper towel or gauze as you would with basic cleaning.
This is a good cleaning method for intricate pieces that accumulate more dirt than basic pieces.
 If you have multiple piercings and you want to invest in a more efficient cleaning system, it is recommended that you purchase an ultrasonic cleaner. This is an electronic cleaning basin that uses vibration to dislodge dirt from trickier pieces. This is a good choice if you have multiple piercings as it can save time in the cleaning process.You can purchase one at Walmart or on Amazon, and some other stores like Bed Bath & Beyond. Standard models cost between $30 and $40, but an advanced model could cost up to $200 or $300.
 If you have tongue, cheek, or lip piercings, you may not want the taste of soap in your mouth. You can soak these in mouthwash to give them a good clean as well. It is good to follow the other steps from the routine cleaning section.To clean oral piercings, it is also good to swish your mouth with mouthwash to keep the piercings clean.
It is important that the mouthwash is alcohol-free because alcohol can damage some jewelry.

