 Greece as an empire was active some time before the Roman Empire starting around 800BCE and continued until the Romans conquered it.


Before 800BCE is a period often referred to as the Greek Dark Ages and the subsequent era is often called the archaic era. This was where the great cities, philosophies and sciences, theatre, classical art, law and the Greek language being written down were starting to set seed. This era had many rulers known as tyrants - a word we still use today - whose gradual overthrow paved the way towards Greek Democracy and the Athenian model of government. This era artistically had influences from Egypt and what we call today as the Middle East and is often called the orientalization of Greece.
After the last tyrant overthrow in 510 BCE, this heralded the start of the Classical period that is perhaps the most famous. Its bedrock moment arrived because of the Athenians successfully defending Greece from a Persian invasion and this period continues to the Hellenistic civilisation starting in 323BCE. This era is where the empire becomes dominant with Alexander the Great rising to power and expanding the empire through to India where he eventually turned back. This era ends with his death in 323BCE, which leads to the Hellenistic era.
The Hellenistic era focuses more on maintaining the empire but ends in 146BCE when the divided Greek empire falls under Roman conquest and becomes part of the Roman empire.;
, Ancient Greece had a clear social structure but was more flexible in some areas.


Greece in many ways was more democratic than its ancient neighbour Rome as social status did not give additional rights. Democracy itself is a Greek word.
There was four main social classes in Athens, yet if one earned more money and chattels they themselves could climb the social ladder.
Education was an important factor for climbing the social ladder as most rights were awarded once the education was completed, but education was an expensive and private engagement with the family employing a tutor. Only Sparta seems to have had publicly funded and obligatory education.
Slavery was common in Greece; however there were differences between Greece and Rome. The Greeks generally treated slaves far better than the Romans with beating and killing them as forbidden and many slaves were offered their freedom as an agreement to work better. The population of slaves however varies by accounts of being the majority of the populace, but it is still clear they were a significant part of the population and many held roles in public service. Unlike the Romans, slaves were not accorded the rights of citizen after freedom and they were part of their own social group known as a 'metic'. In Sparta however, things were far harsher for slaves and a group of slaves from conquered armies were often killed in a rite of passage for Spartans.
Serving in the army was often compulsory for men, as it was not only a way to maintain and defend the empire, but also to give skills in engineering and management.
 Before Christianity became mainstream in 529 AD, Greek religion was pantheistic and included worship of heroes as an important factor.


One of the central dynamics of the religion focused on the epic conflict between the Gods on Mt Olympus and the Titans. The Gods & Titans feature within the same creation myth but were divided between them and frequently at war. The Gods and Goddesses are biographical and personalised than Roman Gods and these deities and legends had a complex relationship between themselves and humans.
The cult-like worship of heroes such as Heracles (also known as Hercules), Perseus, Achilles and their stories was important to Greek society as they served as role models and sources of national pride. The "anti-hero" was also important, which is not the villain of the story, but are bland or non-heroic characters that are least likely to be heroes but become or act heroically.
Indian and other religions were also known to the Ancient Greeks, with one King who is commonly referred to Menander I Soter (or Melinda in the Indo-Greek world), who had embraced Buddhism and reigned around 150BCE ruling a significant eastern part of the empire. This region had influenced Greek architecture, which in turn strongly influenced the Roman models, yet heading the other way, the influence spread as far as Japan.
The Greeks also set great store in Oracles and prophecies, such as the famous Oracle of Delphi. Oracles would often fall into a trance and priests for those who had paid for the prophecy translated their expressions.
After the Roman conquest, many of the Greek gods with synthesized were Roman equivalents within Rome, this functioned in a way so a Roman citizen could worship in Greece but the synthesis also boosted the power of the Roman gods. Most of the planets, excepting Earth, Mars, and Venus were named after Greek Gods & Goddesses,
Visit Know the Twelve Olympians of Greek Mythology to get some more background information on the heroes of Greece.
 These two fields were often part of the same school, where today philosophy is a separate field and occasionally not seen as a science at all.


Learn about some of the famous Greek philosophers and scientists such as Thales, Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Epicures, Pythagoras, Zeno, Euclid, Archimedes and more.
Early philosophers were more interested in science rather than wisdom, but in the classical period, wisdom, ethics, good governance and other virtues became equally important. Greece was often at war with various nations within Greece (such as Athens and Sparta), but also outside of Greece with the Persian world and other nations so philosophy was an important science.
The Greek language has contributed much to our modern language as many of our modern names for sciences come from Ancient Greece. Some examples are physics, philosophy, astronomy, geography, mathematics, and cartography.
Other interesting technologies and inventions include - cranes for lifting, road building, the antikythera - reckoned to be a complex astronomical calendar, calipers, astrolabes, lighthouses, showers, waterwheels and many more including steam and water powered machinery.
Visit for How to Live Like Socrates, Argue Using the Socratic Method, Do the Philosophy of Happiness (Diogenes, Epicurus) & Understand Stoicism for more ideas and insights about Greek philosophy.
 The Greeks loved music, dance, poetry and theatre with tragic and comedic plays as well as the epics such as the Odyssey and the Illiad, as well as stories of the battles between Athens, Troy, Sparta and other nations which are classics still told today.


Theatre really came into its own during the classical period, after much of Athens was destroyed by Persian invasions. This revival and rebuilding led a great re-invention and revival of Greek literature and the word Thespian has its origins in Greece. The Greeks attended plays in vast audiences, as it was a major source of entertainment.
Masks were a key costume part of Greek theatre and some even had brass instruments fitted to act as a megaphone to amplify actors voices. The famous duo of the two masks of comedy and tragedy as a symbol of the theatre has their roots in Greek theatre.
Some of the most famous plays and playwrights were Sophocles, who counted among his works the story of Oedipus, Aristophanes who had many comedies but who also wrote "The Clouds" a fictional spoof based on Socrates, which was later used to falsely implicate the philosopher as being immoral and consequently executed by drinking hemlock poison.
Music in Classic Greece traditionally was an expression of philosophy, as a metaphor of the harmonics of the universe with everything vibrating in harmony. It was also an expression of ethos, with certain pieces played at certain times according to their inherent qualities. Later music became more of an entertainment.
Ancient Greek music was arguably more varied than modern music as while we have tones and half tones, Greek tones went to quarter and even finer subtleties to be able to make perfect balance.
Greek instruments include string, wind and percussion instruments, including pan pipes (named after the Greek God Pan), lyres and harps as well as a complex zither like instrument known as a kithara, drums, trumpets, conch shells and a hydraulic organ known as a hydraulis, these instruments later became absorbed into Ancient Roman music.
Visit Write an Epic Poem to learn how to create your own epic adventure in the Greek style!

, Greece had essentially a Mediterranean diet, but it was not entirely as varied or rich as the modern cuisine of Greece.
Ancient Greek cuisine was frugal and austere, a major influence was the city of Sparta, which even today gives us the word Spartan.
The ancient Greeks loved their wine and a frequent way for men to pass the time was in a symposium, which was basically an evening of a few men (apart from female courtesans and entertainers, women were typically forbidden from the event). The meal as it was would feature snacks such as nuts, grains and pulses as well as honey cakes to be able to prolong drinking. Like the Romans, great feasts were reserved more for religious grounds and the wealthy, but they were still more austere than later Roman Empire extravagances.
Bread was a staple ingredient, mostly made from wheat or barley that was ground into a paste or dried to a flour. Leavened bread from yeast and other raising agents were used but later reserved for feast days only and bakery produced bread was expensive, so most food was produced from scratch in homes.
Vegetables typically featured vegetables such as cabbage, onions, garlic, pulses such as peas, chickpeas / garbanzo beans, and broad beans, as well as lentils. The poor often had their meals were including acorns, bitter vetch and wild herbs.
Fruits included figs, pomegranates, raisins and if available fresh grapes.
Olives were an important ingredient as the plant would survive the hot, dry climate and the infertile, alkali soils of the region. This provided olive oil as well as olives for pickling.
Beverages typically included water, which the Greeks valued as a nutritious, life giving drink and like a wine expert today can characterise and even judge its source, so too could the water experts of the time. Wine was a common beverage, typically cut with water as it was thought unmixed could be fatal or induce madness. Milk was not commonly drunk, although it likely was due to the poor keeping qualities in the climate, as milk was reserved for cheese.
Meat was very important to the Greek diet, as fresh produce was often hard to grow and did not travel well, if the poor had access to land, they would typically raise geese and chickens, but also hunted for game such as hare and game birds. Sausages were consumed across the classes, but the cost of a piglet in the cities from a butcher was about the cost of 3 days wages. Cooked and salted meats were more common as fresh meat often required a religious ceremony where the fat and bones were cremated to honour the Gods.
Learn how to pickle olives, make Greek Bean Soup and Make Greek Whole Grain Olive Bread for some ideas!

, Greek clothing was typically home made and while in movies is often portrayed as an all-white wardrobe, Greek fabrics were often vibrantly coloured and patterned. No complete traditional costume has ever survived to modern times so much of what we know comes from artworks and mentions in ancient literature.


Clothing was typically made of wool and linen, often imported from Egypt and other countries in the Greek empire.
Both men and women wore a costume known as a chiton, which was a large rectangular piece of fabric often from the shoulder height to the floor of the wearer. Men often wore them to their knee height while women wore them to ankle length. Excess fabric resembled as a loose tunic. It was pulled and secured with a belt or clasp, below the breast or waist of the wearer. The fabric was occasionally pleated to be more decorative.
Men and soldiers often owned and used a cloak made from wool that was about the size of a blanket and often served as bedding at the same time. It was usually hemmed with a border to protect it from fraying as well as adding a decorative edge.
The himation was a winter garment worn both genders over their chitons although sometimes it was worn instead of a chiton. It was similar to in appearance, but not as large as a Roman toga.
Women often wore veils and shawls, both because modesty was an important virtue, but also to protect them during travel and public events from the harsh sun and climate.
 You can learn from online sources, documentaries, visiting museums as well as from history experts to gain an insight into an empire, culture and its people whose effects can still be felt today within the modern world.

