 In order to impress your boss, a potential boss, or your coworkers, you should generally start by working very hard without expectation of reward.This makes you a selfless team player who works hard for her own merit. People will generally want to reward that kind of behavior and your bosses will be impressed, if they're aware enough to notice.


You should also do all of this work while keeping a positive attitude. Try not to complain too much and when you do bring up problems, remember to present them with a suggested solution and in a happy way.
For example, keep your ear to the ground for tech developments that could improve efficiency in your office.
Another example would be really pushing to get things done ahead of schedule so that you have time to do more work or to go back and make the work you did as good as it can possibly be.
 Another behavior which really impresses bosses, coworkers, and future employers is taking on more duties than you technically have to. Working the bare minimum is fine and doing it well will generally make people happy, but going the extra mile to make sure more gets done and gets done well will really catch attention.


For example, if your boss has a mindless paperwork task, offer to take it on for them so that they can refocus their efforts on improving the rest of the office.
Another example would be pushing to finish early and then cleaning up the office at the end of every day so that people can relax and focus on their work.
 A good worker doesn't just do the work they've been given; they also anticipate and look for ways to fix problems so that everyone can work better and the work they do can be higher quality.You should notice the problems that come up in your own day-to-day activities and look for ways that you can make those problems go away. However, if you also notice problems that plague your coworkers, you can also find solutions for those problems and suggest them, even if the problems don't affect you at all.


For example, lets say you notice that two coworkers aren't getting along because they both think the other is too slow at getting in the different pieces of paperwork that they each need to do their job. You can suggest a solution, such as a scheduling or process change, that helps their jobs both go more smoothly.
 When you find ways to do more work at high quality with fewer resources, you can generally save your employer a lot of money. As it turns out, they like that! Look for ways that you can streamline what you do and make your work, as well as the work that others do, more efficient. Your boss will be really impressed.


For example, maybe you've noticed that a piece of paperwork which is almost completely identical gets filled out by you and another person as well. Talk to your boss about having one or the other of you do both sheets, in order to fill them out faster and more efficiently.
 Coworkers, bosses, and future employers all love to see someone who's a great team player. Share the credit, even when you did most of the work. Compliment coworkers on their strengths and ask for their advice when you're working on something you know they know a lot about. Be similarly helpful when other people look to you for help. These kinds of behaviors show that you want to work with everyone to make sure that your company can do the best work possible.


This is especially impressive if you're in the under 35 crowd, because the older generations tend to see younger generations as poor team players.

