


Single--if you are unmarried and have no dependents, you will claim Single. You can file Single only if you are unmarried under law. If your spouse died before the first of the year being reported you can still file single, although Qualifying Widow(er) may give you a lower tax liability or a higher refund. Marital status details are found in the IRS Pub 17 on page 22.Married Filing Jointly-MFJ--if you are married, select Married Filing Jointly (MFJ). You are considered married if you have lived together for more than 6 months, not legally separated. If your spouse is in a combat zone, you are considered to be living together, and you may sign whether or not you have a power of attorney.
You must be married in a state-approved civil or religious ceremony, or by a nationally approved means if married in another country. For tax purposes, common law marriages are valid only in Alabama, Colorado, Kansas, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Iowa, Montana, Oklahoma, and Texas. Check your state law for specific criteria. Washington, D.C. recognizes common law marriages, but it is not a state, therefore, that marriage is not valid for tax purposes.Married Filing Separately-MFS--if you are married, but legally separated, you may have to file MFS. You can file MFS is this results in a lower tax liability than the joint return, or if you choose to file for only your income. You could gain a lesser tax liability. This choice has its drawbacks. There are significant disadvantages to filing separately.

One spouse claims the dependent exemptions and will have the right to itemize and claim the standard deduction, but that will be the same standard deduction as if filing single. Almost all credits and deductions will be halved. The other spouse can claim the personal deduction only, but cannot claim the dependent exemption, 65, blind/disabled, or the standard deduction. Additionally, dependent and child care expenses, child tax credits, adoption expenses, EIC, and many other credits and deductions are forfeit.Under MFS, if your spouse files for deductions and credits due to you, because you have child custody, for example, you can claim the proper deductions and credits by filing the Innocent Spouse Relief form 8857.Qualifying Widow(er)-QW--If you are widowed during the year being reported you should still use the MFJ for that year. The following two years you can use the Qualified Widow(er) status or single, whichever gives you a lower tax liability. After that you will use Single, or Head of Household, if you qualify.Head of Household-HH--if you are unmarried, paid more than 50 percent of the cost of keeping a home, and have Qualifying person living with you, except your dependent parent doesn't have to fit the residency test, you may be able to file Head of Household., Other exceptional criteria are found in the IRS Pub 17 on page 23.