 If you have cirrhosis, you need to treat it. However, before taking any medications first consult your doctor.


The medication your doctor prescribes will depend on the specific cause of the liver damage.
 If cirrhosis is caught in the early stage, treat the cause(s) to stop the cirrhosis from worsening. Once the causes are cleared up, the cirrhosis will go away.Diuretics such as spironolactone and torsemide are often prescribed to treat fluid buildup/ascites caused by the cirrhotic liver.
Vitamin K is also given to address bleeding concerns caused by anticoagulant secretions from the liver.
 Your doctor may also order ultrasounds down in the esophagus to check for varices/esophageal varicose veins of the esophagus that indicate blood is "backed-up ('stalled') by poor circulation through the liver. They can use CT scans to confirm any suspicions of scarring or tumors in the liver.If you develop problems with fluid build-up caused by edema/ascites, your doctor may want to drain the fluid in order to relieve pressure.This is typically done by inserting a needle into the abdomen to release the fluid. The process is known as paracentesis. This is quite simple and may be performed non-sedated, but under local pain reliever by your nephrologist at the office or at a hospital outpatient department., Normally, your liver would do this, but if it is too damaged, it may not be able to filter enough toxins.
 The following blood tests are used to check how well the liver is functioning, and to detect inflammation in the liver:


A test to measure levels of Albumin and total serum protein. Cirrhosis can lead to a decrease in the level of protein in the blood, known as Albumin.A partial thromboplastin time or prothrombin time/INR. The point of this test is to determine the blood-clotting factors being produced by the liver.A Bilirubin test. Bilirubin is produced when the liver breaks down hemoglobin, which is what carries oxygen through the blood. Cirrhosis can often lead to high bilirubin levels, which causes jaundice.
Ammonium levels may be tested to check for the potential of hepatic encephalopathy, or the loss of brain function that may occur when your liver is unable to remove toxins.This is a serious condition and, if suspected, the person must be admitted to a hospital immediately.If there is an increased level of enzymes such as aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in the blood, it may mean that the liver is injured and that liver cells are dying.If there is an excess of alkaline phosphatase (ALP). It may be an indication that bile ducts in the liver are blocked.If there is an increase in the level of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), it may mean that the bile ducts are diseased., However, in order to be eligible for a transplant, you will need extensive testing (such as your MELD score) to ensure that you are otherwise healthy enough to receive a transplant, and that you are able and willing to abstain from activities, such as alcohol consumption, to prevent damage to the liver.
 In a living-donor transplant, about half of a donor's liver is removed and used to replace a patient's diseased liver. The liver manages to restore any lost mass and adjust its size to that of the original liver, while at the same time providing support for bodily systems during the entire regenerative process. In situations when hepatocytes or biliary cells are blocked from regeneration, these cell types have the power to function as stem cells for each other.After surgery, the donor's liver regenerates back to full size, while the patient's new liver also grows to a normal size. As the safety of living donors is paramount to the success of this program, Mayo Clinic researchers have conducted a long-term assessment of donor outcomes, such as liver regeneration and mental and physical well-being of both parties. The study's results were very reassuring, as they showed that Mayo living liver donors do very well after donation., Here is some information from USC San Francisco Medical Center: A living donor can be a non-blood-relative, but must have a compatible blood type
During surgery about 40 percent to 60 percent of the donor's liver is transplanted.
The average hospital stay for both recipient and donor is seven days.
Recovery time for donors is about two months and for recipients is about six to 12 months
The liver begins to regenerate itself almost immediately
Within eight weeks, both the donor's and the recipient's livers will be almost completely regenerated to normal size
Donors should be:

18 to 60 years of age
In good health with no major medical or psychiatric illnesses
A non-smoker for at least six weeks prior to surgery
Able to understand and comply with instructions for surgery preparation and recovery

Not pregnant and not overweight, but overweight candidates who lose weight could be considered



