 Giving birth is a very natural process for a cat and something that she is built to experience alone. Therefore, you won't need to directly intervene unless there are signs that the pregnancy is going awry. Learn the stages of birthing so you can better be equipped to know what is natural.The first stage of labor lasts about 36 hours, and will typically be shorter if the cat has previously had kittens. During this period your cat will visit her nesting spot regularly but also have intermittent contractions with signs of strain. Late in this stage, panting and scratching at the nesting area may increase.
The second stage will last anywhere from five to thirty minutes for each kitten. There will be stronger contractions and each kitten will be pushed out by active straining of the mom, usually head first. The mom will break the bag and chew the cord herself for each kitten and will require no additional assistance.
The third and final stage will find the mom passing a placenta membranes and mass for each kitten. The mother cat will eat the placentas so as to hide the evidence that she gave birth. The entire process should happen within four to six hours. If it lasts longer than this, you should call a vet for help.
 Although most deliveries happen without any problem, you'll want to know what to watch for and how to act in case of a worst case scenario.If a kitten is only partly out and the mother seems to be tired and given up on pushing, you can gently help the kitten ease out but you must be very gentle.
If the mother does not bite through the cord, you can help by tying off the cord using a clean sewing thread about 3 centimeters from the kitten's body.
If a mother cat does not clean a kitten you can do so by using a clean kitchen towel and gently wiping the kitten. Make sure to clear its mouth and nose of any liquid that might restrict breathing.
 There are complications that can happen during a pregnancy that should only be handled by a vet. If you notice any of these situations, you should immediately call a vet:If the cat is straining for longer than 30 minutes without producing anything. There could be an obstruction preventing a natural birth, putting the mother and kittens in danger.
If there is a period of an hour or more between the first kitten and subsequent births.
If the cat suddenly appears weak and unable to continue with labor.
The presence of excessive blood during birth without a kitten. Greenish afterbirth is common, but without a kitten can be a signal for a problem.
Keep an eye out for kittens who cannot be dislodged using gentle force. A Caesarean Section may be needed in these cases and a vet should be consulted.

