 Locate the app on your Android device and tap on it. The app logo contains the Microsoft Lync (L) logo.
 Sign in using your username and password. This are the same ones you use when you use Lync on your PC. Tap on the “Sign In” button to proceed.

You will be taken directly to your dashboard. There’s a header menu here for easy access to the basic functions of Lync.
 Lync is connected to your Outlook calendar. It automatically changes your status based on your availability. For example, if you have a meeting, your status will appear red and busy. Tap the first button from the left on the header menu to see this., You can also manually change your status by tapping on your current status right under your name. You can set it to “Available,” “Busy,” “Do Not Disturb,” “Be Right Back,” “Off Work,” and “Appear Away.”, You can add a status message or note that will appear right beside your name, seen by everyone on Lync. Tap the text box right beside your name, and start typing your message. Tap the “OK” button when done., Tap people icon on the header menu to access your Contacts. This is the same contact list you’ve built from your Lync account on your PC, including all the groupings., Scroll through the list, and tap on a contact to see his/her corporate business card. Basic data you can get from here are phone numbers and an email address., If you want to find a contact quickly, tap the magnifying glass icon on the header for the search function. Type the name of the contact you’re looking for, and a list of matching results will appear. Tap on the name to view his corporate business card., Open the Contact list and tap on a contact you want to chat with., On the selected contact’s view, tap the chat icon below his/her name. A blank screen will appear for your IM., A text field can be found at the bottom of the screen. Type your message here, then tap on the arrow button beside it to send the message., Your message will be sent, and you can see it appear on the screen, with your name and a timestamp. The other party will be joined in the thread once he/she replies., Once your contact responds, you will see his/her message right under the message you’ve sent.

Continue chatting, and when you’re done, just exit the chat window by pressing the Back button of your device.
 Open the Contact list and tap on a contact you want to chat with., On the selected contact’s view, tap the phone icon below his/her name.

You can also initiate a call from the chat screen if you’re chatting with your contact by tapping the phone icon on the bottom toolbar.
Your contact’s profile picture, if any, will be brought to full screen during the call. You can see the call duration on the top left corner of the screen. Go ahead and talk.
 Once you’re done with your call, tap the red phone icon to hang up., Tap the calendar icon on the header menu to access your scheduled meetings. The list of upcoming meetings will be displayed. This are the same schedules and calendar from your Outlook., When the time comes for the meeting, tap on the meeting from the list. The meeting screen will load. You can see the meeting title, organizer, invitees, and start and end times. Tap on the “Join” button on the middle of the screen., Once you’re connected, you will be joined in the meeting and you can talk to your colleagues. If the meeting is a video conference, you can see the people you’re talking to on your screen. You can also see yourself inside a small box on the bottom right corner., When you need to leave the meeting, tap the red phone icon to hang up.