 Newlyweds are often in need of towels, pillow cases, and sheets. These items can be purchased for a relatively low cost at certain big box stores, such as Walmart or Target. In order to personalize these gifts, you can take them to a seamstress and have them monogrammed with the initials of the happy couple.This is a practical and inexpensive gift that the happy couple will enjoy for years to come.
 A great way to give a personalized and inexpensive wedding gift is by searching online craft sites, such as Etsy. Many artisans on Etsy will create personalized items, such as pictures, coasters, mugs, glassware, decorative boxes etc.


For example, you could give the bride and groom a framed picture with their names and wedding date written in a creative font.
Alternatively, you could get them a personalized decorative pillow for their bedroom with their initials and wedding date embroidered onto it.
The options are endless, so try and look for something that matches the style and interests of the couple.
 Most people will give money or items off the registry. You can stand out by giving a gift certificate to something that the couple can enjoy together. You get to decide the amount you want to give, and the gift card will feel more personalized than just giving cash. It demonstrates that you have thought about something the couple will use and enjoy during their marriage.For example, you could give them a one year membership to a local museum or gallery that they like.
Alternatively, you could give them a gift certificate to one of their favourite restaurants.
You could also give a gift certificate to a local hardware or home store to help them with any renovations they may want to make to their house.
 If you are really strapped for cash, you can offer your time and energy to help the couple. For example, you could offer to take on a few of the stressful wedding preparation tasks. Alternatively, you could offer to pet-sit or house-sit while they are on their honeymoon. When they return, you could have their fridge and pantry stocked with homemade food.


If you have a unique talent, such as photography or wedding planning, you could offer your services for free, in lieu of a wedding gift.

