 Prius cars made from 2004 to 2009, called "Generation 2," have a combination of in-car commands you can utilize to disable the reverse beeping, but the vehicle must be started in order to do so. Start a Toyota Prius by inserting the key into the ignition. Unlike a normal vehicle, you will not need to turn the key. Instead, press your foot firmly on the brake and hit the start button to the driver’s right.The Prius is extremely quiet, so pay attention to the instrumentation to know if it is running.
Some newer model cars will not require that you insert the key, as long as it’s in the vehicle.;
, On the right side of the steering wheel, there are a number of buttons you can use to control the settings and display of the dashboard. Press the button labeled “TRIP” until the letters “ODO” appear on the display. On some models of Prius, the button may be next to the odometer on the dashboard itself.In later generation models of the Prius, this function will not display ODO and this method will not work.
You may need to press the button more than once to make it display the letters “ODO.”
Turn the vehicle off the letters “ODO” appear.
 Wait a second, then restart the car in the same manner as before. Turning the vehicle off and then on again is an important part of the series of commands that indicates to the computer that you wish to turn the backup alarm off.Be sure the engine is off before attempting to start it again.
 With the vehicle running once again, hold down the same “TRIP” button for a full ten seconds or longer. The display may change to reflect that you have held the button down on some cars, but it may not always.Count to ten to yourself before letting go of the button.
If the display changes you can let go.
 Shift the vehicle into reverse by pulling the shift lever backward out of park. Remember to keep your foot planted firmly on the brake while shifting out of park to prevent the car from moving.The reverse beep may still sound at this point.
 After you feel the transmission shift into reverse, press forward again on the shift lever to put the vehicle back into park. This is the final step in the sequence to change the reverse beep settings in the car’s computer.Turn the car off again.
The next time you start the car, the reverse beeping will be disabled.
 If you decide that you would like to turn the reverse beep back on in your Prius, you will need to repeat the process again in the exact same manner. Going through the steps each time serves to engage or disengage the reverse alarm, so completing each of these steps in the same order will reactive that alarm.If you have difficulty repeating the process, take the vehicle to your local Toyota dealership and they can reactivate the reverse alarm for you.

