 While forgiving others can be challenging, it’s often even harder to forgive yourself. Remember that if you had known the path of your actions and their consequences, you probably would not have done what you did. To begin forgiving yourself, admit that you messed up or made a mistake. Making mistakes is part of being human and no one is exempt from it.It’s important to recognize what you’ve learned, and how it will better your life from this moment on.
For more information, check out How to Forgive Yourself.;
, You may feel some resentment toward your partner or that if only he or she was there for you, you wouldn’t have emotionally strayed. Think about any grudges you hold toward your partner or any things that he or she has done that “made you” seek satisfaction elsewhere. In order to move through all the difficulties associated with an affair, learn to forgive your partner. Let go of bitterness and resentment and start valuing the relationship and the role of your partner differently.Releasing your partner allows you to step back from feeling like a victim and reclaim the power you have to not define your life by the ways you’ve been hurt.
 You may feel like you let your partner down and yourself down by having an emotional affair. Feelings of guilt can be helpful, however: they help you realize that this kind of behavior feels bad, and shouldn’t happen again. It’s healthy to feel remorse, yet, it’s unhealthy to ruminate on this feeling. Accept your actions, then take steps to make sure similar situations do not occur in the future., While you may see this person as just a “friend”, realize that if you’ve been secretive and your partner has figured it out, it can be hurtful to feel emotionally abandoned. While you may defend the status of friendship, it’s important to recognize that the situation has hurt your partner and caused him or her to suffer. Admit that the relationship is not harmless and that you have hurt your partner.While it’s easiest to stand up for your own independence and freedom to choose friendships, acknowledge the hurt your partner feels, whether it feels justified to you or not. The more you can put down your defenses and see things through your partner’s eyes, the quicker you can move through this difficult time.
 Ask your partner to confirm that the affair is no longer going on. It may be important to hear your partner acknowledge that he or she is sorry and truly remorseful. If the person is someone your partner works with, discuss what boundaries will be in place at the workplace in order to avoid further hurt and distrust.
 Don’t get caught up in blaming your partner for his or her actions, or for blaming yourself for not being emotionally present for your partner. While you may have regrets as to your part in the relationship while the affair occurred (perhaps being gone frequently or not responding to your partner’s needs for attention), it’s important to acknowledge that it was your partner’s choice to engage in the affair. You are not responsible for your partner’s actions, and there’s no use in blaming yourself.Instead, reflect on what you have learned from this situation and how things will be different in the future.


While it’s perfectly understandable to be angry, mad, and upset with your partner, blame doesn’t help move you forward. Let go of blaming your partner in order to begin moving forward with recovery.
 If your partner was angry or upset, he or she may use cheating as a way of getting revenge.Ask yourself if this was the case, or if your partner genuinely made a mistake and let things go too far. The motivation for intentionally hurting you versus getting caught up in something enjoyable is entirely different.
 While in many ways you may feel like a victim in the situation and that something horrible has happened to you, gently ask yourself if your actions (or lack of) played a role in the emotional affair. Perhaps you have been less attentive to your partner, or dismissive of his or her thoughts or actions. Consider any contributing factors that you may have played a role in, and how they affected your partner. Dare to share some of the blame for not being emotionally available.You may have been spending more time at work or prioritizing hobbies or other friendships, leaving your partner to feel emotionally abandoned.
 Forgiveness doesn’t mean forgetting what happened, or letting your partner off the hook for his or her actions. You may feel like a victim after finding out about the cheating. Forgiveness allows you to reclaim the power over your emotions and the power you may feel was taken from you. Forgiveness serves to validate your own emotions, and then to let them go.Holding on to bitterness, anger, and hurt damages your relationship. It hurts both you and your partner if you withhold forgiveness. In order to fully move forward in your relationship, forgive.
For more information, check out How to Forgive a Cheater.
 It’s likely that your partner feels guilty and ashamed about hurting you and letting a situation get out of hand, even if he or she doesn’t show it. While you have every right to feel angry, distrustful, and hurt, remember that your partner feels bad as well. Keep in mind all of the mistakes you have made --both personally and in the relationship-- and have compassion on your partner. Relieve your and your partner’s suffering together by tuning in to your partner in a kind and loving manner.Expressing compassion allows you to feel less vindictive of your partner. Practice the loving-compassion meditation: Get comfortable and calm. Think of someone you love, and say in your head or out loud, “May you be free from this suffering. May you experience joy and happiness.” Notice how it feels to send this blessing. Then, say this to yourself, to someone neutral (like a grocery clerk or neighbor), then to your partner, or someone else you have negative feelings toward. How do you feel sending love and compassion to these people?, While you may want to pretend it never happened, try to understand the roots of the affair. Ask yourself or your partner, “Why did this happen?”; “What does it say about me/my partner?”; “What was the entry point?”; and “How did it go on?” Bringing up these points with yourself and with your partner can help you better understand the situation and the state of your current relationship.Once you have these discussions, you can start to find the holes in your current relationship and begin patching them together.
 Instead of waiting for problems to blow up or get out of control, talk about problems when things are going well.If you feel like there are things in the relationship that are going poorly, bring them up before they get out of hand; don’t wait for them to grow worse.


If changes in emotional or physical closeness occur, bring it up. Say, “I feel like we’re spending less time together, and I’m wondering why that may be.”
If you notice your partner spending more time at work and giving less attention to the relationship, say something.
 Consider telling your partner what feels like cheating to you, and ask your partner the same question, “What feels like cheating to you?”


Consider both physical and emotional aspects of cheating. What kind of touching is too much? What language or communication is excessive? What about if you tell someone else things you don’t tell your partner?

, Couples counseling can be helpful in bringing the two of you together to discuss openly what problems are occurring in the relationship, and what’s missing that the affair fulfilled. Counseling can help you two move into a place of restored respect and growth.For more information, check out How to Choose a Marriage Counselor.
 You may find solace in venting your frustrations with someone, yet be aware that this can be a thin line. When you share intimate details about your life and your relationship with another person, you’re allowing him or her to see your unmet needs, and in a way asking, “Can you meet this need for me in a way this person cannot?”Keep discussions about your relationship to a minimum, and don’t discuss your relationship with someone you feel attraction toward.


Be careful with whom you share information regarding your partner and your relationship. Be respectful of your partner even when you’re venting, and also be respectful of the relationship you are in.
 If you notice yourself experiencing an emotional high when you talk to someone, or can’t wait to talk to this person for the relief that follows your interactions, stop.This can lead to inappropriate relationships. Start to notice the high you feel after talking to someone, anticipating discussions, and saying things that you would not say to your partner.


If you find yourself longing for this kind of friendship while in a relationship, ask yourself, “Is there something missing in my current relationship?”

, Once you start making excuses for yourself and your behavior, it’s time to consider what boundaries you may be approaching or crossing. If you find yourself saying, “She’s just a friend” and justifying things to yourself or your partner, this can be a red flag.After all, you shouldn’t have to justify your friendships to yourself or anyone else.


If you find yourself making excuses for your actions, creating half-truths to yourself or someone else, it’s time to reconsider what’s going on.

