 Understand that California allows the use of medical marijuana to treat any condition if the patient finds relief in it and a doctor recommends its use. However, keep in mind that doctors are not required to recommend it just because the patient believes that it will provide relief. Depending on the attitude of your primary care physician, you can also consider obtaining a recommendation from:A brick-and-mortar medical marijuana evaluation center.
An online medical marijuana evaluation service.;
, Make an appointment with your doctor. Discuss medical marijuana as a possible option to treat whatever condition you might have. Since California doesn’t limit which conditions are applicable, don’t feel like you need to fake an illness that you don’t have (and thus ruin your credibility with your doctor). When approaching the subject, keep in mind that:There's nothing wrong with posing the question, so don't feel guilty. Be straightforward with your interest and why you think you might benefit from it.Not all doctors may be personally familiar about how marijuana relates to your particular situation. Bring along any research that you've found regarding how marijuana may benefit your specific condition if needed.
Many established physicians are reluctant and often refuse to give out recommendations. If they don’t seem willing to write you one, don’t force the issue. Preserve your relationship with your doctor.
 If your primary doctor isn’t willing to write you a recommendation, don’t worry; they don’t have the final word. As an alternative, search online for an evaluation center in your area. Visit them as you would with your normal doctor, except here the primary focus is whether or not marijuana is a viable option for your treatment (as opposed to just one of many possibilities). However:These centers often range pretty widely in terms of quality care and service. Compare customer reviews online for any that you might be considering.
Don’t treat evaluation centers as a substitute for your primary doctor. Although some may be on par with “legitimate” doctor’s offices, others may operate according to much lower standards., If you’re unable to find a brick-and-mortar evaluation center that you’re comfortable with (or if you’d just rather not leave the house at all), search online for a web-based evaluation center. Sign up for their service and fill out their online forms when prompted. Then talk with one of their doctors via phone or video to discuss marijuana as a possible treatment.If approved, they’ll send you two recommendations: an electronic one that you can print out and use that day if needed, plus your official written copy through the mail for long-term use.
 Regardless of which method you choose to obtain a doctor’s recommendation, keep in mind that it doesn’t last forever. Expect it to expire within one year. For longer treatment, repeat whichever method you’re most comfortable with each year., Search online for nearby medical marijuana dispensaries. Confirm that they have been licensed by California’s Bureau of Marijuana Control (formerly the Bureau for Medical Cannabis Regulation). Bring your doctor’s written recommendation with you to prove that you are eligible.You do not need a medical marijuana ID card in order to purchase medical marijuana.

