 Simply ask your parents for what you want, explaining why piercings are important to you. Let them know whatever is involved, like a parent signature. Listen to their questions, and respond calmly with all the information you have.


You can say: “Mom, Dad, I want to get another ear piercing. It’s my favorite way to express myself, and I’d really like your permission to get it done.”;
, Let your parents know the exact type and placement of the ear piercing you want. There are a lot of different types of ear piercings; show your parents you’ve researched and thought a lot about the placement and jewelry you can wear for it.For example, you can say: “I would really like a helix piercing, which is at the top cartilage part of the ear. There’s a store at the mall that I know has jewelry for this kind of piercing.”
If you know of any online stores with the jewelry you want for the piercing, show them to your parents. You can also show them a diagram of ear piercing placement to help them visualize what the piercing would be like on your ear or ears., Point out that your parents have given their permission for your previous ear piercings and this one will be no different.


If you’ve gotten your ear lobes pierced once, for example, you can explain that a second lobe piercing is essentially the same thing, with the same method for piercing and same healing time.
 Remind your parents if you have been focusing and getting good grades in school, trying new activities and extracurriculars, or helping out around the house.


You can also ask for the piercing as an incentive to good behavior in the future. Agree with your parents on a goal they’d like you to reach before you can get the piercing.
If you have a birthday or other gift-giving holiday coming up, you can say that the ear piercing you want is at the top of your wish list for gifts.
 Let your parents know that you plan to keep this piercing forever. But if they’re concerned about the permanent nature of piercings, point out to them that piercing holes can close over time if you really decide you don’t want them anymore.


Note that most piercing holes will close over time without any jewelry worn in them. You can also get very minor surgery to close stretched ear piercings or “gauges.”, Prove to your parents that this is a piercing you will want to keep forever. If they say no the first time you ask, agree on a later time you can reopen the issue with them. Or wait a couple weeks or months to come back with them with a new argument.


Tell them right away you are willing to wait for them to think it over, or for a certain time period of their choosing. You can say: “I’d like your permission to do this, but you don’t have to give me an answer right now. Can I ask you for your answer tomorrow?”If you try using the reasoning that you’ve gotten a piercing with their permission before and they say no, come back to them a couple weeks later with a new way to ask, like suggesting the piercing as a reward for good grades. Stay calm and polite every time you ask.

