 This is important to consider. Some people prefer a free HTML editor. Some good free editors are Microsoft Visual Web Developer, Kompozer and SeaMonkey. Microsoft Expression Web is now available for free, too, but it has been abandoned and is no longer supported by Microsoft. Dreamweaver is preferred by many people and is often used in larger corporate environments who are willing to spend a few hundred dollars per license.;
, Ask yourself: "What do I really need in my HTML editor? What kind of site am I building?" Make a list of features you need. For instance, if you use flash a lot in your site, get an HTML editor that allows you to put flash on your websites. If you need a simple site, get a simple HTML editor. You might say "But...the other one has more features!" It might. But if there are thousands of features you don't need, you might not be able to access the ones you need as quickly. One more thing: look for HTML editor that has HTML mode. This is where you get to view the source of the HTML, edit it, etc. Most HTML editors have this, but you may come across one or two that don't.


What You See Is What You Get (WYSIWYG) capabilities, auto-insertion (meaning that the program automatically inserts closing tags and brackets), and the ability to publish directly to the server are great to have, regardless of what type of website you're building.
 To get some ideas, look at the search results for "best html editors". Read the opinions on which editors are best. You can also go to download sites such as Download.com and type in 'HTML editors'. You should see hundreds of editors. Go through the pages. It may take a long time, but it can be worth it. While you are doing all this, this make notes about editors you really like (and that you can afford). Remember, if you see an HTML editor that is way above your price range, don't get it. Chances are there is one out there you can afford that will suit your needs.


Look at the system requirements of any editor. What operating systems is it compatible with? Do you have enough RAM to accommodate the program? How much space does it require on the hard drive?






Read what ordinary users have to say about it on the reviews. Is it glitchy, hard to navigate, and memory consuming (some programs lie, despite what they say the system requirements are). Is it smooth and easy to navigate?

, This is where that list from Step 1 comes in handy. Choose editors with the most needed features and the lowest price (if it is not free). Cut your list down to four or five HTML editors. Cut it down to a number from between one and three.
, Most modern programs have an easy installation wizard to guide you. Some programs, like Kompozer, don't require installation at all.

