 If you're still beating yourself up, you'll never be able to stand up to others. Mean students won't be able to bother you as much if you are solidly accepting of the embarrassing incident. Try laughing about it. Sometimes changing the tone of a story makes it less embarrassing. If you're still too sad, remind yourself that it doesn't define you. Seek counsel with a parent or close friend. They can help you get your self-esteem back.;
, The most fool-proof method is to just not mention it. You'll be surprised how many kids have already forgotten. However, if it happened recently or it was in front of a lot of people, you could consider owning the event. When you meet up with friends you haven't seen say, "You will not believe what happened to me!" and share the event. If you feel up to it, make the story funny. Oftentimes, the act of doing this will help you personally come to terms with the event. If you feel very confident, you could try to make this a part of your reputation. Maybe this can be a fun thing, not a sad thing?


Owning the story is not for most people. Only attempt it if you have a very high self-esteem and you are no longer embarrassed about the event. You may think that so many people know that it isn't worth ignoring, but you are probably over-estimating the number of mean kids in your school. Go to the first day and see if anyone mentions it. If so, you can bunt to owning the story. If not, move on to the next step.
 If people see you all scared and red-faced they will remember that embarrassing moment. After all: you remember the moment better than anyone else does. And in your head, you might be inflating the number of people who know. It's likely that no one cares about this event as much as you do. Maybe no one will bring it up at all! Especially if it happened near the beginning of the summer, you might have nothing to worry about.
 Again, it's another chance for people to remember. Also, you will have to come out sometime! You might not get teased while eating lunch in the bathroom, but.... you're eating lunch in the bathroom! No matter how bad this problem is, if you face it, it will end eventually. If you refuse to show your face, this could go on forever. After all, is a life of hiding and fearing school every day really what you want? This may be the easiest choice, but it really will make your problem worse. You can handle this.
 Maybe try making friends with the new kid in your class. She/He won't know you that well so most likely won't listen to rumors and will be easier to talk to without the "Wow did you really do this or do that?" Not only that, but you could be helping someone who was just as nervous about the school year as you were! Having a friend who you are sure isn't judging you from rumors can really help if/when it comes time for you to stand up for yourself. There's power in numbers!

, People are going to take cues from you about whether this event was serious or not. If you act uncomfortable, people will see an opportunity to tease you. However, if you don't appear vulnerable, most kids will back off. After all, it happened in the summer! There's probably something more recent and interesting to gossip about.
 Get involved in lunch conversations, so you'll have something to talk about. Join a club. Improve your grades. Take up a hobby. If you can find something that makes you happy, you can always distract yourself from whatever problem you might face. If school is scary, you'll need a "safe place" where you can laugh. If this really does end up damaging your social status, recognize that there are other fun things in the world.
 Don't break any school rules- you don't want an even more negative reputation. Be the first kid to beat a popular video game. Star in the school musical. Play to your strengths- if you're not good at school clubs or popular activities, talk (don't brag) about something else you did outside of school. Or start being really nice and helpful- that's not a bad reputation either (as long as you don't let people step on you)!

, Laugh and say, "Ha, yeah! I totally collapsed, didn't I?" or whatever your incident was. However, it's okay if still don't have the confidence for that. Just say "whatever" and remove yourself from the conversation. You could also ignore it entirely. It helps if you have friends you can lean on in these situations. Try not to cry or look upset in front of these people- it will encourage them. If you are going to cry, get away as soon as possible. If you avoid showing them you're hurt, they will eventually grow bored. If things are really bad, talk to a parent or teacher. This is becoming bullying.
 No matter what happens, getting your confidence back is step 1. Your own opinion is the only one you'll carry with you forever. You can handle anything someone else throws at you, as long you as you love yourself.

