 The pain and other symptoms of spondylosis, whether acute or chronic, can be treated with home methods. Generally, the pain caused by spondylosis frequently improves after a few days. One good way to treat the pain is to use over-the-counter pain relievers.Examples of OTC meds that help with this condition include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as aspirin (Bayer, Ecotrin), ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), and naproxen (Aleve). Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is another medicine that may also be helpful as a pain reliever.
Acetaminophen is a safer option for individuals with a history of asthma, high blood pressure, liver disease, heart disease, or stomach ulcers.
 Topical pain relievers can complement or be used an alternative to oral pain relievers. They can be administered in multiple ways, such as in creams, foams, gels, roll-ons, sprays, and sticks. The most common ingredients found in this class of medication are:Counterirritants. Examples of counterirritants include camphor, menthol, and methyl salicylate (oil of wintergreen). They work by creating a cooling or burning sensation that distracts an individual’s mind away from the pain. Popular brands include Bengay, IcyHot, and Tiger Balm.
Capsaicin. Capsaicin is obtained from chili peppers and has been found to be very effective for topical pain relief. It causes a tingling or burning sensation upon the skin and may take several days before it actually relieves pain. Popular brands include Capzasin and Zostrix.
Salicylates. Salicylates give aspirin its pain relieving qualities. They may be absorbed into the skin for local pain relief. A popular brand of topical salicylate is Aspercreme.
 There are several varieties of prescription strength pain medications that your doctor may give you to treat the pain associated with this condition when non-prescription drugs are no longer sufficient. Your doctor may prescribe prescription-strength NSAIDs that will reduce any inflammation associated with spondylosis.Popular prescription NSAIDs include diclofenac (Voltaren), meloxicam (Mobic), nabumetone (Relafen), etodolac (Lodine), and oxaprozin (Daypro). Common side effects of NSAIDs may include dizziness, headache, nausea, diarrhea, and excess gas. Caution should be used if taking NSAIDs for longer than one week, as prolonged use increases the risk of stomach ulcers, kidney damage, and heart attacks., Muscle relaxants may be prescribed to treat muscle spasm associated with spondylosis. Popular muscle relaxants include carisoprodol (Soma), cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril), methocarbamol (Robaxin), and metaxalone (Skelaxin).Common side effects of muscle relaxants may include drowsiness, dizziness, dry mouth, and difficulty urinating.
The use of muscle relaxants should be restricted to short-term due to their high risk for dependence or addiction.
 Depending on your level of pain, your doctor may choose to prescribe a narcotic pain medicine. Commonly prescribed narcotic pain medications include codeine, hydrocodone, and oxycodone.


Common side effects of this class of medication may include drowsiness, constipation, dry mouth, and difficulty urinating.
Narcotic pain medications should not be mixed with alcohol or other medications containing acetaminophen (Tylenol), as the combination can greatly increase the risk of liver damage.
Use of narcotic pain medications should be curtailed to less than two weeks, because of the increased risks of tolerance, dependence, and addiction., Medications originally used to treat seizures, or epilepsy, have been found to be helpful in the treatment of chronic pain. Low doses of antidepressants have been used for years to treat chronic neck and back pain. Spondylosis can in a minority of cases lead to chronic neck or back pain.The most commonly prescribed anti-seizure medications used to treat chronic pain are gabapentin (Neurontin) and pregabalin (Lyrica). It remains unclear how these medications control pain. Drowsiness and weight gain are common side effects of gabapentin. Common side effects of pregabalin may include drowsiness, dizziness, dry mouth, and constipation.
Commonly prescribed tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) helpful in the treatment of chronic pain include amitriptyline (Elavil), imipramine (Tofranil), and nortriptyline (Pamelor). Duloxetine (Cymbalta) is a novel antidepressant used in the treatment of chronic pain. Both TCAs and duloxetine work by increasing levels of the brain neurotransmitters norepinephrine and serotonin, which are instrumental in blocking the transmission of pain signals in the brain. Common side effects of these antidepressants may include drowsiness, weight gain, dry mouth, constipation, and difficulty urinating.
 An epidural steroid injection (ESI) is a minimally invasive procedure that may be used to treat pain caused by spondylosis. The injection is a combination of a long-acting steroid (triamcinolone, betamethasone) and an anesthetic agent (lidocaine, bupivacaine). The medications are injected into the epidural space of the spine, which is the area between the protective covering of the spinal cord (dura) and the backbone (vertebra). The duration of pain relief from an ESI varies and can last weeks, months, and sometimes even years.It is recommended no more than three ESIs be performed in a 12-month period because exceeding this limit could weaken the spine.
Potential complications of ESIs include infection, bleeding, and nerve damage.
Types of physicians qualified to administer ESIs include physiatrists, anesthesiologists, radiologists, neurologists, and surgeons.
 The majority of patients suffering from spondylosis do not require spinal surgery. Nonsurgical treatment is successful in at least 75 percent of spondylosis cases, but in some instances, surgery does become a necessity. If you begin to experience neurologic deficits, like a loss of bowel or bladder control, surgery will likely be considered your best option. Loss of feeling or function in your arms, legs, feet, and fingers can be another sign of such deficits.Under these circumstances, a nerve is being pinched or your spinal is being compressed. The underlying damage to your nervous system could worsen if these conditions are not fixed.
 Spinal decompression surgery is a general term used to describe different surgical procedures that can relieve pressure on the spine. You will need to work with your doctor to determine the best technique for your circumstances.During a laminectomy, bony arches of the spinal canal called lamina are removed, thereby increasing the size of the spinal canal.
During a laminoplasty, the lamina are left in place but cut free along one side of your spinal cord.
A discectomy is a technique that removes a portion of an intervertebral disc that has previously put pressure on a nerve root or on the spinal canal.
With both the foraminotomy and the foraminectomy, the openings where the nerve roots exit the spinal canal are enlarged by the removal of tissue.
You may undergo osteophyte removal, during which bone spurs are physically removed from areas in which they cause pinched nerves.
During a corpectomy, a surgeon will remove an entire vertebral body and its discs.

