 Find out if your job performance is evaluated regularly, and if so, when. Your company could enforce a maximum raise; they could also award raises to everybody at a particular time, or base them on merit.
 Be prepared to discuss your specific achievements and accomplishments from the past year.


Evaluate your worth again. Has the market in salary compensation for your particular job changed? Have you stepped out of your job description and taken on additional duties? Mention these things at your meeting.
Practice what you will say. Don't focus on why you need the money but why you deserve the extra pay.
 You don't have to be serious at first about accepting it; but having another job offer, with higher pay, that you can point to during salary negotiations, is a powerful way to leverage your case. It's always best to look for a job when you already have a job, not the other way around.


If you start looking for a different job, you might find an environment and offer that's better suited for you. It always helps to be on the lookout. You don't have to accept the offer, but you might find an offer that's good to pass up.
 Describe the specific business reasons why you deserve a raise. Is it because you're underpaid compared to the rest of the market? It is because your performance is above-average and you contribute significantly to the company's bottom line? Whatever it is, make your case in easy-to-follow language that's persistent but persuasive.
 If you've been denied a raise, ask why and how you can secure a raise in the future. Suggest an alternative, such as a bonus or some kind of incentive or perk. Ask if there's money for additional training to show you're still committed to the job.
 It never helps to get sour or aggressive when things don't go your way. If you feel like your services are being underappreciated, it's in your best interest to start seriously looking for a new job, where your pay is more in line with your production, and your production is valued by the rest of the company.

