 When you use a mod to add a cape to your Minecraft character, only you will be able to see the cape. The exception to this is that any other players with the exact same mod will be able to see your cape as well. This can be useful if you have several computers that play Minecraft together, as you can install the mod on all of them and then they can all see each other's capes., Forge is a mod loader extension for Minecraft that will make installing the cape mod much easier. Installing Forge is a fairly straightforward process:


Download the Forge installer from files.minecraftforge.net. Use the "Download Latest" option unless you need Forge for a specific older version.
Double-click the downloaded JAR file. This will launch the Forge installer.
Click "Install Client." This will install the Forge software on your computer.
 You can download this mod from minecraftcapes.co.uk.
 This will place all of the essential files into the correct folders.
 You'll need to create an account in order to upload the cape file that you want to use. This account is free:


Visit minecraftcapes.co.uk and click "Create new account."
Enter your exact Minecraft user name as your MinecraftCapes user name. This name must be exactly the same as your official user name in order for your cape to work.
Create a password for your MinecraftCapes account. Do not use the same password that you use for your Minecraft account.
 You can view a variety of capes from the Cape Gallery on the MinecraftCapes.co.uk website. You can also visit other websites such as MinecraftCapes.com for a wide variety of capes you can choose from.


When downloading a cape, right-click on the image file and select "Save image" to download it to your computer. It should be in PNG format.
If you would like to create your own cape, you can use any image editor, such as Paint. Download a cape template and then edit it however you'd like. Cape templates will have a front and back texture for the cape. Make sure to save the cape file in PNG format.
 You'll need to upload your cape so that it can be applied to your account and appear in your game.


Log into your new account on minecraftcapes.co.uk.
Once you're logged in, click the "Upload Cape" button.
Click "Choose File" and browse for the PNG file you're using for your new cape.
Click "Upload," then "Apply Cape." This will assign your new cape to your account.
 Now that you've uploaded your cape, you can launch Minecraft. Open the Launcher but don't start the game just yet.
 This will enable you to create a new profile using your Capes mod.


Give the profile an easy to recognize name, such as "Capes."

, You may have to scroll a little to find it.
 Minecraft will load as normal.
 Once the game has loaded, you can switch to third-person mode and see your new cape. Remember, the cape will only be visible to you and any other players that happen to be using the same mod. There is no way to add a cape that is visible to everyone.

