 Since a slow cooker operates at a much lower temperature than an oven, it takes much longer for the turkey breast to reach an internal temperature of 155 °F (68 °C). This enables you to turn it on and forget about it for several hours as you go about your day.


Using the "low" setting, a smaller four to six pound turkey breast will take five to six hours to cook in a slow cooker. A larger six to ten pound breast will require eight to nine hours.
Using the "high" setting will result in lower cooking time, equivalent to that of a conventional oven.
 Remember that it must be thawed and unwrapped before cooking. It's also a good idea to remove the skin. You can't crisp the skin in the slow cooker, so you may as well discard it before cooking.
 Anything you add to the slow cooker will simmer with the turkey breast all day, creating an amazingly flavorful final product. You can make your own seasoning mix or use a mix bought from the store. Try one of these:


Make your own by combining 1 teaspoon dried minced garlic, 1 teaspoon seasoned salt, 1 teaspoon Italian seasoning and 1 teaspoon pepper.
If you don't have the right spices, you can use a packet of onion soup mix or a bouillon cube or packet. Dissolve one cube/packet in a cup of hot water and add it to the slow cooker.
 The great thing about a slow cooker is that it’s one-pot cooking that can’t be messed up, so go ahead and throw whatever vegetables and herbs you have in the fridge in there, so long as they make sense with turkey. Potatoes, carrots, and onions are all great options for vegetables, as are parsley, sage, and oregano for herbs.


Chop vegetables into larger chunks to prevent them from breaking down too much over a long cooking time.
If you don’t have fresh herbs in your fridge or garden, you can replace them with dried herbs from your spice rack.
 Add enough water to cover the top of the turkey, so it won't dry out as it cooks. You can also use chicken broth in place of water.
 Depending on how much time you have, you’ll set it to either high or low. Remember that if you set the slow cooker to low heat, it will take somewhere between five and eight hours to cook; if you set it to high heat, it will take much less time.
 Make sure the internal temperature of the turkey reaches at least 155 °F (68 °C) by using a meat thermometer. Insert the end of the thermometer into the thickest portion of the breast, being careful not to poke the thermometer all the way through the breast. Wait for the display to stabilize before reading the temperature.
 Place it on a cutting board and use a carving knife to cut it into slices.,