 Take a pencil and rest it vertically on one side of your nose. Where the pencil rests between your eyebrows is where the eyebrow on that side should reach. If your eyebrow is shorter than where the pencil falls, you can lightly fill it in with a brow pencil or powder.


Next, tilt the pencil on your nose toward the eye that is on that side while keeping the base of your pencil on the nostril. Once your pencil crosses over your pupil, stop and look where the pencil reaches. The arch of your eyebrow should be where the pencil stopped over your pupil.
Lastly, keeping the bottom of the pencil on your nostril, continue to tilt your pencil to touch the outside corner of the eye on that side. Where your pencil lands should be end of your eyebrow. Like the beginning of your eyebrow, you can always fill in the ends if they do not reach the pencil. If they go past the pencil, pluck the ends to wear they feel comfortable.;
, Use a pair of tweezers and a magnification mirror, and carefully remove any hairs found outside the line of your drawn brow. Match the curve of the bottom of the brow to the top. The end of the brow should be around the end of your eye socket.


Do not thin out the head of the brows. It should be the thickest part. Also, do not remove hair from the top of the brow unless you have any especially insane hairs. Use the natural shape of the top of the brow to shape your arch.
 Go slowly, taking breaks to see how thin they are becoming. Make sure you don't over-do it. After cleaning up the bottom row of hairs, look at the top of your eyebrows. Many salons suggest not plucking the top of your eyebrows, but this can be helpful to those who have a 'jagged' look to their eyebrows. Plucking the stray hairs from the top will help your eyebrows look neater.
 If you are doing this at home, use an eyebrow brush to sweep your eyebrow hairs upward. While holding the hair up, begin to lightly trim the hairs that stick up above your eyebrow with a pair of sheers. Be very careful to avoid trimming them too short. Repeat this process while brushing the hairs downward and trimming.


While this is possible at home, it is advised to go to a professional for this to avoid accidentally cutting hair too short and creating a "hole" in your eyebrow.
 Your eyebrows should not be identical. Use the differences of their natural shapes and the placement of your nose and eyes to guide your plucking. Unlike with most makeup looks, finish one brow before working on the other. At the end, you can compare them both and make sure they look compatible.

