 If the spot is small or limited to one area, you may be able to remove it without bathing the cat entirely. Wet the fur by pouring a small cup of water over the spot. You can also dampen it with a wet washcloth. Rub dish soap into the spot. Rinse out by pouring more water over the paint until it has been removed entirely. Towel dry the cat.


Hold the cat firmly with one hand to keep them still while you clean. If possible, have another person hold the cat while you wash them.If the cat tries to escape, gently pull them back.
If the cat tries to wriggle away or scratch you, you may need to restrain them with a towel. Wrap the towel around their feet and body. Try to leave the painted areas unwrapped so that you can wash off the paint., If your cat is covered with multiple paint stains or if the mess is extensive, you may need to prepare a full bath. Fill a bathtub or sink with a few inches of warm water. As you bring your cat to the bath, pet them and talk to them soothingly.


If you have a sink with a spray nozzle, you do not need to fill the sink, but rather, you can use the spray nozzle to wet and rinse them.Put some cotton in the cat’s ears before placing them in the bath to prevent water from going inside.
Placing a towel or rubber bath mat on the bottom of the basin can help prevent your cat from slipping.This will also give them something to grip onto if they are nervous during the bath.
If you’re worried about being scratched, you may want to trim their nails before you bathe them.
 Once the cat is in the bath, wet them by pouring or spraying water over their body. Do not try to wash their head or face. Take the dish soap or a cat shampoo, and massage it into the cat’s fur.The paint should start coming loose and running off at this point.


Do not use human shampoo, as this can irritate the cat’s skin.
Do not use any soap on the cat’s head or face. If there is paint on the cat’s head or face, try to gently remove it with a damp wash cloth., Take a cup or pitcher, and fill it with water from the bath. Starting with the neck behind your cat’s head and moving towards their tail, pour the water over their body. Try not to get the cat’s head wet. Do this a few times until all of the soap and the paint has been rinsed from their fur.


If you have a spray nozzle, you can simply run the water over the cat’s fur.
If paint still remains after you rinse, try reapplying the dish soap, and wash them a second time.
 Once the cat is clean, remove them from the bath, and wrap them in a towel immediately. Soak up as much as water as you can with the towel. If you want, you can set a hairdryer to its lowest heat and air settings. Gently blow the cat dry.