 Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.;
, Pour 1 cup (240 milliliters) of almond milk into a cup. Stir in 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of lemon juice. Set the solution aside so that it can curdle. This is your vegan buttermilk.If you can't find any almond milk, try cashew or soy milk instead.If you can't find lemon juice, use 1 teaspoon of vinegar instead., Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the baking powder, baking soda, and the salt. Stir everything together with a whisk until combined.
 Use your fingers or a pastry blender to mix the butter into the flour. Keep doing this until the mixture is grainy, sort of like sand. Work quickly and don't let the butter melt., Make a well in the middle of your flour mixture first. Use a wooden spoon to stir in the vegan buttermilk ¼ cup (60 milliliters) at a time until everything is just combined. You want the mixture to be moist and a little sticky, so you may not end up using all of the buttermilk., Dust your counter or cutting board with flour. Turn the dough onto the floured surface, then sprinkle some more flour on top. Fold the dough in on itself 5 to 6 times. You want to just barely knead it., Use your hands to do this, not a rolling pin. Don't worry if it's not perfect; you want to handle the dough as little as possible., Push the biscuit cutter straight down into the dough, give it a twist, then pull it out. You should be able to cut out six biscuits.Squish the scraps into another disk, and cut 1 to 2 more biscuits out.
If you don't have a biscuit cutter, you can use something else, as long as it has sharp edges.
 You want the biscuits to be just touching on the sheet. This will help them rise evenly while they bake. They will smoosh together when they rise, but you can easily pull them apart at the end., Use your thump to make a shallow dent in the center of each biscuit. This will help them rise evenly and flat. Melt some more vegan butter, and brush it over the top of each biscuit., They are ready when they turn fluffy and golden-brown., If you have any leftover, let them cool all the way, then store them into a plastic zippered bag or airtight container.