 In the meantime, lightly coat four small ramekins or custard dishes with nonstick cooking spray or butter.You actually have a few different options for your cooking container, but the dishes you use must be oven-safe.

If you only plan to serve one egg per guest, use four 4 to 6 oz (125 to 185 ml) ramekins or custard cups.
To serve two eggs per guest, use two 10 oz (315 ml) ramekins. Flat oval ramekins make a nicer presentation, but tall round ramekins will also work.
If you don't have ramekins or custard cups, you could prepare baked eggs using a standard muffin/cupcake tin. You'll only use one egg per muffin cup. Grease as usual; do not use cupcake liners.

;
, Break one or two eggs into each greased ramekin, depending on the size and amount of ramekins you prepared. Work carefully to avoid breaking the yolks.


Use cold eggs since the yolks are less likely to break.Hold each egg within 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of the top of the dish to minimize the impact it will make upon falling into the dish. This should also help minimize the risk of breaking the yolk.
Consider breaking the eggs into a clear, small dish before sliding them into the prepared ramekins. Doing so will make it easier to inspect the eggs for unwanted pieces of shells. Remove any shell fragments you find.
 Using a spoon, carefully move the yolks toward the centers of the prepared ramekins.Press to the side of the yolks; do not poke into the yolks directly.
This step is not necessary, but doing so can create a nice presentation.
 Spoon the milk evenly over the prepared eggs. You'll need about 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of milk per dish.If you don't have milk, you could also use half-and-half or light cream.
Spooning liquid over the eggs can help prevent them from drying out inside the oven. Only spoon the liquid on top; do not stir it into the eggs.
 At minimum, you should season the eggs with a light dash of salt and pepper. You can also sprinkle 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of fresh chopped herbs, like parsley, on top of each egg.


Other herbs work considering include tarragon, chives, rosemary, cilantro, and dill.
Note that you can also experiment with several other toppings, including shredded cheese, bread crumbs, cooked spinach, chopped tomato, bacon bits, cooked sausage crumbles, and chopped ham. Amounts can vary, but do not use so much that you completely cover the eggs.
 Place the eggs on the middle rack of your preheated oven. Bake them until the whites are set and the yolks are thickened.


The exact amount of cooking time will vary depending on the number of eggs per dish and the number of toppings added.
If the eggs do not appear to be cooking evenly, rotate the dishes after 5 or 6 minutes.
Traditionally, the yolks should thicken without becoming hard, but you can cook the eggs a bit longer if you prefer firmer yolks. Also note that the eggs will continue to cook for a few minutes after you remove them from the oven.
 Remove the eggs from the oven and allow them to set for about 2 to 3 minutes. Enjoy them as soon as they finish setting.

