 Since some people experience swimmer’s ear after floating, it is advised to wear ear plugs. Shape the ear plugs and put one in each ear., Shower before getting inside the floatation pod or room. You need to shower in order to remove body oils and odors. After you shower, remember to dry your face so that you will be less tempted to touch your face or eyes with salty hands during the session., You will have control over a few aspects of the floatation experience such as music, whether the floatation ceiling is closed or open, and the level of darkness. Some rooms will play relaxation music whereas others will be quiet. If you have the choice of music, decide whether you want it on or off. If there is a choice of lighting, experiment to see what level of darkness you prefer. Some people prefer low lighting and others like it pitch black., Once you get inside the pool, you will be lying on your back in shallow salt water. However, every floatation patient enjoys a slightly different body position. Some people prefer to put their arms above their head whereas other people prefer to have their arms by their sides. Experiment until you find the body position that is most comfortable for you., Once the lights are turned off or very dim, you may feel a bit disoriented. To become comfortable, you may find it helpful to feel the sides and bottom of the floatation tank. Since it is dark, use your touch to familiarize yourself with your surroundings., At the beginning of your session, get into the relaxation zone with a simple breathing exercise.Use the following steps to fully relax:Exhale through your mouth.
Quietly inhale through your nose. Inhale deeply into your abdomen. You can slowly count to four while you inhale.
Hold the breath in your body while counting to seven.
Slowly exhale through your mouth. You can count to eight while exhaling slowly.
Repeat the breathing exercise four times.
 After your breathing exercise, relax and watch your breath. Stop manipulating your breath and just watch it come in and out of your body. You can focus your attention on the feeling of the breath coming into and leaving your body.
 Some people will fall asleep in the floatation therapy whereas others will enjoy a meditative experience. Feel free to just relax and enjoy the feeling of the water and the absence of noise or other sensory stimulation. Everyone has a different experience in floatation therapy. Stay with the feeling of your breath and enjoy the relaxing environment.At the end of your session, somebody will come in to wake you up.

