 Meal preparation and eating can make a mess in the kitchen. One of the best ways to keep your kitchen clean is to clean food and dishes after each meal. That way, messes don’t pile up, and you have a clean kitchen to work with at the start of your next meal. After each meal:Clear the table
Transfer leftovers to airtight containers and store them in the refrigerator or freezer
Wash, dry, and put away all the dishes
Run the dishwasher when it’s full
Clean spills, crumbs, and messes from the stove, floors, table, and counters
Wash out the sink;
, Another easy way to keep your kitchen clean and prevent stains, mold, and other problems is to address spills as soon as they happen. For food spills, use a spoon or cloth to clean up solid waste. Clean up excess liquids or sauces with a cloth. Spray the area with an all-purpose cleaner and wipe it dry.


When spills involve raw meat, use a disinfecting spray to clean the mess to prevent the spread of bacteria.
Cleaning liquid spills from the floor is also important for safety, because a wet floor is a slipping hazard., A full dishwasher can mean that dishes start piling up in the sink, and this makes for a messy kitchen. To avoid this, empty the dishwasher when the dishes are clean, and return all the dishes to their proper places. That way, you can put dirty dishes from the sink into the dishwasher and keep the kitchen neat and tidy., Having empty counters is a great way to keep a kitchen looking neat and organized, and it also gives you more space for food preparation and other work.Here are some ideas for clearing cluttered counters:


Store small appliances like toasters and coffeemakers in cupboards
Keep non-refrigerated produce in a fruit bowl on the kitchen table
Designate a special drawer for random items that are often used in the kitchen, like pens, paper, and mail
Find a permanent home for all pots, pans, and kitchenware
Store all ingredients, including often-used flour and sugar, in the pantry

, The garbage disposal can harbor dangerous bacteria and offensive smells, but regular cleaning will prevent this. Clean the disposal at least once a week by:Filling an ice cube tray with vinegar
Pouring baking soda into the disposal
Turning on the water and running the disposal
Pouring the frozen vinegar cubes down the disposal
Letting the disposal run until all the baking soda and cubes are gone

, Shelf and drawer liners are great for keeping a clean kitchen because they can be cleaned and replaced easily. Shelf liners are especially important in pantries where you store food, but they also protect the shelves in all your cupboards and pantries.To clean the liners, empty the shelf and spray an all-purpose cleaner on the liner. Wipe it down with a clean cloth. Allow the liner to dry before returning items to the shelf.
 The refrigerator is where you keep most of your food, so it’s important for both safety and cleanliness to keep this appliance clean. Clean spills as they occur. Once a month, remove all the food from the refrigerator and freezer and wipe the drawers, shelves, and interior surfaces with an all-purpose cleaner. Wipe the surfaces dry and return the food.To absorb smells in the refrigerator, keep an open box of baking soda or a bowl of coffee beans in the refrigerator.
 Kitchen floors get messy very quickly with dust, crumbs, food particles, and other matter. To keep the floor clean, sweep or vacuum the floor in the kitchen every evening after the final meal, or each morning before breakfast.Sweeping regularly around the whole house will help minimize dust and allergens throughout the house as well.
 On top of daily sweeping, you should also mop the floor every week to keep the floor clean. Mopping will remove dirt, spills, sticky spots, and other messes from the floor. Fill a bucket with soapy water and use a sponge or mop to wash the entire kitchen floor.


Allow the floor to dry fully before walking on it again to prevent slips and footmarks on the floor.
 Every family has different needs in terms of garbage and recycling containers. Replace your containers with larger ones if you find your garbage is often overflowing, that items often fall out and present tripping hazards, or if you have to empty the containers daily., To keep your kitchen clean, bug-free, and odor-free, tie up full garbage and recycling bags and take them out to the garage or another secondary storage area until it’s time for pickup.When you take out the garbage, wipe down the inside and outside of the can or bin with an all-purpose cleaner. Let the can dry before adding a fresh bag.
 Because your garbage can stores trash and food waste, it can harbor mold, mildew, smells, and bacteria. It’s important to clean and disinfect your garbage can once a month to keep your kitchen clean and sanitary. To clean the can thoroughly:Rinse the can outside with a hose or in the bathtub
Spray the inside and outside with an enzymatic or disinfecting spray
Put on gloves and scrub the inside and outside of the can
Rinse the can with clean water
Pat the can dry or let it air dry outside

, These are temperature-sensitive foods that are prone to bacteria and spoilage. Always keep meat, fish, and dairy in the refrigerator if you're going to use them within a few days, or in the freezer for longer storage.Transfer meat and fish to air-tight containers or freezer bags before storing to keep them fresh for longer. This will also prevent the spread of bacteria to other foods.
 To wash your hands properly, rinse them under running water. Add soap, and lather for 30 seconds. Make sure to get under your nails and between your fingers. Rinse your hands under running water, and pat them dry with a clean towel.


Washing your hands before preparing food will prevent the spread of bacteria and dirt to your food.
Washing your hands after cooking will prevent the spread of bacteria from the food to other items in your house. This is especially important after working with meat and poultry., When you're finished preparing a meal, clean the areas where you were working to kill bacteria that may have been present on the raw food. Clean all cutting tools and boards in hot soapy water. Spray down counters, sinks, and other surfaces with a disinfecting kitchen spray. Wipe the areas with a clean cloth., Leftover food is great for lunch tomorrow, but to keep yourself and your family safe, it must be refrigerated immediately to prevent bacterial growth. As soon as the food stops steaming, transfer it to an airtight container and put it in the refrigerator or freezer., Because bacteria can grow on foods that are the right temperature, it’s important to reheat leftovers to at least 165 F (74 C) before eating them. This will kill any bacteria that could cause food poisoning.The easiest and most effective way to determine the temperature of food is with a food thermometer.
 To prevent bacteria from growing on foods that have been frozen, you must defrost foods properly as well. Thawing foods on the counter at room temperature is not advisable, as bacteria will quickly grow. Safe ways to defrost foods include:In the refrigerator over the course of 24 hours
In the microwave using the defrost setting
In a bath of cold water, where the water is changed every 30 minutes

, To prevent cross-contamination of foods, use separate cutting boards and knives for meat and vegetables. This is important because foods like vegetables don’t always get cooked as thoroughly as meat. If bacteria from the meat gets transferred to the vegetables, it can cause serious illness.


To make your job easier, try using different colors for your meat utensils and vegetable ones., Hot oil tends to splatter a lot, and this can cause burns if the oil lands on your skin. Place a splatter guard over frying pans and pots when you're cooking greasy foods like bacon, or when you're frying or deep frying foods.Splattering oil is a kitchen cleanliness nightmare, and splatter guards will also help to keep your kitchen clean.
 Bacteria can grow quickly on kitchen towels, cloths, and sponges. To avoid spreading these around, wash cloths and towels in the washing machine after a day of use. Have multiple sets of towels and cloths so that you always have fresh ones while dirty ones are being laundered.Non-washable sponges can be disinfected in a bleach and water solution. Combine ¾ (176 ml) of bleach and 1 gallon (3.8 L) of water. Soak the sponge in the solution for five minutes., Knives, scissors, vegetable peelers, and other sharp kitchen items should be kept off the counters at all times to prevent accidents. Outfit knifes with guards, and store sharp items in a special drawer.To keep your knives sharp and safe, store them in a knife block instead of a drawer.
 This is especially important in households with young children, but it’s also important to prevent accidents. Any time you're cooking on the stove, try to position pots on the back burners. Always turn pot handles so they're facing away from the edge of the stove.


Turning pot handles toward the stove prevents kids from pulling hot pots of food down on themselves, and keeps handles out of the way so you don’t knock the pots when you're cooking., Kitchen fires are one of the most common causes of house fires. Having a fire extinguisher in the kitchen will allow you to react quickly and put out a small fire if an accident does occur, and this will prevent the fire from spreading.


Store the fire extinguisher near the stove, under a counter, or by an exit in the kitchen.
Make sure every member of the family knows how to use the fire extinguisher properly.
 Kitchen fires often happen when people get distracted. When you're cooking, don’t leave the kitchen for any reason, including to answer the phone, to address other chores, or to run errands.If you must leave the kitchen or the house in the middle of cooking, turn off all appliances, turn off the oven, turn off the stove, and remove food from the heat before leaving.
 Child-proofing your kitchen is important if you have kids or often have children over at your house. These can be installed on drawers, cupboards, and appliances to keep small children (and pets) from getting into things they shouldn’t.Child-proof locks are especially important for drawers that contain sharp items, cabinets where you store chemicals, and other places where dangerous items are kept.

