 Very few children will grow up to join gangs or become criminals. However, there are common red flags you should be aware of. For example, risk factors for violence at age 15 include the following:substance use before age 12
general criminal offenses, including non-violent offenses such as extortion or burglary
physical aggressiveness
parents who are criminals
poor school performance
isolation from other children, including being victimized by them

, It’s no secret that an unstable home life can contribute to anti-social behavior. Families can be wracked by violence or by emotional abuse, which can affect you even if you are not directly abused. Spend some time thinking about how you can change the situation.


For example, you can intervene in physical violence by reporting the abuse to the police. You can also help a parent by sharing with them information about how to leave a domestic partner. Share literature from a domestic violence shelter or the phone number to a helpline. Remember not to confront an abusive person directly. Instead, encourage the abused parent to leave.
Often, people in emotionally-abusive relationships do not benefit from commands to leave their abusive partners. Avoid statements that begin with “You must” or “You should.” Because emotional abuse is often linked with substance abuse, you can instead educate about the benefits of treatment and provide information., Mentoring has been shown to improve self-esteem and academic performance while reducing substance abuse, aggression, and delinquency.You should look for a mentor by finding a nearby program.


Search online for mentoring programs. Some states will have lists of mentors available. For example, Mass Mentoring provides a list of mentoring programs in Massachusetts.Your city or county government might also coordinate youth mentoring. Stop in and ask.
Talk with your pastor, doctor, or your school’s guidance counselor and ask if they know of mentoring programs nearby.
 When teens commit crime, pre-trial diversion or intervention is often available. These programs direct youth away from the formal criminal justice system toward treatment or community-based support.Participating in a diversion program can keep you out of jail and allow you to obtain needed skills.


For example, a diversion program might provide mental health treatment, crisis intervention, and family counseling.
You can also obtain educational services, tutoring, and job training skills.
Talk to your lawyer or your parents about whether diversion programs are available.

