 As boys go through puberty, their voices become deeper. This occurs because the larynx and the vocal cords are growing rapidly. Unfortunately, as your body adapts to these changes, you may find that your voice cracks or squeaks unexpectedly. There's nothing you can do to prevent this, but it may be comforting to know that it usually only lasts for a few months.For most boys, this happens between the ages of 11 and 14.
 At some point during puberty, you will notice that you start to grow hair on your chin and above your upper lip. When this hair becomes noticeable, you will probably want to start shaving. It's a good idea to talk to your dad or another trusted male adult about shaving before you try it for the first time.An electric razor with a flexible head is convenient and effective, although it may not offer the closest shave.
You can also shave with a manual razor, but you will need to be more careful not to cut yourself. Always use a shaving cream or gel with this type of razor to prevent irritation.
You will also see hair begin to appear under your arms and around your groin. The hair on your arms, legs, and other areas of your body will become thicker and heavier. You can leave this hair alone if you want, or, if your body hair bothers you, you can choose to wax or shave it.
 As boys go through puberty, they typically begin to experience erections, which is when the penis becomes hard because it is filled with blood. These can happen unexpectedly, so don't be too alarmed.Erections can happen at any time, whether you are sexually aroused or not.
Try not to be too embarrassed if you get an erection in front of other people. They are not nearly as likely to notice it as you may think.If you want to get rid of an erection, stop thinking about it. Instead, try focusing your attention on a boring an repetitive task, like saying the alphabet backwards.You will also notice that your penis and testicle are growing during puberty. Try not to worry about your size or compare yourself to others. Also, don't be worried if one testicle seems to be growing faster than the other, as they will even out eventually., In addition to erections during the day, you may also experience nocturnal emissions, more commonly known as "wet dreams." This is when you get an erection while you are sleeping and ejaculate, which means you release semen from your penis. This is a perfectly normal stage of development, and it will stop happening as you get older., As boys go through puberty and their bodies start to fill out, they often experience a small amount of breast growth. This is perfectly normal and does not mean that there is anything wrong with your hormones. As your body continues to grow and change, this will go away.