 If you can, try to buy lamb that has been freshly ground by a butcher or at your local market. If you can’t find freshly ground lamb, you can buy prepackaged fresh or frozen ground lamb at the grocery store., In a large stainless steel, enamel, or plastic bowl, add all the ingredients at the same time. In addition to the ground lamb, you will add:1 egg, lightly beaten
¼ cup (25 grams) chopped scallions
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon ground allspice
1 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons semolina

, Do not use a spoon to mix the meatballs together. Use your hands to gently mix the ingredients together, taking caution not to over-mix the meatballs. You don’t want the mixture to look like a paste. You should be able to see chunks of ground meat once the ingredients have been mixed together., After you have combined the ingredients with your hands, you will need to refrigerate the mixture. Cover the mixing bowl with plastic wrap. Refrigerate the lamb meatball mixture for 30 minutes.
 You will be frying the meatballs on the stove, but you will need two baking sheets to use as workspaces. Line one of the baking sheets with plastic wrap. You will place the raw meatballs on the plastic-lined baking sheet before you cook them. Place a kitchen towel on top of the second baking sheet. You will place the cooked meatballs on the towel-lined baking sheet after frying., After you have chilled the lamb mixture for 30 minutes, scoop out one teaspoon of lamb mixture. Use your hands to shape the lamb mixture into a meatball. Place the meatball on the plastic-lined baking sheet. Repeat until you have turned all of the lamb mixture into meatballs, making sure you don’t pack them too tightly.Try dipping your hands in cold water to prevent the meatballs from sticking to your skin.
 Heat ½ inch, or 1.25 centimeters, of vegetable oil in a large frying pan over medium-high heat. Once the oil is hot, place the meatballs in the pan, being careful to not crowd the meatballs. Fry the meatballs for one minute on each side, and transfer to the towel-lined baking sheet when cooked., Once you have fried the meatballs and transferred them to the towel-lined baking sheet, you can serve them. Transfer the cooked meatballs to a serving platter or individual plates. You can eat them alone as an appetizer or as an accompaniment to roasted vegetables, grains, or pastas.

