 (If you plan on installing a vapor barrier, consult that section now, as certain vapor barriers go between the wooden frame and the concrete wall.) Consider using composite decking on the floor of the basement for extra moisture protection, or you could use a pressure-treated 2x4 bottom board.Otherwise, use standard wall-framing techniques to build the wall studs. Use a level to plumb the framed wall, and leave about a one-inch gap between the stud wall and your cinder blocks to provide plenty of space for insulation., Boards can include molded expanded polystyrene (MEPS), extruded expanded polystyrene (XEPS), or urethanes such as polyurethane. For a basement wall, XEPS is usually recommended since it’s firmer and has a higher R-value than MEPS, which is the least expensive option but not as strong. The urethanes, another option, are solid and often used with plywood.A minimum of 1.5 inches of board thickness is usually recommended., Cut the board to fit between the studs from side to side and against the concrete wall.Use constructive adhesive to attach the board to the wall and use caulk or expanding foam around the edges of the board and against the studs.Remember to install from the bottom all the way up to the top of the wall.
 This is an important part of securing the vapor barrier. Examples of sealants include tapes, such as Tyvek Tape and Dow Construction Tape or canned foam like Great Stuff.Cover the seams or cracks between the boards and between the boards and studs or concrete.
 The fiberglass will be placed in the wall cavities created between your frame and the foam insulation board. Nail or staple the rolls or sheets to the wooden frame. A nail gun can be an efficient way of nailing in the rolls or sheets. Remember to take safety precautions here, and to wear protective goggles and gloves.
 This is an optional step, but some people like to add a vapor barrier between the fiberglass and the drywall. This is particularly recommended if the foam insulation board you initially installed is less than 1.5 inches thick. Concrete or block walls absorb moisture like a sponge, and will periodically release moisture toward your drywall, studs, and joists.The vapor barrier helps prevent moisture from causing mold to develop in your insulation, which can be very expensive to fix.
 Whether you use batt-and-roll insulation, loose-fill insulation, or sprayed-foam insulation, you do not want to leave the insulation exposed. You have many options for wall surfaces. Drywall is commonly used to cover the basement insulation, but if aesthetics are not a concern, you can also cover the insulation with plywood.


Cover your insulation with drywall. Drywall usually comes in 4’x8’ sheets that you will need to measure and cut to fit your walls. When hanging drywall, start at a corner. Prepare the studs, joists, or strapping by applying glue to the surface immediately before you plan to hang the drywall. Then, use screws or a nail gun to nail the drywall. After all the drywall is hung, mix your mud and apply it with a putty knife along the seams between the drywall panels and in the corners. Cover these areas with drywall tape as well. After the mud dries, sand down and smooth over each mudded area.
Alternatively, use plywood over your insulation. Plywood might require bending to cover up all of your insulation. This might involve laminating multiple pieces of plywood; steaming or soaking the plywood; or cutting kerfs (i.e. grooves) and reinforcing them with wood glue. Also, try to find plywood without knots, particularly in areas that are to be bent.

