 Sleep is important for both physical and mental health. Get the right amount of sleep for your age and activity level.;
, This will give you the discipline you need in your life. Without a little discipline you can achieve nothing. For adventure, happiness and relaxation, don't have a Sunday lay in or enjoy a cosy breakfast in bed on your day off, always get up at the same time, every day.
 Be it your family or friends, talking to people that you like helps you keep in a cheerful frame of mind.
 This is a key point to remember. Always remember that you are allowed to stop thinking whenever you want. You don't have to calculate how long will it take to end the road trip you are on. It's useless to do so and only hinders your enjoyment of the trip. All the useless thinking should be thrown out.
 Go to places you have never been before. Talk to complete strangers. Try new things with a smile on your face. Have new experiences, try new foods, new hobbies, new music and new forms of entertainment.
 Don't just sit in one position for hours thinking about the theory of relativity or dwelling on your worries! Don't sit in one place too long, if you don't move you are not living, according to some.
 Moderate physical exercises such as walking, is very beneficial and will help you feel good about life, have adventures, be happy and relax.
 If you shout and get stressed about small things just to satisfy your ego, you are just stressing yourself out.
 Be happy with who you are and happy with yourself. Try to be happy with life in general. When you are looking to be happy, adventurous and relaxed, you need to live the best life you can.
 Be calm, avoid stress, make time for yourself to unwind after your adventures and keep yourself happy. You can relax by meditating, taking a relaxing bath, having a spa day or simply relaxing with a good book.
 Whilst regular moderate physical exercise is beneficial, the adrenaline rush of going hard at a sport or activity you love can provide some of the adventure you are seeking. Ski a black run, mountain bike somewhere steep, try a new move on the trampoline, break your own personal best record, take on someone better than you at a competitive sport, run further, walk faster, dance longer, swim in deep water, whatever, challenge yourself to let adventure be the rule inyour life, not the exception and make your life more exciting.

