 Dresses were the most popular clothing items for women in the 1950s.Soft shapes, defined waists, vibrant colors, and bold statements are all highly characteristic of women’s fashion during that decade.A big emphasis was placed on looking glamorous, well-dressed and perfectly groomed every day.
 Make sure the skirt goes falls slightly past your knee. Polka dots, gingham, florals, stripes, plaids and novelty themes (like science and western themes) are all great choices for the printed fabric.


Halter sundresses, full skirts, and Peter Pan collars (flat collars that feature rounded ends that meet in the middle) are variations on the simple dress theme, if you want to try one of those.
Poodle skirts were a fleeting fad at the time, but now are iconic for many people when thinking of 50s fashion. Check your local costume shop for a big fluffy one.
The pencil skirt, a fitted skirt that falls just below the knee, was the other main dress silhouette of the time. These skirts are still popular today. Pair one with a collared, button down dress shirt or a fitted sweater for another iconic 50s look.
 Don a pair of white or cream colored gloves for the ultimate ladylike look of that time. Wear saddle shoes with socks for the poodle style. Otherwise, pair your dress with simple, tasteful heels.
 For short hair, curl it tightly with a curling iron to get the iconic poodle cut look. For longer hair, make a big bouncy ponytail or create the ultra-glamorous (and time consuming) curled and pinned hairstyle.Regardless of the hairstyle you choose, definitely make sure you set it with plenty of hairspray before heading out.
 Wear bright pink, orange or red lipsticks that coordinate with your outfit. Apply minimal eyeshadow and lots of mascara for a glamorous eye look.


Cherry red nail polish was the most fashionable nail color at that time.For real life 50s makeup and hairstyle references, look up pictures of icons like Marilyn Monroe, Audrey Hepburn, Donna Reed, Elizabeth Taylor and Betty Page.

