 Whenever you're around him, wear your best outfits. Dress in your most flattering clothes and get yourself feeling sexy. He'll begin to see you in a different light.


Wearing your best outfits doesn't mean wearing skimpy tops and short skirts. Your best outfit could be a pair of great fitting jeans, boots, and a t-shirt. It might be leggings, an oversized sweater, and a scarf. It might be a cute sundress and sandals. Not only do you want to look your best to impress him, but you also want to feel your best.
 Don't try to go over the top to attract the guy. You don't want to wear too much make up or dress like you're going to a formal event or a club. Use your natural beauty to attract him. Subtle will work better than being obvious.


Get a haircut or try a new hairstyle. Start wearing makeup. Get a facial, paint your nails, get a pedicure, or get your eyebrows waxed.
He won't know that you've gotten your hair cut or started wearing a different shade of lip gloss, but he will notice that something is different and pleasing. This helps catch his attention, even if he's not sure what exactly has changed., This is one of the most important tips for attracting a guy. Sexiness isn't necessarily how you dress or how pretty you may or may not be. Confidence is sexy and attractive. Whenever you're around him, dress in clothes that make you feel great, and then project confidence. This confidence will read as sexiness. That is more helpful than the tightest outfit or perfect hair.It is especially important to be confident when you are around him and his girlfriend. Don't let the fact that he's not with you destroy your confidence. Instead, hold your head up high and show him what he's missing. If the girlfriend sees him staring at you, it might cause some problems with them that would work to your benefit.
Don't be someone who is just there, pining after him, and waiting around for him. You are an awesome person with a full life, friends, family, interests, and other activities. Being yourself is sexy and confident, and remembering that you and your life is fabulous helps you be desirable., One of the ways to let on that there is some attraction is to let him catch you staring at him. Don't be overt or creepy; be coy. Smile shyly at him before glancing away quickly. This helps him notice you. You want him to start thinking about you.


After a few days of doing this, stop. You want to keep playing coy and be hard to get. Make him miss your stares and your smiles.Find reasons to walk by his desk. Think of a reason to call him. Do these things sparingly. You want to make him interested and then pull back. Don't make yourself too available to him. You want to tease him and then make him want to see you more.
 If you're friends with the guy, find out what he likes in a girl. More importantly, find out what he doesn't like in girls, especially in his girlfriend. Whatever quality he mentions he resents in her, become the opposite. You want to attract him by sharing interests and representing the things that he wants in a woman.


Does he think she shops too much? Tell him you hate shopping. Is he upset she doesn't like him watching football? Ask him to come to a game with you. Does he think she's too uptight? Engage in childlike pranks with him.
Don't change yourself too much because he should always like you for who you are. If he is going to leave his girlfriend for you, he should be leaving her for a good reason rather than for a false personality.
 Find ways to touch him in subtle, light ways. Don't throw yourself all over him; keep it coy and fun. Be flirty. The touches should be simple and not cross any personal boundaries.


When he says something funny, gently touch his arm or leg as you laugh. Touch his shoulder or back when you greet him.Try putting him into the protective role when you touch him. Use him to hold on to as you adjust the strap of your shoe., Don't ignore other guys as you work up to getting your man. Dating other guys shows the guy you're interested in that you are attractive and desirable to other people. As he is beginning to see you in a new way, this will make him jealous.


Make sure he knows that you are dating this new guy. Mention the new guy when you are around him. Bring the guy to group outings so he can see the two of you together.
Don't go overboard with the displays of affection. Make sure you act interested in the guy you are dating, but don't be overly sexual or affectionate. You want to make him jealous, not turn him off or push him away.
Dating other guys also gives you the opportunity to meet new guys. One of these guys might be better than the guy you're trying to win - and the best part? He's single and already into you.
 Give the guy space to figure out his feelings, clear his head, and make important decisions. Breaking up with his girlfriend is a huge decision for him. Don't rush him, don't crowd him, and let it happen as he needs it to. If he does have feelings for you, give him time to break it off with her. If you rush or crowd him, it could sabotage everything for you.Don't give in until he's broken things off with his girlfriend. If he keeps telling you he'll do it soon but never does, you're getting played.

