 Place the eggs into a bowl and beat them with a fork until you have a yellow liquid. You can also use a hand mixer if you prefer.


For beer battered Walleye, try replacing one of the eggs with ¼ cup of beer.;
, Place the flour onto a plate, and add a few shakes of salt and pepper. Then stir the salt and pepper into the flour on the plate. You can also add other seasonings if desired, such as a teaspoon of Old Bay seasoning or some dried herbs of your choice., Put your breadcrumbs onto a second plate and place this plate next to the bowl with the eggs in it. Then place the plate with the breadcrumbs on the other side of the egg bowl. You should now have an assembly line set up with flour, eggs, and breadcrumbs.


Try adding 1/3 of a cup of grated parmesan cheese to the breadcrumbs for some cheesy flavored Walleye fillets., Dip the Walleye fillets into the flour first. Make sure that the whole fillet is coated in flour. Then, shake the excess flour off of the fillet and back onto the flour plate.


Use a fork, gloves, or tongs to avoid getting the flour on your fingers.
 Next, take the floured fillet and dip it into the bowl that has the eggs in it. Make sure that you flip the fillet over so that both sides are covered in egg. Allow the excess egg to drip back into the bowl.
 Turn the fillet to ensure that it is completely covered in breadcrumbs. Place the fillet on a clean plate. Then, coat the rest of the fillets in the flour, egg, and breadcrumbs.
 Ensure that there is enough oil to cover the base of the pan. You can use olive oil, canola oil, butter, or just a non-stick cooking spray to coat the pan.


To ensure your oil is hot enough for frying, either drop a square piece of white bread into the oil and it should crisp up, or dip the handle end of a wooden spoon into the oil, and if it is hot enough, there will be bubbles around the base of the spoon.
 Cook the fillet until the bottom side is brown and then turn the fillet over and cook the other side as well. If you only have a small frying pan and need to cook the fillets separately, you can place cooked fillets into the oven on low heat to keep them warm.


If you prefer a lighter taste or just don’t want to pan fry your Walleye, then you can also bake the fillets at 450 degrees Fahrenheit for 15 to 20 minutes., After you have finished cooking all of the Walleye fillets, they are ready to serve. Walleye goes well with lots of different side dishes, such as vegetables, potatoes, and rice. You can also serve the fillets with some tartar sauce or aioli on the side.

