 Once of the most simple and effective ways to get your horse to run faster is to command her. Although horses won’t understand words in the same way a human does, they do understand simple commands such as “trot” or “gallop” and even sounds such as clucking or smooching.Make sure to use short and consistent words when cueing your horse. For example, if you want to get her to go faster always use the term “lope” or “run” instead of using them interchangeably. You also need to make sure that you clearly say the words.
Watch the tone and pitch of your voice. Keep them soft and gentle because your horse won’t respond to yelling or anger.
Back up verbal cues with other aids or signals until your horse runs faster. Once your horse speeds up, you don’t need to give her any further verbal commands until you want her to slow down.
 Your horse’s reins are another way to communicate with her to speed up. In most cases, you will need to combine hand aids with leg aids for the most effective way to communicate your wishes to the horse. The better you know your horse, the more you will understand the most effective hand and leg aids to use.Move your hands in a forward direction along with leg pushing to signals to the horse to lengthen its stride on a trot or lope.
Keep your hands level and raised above the horses wither without crossing over the horses neck. Use the hand aid until you’re ready for your horse to slow down.
 In most cases, a leg aid is used with a hand aid. The leg aid reinforces commands and can gently nudge your horse forward. Try different combinations of leg and hand commands to see what works best for your horse.Check to make sure your leg is in the proper position when you mount your horse. It should fall right behind the girth strap on the saddle, which spans the largest area of your horse’s body.
Apply a gentle inward pressure with your leg or foot to cue your horse to go forward and increase her speed. A light tap also works. If your leg hits your horse’s elbow, adjust it so that it strikes just behind the girth strap. This can prevent miscommunication or injury to your horse.
Stop using leg commands once your horse begins running faster. You can use them again when you want your horse to slow down.
 Whips and spurs are man-made aids that some people use to make their horses run faster. However, there is conflicting evidence on whether they’re effective signals for a horse. In addition, they may cause injury or trauma to your horse, which may make her reluctant to run at all.Consider staying away from whips altogether. Evidence suggests that they do not perform better when whipped, but actually worse. In addition, whips can cause harm to your horse if used excessively or on the wrong parts of its body.Wear spurs only if you are an experienced rider. Spurs are worn on the heel to give a more precise leg aid but can cause significant damage to a horse’s side if not used properly.