 Press the standby/RESET button at the front of your PS2 to switch it on, press the “Open” button at the front of the console and put the GTA III disc in. Then follow the on-screen prompts to start the game.
 Press the “Start” button on your DualShock controller repeatedly to skip through the pre-game cinematics till you arrive at the Main Menu.


Using Dpad Up and Dpad Down to scroll up and down, the X button to accept options, and Triangle to exit menus, select “Start Game” and then “New Game” to start GTA III from the beginning. Otherwise, choose “Load Game” to load a previously saved file and continue from there. This will enter you into the game world.
 Before playing the mission you wish to replay, save your current progress. To do this, drive to your safe house, which is represented by a pink house icon on the map to the bottom left corner of your screen, and simply walk in. This will bring up the Save screen.


On the Save screen, select an empty save slot and select “Yes” to confirm. This will save your progress and return you to the game world.
 Start and finish a mission you want to replay. To trigger a mission in GTA III, check your map (located on the bottom left corner of your screen) for icons that represent missions. These icons could be pink- or green-colored blips or sometimes letter icons that represent the gang boss giving you the mission (e.g., L for Luigi).


Walk or drive to the location of the mission and stand in the blue marker. This will immediately activate the mission. A pre-mission cinematic will play that will give you the mission instructions.
 To do this, press the Start button to pause the game and bring up the Main Menu. Select “Load Game” from the Main Menu items using Dpad Left and Dpad Right to scroll and X to select. This will take you to the Load Game page.


On the Load Game page, select the save slot you used earlier, and click “Yes” to confirm. This will load your previously saved game progress and return you to the game world.
 Find the mission you want to replay on the game map and trigger it so you can play it again. Using this method, you can replay your mission an infinite number of times. When you’ve had enough fun, just save your progress to continue on to the other missions in the game’s story.

