 Colle’s fracture is the most common distal radius fracture, and it occurs in all age groups, although it is especially prevalent in older men and women with osteoporosis (reduced bone density). It typically occurs when someone falls onto an outstretched arm, bending the hand backward at the wrist.


Colle’s fractures occur at the metaphyseal region (right above the end of the bone, where growth takes place). The articular surface remains intact, and the broken fragment is displaced backward, where it gets impacted.
In about fifty percent of all cases, there is also an ulnar styloid fracture.
The typical treatment for a Colle’s fracture is closed reduction and immobilization in a “Colle’s cast,” which extends from just below the elbow to the knuckles of the hand. If the fracture is unstable, it may need to be treated with open reduction and internal fixation – surgical procedures designed to correct fractures that won’t heal properly with a splint or cast.
 Smith’s fracture occurs in the same location as Colle’s fracture; in fact, it is often referred to as a “reversed Colle’s fracture.” Less common than Colle’s fracture, it typically occurs when someone falls backward onto the palm of an outstretched hand (or, in some cases, when there is a direct blow to the back of the forearm). The fractured segment, hand, and wrist are displaced forward relative to the forearm.


The typical treatment for a Smith’s fracture is closed reduction and immobilization in a cast. If the displacement is severe, it may need to be treated surgically – with open reduction and internal fixation, like a Colle’s fracture.
 Barton’s fracture also occurs at the distal end of the radius, but it is accompanied by a dislocation of the radio-carpal joint (the joint that connects the radius to the wrist bones). The fractured piece may be pushed backward or forward.


In many cases, a Barton’s fracture happens along with a fracture of the radial styloid process.
Unlike Colle’s and Smith’s fractures, Barton’s fractures are usually visible on an x-ray.
Typical treatment is surgical: the doctor will open the arm and align the bones, fixing them with a plate and screws. In some cases, if the fracture is less severe, it may be treated without surgery.
 Chauffeur’s fracture (sometimes called backfire fracture or Hutchinson fracture) occurs when the scaphoid bone is compressed, fracturing the radial styloid process. It occurs when someone falls on an outstretched arm, and the hand is deviated outward, with the palm facing forward.


Ligaments typically maintain the alignment of the styloid process with the carpus; however, the broken fragment might be significantly displaced from the rest of the radius.
In general, treatment is surgical: the doctor will open the arm and fix the styloid with stainless steel pins or a cannulated lag screw.
 Die punch fracture is an intra-articular fracture of the distal radius. It is a depression fracture of the lunate fossa (a concave surface at the distal end of the radius, which accommodates the lunate, one of the wrist bones). The joint becomes unstable due to radiolunate ligament avulsion.


One treatment option for a die punch fracture is percutaneous pinning, in which the fracture is manipulated to a near normal position (with the help of an x-ray). Pins are then inserted through the skin along the fragmented bones, keeping them in line. They are kept in place for four to six weeks and removed as the fractured pieces rejoin.
Another option is external fixation, in which holes are drilled above and below the fracture site. Screws are fixed in the holes and connected by a rod with special ball-and-socket joints. These joints are adjusted to keep the fractured pieces in alignment. When the x-ray shows evidence of healing, the joints can be removed.

