 Your doctor may be able to suggest groups that meet via the hospital or you can search online for gatherings in your area. Look for groups composed of pregnant women who may be experiencing similar emotions as you. If you don’t feel comfortable meeting in person, you can always find online support and chat groups as well.


When you attend, listen actively but also jump in with questions and share your thoughts. Talking with others will show that your struggles with negative emotions are important, but not necessarily unusual.
To find support groups online, you might search for "prenatal support" "pregnancy support group" or "prenatal depression discussion (or support) group." The PANDAS Foundation of the UK offers both online and telephone support for pregnant women and new mothers. The BabyCenter community pages are another good option as well.
Prenatal depression is also called "antenatal" depression, so look for resources using that term as well.
Check out the Antenatal Depression Forum at Netmums., Your hospital or another health agency in your area will likely offer a wide variety of classes designed for new parents. These classes will teach you practical matters, such as how to change a diaper, which will make you feel even more competent moving forward. They also give you the chance to spend time with a group of people who are working through the stages of pregnancy., If you have a partner, spend time doing something that you both enjoy, such as going to a movie. This may help to counter any loneliness that you might feel. It also reinforces the fact that you should approach pregnancy as a team.


Ask your partner for help and tell them that you appreciate what they do. They will likely reciprocate in kind, leading to positive, open communication patterns. You might say, “Thank you for hanging those pictures in the nursery, they look really great.”
If you do not have a partner, you can find a great support network in other single mothers. Reach out to them via online networks and use your pregnancy to develop strong friendships.

