 Comfort zones typically involve being afraid of embarrassment or looking foolish when trying something new. Remind yourself that no one was born an expert at anything. Even those who have mastered a skill or discipline were once novices who had to take a risk.Tell yourself, “Even well-seasoned Tour de France cyclers take countless tumbles, but they get right back on their bikes and continue on. If they were determined enough to compete in and win races, I can learn how to ride 50 feet without stopping.”

, Overcoming our fears often involves letting go of irrational assumptions that we’ve built over a long period of time. Try to distinguish between fears that have logical foundations and those that are based on irrational beliefs.


For example, if you’re afraid of dogs because you believe every dog will bite you, you might want to take steps to break out of your comfort zone.
 Doing one thing that scares you every day doesn’t necessarily mean you have to do something different every day. If you have a more complex fear that you’ve broken up into actionable goals, you can do little things every day to overcome that fear.For example, if you’re terrified of dogs, start by looking at pictures and videos of people playing with dogs for 15 minutes per day for a week. Ask a nearby friend or family member who owns a dog to hang out with you for a half hour per day for the next few weeks. Have them keep the dog on a leash in the same room as you. Sit or stand closer and closer to the dog until, eventually, you’re comfortable enough to hold your hand out and let it sniff you.
 Come up with a small incentive that will help motivate you to complete a scary task every day. Avoid giving yourself the reward if you didn't complete that day's action. On days you can't give yourself the treat, don't beat yourself up about not doing what you set out to do. Remember to be proud of baby steps you took to conquering your fear.


Think of small pleasures that make you happy. Your daily reward could be a candy bar or ice cream, bubble bath, glass of wine, giving yourself permission to binge watch your favorite show,

