 The easiest way to heat up water is to fill a mug halfway up with water. Put it in the microwave for about 30 seconds. You don't want to get the water too hot, as that could burn your hands or face. You'll also need a washcloth to apply it to your face.


As an alternative, you can warm up a hot pack that’s typically used for injuries in the microwave to achieve a similar result.;
, You want the washcloth to absorb the warm water. Therefore, all you need to do is dunk the washcloth in the cup, and let it sit for a few seconds., Once the washcloth has absorbed most of the water, take it out. Hold it over the sink so you don't get water everywhere, and then wring it out so it's just damp rather than dripping.
 Fold or roll the washcloth so it easily fits over your eyebrows. Hold it there for a couple of minutes. The washcloth should stay warm the whole time. After a couple of minutes, take it off, and proceed with plucking your eyebrows as normal.If you’re using a hot pack instead, hold it to your eyebrows in this same way.


The idea behind this method is the heat helps the pores open up. In turn, the hairs you are plucking will come out more easily. That makes the whole process less painful for you.
 Another way to make the process less painful is to pluck your eyebrows after a shower. While you're in the shower, the steam opens up your pores, and as noted in the previous step, having open pores makes the process of plucking much easier and not as painful., Unless you stay on top of sharpening them and cleaning them with an alcohol-soaked cotton ball, using an old pair of tweezers will make it harder to grasp hairs.If you can't grab the hair effectively, you might accidentally get your skin. Try picking up a new pair of tweezers to make it easier.Don't pick sharp, pointed tweezers. Instead, opt for a slanted style that comes to a point but has an edge where the tweezers meet. Having an edge makes it easier to pick up hairs., You can apply a numbing gel to your eyebrows. The numbing gel will numb your skin, making it less painful to pluck out hairs.For instance, a dental numbing gel meant for babies is a good one to try.
Just use a cotton swab to dab the gel along your eyebrows. Wait for the skin to get numb before plucking.
 To help cool down any pain afterwards, add a bit of aloe vera gel to the area. The gel will help soothe skin, as well as help it heal from the irritation of plucking.Aloe vera gel can be purchased at almost any drugstore or grocery store.
You can also use aloe vera from a plant. Simply break off a piece, and squeeze out the aloe vera to use.
If you don't have aloe vera on hand, try an ice cube to numb your skin., Using your fingers, stretch the skin near your eyebrows so it's tight. Stretching the skin stretches the pores, making it easier to pluck out hairs. When it's easier, it's less painful., It's always best to grab the base of the hair rather than try to pull from the tip. The reason is your tweezers may slip off, and then you'll need to pull the hair again, causing extra pain. In addition, you might split a hair instead pulling it out properly., You should pluck hairs in the direction they grow to make it easier for them to come out. If you don't, the hair could split or break, meaning you need to go in for another go. You don't want to pluck each hair twice, as that's just more pain for you. This is a good rule of thumb for all types of hair removal.