 When you enter, walk directly over to a seat without lingering. Don’t pause to look at other passengers or make eye contact. When you move quickly, you will appear focused and busy, thus discouraging interaction. If you take your time and look around, you are likely to make yourself appear more available.;
, Strategically seating yourself is a great way to avoid interaction. Find a seat that is away from other passengers. Especially try to avoid sitting across from someone else whenever possible, because people sitting across from you are most likely to strike up a conversation. Try to find a quiet corner somewhere in the back where you won’t be bothered.Scope out the bus or train while you are waiting in line. Pay attention to the empty areas so that you can move quickly to them. Also notice which areas are filled with people and be sure to walk right past any of these.
Preferably find a place near the back. If you sit near the front, even if it is empty, passengers who enter later will be more likely to sit there.
 If there are several empty seats, place your bag or jacket on a seat near you to discourage anyone from sitting there. New passengers are much more likely to simply take an empty seat rather than to ask you to move your things. They might even assume that the seat is saved for someone., When you sit down, make sure to keep to yourself, avoiding eye contact. If you make eye contact with other passengers, you will give the impression that you are open to interacting. It is best to either look down, look out the window, or you can even rest your head against the window and close your eyes. People will think you are sleeping and will hesitate to interrupt you., If you hunch over slightly and cross your arms while looking down, you will look closed off, thus deterring conversation. People will recognize that you don’t desire to talk. If you sit up with good posture and are looking eye level with others, you appear open and available to them., Try to look like you are focused on something else or deep in thought. Do this by keeping your mouth in a neutral position and press your eyebrows slightly down. A focused facial expression will give the impression that you are busy and want to keep to yourself. If you smile and look happy, you will naturally invite people to talk to you. You don’t need to look angry, just try not to look too friendly., This can block your eye line from people, which will make them less likely to talk to you. A baseball cap with the brim slightly over your eyes will close you off from those around you. They will be less likely to talk to someone that they can’t see well, especially because eye contact is generally a precursor to conversation.


If it is winter, you could even bundle up with a scarf. Anything that hides your face a bit will make it harder for people to talk to you because they won’t be quite sure who they are talking to.

