 You might see yourself as a talented counselor or friendly shoulder to cry on. However, you may not be the best mediator for every conflict resolution. Make sure you have a close, but impartial relationship with both parties.


Family members make the best mediators for sibling disputes. Parents, older siblings, or neighborhood friends are good people to turn to for conflict resolution.
Workplace disputes are a little more sensitive because there are laws and policies in place to control conflicts. Supervisors or human resource personnel are usually the appropriate parties to resolve conflicts. Check with your company handbook before acting as a formal or informal mediator.
 Tell the two parties you want to help them work through their differences. Find a time they can both get together to discuss their conflict. They won’t be able to openly discuss their feelings until they are in a room together with that intention. They may find a time themselves, or you may have to make suggestions.


This will be easy if it is, for example, a workplace dispute. A supervisor can tell them that their work is suffering and they are required to discuss their conflict.
Getting two fighting friends in the same room to settle a conflict may be more tricky. The most straightforward way is to tell each of them you want to help them talk through their problems with each other. If it is too sensitive an issue, you might need to invite them to the same get together without saying anything about the other person. This is a risky move, however.
 You don’t need to control the entire conversation, as this may hinder organic conflict resolution. However, you might consider saying a few opening words to get them started. After all, they should know that their conflict is obvious to an impartial observer, and therefore potentially harmful. This implicit fact may bring home the reality of their conflict.


For example, you may need to explain more to children. Try telling each of them why their conflict is unhealthy and harmful. Remind them how much fun they used to have.
If you are handling a conflict between two close adult friends, you can be more brief and informal. Tell them their conflict is upsetting and uncomfortable for those around them. They need to start talking.
For workplace disputes, you may have a script or list of talking points you are legally required to cover. If not, a good route is to tell them that their conflict is affecting their work performance. Check with your company policies to see what is expected of you.
 The most important part of this process is allowing both parties a chance to air their grievances. Try not to interrupt them, unless they are getting overly angry or hostile. It is natural for them to show some emotion, since they are releasing pent-up tension., Keep an open mind. Even if you have an idea of who is in the right, alienating one person by giving them less time to speak won’t solve the problem. You won’t be able to come up with compromise solutions without listening to both sides’ grievances.
 After you state the purpose of the discussion, you are there as an impartial bystander. Feel free to step in if conversation gets heated or no one is talking. However, remember that this is an opportunity for them to talk, not you., One side may clearly be in the wrong. It can alienate one of the parties if you refuse to acknowledge that they were clearly in the right. This doesn’t mean both parties aren’t both at fault for perpetuating the conflict. However, certain situations call for the open recognition that one side was more in the wrong at the root of the conflict.For example, you may choose to point out that your friend was in the wrong for borrowing his friend’s car without asking.
 After having heard both sides of the conflict and having allowed them to speak for themselves, offer options. Giving them options makes them proactive in picking the best settlement. Offer the solutions as logical answers, not based on your opinion.


For example, you might offer your friends with the car dispute the following solutions.

You can quit loaning him your car altogether to avoid future problems.
You can continue to loan him your car, but make ground rules clear.


But recognize you may not be able to solve their problem. You don’t need to come up with a solution if there is no easy answer to their problem. For example, if one person’s partner left them for second person, you may not have an easy solution. However, getting their feelings out in the open may be therapeutic for both of them., You should try to get them to conclude their conflict resolution on a positive note. Encourage them to tell each other that they are no longer going to hold a grudge. Pay attention to their emotions, however. Don’t force them to shake hands or ‘kiss and make up’ when they are not ready to. This may take them from being on the path to acceptance back to anger.


Try to avoid telling them to say they’re sorry. Simply asking them to make up should provoke them to say they’re sorry naturally. Saying the words ‘I’m sorry’ is a point of contention for many people, and they will do that when they’re ready.

