 Thoroughly washing and drying the area helps to ensure firm adhesion. Without a solid connection there is a chance the corn cap strip will slip out of place and lose effectiveness, or potentially come in contact with healthy skin.;
, Just like a Band-aid, the adhesive section is pressed against a rubber backing that ensures nothing sticks to it before being applied. Discard the backing once it has been fully separated from the adhesive portion., Press it down firmly, adhesive side facing the skin.The circle is medicated, most likely with salicylic acid, and erodes the corn’s accumulation of skin. The gel of the corn cap needs to penetrate the skin directly on the corn, and if possible, the edges as well, as there may be portions of the corn that have grown laterally along the skin.


Use separate adhesive strips on the edges to keep the corn cap in place.
If using the corn cap on a toe, wrap the adhesive portion all the way around the toe. The spongy ring should alleviate some of the pain related to the corn touching or rubbing against shoes and other items., In general, the corn caps should be reapplied every two days.It is possible, however, for some corn plasters to be reapplied daily until the corn is removed, or for a maximum of two weeks, whichever comes first.Apply the corn cap precisely as the instructions direct. Unnecessarily high absorption through the skin may occur if overused or improperly used., Allergic reactions may include, but are not limited to skin redness, itchiness, or a rash. Soreness and discomfort, both mild and severe, are common.If the irritation persists or becomes severe, you may be experiencing some form of salicylic acid toxicity.Severe reactions are rare, but anaphylaxis has been reported with use of salicylic acid., You should consult with a general physician, podiatrist, or dermatologist if your corn is painful, recurrent and not responding to corn paint. They might order an X-ray of your feet to rule out underlying bony abnormality and refer to an orthopedics if needed.