 Microsoft Publisher organizes its postcard templates according to the purpose you plan to put the postcard to.


In Publisher 2003, select "Publications for Print" in the New Publication task pane and then click the arrow to the left of Postcards. Click one of the types of postcard listed to display the available designs in the Preview Gallery.
In Publisher 2007, select "Postcards" from the Popular Publication Types list at the center of the screen or from the Publication Types list at the left edge of the screen. Postcard designs are grouped according to the purpose of the postcard, followed by a section of common blank sizes, followed by blank sizes grouped by stationery manufacturer. You can highlight any design to see a larger version of it at the top of the Task Pane at the top right.
In Publisher 2010, select "Postcards" from the Most Popular section under Available Templates. Postcard designs are grouped according to the purpose of the postcard, followed by a section of common blank sizes, followed by blank sizes grouped in folders by stationery manufacturer. You can highlight any design to see a larger version of it at the top of the Task Pane at the top right.
 As with the invitation card templates, each of the postcard templates comes with its own default color and font schemes that you can change to your liking by using the options in the Color Scheme and Font Scheme drop downs, either by selecting one of the listed options or selecting "Create new" to create your own.
 Use the Page Size dropdown options to have your postcard invitation print as a quarter page or quarter sheet (4 cards to a regular sheet of paper or cardstock) or as a half page or half sheet (2 cards to a regular sheet of paper or cardstock).


This option is not available when creating a postcard invitation from a blank template.
 You can choose to display only the mailing and return address on the mailing side of your postcard or to include supplemental information. You choose this option from the Side 2 Information dropdown list. A partial list of the options, those relevant to invitation postcards, are listed below:


"Address only." Choose this option to display only the mailing and return address on the mailing side of the postcard invitation.
"Map." Choose this option if your invitation is to an event and you plan to include a simple map to direct people to its location. This option is more commonly used for invitations to business events, but a map can help people find their way to the site of a wedding reception or graduation ceremony as readily as to a sale. (You'll need to replace the placeholder map with your own.)
"Speaker notes." Choose this option if your invitation is to an event featuring a political, business, or motivational speakers to include a short list of the most important speakers.
"Promotional text." Choose this option if the invitation is to a sales event and you want to list some of the major items for sale in a special offer that's explained in greater detail on the other side of the card.
"Appointment text." Choose this option to make note of the time and place of an event. You can add your contact phone, fax, and email. (You can change or delete the line "To confirm or cancel appointment" if it's not appropriate to your invitation's purpose.)
These options are not available when creating a postcard invitation from a blank template.
 A postcard invitation differs from an invitation card in that the latter is enclosed in an addressed envelope, while the postcard invitation carries the mailing information on its back side. Including your information for the return address is handled the same way in Microsoft Publisher for postcard invitations as your version of Publisher handles your personal or company information if you choose to include it on an invitation card.


To handle the mailing addresses, you can create a mail merge using a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, an Access database, or a Word document.
 As with invitation cards, click the "Create" button at the bottom of the task pane in either Publisher 2007 or 2010, while Publisher 2003 assumes the postcard is being created from the moment you choose "Postcards" from the New Publications task pane.

