


Be cheerful. People are attracted to positive energy, so keep smiling and focus on being the kind of fun person who people naturally flock to. The more fun and easy-going you are the more others would want to hang out with you.
Dress to impress. You don’t have to be adorned in Gucci or Armani or be a size 0 to be attractive. Just make sure you dress in well-fitted, clean clothing that are well put-together.
Be well-groomed. While it’s not possible to have perfect hair every minute of every day, grooming yourself can make you look better and give an impression to others that you care about yourself. Things to focus on:
Hair: keep it well-cut and styled.
Nails: keep them trimmed.
Skin: keep them clean and moisturized. Wear a perfume with a subtle note.Overwhelming fragrance can put people off.;
, Contrary to the cliché, “opposites attract”, finding common ground can facilitate interpersonal relationships. People are drawn to the other with similar attitudes, values, interests, and outlooks on life because it makes them feel safe and secure. Take interest in the favorites and likes of the person you are trying to impress and create a chance where you could do stuff together. This could lead you to spend quality time together. For instance:


If you both enjoy biking and the outdoors, you could go biking together.
If you both enjoy chocolates and baking, you could bake a chocolate brownie together.
 When you look directly into someone’s eyes, their body secretes chemicals like phenyl ethylamine, or PEA, that stimulates the feeling of being in love. Here are some examples how you can maintain an effective eye contact:


Look into each other’s eye while conversing. Always give a warm and friendly look to keep the person fixed on your gaze and feel your affection.
Keep throwing short, darting glances while you are around the person to indicate that you have an eye for them.
 Most people spend their lives trying to find that one person who will treat them special. If you can always make your potential partner feel special, they will fall in love with you. Over time, your potential partner will associate you with positive, secure feelings and will need to have you around. Here are some ideas:


Compliment on the person’s creative work.
Compliment on the person’s good looks.
Compliment on the person’s wonderful character.
 Sometimes when you catch someone off guard, it encourages the person to see you in a different light - to see you the same way you see that person. Remember to make your feelings known without sounding creepy or overbearing. You can start by dropping some hints like these every time you are together:


Man: "I wish I get a girl like you who could bake a pie as good as this!"
Woman: "I wish I am lucky enough to get a guy who can fix a computer as efficiently as you!"
General: "Every time we spend time together, I feel so happy. I wish I could be happy like this forever."

