 If it appears uncoated, you are going to get better results with a water-based wallpaper stripper. If it is coated with vinyl or something similar, you should purchase an enzyme-based stripper.;
, Tape the drop cloths around wooden floor to protect them. Get a ladder if it extends to the top of the walls or the ceiling.
 If wallpaper is beneath them, they will need to be unscrewed and set aside so that you can remove all the sections of wallpaper., Disconnect your power to the room, since wallpaper removal requires a lot of water and can pose an electrocution risk. Work in the daylight for best results.
, This is the best place to start. Lift that edge with a paper scraper.


You can use a putty knife or a paper scraper to lift up the edges of the wallpaper. A paper scraper is less likely to damage the walls.If it comes off easily, your wallpaper can be dry-stripped. Don’t add water, gel or steam unless you have to.
 Move it across the entire surface of the wallpaper. The small holes will allow water to penetrate the surface and loosen the glue.
 Pour it into a spray bottle. Spray it on a small area or apply it with a paint roller.


Replace the bottle with a hot water mixture when it starts to cool.
The aim should be to keep a minimal amount of very hot water seeping through the holes made by the scouring tool. This will minimize water damage to your wall.
Use a store-bought enzymatic, gel wallpaper stripper if the wallpaper is coated. Use a gel stripper for best results.
 Only spray what you think you can remove in 15 minutes.
 It should soak in a little before you start.
, If your wallpaper has been painted over, you should skip directly to this step.
 Scrape it with a wallpaper razor scraper, while you move the hot plate to an adjoining section to soften the glue. Repeat until the paper is removed.
 Allow the stripper to set in for 15 to 20 minutes before you start to scrape.


Clean the wall immediately after you remove a section of wallpaper entirely. Use extra gel stripper to remove stubborn paste.
 They might have glued the area down with white school glue.
 Make it the hottest water you can handle. Wear rubber gloves to apply it.


If the water cools before you finish the project, replace it with hot water.
 Wring it out lightly. Place it over the glue and allow the water to set and penetrate the paper and glue.
 Wipe the paper and glue away with a scouring pad. Scrub well., Repeat until the Elmer’s glue is scrubbed off the wall. You may need to fill the area with putty before painting if damage is caused to the wall.

