 Take the time to get to know her as a close friend before trying to progress to something more.


You may worry about being put in the dreaded “friend zone,” but the truth of the matter is that many girls do need to feel secure with a guy before they will consider going out with him. Letting her know that you genuinely care about her as a human and a friend will establish that trust.
 Once you reach a level of friendship that allows the two of you to hang out without being in a group, invite her to spend some time with you alone.


If you want to be cautious, ask her to visit someplace familiar yet different, like a different coffee shop or a nearby park that you have both talked about wanting to visit.
If you want to be a little bolder, ask her to spend the afternoon or evening with you without revealing your plans. You can take her out for a nice meal, an interesting show, or a night of dancing.
Insist on paying. If she puts up a fuss about it, tell her that you want to pay for her since you were the one who asked her to come out with you.



Flowers, chocolates, or stuffed animals are all fair game.
Avoid expensive gifts like jewelry or designer clothes.
 After you have spent some time enjoying each other's company, sit down with her and tell her that you have something important to say. Once you have her undivided attention, tell her honestly that you have strong feelings for her and would like her to be your girlfriend.


Do not pressure, but at the same time, avoid blowing it off as no big deal. You must be genuine without being pushy.
Good example: “I really enjoy the time I spend with you and consider you an important part of my life. I can't help but have feelings for you past those of friendship, though. If you feel the same way, or think you could see me as a boyfriend, then I'd like to go out with you.”
Bad example: “So, yeah. I just thought of something: you and I should become girlfriend and boyfriend.”
”Bad example: “I've never told you this, but I love you more than life itself. Please be mine. I don't know how I'll manage without you.”

, She may feel the same way, or she may not. Regardless of what she says, though, you need to respond to her answer in a calm, civilized manner.


If she agrees to be your girlfriend, express how happy that makes you but do not get wild and shout or dance about.
Don't pressure her into a relationship. If she hesitates before giving you an answer, do not begin begging for her to agree.
Let her know that this will not spell the end of your friendship. If she does not share your feelings at the present moment, do not tell her that this is “good-bye.” Let her know that it stings a little, but assure her that you still value her as a friend. Who knows—as long as you don't burn any bridges, she may eventually come to like you later on.

