 Physical inactivity is a major risk factor for heart disease. Regular exercise can directly impact your cholesterol by increasing the good HDL cholesterol levels. It is also has an indirect impact on your cholesterol levels by helping you manage or reduce your weight.The exercise guidelines recommend that adults should get at least 150 minutes of moderate-activity aerobic exercise and two or more muscle-strengthening exercise sessions per week.140 minutes will help you maintain your current weight, 210 minutes will help reduce your weight.
If you don't have time to exercise regularly, get up from your desk take a five minute walk every hour.
Besides taking on a new exercise, you can also increase your physical activity with simple daily practices, such as taking the stairs instead of the elevator and parking your car farther away from the door.
 It is well known that smoking has a negative impact on your lung and heart health. Besides reducing your risk of other health conditions, quitting smoking may also impact your cholesterol by raising your HDL cholesterol level.You should also do your best to stay away from secondhand smoke.
Get support to help you quit smoking by talking to your doctor about support groups and smoking cessation treatments, such as nicotine patches.
 Drinking moderate amounts of red wine may help raise your HDL cholesterol levels. However, drinking too much alcohol can result in dehydration and lead to chronic illnesses and addiction over time.Limit your alcohol consumption to one drink a day if you are a healthy female, two drinks per day if you are a healthy male., If you are carrying extra weight, then you likely have higher LDL cholesterol levels. Managing your weight is key to maintaining balanced cholesterol levels; you can improve your cholesterol levels by losing as little as 5-10% of your weight.Evaluate your diet and make sure that you are not taking in more calories than you burn on a daily basis.
You should also engage in regular exercise to burn off extra calories and improve your cardiovascular health. Always consult with your doctor before starting a new exercise program.

