 Don't wake up too early and don't wake up too late. If school starts at 8:30am, wake up at 7:00am to start getting ready. (Or 7:30 if you're quick);
, Sometimes you feel like you have butterflies in your stomach. Try eating something or drinking a glass of milk.
 Make sure to limit your time in the shower so you will have enough time to do everything else. Wash your hair with a good smelling shampoo, and a good smelling body wash. Don't forget the conditioner!

, Ponytails go with almost every look. If you are a guy, put gel or mousse in your hair and spike it. It looks cool and original and girls love it.
 For girls make sure you picked out a cute outfit. Don't pick something out that makes you look geeky or like a school teacher or a teacher's pet. Wear a cute colored camisole with and cute colored scoop neck shirt (not to scooped, you don't want to be known as someone who reveals to much) and put on a small, light hoodie that matches you shirts. Then maybe some dark wash jeans or capris. Since it's still summer, you should wear some black flip-flops (if your school allows it) or some kind of cute pair of shoes. If you are a guy, just a nice pair of good fitting jeans or khaki shorts with a clean, cool looking graphic tee shirt with a cool pair of shoes and a hoodie.
 (Deodorant, body spray etc.)

, If you like wearing makeup. Don't go overboard. Yes, most girls at this age do but YOU shouldn't. It does not look good and you will look like a clown or an owl. Just some clear lip gloss, some blush, concealer, and some mascara. No need for eyeshadow or eyeliner really.
 The teachers told us whether or not we needed like highlighters or notebooks. But be prepared to buy some or have some handy. Make sure you have your schedule and all the stuff you need to find your classes.
 Most likely your friends from elementary school will be going to middle school with you so give them a call and talk about your goals and stuff like that. Like what do you want to accomplish this school year and what clubs or activities do you want to join etc.
 I forgot to tell you, depending on what time your school starts and if you walk, get a ride, or catch the bus. Be sure to set a good time to wake up. Because it does depend on if what time school starts and how you get to school.
 Be confident and cool. Find your friends and walk through it together. You will be fine!

