 You’ll want to alert everyone in the house that a camp-in is going on, so signs for the door will spread the word. They might be as simple as announcing the presence of the camping trip: “Janice and John’s Camping Site.” For inside the room, your signs can set the mood, such as “Watch out for bears.”


Use poster board if you want the signs to last, but construction paper is a less expensive and more colorful option.;
, If you have or buy some washable markers that are meant for glass, you can decorate your windows as if you were at a campground. You can draw trees, birds, and even raccoons.


Use stencils to help the images look more realistic.
 Drape blankets and sheets over dressers, chairs, and electronics. Try to find ones that are brown or green so that they can look like trees, bushes, or even outhouses. Use floral sheets to look like you have flower bushes.
 Explore the room in a new way. Use glow sticks to look around. They’re safer than real candles, and you can find them in the shape of wands, swords, and even butterflies at many stores.
 Some stores sell fake fires with fluttering strips of fabric. You don’t have to spend money, though. You can simply take a large flashlight with a flat bottom, point it at the ceiling, and gather some brown paper around the base of it. Include some orange, red, and yellow paper to help emulate flames.
 Get a colander from the kitchen and a small flashlight. Shine the light through the holes in the colander to get a view of the “stars.”

, Find any stuffed toys you have to distribute around the campsite. You can use wild animals or birds, or add in a few less-commonly seen woodland animals, like horses or dogs.
 Cut out bugs from paper or find or buy plastic bugs. Spiders, mosquitoes, and ants can all be found at a campground. Leave them outside the sleeping quarters. Sneak some inside the tent or even inside sleeping bags to give a true camping experience to your fellow campers.
 There are channels on digital radio stations, such as Pandora or Spotify, that play sounds of nature. If you prefer a visual experience, Netflix and other streaming services offer the “Yule Log” experience so you can watch a fire.


Many of the Yule Log programs play Christmas music. Turn down the sound to help stay in the camping mood.
 If you already have a pup tent or a small tee-pee, push your bed out of the way and set up in the middle of the room. It should be the centerpiece of your campsite.Measure the room and the tent before you get started. You don’t want to find out it isn’t going to fit after you begin.
 You’ll need four or five chairs with high backs and at least two large light-weight blankets or sheets. Queen or king size bedding is best.


Put the chairs in a circle with extra space between two of them for your entrance.
Drape the blankets or sheets so that they cover the chair backs and hang down over the sides, creating the walls around your fort.
To help keep the walls from falling down during the night, you can use safety pins at the top to attach them to the chairs., The floor, even if it’s carpeted, can be uncomfortable when you’re sitting or sleeping on it all night long. Spread out thick blankets or comfy sleeping bags to avoid sore sports.
 Put all your electronic devices, such as phones, iPods, and tablets, outside the room when you start your camping trip. It will let you get in touch with the wilderness of your room., Camping involves sitting around, so find your favorites. You may want to play a card game like “Uno,” a board game like “Life,” or even dominos. Unlike a real campsite, you know that you’ll have a level playing surface on the floor.
 You can write your own or read them from a book or website. Use your lighting to help make it spooky.You can download and play ghost stories, but you’ll have to break the no technology rule.
 Choose a digital camera, a disposable camera, or a Polaroid camera. You can pose with each other, with the “wild animals” that you find, or with one of the signs. When you’re done, make a scrapbook to remember your trip.
 If anyone in the group plays a campground-appropriate instrument like a guitar, have them bring it along. Campfire sing-alongs are always a great way to have a good time.
, Use your favorite ingredients. Some common ingredients are M&Ms, Chex cereal, Cheerios, raisins, peanuts, almonds, cashews, Reese’s pieces, mini pretzels, sunflower or pumpkin seeds, shredded coconuts, and dried fruits. You can make it as healthy or as decadent as you want., Hot dogs are a traditional campfire food. Use a grill-pan on the stove to get the same lines that you would get on BBQ grill. Don’t forget the buns and condiments.
 Do it the old fashioned way. Air-pop popcorn makers are still easy to find at most big box stores or you can pop it on the stove. Microwave popcorn is a good enough substitution.
 Make a sandwich with a piece of graham cracker, a square of chocolate, a large marshmallow, and another piece of graham cracker on top. Put your sandwich on a microwave safe plate, and microwave for between 15 and 30 seconds. Let it cool before eating.


If you prefer not to cook at all, you can replace the marshmallow layer with marshmallow fluff and have an even easier (although cold) s’mores with almost no effort.

