 While training models have changed in recent years, most doctors have not been taught to discuss end of life care and are usually hesitant to initiate the discussion. It might make it a bit easier on you if your doctor broaches the subject first, but you are better off taking charge and making sure you discuss the topic when you are healthy and capable enough to determine and express your wishes.In the U.S., Medicare now reimburses doctors $86 for having a specific end of life care discussion with a patient, which adds one more stamp of legitimacy to the importance of having this talk.;
, Don’t spring the topic on your doctor right at the end of a checkup — this is a discussion that deserves a dedicated and sufficient amount of time. Call the office and specify that you’d like to make an appointment to discuss end of life care.Make the appointment and plan to have the talk before you feel you “need to.” It is easy to wait too long and find yourself having to make difficult decisions (or unable to make them) in the midst of a rapid decline in health. A sound mind and body make for the best end of life care discussions.
 Talking about your death with loved ones can be even more difficult than talking with your doctor, but it is no less essential. If you want to ensure that your care wishes are followed, you need to make sure that everyone close to you clearly understands them and is “on the same page.”You may find it easier to talk to one or a few family members first, or you may prefer to talk to everyone at once in coordination with a family gathering. But don’t spring it on them unannounced during Thanksgiving dinner. Schedule a family meeting and identify the topic beforehand.
The Conversation Project website offers a wealth of information on how to broach the subject and get the discussion going, including checklists, quizzes, and other materials that can help you define your goals and wishes., Prior to attending the meeting with your doctor, take some time to brush up on your terminal medical condition (if known to you at the time) and some of the basic terms and concepts that are likely to be discussed. For instance, be sure you understand terms like “CPR,” “intubation,” and “healthcare proxy.”The more informed you are about your condition, general prognosis, and likely treatment options, the more time you can spend during the meeting talking about your care preferences. That said, allow the doctor to do his or her job and utilize medical expertise to provide you with important information and alternatives.
 If you have already selected your spouse, child, sibling, best friend, or someone else as your “healthcare proxy” — that is, the person you want to make your care decisions when you are incapable of doing so — then strongly consider bringing this person along on the appointment. If not, still consider bringing someone you trust and with whom you can discuss sensitive issues freely. This person can take notes and help ensure that you cover the topics that you feel are most important.Inform the doctor beforehand that you want to bring someone you trust into the conversation. You may have to provide legal authorization to allow the person to discuss your health condition with the doctor. If there are parts of the meeting in which you would prefer to talk to the doctor one-on-one, let the person know beforehand so he or she can exit gracefully.
If there is no one you can or want to bring to the meeting, don’t use that as an excuse not to have the discussion. Going alone is infinitely better than not going at all.
 Before getting into your specific care preferences, start the conversation by establishing the things that are most important to you in regards to the end stage of your life. Is more time or greater quality of life more important? Do you intend to fight to the last breath, or can you be at peace with letting go as the end nears? Is it essential that you live out your last days at home? Are you determined not to be a burden, and if so, what does that mean to you? How important is your pain control?


By identifying the “big picture” priorities first, you can then work with your doctor to decide how the particulars of your condition, prognosis, estimated time remaining, and care options can be navigated in a manner consistent with your larger goals.Take some notes beforehand, or fill out a form designed to help facilitate the process of conducting an end of life discussion., Whether your terminal condition is new or has been known to you for quite a while, ask the doctor to run down (in layman’s terms) its particulars, how it will impact your body moving forward, the treatment options available and what they will do to you, and how much time (and quality time) you can expect to have left.Especially if your doctor is not entirely comfortable with having the end of life discussion, use simple, straightforward, leading questions to get the information you desire: “What can I expect from this illness?” “What types of improvement could this/that treatment offer?” “What can I expect if I refuse treatment?”
Ask for further clarifications and repeated responses as needed. Make sure you are entirely comfortable with the knowledge you have regarding your condition moving forward.
 The conversation should be a true give-and-take, and you should rely on your doctor’s knowledge, training, and experience. In the end, however, it is your life and your death. If you know what you want, and what you want is reasonable in relation to the nature of your condition, be clear and persistent and expect your doctor to accept your wishes.If you are sure that you don’t want to be put on any type of artificial life support, for instance, be clear and consistent on this point and ask your doctor to help you formulate an end of life plan that prioritizes this choice.
 If it’s perfectly fine to be sure about your end of life preferences before having the discussion with your doctor, it’s equally all right to be unsure as this initial meeting concludes. Start the process early enough so that you have all the time you need to make these important choices. If it takes multiple meetings to do so, so be it.The whole point of having an end of life discussion with your doctor is to avoid having to make snap decisions about your care preferences in the midst of a crisis — or for your family to have to do so without clear directives from you. Don’t rush what doesn’t need to be rushed. This is the last set of important decisions you will make in your life, so make it count.
 Once you have identified and clarified your care wishes with your doctor, you should make them legally binding so as to ensure that they are followed. Your doctor can help you with this process, or you can consult an attorney. Strongly consider preparing the following documents according to the laws in force where you reside:An “advance directive” appoints your healthcare proxy (the person who will make medical decisions in your stead) and spells out your living will (your wishes on medical interventions, resuscitation, feeding tubes, etc.). For U.S. residents, state-specific and legally-binding forms are available for download online.A “medical order” (sometimes referred to as a POLST) adds extra “teeth” to your advance directive and binds all medical professionals to abide by your stated wishes in all circumstances. It is attached to your electronic health record so that it is available to any medical personnel treating you. Medical orders are currently valid in most but not all U.S. states. Visit http://www.polst.org/ for more information.
 Ideally, the end of life discussion you initiate with your doctor should continue for the remainder of your life. Planning ahead is essential, but it is impossible to predict exactly what your end of life experience will entail or how it will impact your views and choices.Think of every decision you make as being “for now,” not necessarily “forever.” You have every right to change your mind about anything related to your end of life care. Keep talking with your doctor and your loved ones and keep updating your plan and your wishes as needed.
 No end of life decisions are set in stone; as your condition progresses and other circumstances change, you might change your mind about some of your choices. This is normal and good, but make sure that you express your new wishes to your doctor and family just as clearly as before.For instance, you may have been adamant about stopping any additional cancer treatments, but then find out that your granddaughter is pregnant and want to put up your best fight to be around for the birth. Or, you may decide that you need to appoint a more trustworthy healthcare proxy.
For that matter, you may even decide that you need to find a new doctor. If your physician is reluctant to discuss end of life concerns, or adamantly disagrees with your decisions, consider finding a new doctor. You deserve to have a supportive doctor by your side as you enter your life’s last phase., People tend to wait too long to talk about end of life care, and they also usually wait too long to seek out hospice care. Generally speaking, as soon as you have a prognosis of six months or fewer to live, you are eligible for hospice care. Yet most people wait until right near the end of life and miss out on the comfort and care that hospice can provide, usually in your own home.


Visit How to Choose a Hospice Care Program for additional information on this topic.

