 You can use an actual double boiler, or improvise your own with a saucepan and a heat-safe bowl. Do not place the second saucepan or bowl on top just yet, however.


If you are using a bowl, make sure that it fits comfortably over the saucepan and that there are no gaps where heat can escape.
Double boilers are great if you need the chocolate to stay melted for a long time (ie: when you are making chocolate dipped strawberries).;
, While the water is coming to a boil, you can start measuring out the chocolate.


If you can't find any chocolate chips, you can use whole chocolate bars instead. You will need to cut them into ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) wide chunks first, however., Set it down onto a heat-safe surface to protect your counter. It might be a good idea to keep it near the stove, however, just in case your chocolate starts to harden too quickly.
 Whichever one you end up using, make sure that it is perfectly dry. Any moisture will cause your chocolate to "seize" or harden.If you are working with large amounts of chocolate, consider putting only two-thirds of it in first. This will help it melt faster.It is possible to fix seized chocolate by adding cream to it, but this will affect your recipe., Make sure that the bottom of your saucepan or bowl does not touch the surface of the water. If it does, pour some of the water out. Make sure that the fit is tight, and that no steam can escape.
 Once again, make sure that the spatula is perfectly dry, or the chocolate will seize. Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often.


If you are working with large amounts of chocolate, you can add in the remaining third a little bit at a time., You can pour the water out of the bottom saucepan out at this time, although it might be a good idea to keep it filled until you are completely done baking—just in case your chocolate starts to harden too soon.
 Once the chocolate is melted, you can add in other ingredients to it, such as shortening or paraffin.If your recipe calls for paraffin as well, you must melt the paraffin separately first., If it is too hot, let it cool for about 10 minutes, give it a stir, then use it.