 Before you purchase The Sims 3, you should ensure that your computer can run it. Sims 3 is getting older, so most modern computers should be able to run it with minimal effort. Still, if you're trying to run it on an older or budget computer, it's good to know what you'll need to get the best experience.


Windows - Windows XP or newer, 6 GB hard disk space, 1 GB RAM, 128 MB video card. You can see your current system specs by pressing ⊞ Win+Pause.
Mac OS X - OS X 10.5.7 or higher, 6 GB hard disk space, 2 GB RAM, 128 MB video card. You can see your current system specs by clicking the Apple menu and selecting About This Mac.;
, Origin is the storefront and game launcher for all EA games, including The Sims 3. The Origin client is free and can be downloaded from the EA Origin website.
 In order to use Origin and purchase the game, you will need to create an account. You can either do this the first time you start up Origin, or you can create your account on the Origin website while the client is installing.


You will need a valid address and credit card in order to purchase games on Origin.
Log in with your account to start using Origin.
 Click the "Store" tab at the top of the Origin window. Type "Sims 3" into the Search bar. Results will appear automatically underneath the search bar as you type, or you can click the magnifying glass icon to see all the results.


There will be many results due to the number of expansions available. Use the "Refine Results" menu on the left side of the results list and expand the "Game Type" option. Select "Base Games".
You can choose between The Sims 3 or The Sims 3 Starter Pack which includes a couple expansions.
If you buy the game on Amazon as a PC or Mac Download, it will install the Origin client if it has not been installed already.
 After you purchase the game, it will be added to your "My Games" list. This is the list of all your Origin games. Click The Sims 3 icon and then click the Download button. Choose whether or not you want desktop or Start menu shortcuts in the window that appears. Click the Download Now button to begin the installation.


You will be shown the disk space required as well as the disk space available.
You can monitor the download from your "My Games" list. The download could take a significant amount of time depending on the speed of your connection.
 Once the download and installation has finished, the game will be ready to play. Click the Sims 3 icon in the "My Games" list and click the Play button to start the game.

