 A TCK is a person who has spent a part (or all) of their childhood living in a culture other than their passport one. e.g. a German passport holder living in Ghana, Japan, and the U.S. for most of their childhood. TCKs can also just be people who have spent a little time living abroad, but have deep cultural roots. i.e. a United States passport holder born in Russia and speaking Russian at home, even though he/she only lived there for a year.;
, Many TCKs feel like they don't belong anywhere. They are not enough one culture to fit in there. Nor are they enough of a second (or third or fourth) to fit in there. for TCKs their time living in another country is not "foreign" to them. TCKs are usually comfortable anywhere. Inside, TCKs often feel sad and alone. They may have trouble making friends knowing that they will probably leave soon. Alternatively, they make a ton of friends--but just won't go very deep into the friendship knowing they will probably move soon.
 Realize that many TCKs are not happy to be back in their passport country. Questions like "You must be glad to be home!" or "Oh my gosh, I can't believe you survived in _____ so long!" are not helpful. A lot of Third Culture Kids view their passport country as very foreign. Understand that all of their friends, childhood memories, and homes are spread out all over the world.
 Just because they celebrate a holiday or wear clothes from an unfamiliar place doesn't mean that they are weird.
 language. They usually don't mind questions, but shrieking pleas of "Ooh, say something, say something!!" will be irritating. Multilingualism is not a freakish talent.
 Thoughtful, interested questions will not be refused. TCKs are eager to share their experiences.
 Most TCKs can come across as bragging given that they usually lead a very different (and often coveted) lifestyle. Don't assume that the issues of cultural identity are made up. They are very real to the TCK who is dealing with them. Failure to understand this can end up alienating them.
 Learn about the history of Third Culture Kids and visit TCKWorld - the first and oldest resource on TCKs and the home of Dr. Ruth Useem, the originator of the term.

