 If you've subscribed to a Creative Cloud service, you simply need to locate Photoshop in the Creative Cloud apps catalogue and click Download. If you aren't already logged in, you'll be prompted for your Adobe ID and password. Simply follow the instructions, and Photoshop will automatically install itself after it's downloaded., You'll find Photoshop located under the Apps tab of your Creative Cloud program. Once it's ready, you'll see an Open button to its right. Click that to get started. Alternatively, you can also find Photoshop located wherever your programs are routinely placed—generally the Program Files folder (for Windows users) or the Applications folder (for Mac OS users).
 Simply click on the File menu on the toolbar at the top of the screen. Then click Open, and you'll be able to select photos from the folder(s) in which they've been stored.
 This is the first step toward duplicating your image onto a new layer. You'll find the Layers tab on the righthand side of the screen, and you'll see a layer labeled "Background" below the Layers-related toolbar.
 Then release the Background layer once it's hovering over that button. Alternatively, you can instead choose to use the "Duplicate Layer..." function from the Layers menu, thereby creating a duplicate of the selected background layer., This will remove color from your image. Once the new layer is selected, hold Ctrl + ⇧ Shift + U. Alternatively, you can desaturate the image by clicking on the Image menu, selecting Adjustments and then selecting Desaturate.
 Begin by selecting the new layer, selecting Blur and then selecting "Gaussian Blur..." from the Filters menu that appears. You'll want your pixel radius to be between 40 and 70, ideally around 50. Once set, click OK to apply.
 This will turn your blurred layer into an image resembling a negative. You can use the keyboard by holding Ctrl + U. Alternatively, you may simply select the Invert function from the Adjustments submenu.
 You'll find the Overlay function in the dropdown menu atop the Layers palette. Once selected, your blending mode will be changed, and you'll once again be able to see the original image from the background.
 Go to the Adjustment submenu and select Levels. You'll find sliders allowing you change the white, gray and black colors so that you can find the preferred balance You may wish to spend some time playing around with different possibilities. Once you've found the desired look, click OK.
 This excludes parts of the image from the polarizing function. Right-click the image and then click "Create Clipping Mask" on the context menu. Then select the Brush tool, select white as your color and adjust the tool's opacity to no more than 50 percent. Lower levels of opacity reduce the polarizing effect. Once you finish painting over areas you wish to be less polarized, simply right-click the image and then click "Release Clipping Mask."

, This will revert your image to a single background layer once again. From the Image menu, simply select "Flatten Image." You will find the Image menu along the toolbar at the top of your screen.
 Select "Save As..." and enter a unique file name to distinguish your new polarized image from the original edition.

