 Chances are if the kids aren't blessed with knowledge of stereotypes and the scene, they'll mistake you for emo, goth, or have no idea what you're trying to pull off.;
, Jeans. Skinny jeans are an absolute must among the scene crowd. You can do plain jeans, bright neon colors or animal print.
 Even a unique pair of shoes from Hot Topic can qualify within the scene wardrobe.
, Hoodies are also good for putting over a graphic tee. Start out with something in a basic color, like black, which can match with everything you wear. You can also try a jacket in neon, zebra, or cheetah print.
 A good belt whether it is studded or just something with a cool design on it doesn't matter. Get some bobby pins and barrettes as they seem to be the cheapest. Having one good bow or one good headband is necessary, but only choose one to start. get as many rubber bracelets as you can, as these tend to be pretty cheap. Have one or two necklaces with guns, brass knuckles, peace signs, diamonds, skulls or cupcakes. A cute chunky ring is nice too. Hello Kitty is very scene also. Claires, despite its girly reputation, has very nice scene accessories.


Shop smart. You don't always need to go to big brand stores. Try small, second hand stores, like Value Village, Plato's closet, And Ross. They have cute things, you just have to dig.
 You can always get your hair done at the salon with choppy layers and crazy colors and all, but maybe tone it down a bit. Get your hair dyed one simple color and get a fringe. Blonde, brown, black or red are always a good start. Buy some colored extensions or just get some simple streaks. As for makeup, have good black liquid eyeliner. it is good to have an angled brush for this, instead of using the wand thing that comes with it. Black eye shadow and a two neon colors. Also have white. Have a foundation that matches your skin tone and some blush that highlights your cheeks a bit. Bright lipstick is good and totally original, as not many scene kids wear makeup on their lips. Mascara, too.
 Or if you're school is strict about amount of makeup you could only use black eyeliner and mascara, some scene girls wear coloured eyeliner over black eyeliner (For ideas see Bebo scene queen CarylCatastrophe)

, Most scenes have a very lively personality. Just be random and have fun!

, Whether it is a tote bag or a backpack, make sure it is cute and original. You can take sharpies and draw on it, have your friends sign it, and even add a few buttons and safety pins to it for that unique look.
 If you want a scene style more like the scene queens, I'd suggest staying away from the unmatching shoes, tutus, and graphic tees. Try to coordinate your outfits and get unique tops, that don't have as much of a lazy feel.

