 Cancer research has emphasized the importance of getting your nutrients from food instead of vitamin supplements whenever possible.However, there may be cases where a supplement is a better option for you. Be sure to discuss any supplements you are taking or thinking about taking with your physician.


Take zinc supplements. Most men do not get enough zinc in their diets, and supplements can help keep your prostate healthy. Research has demonstrated that zinc deficiencies can lead to enlarged prostates and that zinc plays a role in the progression of prostate cells to malignancy. You can take 50 to 100 (or even up to 200) milligrams of zinc per day in tablet form to reduce an enlarged prostate.Try taking saw palmetto berry, made from the berries of the Saw Palmetto plant. This supplement has received mixed reviews from users and the medical field, so talk to your doctor before you try it. Some research has suggested that it may assist in the cytotoxicity (cell death) of human prostate cancer cells.Note that some research has suggested that taking certain supplements, such as vitamin E, or folic acid (a B vitamin) may even increase your risk of prostate cancer. Other studies has demonstrated that taking many (i.e., more than 7) supplements, even those marked for prostate cancer, may increase the risk of developing advanced prostate cancer., Although the relationship of prostate cancer and smoking has been long debated, tobacco use is believed to cause oxidative damage via free radicals to the body's cells, thus making the link between cancer and smoking plausible. In a meta-analysis of 24 studies, researchers found that cigarette smoking was in fact a risk for prostate cancer., If you are overweight, get yourself on a diet and exercise plan that will get you into a healthy range. Whether someone is overweight or obese is determined by using the body mass index (BMI), an indicator of body fatness. BMI is a person's weight in kilograms (kg) divided by the square of the person's height in meters (m). A BMI of 25-29.9 is considered overweight, while a BMI greater than 30 is considered obese.Reduce the number of calories you intake and increase the amount of exercise you do. This is the secret to weight loss.Watch portion sizes and make a concerted effort to eat slowly, savor and chew your food and stop eating when you are full. Remember that you just need to feel satiated, not stuffed to the brim., Regular activity is not only good for reducing your risk of certain types of cancers, but also other potential health problems, including depression, heart disease and stroke. Though a causal relationship between exercise to prostate health remains unconfirmed, the studies that have been conducted to date suggest that exercise is beneficial in keeping your prostate healthy. You should aim for 30 minutes of moderate to intense exercise several days a week. However, even low to moderate exercising, like brisk walking, is beneficial for prostate health. If you're new to exercising, start slowly by walking to work, using the stairs instead of the elevator and going on nightly walks. Build up to more intense workouts involving aerobic exercise, like cycling, swimming, or running., Kegel exercises are performed by contracting the muscles of your pelvic floor (as if you were attempting to stop the flow of urine), holding them for a brief period, and then releasing them. Doing these exercises regularly will help strengthen and tighten the muscles of your pelvic floor. You can do Kegel exercises anywhere because they don't require any special equipment!


Tighten the muscles around your scrotum and anus for a few seconds, then release. Do this exercise in 10 repetitions three to four times a day to improve your prostate health. Try to build up to 10-second holds.
You can also do Kegel exercises by lying on your back with your pelvis in the air and clenching your buttocks. Hold for 30 seconds, then release. Do this for five minute intervals three times a day.
 Although for a long time, researchers believed that frequent ejaculation during sex, masturbation, or even a dream increased men's risk of developing prostate cancer, newer research is suggesting in fact, that frequent ejaculation may actually protect the prostate. Researchers suggest that ejaculation may help to flush out carcinogens in the prostate glands as well as help fluids in the prostate turn over more quickly to reduce cancer risk. In addition, regular ejaculation may also help to reduce psychological tension, which can slow the growth of cancer cells.That said, this research is still in its early stages and researchers have said that it's too soon to yet make a formal recommendation on men's sexual habits. It's unclear, for example, how often a man should ejaculate to see these benefits. These researchers do suspect, however, that ejaculation frequency accompanies other indicators of a healthy lifestyle, including a healthy diet and regular exercise.