 “”. You want to target one specific great keyword to begin with. It can be anything as long as it is related to your chosen niche. The more specific the better, that way you`ll be able to target targeted buyers. For example, I am in the niche, I have a Diet pill product that I intend to sell and naturally my target keyword would be “DIET”.;
, With Google Keywords Tool, you`ll be able to see how much competition your keyword has. The less the better, but you need at least a mere amount of competition to know that there is something there to compete with! If you are comfortable with the amount of traffic your chosen keyword receives, then go for it. If not, then I strongly recommend you change it, you can take some ideas from the `relative keywords` that appear along. Don`t go over 4,000,000 in competition, instead if you are just starting out then look for keywords with competition less than 2,000,000. That way you`d see your article in the first page in no time.
 Take a look at the keywords in the search results; you need to take note of the first 10 keywords in that search. Choose only the ones relative. Don`t go overboard. Better yet, choose the keywords that are most relative and strongly related to your targeted keyword and ones that you can put together in writing.
 Take a look at your targeted keyword as well as your chosen 10 keywords. Head over to ezinearticles.com and choose one very relative article that relates to your niche or product. Extract the ideas from it. Head back to your keywords and write a brand new article with all, not all of course but most of the keywords you have. You have to make sense otherwise the article won`t be as valuable as it ought to be to succeed with attracting traffic.
, Submit it to Social Monkee and SocialAdr to get it indexed fast. For this, all you need to do is type in a title, a description and a list of keywords (here you can simple copy-paste the keywords you want to target ).
 After a few hours, check if your site has been indexed or not , this is very important, you want the search engines to detect that the article originally is published is on your site. That way when you distribute your article to other sites, Google will know that these article directories are simply backlinks linking to YOUR site. The more the better.
 The directories will publish them, no worries for duplicate problems because after all you are the official owner of the article and the search engines know that. Submit your article to the following directories, they come highly ranked in the search engines, EzineArticles, GoArticles, ArticleBase and SooperArticles.
 Once you submit your article to a few sites, Google will consider these direct links as backlinks to your site. Eventually, day after day and you will notice a massive transition with your sites` ranking and receive a ton of traffic. Rinse and repeat for every article you publish and expect your ranking to change.

