 An important part of emulating Zoe Davis is her positivity. She likes for herself and everyone around her to see the brighter side of things. That said, it doesn't mean you be positive about every little thing, but try getting people excited for events or situations one of your friends may be nervous about.;
, Zoe is a kind-hearted person, and that's why she gets to be so well-liked by people at Centerscore/Twin Branches. Not only that, but her kindness is said to rub off on others, making them better people. Make an influence by being a nice and caring person.
 In the episode The Last Straw (Circa late 2011), Zoe mentions that she gets all A's in school, with an exception of a B in Biology her sophomore year. If you're not an honor student, try making it your goal. Don't try to get straight A's right away, but start out slow with A's and B's.
 Zoe is pretty talented when it comes to sports, and she has been a cheerleader since her sophomore year. If cheerleading isn't your thing, that's perfectly fine! And if you're not very into sports, that's okay as well! Try joining a club that sounds interesting. For bonus points, offer to lead a group discussion, as Zoe tries out being head cheerleader for about a week.
 One of the things Zoe does a lot is bake cupcakes! Whether it's for an event or a just-because thing, there will be a fresh batch of cupcakes by her! Also, try baking cookies. If you've never baked by yourself, you might want to ask someone to help you.
 This somewhat relates to her being positive, but Zoe goes after what she wants. It's how she made the cheerleading team, got Howard as her boyfriend, and is currently trying to win Social Chair. Also, being passionate means you're dedicated!

, If you also want to look more like her, read on - but just so you know, you are beautiful the way you are. So maybe your parents won't let you dye your hair brown, no big deal! Zoe's current look is curly hair with a green headband, and a green top to match. If green isn't necessarily your favorite, try matching your headband and top from another color. If you're not into headbands, try wearing bright colors and skirts sometimes. Zoe's look basically matches her personality.

