 Good nutrition and good health go hand in hand. You can get vital nutrients like potassium, magnesium, and manganese from coconut water, and improve your health in the process. Coconut water is naturally low in fat, and it is a good source of potassium, magnesium, and manganese.


Potassium is an electrolyte that is responsible for muscle contraction, which is important for heart health and good digestion.Coconut water contains high levels of potassium.Drink coconut water to improve your health by increasing your potassium intake.Potassium is readily available in other sources like bananas, leafy greens, and citrus fruits. Eating a balanced diet will provide you with adequate amounts of potassium.
Magnesium is important for a variety of bodily functions, including muscle contraction, protein synthesis, and blood glucose control. You can get magnesium from other food sources such as almonds, spinach, cashews, peanuts, and soy milk.Manganese is a trace mineral that helps with the formation of connective tissue, sex hormones, and bones. You can also get manganese from whole grains, nuts, seeds, and pineapple.Coconut water may even lower cholesterol levels and reduce blood pressure according to some research.;
, When you sweat, you will lose sodium. Some people think they can use coconut water to restock their body’s sodium stores and thereby improve their health. However, the amount of sodium you gain from coconut water is negligible, and will not adequately restore your sodium levels – sports drinks are far better at doing that than coconut water., If you’ve had an intense workout, you might be tempted to reach for coconut water to improve your health. But coconut water is no better than regular water at rehydrating the body. Your best bet is to save money and just enjoy plain old tap water or bottled water.Additionally, if you’re regularly drinking coconut water (say, two average-sized bottles of coconut water daily), you could add over 100 additional calories to your daily caloric intake.