 According to reflexology theory, this will help to relax you and flush toxins from your system. Also, general massage has been proven to reduce pain and improve quality of life., Rub your hands together quickly, then hold them over your ears for 15 seconds. Rub them again, and hold them over your ears for 15 seconds with the tops of your earlobes folded down., The ear lobe contains reflex points for your head. Pinch and pull the lobe between your index finger and thumb for about 3 minutes. You can do both ears at the same time., Place your index fingers in your ears and rotate them back and forth about 50 times to stimulate and relax your heart and lungs., This the narrow part of your ear above the ridge that sits over the ear canal, and below another ridge of cartilage. Run your index finger back and forth along the cymba conchae of both ears about 50 times to stimulate the digestive system., This is the small depression on the far side of the ridge of cartilage that forms the upper boundary of the cymba conchae. Press your index finger gently into the triangular fossa and rotate back and forth about 50 times., This area – the helix and scaphoid fossa – consists of the curving cartilage at the top of your ear and the space just under it. It contains the reflex points for your arms and shoulders. Pinch it between your thumb and forefinger, then run your thumb down the area repeatedly until it is warm., There is a ridge of cartilage above your ear lobes. Start by using your index fingers to apply gentle presser to the depression on the far side of that ridge. Now run your fingers along the cartilage ridge on the back of the ear and up to the cymba conchae, and back again. Do this 30 times., The tragus is the flap of cartilage that protrudes over your ear canal. Move it up and down 30 times., The back of the ear is divided into and upper, more flexible part, and a lower part that surrounds the ear canal and attaches to the ear lobe. Start by pinching the upper area between your index finger and thumb and pulling on it 30 times. Then gently rub the lower part with your thumb 30 times, using a downward motion., Now that you have stimulated your entire ear, spend a little extra time on problem areas. At each point, work until you feel a warm sensation in your ear or until your feel discomfort.Lung and heart problems – Focus on the inside or your ear. Place your index fingers in your ear and rotate gently. You can also gently pull up, down, and to the sides to stimulate the inner ear.Digestive problems – Run your index finger back and forth over the cymba conchae to stimulate the reflex points associated with the stomach, intestines, liver, colon, spleen, and gall bladder.Stress related problems – Rub your ear lobe, and then run your index finger along the ridge of cartilage that forms the lower border of the cymba conchae and leads up to the triangular fossa. This will trigger the reflexes for your head, neck, and spine.