 Japanese language uses four different writing systems that have different characters.To speak the language, you don't necessarily need to learn how to write in Japanese, but it's important to understand the way the four systems work together.


Hiragana is a Japanese syllabary, a system of characters used to represent distinct Japanese sounds.Katakana is similar to Hiragana, in that it is made up of Japanese sounds, but it is mostly composed of words that originated in different languages. It could be considered the syllabary for foreign words. Together, Hiragana and Katakana cover every sound in the Japanese language, 46 in total.
Kanji are Chinese characters adapted for Japanese that are the foundation of Japanese writing. The sounds used to pronounce Kanji are the same as those used in Hiragana and Katakana.
In Japanese language, the Latin alphabet is sometimes used for acronyms, company names, and names meant to be read by non-Japanese speakers.
Romaji, the written Roman version of Japanese words, is also worth mentioning, even though it is not used in Japan. It is recommended that new students of Japanese skip Romaji and learn Japanese characters instead. Once you start learning Romaji it's difficult to associate Japanese sounds with Japanese characters.
 The sounds corresponding to the Hiraganaand Katakanaalphabets are composed of either one of five vowel sounds or a combination of a consonant and a vowel sound, with the exception of a few consonant-only sounds.


Since each character in Hiragana and Katakana has only one distinct sound, it is relatively easy to learn how to pronounce all 46. Pay special attention to intonation, though, since variations on these basic sounds can drastically change the meaning.
Whereas English pronunciation is based on accents, Japanese pronunciation is based on pitch. A word may be pronounced the same way and mean something different depending on whether it is spoken in a high or low pitch. To sound like a native speaker, getting intonation right is key.
 Japanese characters may be written with extra strokes to signify that they should be pronounced with an additional sound.The additional sounds fall into these categories:


Voiced consonants, which are pronounced with a "voice," a vibration in the throat. There are 4 voiced consonants and one semi-voiced consonant.
Y-vowel sounds, which can directly follow consonant sounds to change the pronunciation.
Hard consonant sounds, which add a hard stop between sounds.
Long vowel sounds. The meaning of a sound can alter depending on how long the vowel sound is held.
 Japanese grammar is quite different from other languages, but it follows a logical format that is easy to learn. The following is true about Japanese grammar:


Nouns don't have plural forms and they don't change according to gender.
Verbs don't change according to gender, number, or whether the subject is an object or person.The predicate is always at the end of the sentence.
Personal pronouns vary based on different levels of politeness and formality.
Particles directly follow the word they relate to. For example, instead of saying "I am Japanese," it would be "I Japanese am."