 If you'd like to add a little extra protein to the dish or just want to satisfy the carnivores in your house, add cooked meat to the tortellini before you bake it in the oven. Try one of these meats in your baked tortellini:


Ground turkey
Ground beef
Pork sausage
Bacon or pancetta

, You could also use purchased stuffed ravioli or different flavors of tortellini. You can find flavorful pastas like mushroom-stuffed ravioli or spinach-filled tortellini. Try a few different kinds to see what you like.


Keep in mind that larger pastas, like stuffed raviolis, make take longer to bake. Adjust your cook time according to the manufacturer's instructions.
 If you're really pressed for time or just want to assemble the tortellini ahead of time, don't bother with boiling and draining the tortellini. Stir the frozen tortellini directly with the sauce and put it in the baking dish. Bake the frozen tortellini as directed, but add an extra 10 minutes to the cooking time.If you want to make the tortellini ahead of time and wait to bake it, just assemble it and refrigerate it until you're ready to bake. If the tortellini defrosts, you may not need to adjust the cooking time at all.
 To adjust the flavor of the tortellini or just cut calories, swap out the mascarpone and smoked mozzarella cheeses. For example, use part-skim ricotta cheese instead of the mascarpone cheese. You can also substitute low-fat mozzarella cheese for the smoked mozzarella cheese.


To add a rich flavor, consider crumbling in a little fresh goat cheese. Since it's so flavorful, you'll only need to use a little bit.
 If you enjoy a little crunch with your baked pastas, mix up a crispy breadcrumb topping that's combined with Parmesan cheese. Stir together 1/4 cup (25 g) of fine dry breadcrumbs and 2 tablespoons of freshly grated Parmesan cheese. Sprinkle this topping over the tortellini before you bake it.You can also use panko breadcrumbs if you want more of a crunch. Panko breadcrumbs are larger so they stay crispy as they cook.

