 You must collect evidence that you can be a suitable parent to the child. When evaluating a parent's worthiness, a judge will consider such factors as:Employment history. A parent should be able to prove competence in holding a job and being fiscally fit to provide a child's material needs. However, even if the parent doesn't have adequate employment, most judges won't see that as a reason to deny him/her custody or at least visitation rights.
Housing. A fit parent is one that can provide a safe environment for the child to live in. You should plan to provide evidence that the other parent does not have a stable living situation.
Abuse. Any history of emotional, sexual, physical or drug abuse is taken into consideration by family courts. It is one of the biggest contributors to decisions awarding full custody to one parent. Collect police records and other evidence of abuse. If you are a domestic violence survivor, you can file for a temporary emergency custody of your child to establish legal protections for you and the child.Health. Parents must prove that they are both physically and emotionally capable of caring for a child.
 State law determines what factors a court is to consider when making a custody decision. However, courts are obligated to act in the child’s best interests. In addition to the characteristics of the parents as mentioned in the previous step, courts often consider the needs and wishes of the child when making custody decisions.The child’s age. Nursing infants are very likely to stay with their mothers. Children above the age of 12 are likely to have more of a say in which parent is awarded custody.The child’s health. If a child has particular medical or mental health needs, the court may determine which parent is most able to provide for those needs.The child’s relationship with each parent. If the child has a preference for which parent he/she would like to live with, a judge may (but is not legally required to) consider this preference.The child’s ties to her/his school, home and community, and whether these ties would be disrupted by a custody decision. For example, if a child is enrolled in school, the parent who has remained in the family home in that school district may be awarded custody to keep things stable for the child. However, the court may also make the decision to award the parent with custody the right to live in the family home to preserve stability.Sexual orientation or gender identity. Some states do not allow courts to consider sexual orientation or gender identity in custody disputes. However, some states either permit or do not prohibit courts from using these factors in a custody decision.In custody decisions involving same-sex parents, some judges may base their decisions on personal and social biases. Unfortunately, it is extremely difficult to reverse a judge’s custody decision even if it based on personal or social bias.Contrary to popular belief, a court will not “automatically” assign custody to the mother or father.DivorceNet maintains a database of what factors each state considers in child custody cases., This is very unlikely to apply to most custody decisions. However, if you believe that the other parent is a serious danger to you and/or your child, you should collect and provide evidence that will support your argument, including:Police reports that indicate violent or aggressive behavior on the part of the other parent. If police reports are not available, you should do your best to document on your own the date, time, place and details of any abusive behavior.
Medical bills or records that are suggestive of abuse or neglect.
Photos that document incidents or injuries.
Statements from witnesses that describe a dangerous pattern of behavior by the other parent.
Psychiatric evaluations of the child., Once custody proceedings start, a judge will likely order mediation. Mediation is run by professional mediators whose job is to help parents collaborate on a plan to arrange custody. Many states offer mediation services that are operated in conjunction with the courts.Mediation may work faster than a court proceeding. Many judges consider it to be less stressful for the child.In some cases, mediation can be done with each parent separately.
Your willingness to cooperate with the other parent is likely to be considered by the judge when making the final custody decision., If you and the other parent can't come to an agreement, the court may order a custody evaluation. This evaluation is usually done by a mental health professional or social worker with special training in family issues.During the evaluation, the evaluator will interview the child, the parents and other relevant persons (teachers, doctors, etc.). The evaluator may observe the interactions between parent and child in a home setting.
In some cases, the court will appoint a Guardian ad Litem rather than a custody investigator. The Guardian ad Litem is, essentially, an attorney appointed to consider the child’s best interest in the custody decision.If the court orders a custody evaluation, the judge may assign an evaluator or provide you with several options. You may also be able to hire a private evaluator, but keep in mind that this will be significantly more expensive., You should have an attorney present for every step of this process. If you have not been able to come to a custody agreement through mediation, you'll need to go to your court hearing and make your case there.


Keep your cool during the process. You are trying to demonstrate that you are a rational, supportive individual who can provide a stable home for a child. Courtroom outbursts will be held against you.

