 Babysitting is fun, pretty easy, and parents are always looking for a sitter to free up some spare time. Talk to your parents about talking to their friends, or neighbors in the area who might need a sitter. Think of parents in your neighborhood with kids and talk to them yourself.


Stick close to your house. When you're first starting out, make sure to pick a house that's close to your's, so your parents can help out if necessary. If there's an emergency, you'll be close to home.
If you live in an apartment complex, this could be a really great way of making money. Offer to watch kids and have them dropped off at your own house, so your parents can help out if necessary.
 Babysitters need to be trustworthy, especially if you don't know the people you'll be babysitting for well. One excellent way to get the skills necessary for babysitting is to take a short CPR class and become CPR-certified. Usually, these only last about a day, or several hours, and you can do it on the weekend.Generally, babysitters need to be around 12-13, at least. You need to be enough older than the kids you're babysitting so that they'll respect you, and so that you're capable enough to take care of them on your own.
 One of the best parts of babysitting is that you get to hang out with little kids and play for a couple hours. And get paid for it! To be a good babysitter, bring a lot of fun ideas about how to spend your time with the kiddos, and you'll be in-demand. Bring along some:


Games
Books
Art projects
Old toys
Outside toys or sports stuff
Dress up supplies

, Babysitting isn't all games and fun. Depending on how old the kid is and how long you'll be watching them, you may need to feed, bathe, clothe, put down, and even change the diapers of a kid. Listen closely and write down everything you'll need to do to, so you'll have a cheat sheet when they're gone.


If you don't know how to do something, be honest and ask the parents to demonstrate before they leave. Asking lots of questions helps to demonstrate that you're a good listener and serious worker.
 Little kids can be a handful. It might be fun to hang out and play for 30 minutes, but at hour 3 of the same game? Yikes. Babysitters need to be very patient and calm with the kids they babysit, to keep things under control as much as possible.


Remember: You're not there to have fun. If they paid you to have fun, everyone would do it. It's called work for a reason. Don't let yourself get grumpy because the kid wants to watch Finding Nemo twice in a row.
 Babysitters need to have authority and be in charge of the situation. When it's time for the kid to go to sleep, don't let yourself get pushed around. Be as firm as possible and expect the kid to push you. Speak calmly and firmly and be the adult in the room at all times. Stay focused on what you're doing.


Lots of kids will disrespect babysitters and say things like, "You're not my mom" when you try to get them to do something they don't want to do. Expect that it will be a challenge and prepare what you'll do in advance.
If the kid wants to argue with you, or starts getting hyper, don't get swept up in the drama. Be calm and quiet, and distract the kid with activity.
Sometimes, when kids get excited, a little snack will help them calm down. Most kids won't admit when they're hungry, but provide some cut-up apple slices and they'll pipe right down.
 Babysitting can be a handful. If you get in over your head, make sure you have some backup help ready, if necessary. Have a friend in your neighborhood come over and help while you're watching the kid, or call your parents if there's something you feel unable to handle.


In an emergency, always call the parents and call 911 if something serious is going on. Don't be afraid to act in an emergency. That's the sign of a good sitter.

