 After they've arrested you, the police will let you make a phone call. If you have a lawyer, call him or her immediately. If you don’t have an attorney, call a trusted friend or family member to hire a lawyer for you.


If you can’t afford a lawyer, you still have a constitutional right to be defended by one. Your Miranda rights say, “If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be provided for you.” This court-appointed attorney is called a public defender.
To ask the court to appoint you a public defender, you have to wait for your first court appearance. This is usually an arraignment or bail hearing.You could wait hours or even days for an arraignment where you meet your public defender. Remember that you do not have to talk to the police at any point while you wait.
The judge will ask if you already have a lawyer, then whether you want the court to appoint one for you. At that time, ask for your public defender.
In some courts, they'll ask you to show proof that you can't afford a lawyer on your own before they provide one for free.
 Remember that after you've been Mirandized, everything you say can be used in court. You don't have the legal education or experience to know what's safe to say and what can be twisted and used against you. Keep your silence until your lawyer shows up to give you expert advice.
 Your lawyer will recommend a course of action after he or she arrives. Discussions between you and your lawyer are private. The lawyer is not allowed to share what you say with anyone.


In the case of a public defender, you will not have much time between when you meet and appear before the judge. By honest and as detailed as possible about the circumstances surrounding your arrest and your interactions with the police.
 A bond is a promise that you will meet the court’s demands as a trade for your release from jail. These demands will include an amount of money that you have to pay to the court. The amount of the bond falls within the parameters of a bond schedule based on the crime. The judge will set it to whatever amount they feel will guarantee that you show up for trial. Factors that affect the bond amount can include:


The severity of the crime, or whether you pose a potential threat to the public
Whether you have a job, and how much money you have
How much money your friends and family would be willing to share
Close ties to family and community that would make you think twice about running away
A past criminal record that suggests you don’t learn from your mistakes
If you can't afford the bond amount, friends and family may help you.
Otherwise, contact a bail bondsman.A bail bondsman is someone who lends money to people in order to enable them to make bond. They usually require that you pay 10% of the bail amount, at which point they'll lend you the remaining bail money.
Some states have outlawed the practice of bail bondsmen. In many of these states, the judge may allow you—as well as friends and family—to sign a signature bond. This obligates all signers to pay the bond amount only if you fail to show up for all of your subsequent legal proceedings.
You should be released from police detention after posting bond or singing a promise to appear in court.

