 Mini orchids have fast-growing roots, and one of the main reasons you need to periodically repot your orchids is to provide the roots with plenty of room. The new pot only needs to be large enough to fit the roots; you do not need to choose a pot that is significantly larger to anticipate further root growth.;
, Media with a base of moss and bark is superior to standard potting soil.
 For best results, let the drenched media sit for a full 24 hours so that it thoroughly absorbs the water.
 Snip off green spikes 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) above the top node. Trim yellow or brown spikes 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) above the bottom node.
 Gently grab the base of the orchid with one hand and the pot with your other. Tip the mini orchid to its side or upside-down, and slowly squeeze or rotate the sides of the pot until the clump of roots comes free.
 Media breaks down as time passes, and old, decomposed media is more likely to cause your orchid's roots to rot. As a result, you need to remove as much old media as possible.
 Dead roots with look brown and wilted. Healthy roots, on the other hand, are white or green and relatively firm.
 You only need a little, since the mini orchid's roots should fill the majority of the container.
 Hold the orchid up so that the base of the lowest leaf dips below the rim of the pot by 1/2 inch (1.27 centimeters).
 Press down on the media gently to force it into the bottom and around the sides of the container. Periodically tap the side of the container to help settle it. Continue adding the media until the entire root system is covered, leaving the plant exposed from the bottom leaf up.
 Lift the plant up by the stem. If the pot starts to slip, you need to add more media to make the orchid more secure.
 Instead, sit it in a warm location and mist it with a little water each day. The leaves should stay dry at night.
 Mini orchids may need re-potting as often as every one year, but some can even go as long as three years without any damage occurring. If your media starts to smell or if the roots of your flower look choked, you know it is time for you to repot.

