 Medical books and websites offer detailed information on diseases and injuries that may cause chronic back pain, in addition to explaining drug treatment and therapy available.;
, An individual living with chronic back pain most often will appreciate an expressed interest of their condition. Showing you care may encourage communication.
 Various medications are available for chronic back pain. If over-the-counter medicine is not effective, only a doctor can prescribe a stronger medication to relieve chronic pain.


Sometimes changing medication dosage or prescription is necessary depending on the individual's present health status and other medications prescribed.
 Regular exercise or physical therapy can help strengthen back muscles, maintain healthy weight and enhances mobility.


Yoga improves ability function, eases pain and improves mood.
Physical therapy provides patient education.
Typically a home exercise program is customized to specific patient needs after physical therapy.
 Joining your family member or friend on an exercise regime to deal with chronic back pain is positive for their well-being. Since chronic pain sufferers can sometimes become depressed, emotional support can lift spirits and encourage a positive outlook.
 Many individuals with chronic back pain may avoid asking for help to maintain their independence. This can cause more harm to a back disorder.


Offer to do any shopping if your family member or friend cannot get around.
Suggest a motorized shopping cart when purchasing groceries if mobility is limited.
Do not allow lifting of heavy objects.
 Bathing can be especially challenging for someone with chronic back pain. Attempting to step in, stand or sit in a tub or shower is nearly impossible for some individuals with chronic back pain.
 Many individuals living with chronic pain do not enjoy life as before. Their condition may prevent them from working and doing normal activities.
 Connecting with others experiencing a similar condition reinforces a positive support network.
