 In addition to having racks of current issues, many comics shops also display issues of Superman comics from the Silver and Bronze Ages. These issues are usually bagged and backed and may also be kept behind glass. Newer used issues than these are kept in bins and may be organized by title.


Comic shops also carry various DC reprint collections, which may be soft-covers in black and white (Showcase Presents) or hard-covers in color (DC Archive Editions). Other reprint collections are in the format of graphic anthologies, which are color soft-covers.
 Comics collectors looking to part with comics they no longer want may advertise them for sale in either local newspapers or comic book industry publications. Most ads will mention the comic publisher or comic titles available, but usually not specific issues of specific comics.
 Thrift stores, second-hand bookstores, and flea markets may all have Superman comics in their inventory. Most issues will be more recent issues, but you may find some Silver or Bronze Age titles if you're lucky. You may also find some of the smaller Blue Ribbon Digests, which reprint Superman adventures around a theme, or larger Treasury-sized Famous First Editions, which reproduce the stories from first issues of various DC titles.
 Most science fiction conventions feature a dealers' room that may include comic book dealers. There are also conventions devoted solely to comic books, ranging from small, 1-day events to national, multi-day conventions such as Comic-Con, which feature representatives of major comic book companies as well as the opportunity to buy and sell. At smaller conventions, the oldest Superman comics available will likely be those from the late Silver or early Bronze Ages, although you may find a few late Golden Age and early Silver Age issues. Larger conventions are more likely to feature dealers who have Superman comics from the early Silver or late Golden Ages.


As with comic shops, dealers at conventions often feature older and costlier titles on display separate from the boxes of newer, used comics.
 Many comics dealers have Internet storefronts. Usually, these are oriented toward current comics, but some dealers may deal in older issues. You may also find vintage Superman comics available through online marketplaces such as eBay, Craigslist, or Amazon.com, or through comics auction sites such as <a href="http://www.comiclink.com">www.comiclink.com</a> or <a href="http://www.comicconnect.com">www.comicconnect.com</a>.


In addition to major Internet search engines such as Google, there are also specialized search engines for comics such as <a href="http://www.comicseeker.com">www.comicseeker.com</a>.
You can also network with other Superman fans through online communities and forums.
 Because the oldest Superman comics are the rarest Superman comics, if you want to get something from the early Golden Age, you're most likely to get it by dealing with an auction house. Keep in mind that the oldest comics now command prices well over $100,000, however.

