 You can preserve your own patience going into homework time by making sure you and your child are on the same page. Sit down with your child and talk about what they need to work on this school year. Then, map out a plan that makes sure they can do the homework that is assigned and cover other important skillsets in the specified amount of time.Think about what has worked in the past, or what may have been helpful for their siblings at that age.
Include your child in this plan, talking to them about what time they prefer to do homework and which aids are more helpful.
 You and your child are both less likely to become frustrated when you know what to expect. Set a consistent schedule for homework, on weekdays and weekends. Stick to this plan as closely as you can. That way, your child has structure around their homework time just as they do at school., For small children especially, homework time may require a lot of guidance. Situate them in an environment where you can supervise their work. The area must also be quiet enough to help them focus.A popular place in many homes for homework is the kitchen or dining room table. Make sure the area is well-lit, stocked with the necessary supplies, and free of distractions like the television or toys. Ask other family members to steer clear of the area during homework time whenever possible.
 Plan out each night’s (or week’s) homework assignments and ask your child what they think is the best way to divide up big tasks.Working on one aspect of a project at a time reduces frustration and builds confidence as they move along.
 If you’re not a natural teacher, you might struggle with explaining new concepts to a kindergartner or first-grader. You’re less likely to grow impatient with your child when you have practical aids on hand to help them learn new topics.


Find out what skills your child is learning and research books, toys, and online videos that may assist them. One free online resource for homework help is HippoCampus.org. It features educational video content in over 13 subjects.Every child has their own learning style, so using a variety of learning methods may assist children who learn better through hands-on or auditory approaches.