 If your teacher has been yelling at you on a regular basis, the first step is to talk to your parents. It can be very difficult to address the situation on your own. Your parents want you to have a positive learning experience and will want to help you find a solution to the problem.


Express your concerns to your parents soon after a problem occurs. You want to be able to talk to them when an incident is fresh in your mind. Do not sit and stew for a few weeks, as you may forget necessary details.
Your parents may be skeptical at first. Try not to take this personally. This is not because they don't care, but because children frequently feel teachers dislike them or are mean to them. Try to explain the specifics of what happened. Tell them what your teacher said as well as her tone of voice.Your parents will want to know all the facts. They'll probably ask you a lot of questions about the incident or incidents. Try to answer their questions calmly, even though you may feel stressed out. Your parents might want to schedule a meeting with your teacher in order to assess the situation.;
, Oftentimes, a teacher simply has a reputation for being strict or difficult. Your teacher may also be going through a personal problem that's affecting her behavior in the classroom. Have your parents talk to your friends' parents to get a sense of whether other students have similar problems. The more information your parents know, the better they can address the situation in a meeting with your teacher.In some cases, your teacher may be unwilling to address the problem with your parents. In this case, your parents may have to report the problem to the school's principal. Having others back up their claims can help them make their case.
 While it can be difficult to respect someone who does not respect you, try to obey your teacher's rules. If your parents are discussing the issue with school officials, it may take a few weeks before it's resolved. During this time, try to minimize tension by respecting your teacher in the classroom.Try to follow any classroom rules. Do your homework on time, do not talk in class, and follow instructions during activities.
If you're struggling with something, approach the teacher in a way that does not upset him or her. For example, if you're struggling with an assignment, say something like, "I'm having trouble with this math problem. Can you show me what I'm doing wrong?" Your teacher may respond better if he or she feels like you're genuinely trying to learn and not just wasting time.Keep in mind some teachers just yell, regardless of how you're behaving. Such behaviors should be reported to your principal. Your parents should be able to handle this for you. However, in the meantime continue behaving respectfully. You want to be the bigger person in this scenario to avoid giving your teacher an excuse for his or her behavior.
 Sometimes, simply venting to others can help you cope with a frustrating situation. If your teacher yells to other students and not just you, talk it out with them.


You might not find a solution talking but mutual complaining can help you get through the day. Leaving your feelings bottled up can make them worse.
Be careful where you vent. You want to avoid complaining about a teacher on school grounds as you may be overheard. This can make the problem worse.
 Even after taking steps to address the problem, some teachers may still be difficult. It may simply be a problem of your personalities clashing. Your learning style may not match how your teacher conducts his or her classroom. Try to relax and get through the year. You will have many teachers in your lifetime. Even if you do not get along with this person, you'll find a better learning environment later on.