 You will need plain paper, contact paper, brown packing paper or newsprint, a felt tip marker and scissors.


Making decals from contact paper is more inexpensive than using a computer and requires fewer materials.
This method is better for simpler designs which don't require a detailed rendering.;
, You can also work on it using photo editing software.


For wall decals, create a sketch of the room where you plan to put the design.
Make sure it's somewhat to scale and includes furniture.
If you are using software like Photoshop, scan in a picture of the room and add the design to the photo digitally.
 Do this based on your drawing and the scale of the room or item where you are putting it.


Contact paper is available in various roll sizes and colors from online stores and home improvement stores.
Make sure you buy enough for your project and allocate for mistakes and waste.
If you are working on a large area, it's a good idea to buy in bulk to save money.
 Paper like brown packing paper or newsprint will work best for this mock-up.


Tape the design to the walls to make sure you are happy with the scale and shape.
Pay special attention to corners, making sure that the shape looks good in the location and that its at the correct angle.
Make adjustments as needed until you are satisfied with the look.
 This is what you will use to trace the image onto contact paper.


Make sure your design from newsprint doesn't become torn or damaged by the tape that temporarily holds it onto the wall.
Double check your design to make sure it looks correct.
Make any adjustments as necessary.
 The back of the paper should be facing up. Use weights in the corners if it's a large piece that slips.
Place the paper design on top of the contact paper.
Trace the design onto the back of the contact paper with a felt tip marker.
 If your design is detailed with lots of negative space, it might be easier to use an X-acto knife. If using an X-acto knife, be sure to use a mat underneath to avoid scratching your work surface.
X-acto knives are very sharp and can slip from your hand easily. Be careful!
Children should be supervised while doing this step.
 Do this by starting at the bottom of your design, working upwards.Peel off the backing paper as you go.
Go slowly to avoid wrinkles and bubbles in your design as you press it onto the wall.
Press firmly to make sure the sticky surface of the contact paper adheres to the wall.

