 This helps even out the chicken breasts so that they cook more evenly.If you don't own a meat mallet, you can use a rolling pin or heavy jar instead. If you don't have any plastic, zippered bags that are large enough, you can use two sheets of plastic wrap instead.


Focus on the thickest areas of the chicken breast. You want it to be about the same thickness all around.
Do not rinse the chicken breasts beforehand. You can trim away any excess fat, however.
You can use this method to bake bone-in chicken breasts. If you are using bone-in chicken breasts, you do not need to pound them flat.
 Add the olive oil, minced garlic, thyme, oregano, salt, pepper, and lemon zest into a large bowl. Briskly stir it together using a whisk or fork.


If you can't find any dried thyme or oregano, you can use fresh instead. Plan on using three times as much of the fresh herb.You can use your own marinade, or even some dressing instead.
If you plan using some of the marinade during or after grilling, set some aside now. Once the raw chicken touches the marinade, you cannot reuse it.
 Cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and leave it in the fridge for at least 1 to 2 hours. It would be better if you let it marinate for 4 to 12 hours, however., Scrape the grate clean. Dip a folded paper towel into vegetable oil, then wipe the grate with it. The grate needs to be glossy with oil. Turn the heat up to high.Consider having a two-zone fire, with the heat focused on one side. That way, if the chicken cooks too quickly, you can move it to the other side of the grill to finish cooking over a lower temperature., If you are using a two-zone fire, place the chicken on the hotter part of the grill. This way, you can move it to the cooler part if it is cooking too fast. The chicken pieces can be close together, but they should not be touching.
 Cook the chicken until the underside turns brown, about 3 to 5 minutes. Use a pair of tongs to flip the chicken over, then cook it for another 3 to 5 minutes.The chicken is ready when the center is no longer pink and the juices are clear.


If you are cooking bone-in chicken, give it another minute or two on each side.Unlike beef, chicken must be completely cooked through. If you want to be extra safe, stick a cooking thermometer into the thickest part of the chicken. The temperature should read around 170°F (77°C).
 This allows the juices to settle back into the meat.Keep the chicken covered with aluminum foil while it is resting so that it doesn't get cold or dry out.

