 With everyone everywhere on a smart phone, tablet, or laptop, technology is fast becoming one of the primary ways humans communicate. Social media networks, online forums, and dating websites and chat-rooms are common stomping grounds for creeps who won't take no for an answer. Perhaps you were previously friendly with another user and he said or did something that made you uncomfortable. You have a right to tell him to back off.


In the clearest way possible, tell him that you are no longer interested in chatting or maintaining contact. Request that the person stop contacting you. Your request might be as straightforward as "Can you please stop contacting me?";
, Removing this guy as a friend or follower should prevent him from being able to contact you any further.


Sit down and go through each network in which you have had contact with him and block him from being able to view your profile and reach out to you.
There are two easy ways to block contact on Facebook. You can visit the person's profile and select Block from the "..." menu. You can also click the padlock symbol on your on profile. The prompt "How do I stop someone from bothering me?" should appear. Select this, and then enter the name or email address of the user you want to block., If you need help blocking an unfriendly user, you can always ask for assistance from the administrators of whatever site you're using. Typically, these customer service agents will make haste of blocking this person and the person will not be able to contact you again.
 If you gave out your email address, or if it was listed on your user accounts, it might be a good idea to change it. If the person has not been contacting you via email, you may be okay to keep using your current one.
 If a person online is stalking you, it's important to gather any inappropriate messages, emails, photos, or other means of contact to show to someone in authority. If you are not sure if your case counts as cyberstalking, consider the following. Cyberstalking occurs when someone:Monitors your computer or internet use or social media posts
Posts inappropriate pictures or spreads rumors about you online
Threatens to hurt you or someone you care about
Messages, texts, or contacts you when you do not want him to
Sends you viruses or content that potentially damaging to you computer or phone

, If blocking this person or getting help from a chat-room or social media website administrator doesn't solve the problem, you need to get legal assistance. Contact the cops and bring them up to date on the situation, being sure to provide them with evidence to help your case.

