 If you have not already begun to seriously try to keep your child out of your bed, pick a start date. This is the date where you will not turn back when you hear your child crying, but will instead call out that you are right here, and then get into your own bed.


Make sure nothing incredibly major, like moving to a new house, or welcoming a new baby, is happening right around the same time that you begin making your child sleep in her own bed.
 When your child wanders into your room in the night, calmly—and unemotionally—walk her back to her own bed. Do not get angry or show that her getting out of bed has affected you; this will only make her want to get out of bed more often.


Tuck in bed and tell her that you will be close by.
 Prevent your toddler from leaving her room by putting a baby gate across her door, so that you can still see into the room (and get in quickly if need be) but that will not allow your child to get out.


Consider putting a bell on the baby gate so that when your child does try to get out, you will know. Set consequences around the ringing of the bell. For example, you could say, “If I hear that bell ring twice tonight, you will not be able to go to the park with your friend tomorrow”.
 For example, every time she sleeps a full night in her bed, she will get a sticker. You could even have your child pick out a calendar. Every time your child sleeps through the night, she can get a sticker in the morning and put it on the day before to show that she slept through the night.


You could even suggest that when she fills up a whole month, she can get an even bigger prize, like a scoop of ice cream, or a trip to the zoo.
 If you let your child have some say in her room, she may be more inclined to stay in it at night. Ask her how she would like her room arranged, and help her pick out her bedding.


Encourage your child to spend time playing in her room by herself so that she gets used to being in there without you.
 While it may feel silly, check all of the spots where your child thinks there are monsters hiding. You could even say that you have sent the monster away, or killed it.


If your child still isn’t satisfied, consider making a simple book (one made out of paper stapled together) that tells the story of how the monster was actually friendly, or of how the brave little girl’s parents sent the monster away. Draw pictures that your child can color so that she becomes familiar with the story.
 Allow your child to have a nightlight on in the room if need be. Play quiet, soothing music, and give your child a stuffed animal that acts as her ‘guardian’.


If your child has a favorite blanket, make sure she always has it with her before going to bed.
 When your child does manage to sleep in bed all night, shower your child with praise to let her know how happy you are that she stayed in her own bed.


You could even consider getting her a treat.

