 Some states have a bottle bill, which means they reimburse 5-10 cents for every empty can or bottle you return.Click here to see if your state has a bottle bill.;
, If your state has a bottle bill, then there should be a bottle return center somewhere near you. Usually bottle return centers have large boxes that look like vending machines where you put your bottles and cans. You'll then receive a ticket that you can redeem for cash. In some areas, supermarkets serve as bottle return centers. Do a quick internet search to find the nearest bottle return center to you.
 Five cents may not sound like much, but this amount adds up over time. Think about how many cans and bottles your household uses in a week or a month. Get a large bag or bin and put all of your empty cans and bottles in here. Then, when your container is nearly full, visit the nearest bottle return center. Letting the cans accumulate like this will give you a nice return on your recycling efforts., You don't have to limit yourself to returning the bottles you use in your own house. Your neighborhood is probably full of cans and bottles you could recycle; you just have to find them. Remember that whenever you pick up bottles and cans, you should wear a thick pair of gloves. You don't want to risk cutting yourself and getting an infection.Visit local parks and playgrounds. Kids and parents probably unknowingly leave a lot of recyclable items in these places. Take a bag and pick them up to bring to a bottle return center.
See if any local businesses will give you their cans. Restaurants and stores often recycle cans themselves. Sometimes, however, the owners don't want to go through the trouble, and you could offer to take the cans off their hands. This will give you a steady stream of bottles to redeem.
See if neighbors will give you their cans. Again, your neighbors may not want to go through the trouble of recycling their own cans. Offer to take them and you could end up with a nice profit.
 Bottle return centers usually have different machines for plastic, glass, and metal. If you haven't already, sort your cans and bottles into these three groups. That way when you get to the return center you can move efficiently and get your money as quickly as possible.Look for a number on plastics to indicate if it is recyclable. #1 and #2 plastic is the most common type used in bottles, and both are recyclable. To save time, use different containers for glass, plastic, and metal. That way, you won't have to go through the trouble of sorting.
For more details one recycling cans and bottles, read Recycle Aluminum Cans and Plastic Bottles and Earn Cash.

