 When repairing an exhaust leak, the first step is raising the vehicle to a height you can work on. It’s important that you work on a surface that can support that weight of the vehicle beneath the jack. You also need the surface to be level, as it’s extremely unsafe to jack up a car at an angle.Black top or concrete are the best surfaces to jack up a car on.
Never jack up a car on grass, dirt or gravel as it may cause the jack to topple over.;
, While driving, the exhaust piping in your vehicle can reach extremely high temperatures. It may take several hours for the piping to cool enough to he handled as you look around for a leak.The longer the engine was running before allowing it to cool, the longer it will take to be able to work on it the exhaust.
Touch the hood of your car. If it is still warm, the engine and exhaust are both still extremely hot.
 Slide a scissor or trolley jack below the vehicle at one of its designated jack points. With the jack in the correct space, jack up the car until it is high enough to safely work beneath it. Using jack stands is extremely important. Never work beneath a vehicle supported only by a jack.Once the vehicle is jacked up, place jack stands beneath the vehicle to support its weight.
If you are unsure where these jack points are, refer to the vehicle’s owner’s manual to help you locate them.
 If you believe you know where an exhaust leak may be coming from, examine that area closely for signs of damage. Otherwise, start at the front of the vehicle and work your way back. Look for signs of damage such as scrapes, rust, cracks or holes. Aside from normal damage, be on the lookout for rust. Rust is also a common cause of exhaust leaks. If rust penetrates through all the way through a pipe, it will result in a leak.In lower vehicles, exhaust leaks can be caused by the underside of the vehicle bottoming out on things like speed bumps or pot holes.
Other common causes of exhaust leaks are crushes, punctures and loose hardware.
 If you can’t find the source of the leak with a visual inspection, ask a friend to start the vehicle. Climb beneath the vehicle with it running to look for signs of smoke leaking out of the pipes..Be careful working under a vehicle that is running. Keep your hands away from any moving parts and do not wear loose fitting clothing.
Make sure the vehicle is in park (automatic transmissions) or is in neutral with the wheels chocked (standard transmissions) before your friend starts it.
 Some damage can easily be repaired at home, while other issues may be beyond your ability or skill set. Once you have identified the leak, consider your repair options. If the exhaust piping is covered in deep rust, that entire section of the exhaust may need to be replaced. Small scrapes or holes can be addressed with patches or an epoxy.Small leaks may be repaired using exhaust tape or repair epoxy.
Larger holes a patch in conjunction with an epoxy to seal the leak.

