 You might want to watch the anime for a greater insight into Ippo's character and personality. This can help you imitating Ippo as you will know Ippo's character more carefully and have a greater degree of knowledge about his personality.;
, Like Ippo, you should try to train hard and improve your body fitness. This includes training your lower and upper body, endurance, arms and chest. Try to achieve a body that Ippo has. Obviously somethings in animes are not realistic. Try to get six pack abs by training your stomach with sit ups, crunches, plank and other fat burning exercises. Do roadwork, meaning run to improve your stamina, do push ups for the arms and chest, squats for lower body and pull ups for upper body. Do circuit, aerobic and anaerobic training, mixing it up too for excellent results.
 Like Ippo, try to take up boxing and enjoy it. If you can't be a pro boxer, do it for a hobby. Not only will it improve your health, you're imitating Ippo as well. Try to use his moves in real situations in boxing, most of them are based on moves used by real boxers so there should not be a problem. Don't try to slack off, try to be the best and do your training everyday. It is important that you follow your coaches' instructions rather than doing boxing on your own.
 Do not fear anyone and be calm under pressure. Remember what you learned, and follow the gut theory.
 Set yourself goals and work hard at them - no matter what happens, you will have to accomplish your goals. Set harder targets each time and do not give up on them.
 Like Ippo, he succeeds because he has a person to beat. Make someone your training motivation, looking always to better that person no matter what happens, always taking on the competition proving to yourself that you're better then that person.
 For example, doing training at noon, relaxing in the morning and revising at night. In that routine, you could also add what foods to eat at what time. Try to be healthy with your selections if you can and do not completely take out fats from your routine. Eating good fats will benefit your body. Drink lots of water but not in excess and try to reduce your calorie intake and exercise more often to use up calories that you have stored from eating.
 Be a fun character but not over the top. Rather being serious all the time, be polite and kind around other people. However it is a must that you are serious over your routine.
