 One of the most conventional and more accurate ways to test your grip strength is by using a handgrip dynamometer. Find or purchase one of these so you can test your grip strength.The first place to look for a dynamometer is at your local gym or fitness center. Many gyms have a variety of tools to measure progress and a dynamometer is a common device to have.
If your gym doesn't have one, consider looking online or in a fitness or sporting goods store to purchase one. You can continuously use it and to track your grip strength over time.;
, Although using a handgrip dynamometer is fairly easy, it's important to make sure you position your arm and hand correctly for the most accurate results.Start by holding the dynamometer in one hand. You will test both hands, but can only test one at a time.


Bend the arm that's being tested at a 90 degree angle at the elbow. Your upper arm should be next to your body with your forearm pointing away from your body.
The base of the dynamometer should rest on the heel of your hand (or the muscle right under your thumb). Your four fingers should rest on the lever of the dynamometer.
 In order to get an accurate reading, you need to squeeze this tool with as much force and effort as you can. This will give you your maximum grip strength.


When your arm and hand are positioned correctly, begin squeezing the dynamometer as hard as you can.
Keep squeezing for at least 5 seconds. Have a stop watch or friend time you for 5 seconds.
Do not move any other body parts while you're squeezing as this can influence the reading on the dynamometer.
For the most accurate results, take an average of 3 tests.
 After you've performed the test on each hand and have found an average of your results, you can score yourself to see where you are compared to standards.For men, you typically want to have a grip strength reading of 105 and above. A score of 105 puts you at an average grip strength.
For women, you typically want to have a grip strength of at least 57. This is considered average. Anything above is considered very good or even excellent.
If your score is below average, you can take steps to improve. For men if your grip strength is below 105, this signifies you're below average or have poor grip strength. You may want to consider adding in exercises to help strengthen your grip. If your grip strength as a woman is below 57, this signifies your score is below average. Again, with practice, you can improve your score.

