 Even if you've managed to thoroughly clean your room and mask the odors there, if you've been smoking, the smell will linger pretty noticeably on your clothes.The best thing to do is to change your clothes immediately after smoking, and conceal those clothes in a contained environment, like a tied-up plastic bag.


If you aren’t able to change out of your clothes immediately, try spraying them down thoroughly with Lysol.
 Much like clothing, a person's breath is a tell-tale sign of smoking. Anyone who has ever talked to or kissed a smoker will recall the prominent odor on the smoker's breath afterward. Fortunately, there are a number of options for covering the smell of cigarettes on your breath.


Eat something with a strong odor, like garlic or onions.This should effectively mask the odor from your breath, as garlic and onions tend to overpower most other smells.
Freshen your breath by brushing your teeth and using mouthwash.This will give you the freshest breath possible, and will leave your mouth feeling clean.
Chew a strong mint. Breath mints are designed to mask odors by leaving a strong minty aroma in your mouth. This can even be done after you've brushed your teeth or eaten something with a strong odor. , If you've been holding a burning cigarette for any length of time, there is a good chance that your hands will smell like cigarettes. Fortunately, if you're at home, you should be able to thoroughly wash your hands, ideally with a scented soap.Use a scented soap to work up a good lather between your hands.If you don't have scented soap, a scented shampoo or body wash will do.
Rinse your hands thoroughly, and repeat as necessary.Use hand sanitizer and/or moisturizing lotion to help further cover up the smell after you've washed your hands., Smoke tends to hang on people's hair and scalp due to the porous nature of our body's hair.If at all possible, wash your hair and take a full shower after smoking to adequately hide the smell of smoke on your person.


Use a coconut shampoo or other strongly-scented product to mask the odor on your hair and scalp.Use a scented styling product after you shower to further ensure that your hair does not smell.