 As a cat owner, you should monitor your cat’s behaviour throughout their life. In many instances changes in behavior will signal an underlying medical or health issue. For instance, some cats may develop severe behavior issues, such as excessive grooming, aggression towards other animals or humans, anxieties and fears, or failure to use the litter box.For example, some cats may begin biting at their tail or licking their paws until the skin becomes raw and infected. This type of problem likely needs to be treated medically.;
, Any behavioural problems that may cause harm to the health and safety of your cat, other animals, family members, or property, should be treated medically. Your veterinarian will be able to assess the health of your cat and come up with solutions.For instance, your vet will likely refer you to a pet behaviorist to work on modifying your cat’s environments and behaviours.
If behavioral training alone doesn’t work, your vet may prescribe antidepressants. These have been shown to be successful in treating a variety of behavioral issues among cats.
 Prior to prescribing antidepressants to your cat, the vet should run a blood test to make sure that the kidney and liver are working properly. Antidepressants are processed through the liver and kidneys so it they should never be prescribed to a cat with a poor functioning liver or kidneys., Once your vet prescribes a type of antidepressant, typically these include Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) or Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs), you should ask about any potential side effects that your cat may experience. This way you can monitor your cat and watch for negative side effects.For example, possible side effects for antidepressant medication in cats includes, lethargy, dry mouth, excessive thirst, and diarrhea.
 Certain antidepressants do not mix well with other medications and could result in severe health problems for your cat. Make sure that your vet is well informed about all drugs your cat is taking prior to prescribing an antidepressant., If your cat is only supposed to take half a pill per day, then you should not exceed this amount even if you don’t notice behavior changes. These drugs are very strong and may be toxic to your cat if they overdose. As a result, it is very important that you follow instructions carefully., Antidepressants need to be given daily in order for them to have an effect on your cat. To remind yourself to give the medication to your cat each day, write it down in your daily planner, or set a reminder alert in your phone. Alternatively, you could store the medication near your cat’s food. That way you will be reminded each day when you feed your cat., Antidepressants typically come in pill form and you will need to give the pill to your cat. This can be done by mixing it with their food, hiding it in special pill pocket treats, or inserting it into the back of the cat’s mouth using your finger.

If your cat resists taking a pill, you should place the pill in the back of the cat's mouth, close and hold the cat's mouth closed, and then blow air into your cat's face. This will cause your cat to swallow the pill on reflex.
You can also play with your cat to tire it out before giving the pill.
 While your cat is taking antidepressants, your vet should perform a blood test at least once a year. This way, they can determine if the drugs are having a negative impact on the liver or kidneys. A blood test can also determine if your cat’s body is tolerating the drugs., There is very limited information available concerning the effectiveness of antidepressants in cats. As a result, your vet may need to adjust the dosage or change the type of antidepressant, if no change in behavior occurs. It typically takes a few weeks for these drugs to begin working. If no change in behavior occurs after a month, talk with your vet to make changes to the medication., Antidepressants are typically prescribed for short term use and are combined with behavioral therapy. In some cases the unwanted behavior will return once the cat is taken off of the antidepressants. When this happens the cat may need to remain on the drugs for over a year, or even for the rest of their life.