 Any pan that is stove-safe will suffice. Transfer only the liquid solution. Do not pour solid baking soda into the boiling pan.


You will only have solid baking soda if you added too much baking soda. The excess baking soda will remain in a solid (but wet) form.
 Put the boiling pan on the stove and bring the solution to a slow boil. Avoid boiling vigorously, as this will make it hard to monitor the surface of the solution, and could lead to over-boiling. You can also use a bunsen burner or hotplate to boil the solution., Be sure that the solution is at a light enough boil that you can monitor the surface of the solution. If it is boiling too vigorously for you to watch the surface, turn the heat down. Allow the solution to slow boil until you see a white solid start to form in the solution or on the surface. When you see this, remove from heat immediately and swirl the solution until the solid redissolves.
 As the solution cools, the sodium acetate dissolved in the hot water will precipitate out. It may take up to half an hour before you notice the formation of white sodium acetate crystals. Once the crystals form, you can pour off any excess water.If the crystals do not form, the solution may be resting in a supersaturated state. This means that there is excess sodium acetate dissolved in the water for its current temperature. Drop a small piece of metal (even aluminum foil should work) into the solution to start the crystallization.If you are building hot ice sculptures, you will want to pour the solution a little at a time into your mold or design. This should catalyze the sodium acetate to precipitate out of solution, and form a solid sculpture.
 The crystals will form on the surface of the dish. For the best yield, scrape them off with a razor. Collect the crystals in an airtight container (a ziplock bag is sufficient).If you plan to make a hand warmer, put the crystals in an airtight plastic bag. You can melt the crystals by dropping the bag into boiling water. Leave it in liquid form until you need a hand warmer, then drop a crystal or piece of metal in to catalyze the change back to a warm solid.

