 In most cases of viral labyrinthitis, your immune system will clear the infection on its own. However, less frequent instances of bacterial labyrinthitis can lead to much more serious (and potentially life-threatening) conditions such as meningitis.You should seek immediate medical attention if your symptoms also include:Convulsions
Double vision
Fainting
Severe vomiting
Slurred speech
Vertigo with a fever of 101°F (38.3°C) or higher
Weakness or paralysis

, Even without emergency-related symptoms, you should still see your doctor if you’re suffering from labyrinthitis.Your doctor will help diagnose whether the etiology (cause) of the condition is viral or bacterial.Your doctor can then take the proper steps to possibly shorten the duration of the condition, alleviate symptoms, and reduce the risk of any permanent hearing loss.


There are other causes of vertigo that are not from labyrinthitis, so its important for a doctor to evaluate

, If the presentation of your case makes your doctor suspect something other than labyrinthitis, he or she may order tests to rule out other conditions. Your doctor may ask you to submit to:An electroencephalogram (EEG)
An electronystagmography, which tests eye reflexes by warming and cooling your inner ear
A computed tomography (CT) scan, which creates a three-dimensional x-ray of your head
An MRI
Hearing tests

, Your physician may prescribe antiviral agents for severe forms of viral labyrinthitis or antibiotics if the underlying cause is a bacterial infection.Regardless of the type of prescription, take exactly as directed for the full course of the medication.
 In addition to any medications your doctor might prescribe to treat the cause of the labyrinthitis, he or she may also recommend prescription-strength medications to help you deal with the vertigo, dizziness, and other symptoms while you recover. Tell your doctor about any antihistamines, Dramamine, or any other OTC medicines you were taking before your consultation, and only follow the exact medication regimen that your doctor prescribes. Some common drugs prescribed for this purpose include:Prochlorperazine (Compazine) to control nausea and vomiting
Scopolamine (Transderm-Scop) to help with dizziness
Sedatives such as diazepam (Valium)
Steroids (prednisone, methylprednisolone, or decadron)

, If your symptoms do not subside with the use of medication and become chronic, then you should ask your doctor about VRT. VRT is a physical therapy that can help you adapt to and correct for the symptoms of labyrinthitis. Some of the strategies most commonly used in this therapy include:Gaze-stabilization exercises: These exercises help your brain adapt to the new signaling from your affected vestibular system (the system that helps you with orientation). A common exercise includes fixing your gaze on a specific target while moving your head.
Canal-retraining exercises: Chronic symptoms of labyrinthitis can lead to changes related to nerve signaling for balance and walking. These exercises improve coordination by helping you adapt to the affected sensory information you receive from your eyes and vestibular system.
Expect to see a physical therapist once or twice a week for four to six weeks for your VRT sessions.
 In very rare cases, your doctor may determine that an aggressive surgical option is necessary to stop advanced labyrinthitis complications from turning into potentially fatal meningitis or encephalitis. This may include a labyrinthectomy (removal of the infected portion of the inner ear) to help stop the spread of the infection.