 Rather than simply hopping into bed and expecting to be relaxed, give yourself at least 15-30 minutes to let your mind unwind after a long and stressful day. There are techniques you can use to let go of taxing or stressful thoughts so that you can relax overnight. For example you can: Write a list of what you have achieved during the day.
Check off your achievements from a to-do list. These can be mundane, everyday tasks which are often the cause of most of our stress.
Write down your thoughts in a diary or journal.Write down your tasks for the next day so that they are not weighing on you in bed.Meditate for 15-30 minutes to clear your head.
 If you find yourself unable to relax in bed, don't let yourself stew for too long. If you cannot relax after 10-15 minutes in bed, get out of bed and do another relaxing activity. Your anxiety will not dissipate on its own. Instead, break the cycle by taking a warm bath, reading a book, or listening to classical music for 15 minutes or so. Then try to go to bed again. Just be sure that your distraction doesn't involve bright light., Watching television, using a computer, or staring at a smart phone can all have detrimental effects on your ability to relax and go to sleep. In particular, staring at a small bright screen in the dark can disrupt the secretion of melatonin, which regulates our sleep cycle.Ensure you have a clear break between using technological devices and going to bed.Evidence suggests that playing video games in the early evening is linked to loss of sleep, and teenagers who use their phones in bed are more likely to be drowsy during the day., Visualization exercises can reduce stress and anxiety. If you're feeling tense before bed, try a positive visualization exercise. Imagine a place where you feel happy and relaxed. Imagine the sights, sounds, smells and tastes you want to experience. It could be an imaginary scene or a happy memory.Images you might visualize include:


A warm beach.
A cool forest.
Your childhood backyard.
 If you have trouble letting go of stressful events from your day, try to distract yourself with mental exercises. These could be word or number puzzles, or even something as simple as trying to memorize a poem or a song.These mental exercises should be simple enough to help you to feel relaxed but distracting enough that you do not have the mental energy to stress out about your day. For example, you might try:


Sudokus
Crossword puzzles
Reciting your favorite song backwards
Naming all the authors whose last name begins with a certain letter, such as B

