 There are many different treasure hunts online. If you feel stuck, don’t know where to start, or the ideas you have are too complicated for your resources, check online for what may suit the players involved. You may also start with their interests, like robots, and search for treasure hunts that will appeal to them.
 Get players or teams to use cameras or their phones to find different things by taking photos of them. Create a list for everyone to follow and look through the list together. The first team with all the photos wins.For example, you could ask different departments from your office to scour the city for landmarks or have a class of second graders take pictures of certain furniture or shapes around the house. You may also choose activities, like forming a human pyramid, to take a picture of.
You may make harder to get photos worth more points and make sure to give a time limit. The team with the most points at the end of the given time wins.
 Create a list of fun and hard-to-find items. Make sure you set boundaries of where players or teams are allowed to search. Give copies of the list to everyone playing. Make sure that it’s against the rules to steal and give a time limit to find everything.First team to find everything on the list wins. A list can include an old magazine, the smallest or largest fruit in the house, funny pictures, a person wearing a certain uniform (fireman for example), or whatever else suits the age and skill of the players.
 Create a map of your home, your backyard, or your neighbourhood. Make sure the playing area is suitable for the age and skill of your players. Place an X for each location of a clue. You may also just use an X to mark the location of the first clue which will lead them to the next clue until they have found the treasure.For example, the first clue may be something similar to, “walk 40 paces to the east and turn to your left and walk two paces. Climb the big log and look under the green statue for clue number two.
You may also find useful maps online that can be applied to your classroom or home.
 Create a treasure hunt for younger kids by using their imagination along with big and bold images. Be a good storyteller to get them to each clue. You may also have a prize at each clue or, for a larger group, have them return to a central location after they find each clue to claim their prize.You may create two sets of clues for each team or sets of clues for each player if the group is small. This way the kids can exchange stories about what they find after the game.
Make sure that everyone gets to partake in finding the treasure. Very small kids will easily become jealous or feel left out so have them be involved in finding some part of the treasure.

