 The three major credit bureaus in the US -- Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion -- each use different types of FICO scores when calculating your credit score. They may even use different types of FICO scores for different products, such as mortgages vs. credit cards. You will likely have different credit scores from each bureau. For example, according to FICO, Experian uses FICO Score 2 for mortgages, but FICO Score 3 for many credit cards and FICO Bankcard Scores 8 and 2 for others.
Equifax uses FICO Score 5 for mortgages and FICO Bankcard Scores 8 and 5 for credit cards.
TransUnion uses FICO Score 4 for mortgages, and FICO Bankcard Scores 8 and 4 for credit cards., Each of the credit bureaus will analyze your credit history and calculate your score slightly differently. Your FICO score at each bureau will depend on the information each bureau has about you, and how it uses that information in its calculations.Your FICO scores may also differ from each bureau’s own credit scores because of score ranges. For example, FICO uses a score range of 300 (lowest) to 850 (highest), while Equifax uses a score range of 280 (lowest) to 850 (highest).The name of your FICO score will also vary by bureau. Equifax uses the name BEACON, Experian uses Experian/FICO Risk Model, and TransUnion uses FICO Risk Score, Classic., FICO takes five areas into account when calculating your FICO credit score. Each area is weighted by importance (approximate weights are given below). These areas are:Payment history, 35%. This area investigates your “track record” of good credit behavior. It will consider things such as whether you pay on time, whether any accounts have gone into collection, and how many of your accounts you have no late payments on.
Amounts owed, 30%. This area considers the amount of debt you owe. Owing money on credit accounts will not necessarily give you a low FICO score. FICO usually considers things such as the number of accounts that carry a balance and the percentage of your available credit used. For example, if you have 6 credit cards, and 5 of them carry a high balance, you may be more of a credit risk and your FICO score will likely be lower.
Length of credit history, 15%. In general, the longer your credit history is, the higher your FICO score is likely to be. This is because you have shown yourself to be responsible over a long period of time. However, even short credit histories may have a high FICO score depending on the rest of the factors.You need a minimum of 6 months of credit history to generate a FICO score. There must also be at least one undisputed account.


Type of credit used, 10%. This area examines your retail, installment loans (such as auto payments), mortgages, and credit cards. If you have a good mix, you are more likely to have a higher FICO score because you appear to use credit responsibly. FICO will also consider how many of each account type you have. For example, if you have a dozen credit cards but only one auto loan, this may be an imbalanced credit picture.
New credit, 10%. If you have opened several new accounts in a short period of time, this could damage your FICO score. This area also looks at how long it has been since you opened a new account, and how long it has been since a lender made a credit report inquiry.
 FICO has a score range from 300-850. However, different lenders interpret this range in different ways. Some of these differences may be due to state and federal lending laws. For some lenders, 680 may be a “good” credit score, while for others 720 may be considered “good.”Different lenders are free to choose which FICO score they will use, and from which bureau. For example, ABC Car Dealership may use your FICO score from Experian, whereas XYZ Car Dealership may use your FICO score from TransUnion.
Most FICO and credit bureau scores range between 600-750.
A score above 700 usually indicates that you are a responsible credit manager.
If you can, speak with your lender about what they consider a “good” FICO score before you apply for a loan. This can help you avoid disappointments and rejected loans.

