 Sinus infections in children are characterized by persistent cold-like symptoms. Sinusitis can be caused by a bacterial, fungal, or viral infection.


Cold-like symptoms of sinus infections include persistent sneezing, coughing, and congestion that lasts for two weeks or more. In addition, your toddler may have green nasal discharge and sore throat.Your child may also complain of facial pain or headache that is linked to congestion and present with puffy eyes.Sinus infections often cause fevers in young children of 102°F (39°C) or higher.Chronic sinus infections consist of symptoms that last three months or longer with several episodes within a year. ;
, You can use over-the-counter (OTC) pain medications to help manage your child’s facial pain, headache, and fever associated with sinus infection.


Make sure that you are only giving your toddler the dose that is appropriate for her age and weight. Check with a nurse or your toddler’s pediatrician if you are not sure what kind of dose to give to your child.
A fever that is under 101°F (38°C) in a toddler is considered low-grade and can be treated with medication.
Keep your eye on your child if her fever is between 101°F (38°C) and 103°F (39.4°C); if it does not go down after a few hours of treating your child with OTC medication or lasts longer than three days, call your pediatrician.A fever that is 104°F (40°C) or higher and does not come down within a couple of hours after giving your toddler medication requires immediate medical attention.OTC medications that can be used to treat your child’s fever include ibuprofen (e.g., Advil) for children six months and older and acetaminophen (e.g., Tylenol) for infants two months and older.
Do not treat your toddler’s fever with aspirin. Aspirin should not be given to children under the age of 18 because it can cause a rare but potentially fatal disease called Reye's syndrome., Keeping your toddler hydrated helps to alleviate many of his sinus infection symptoms, including congestion, vomiting, and fever. There are a variety of ways to keep your child hydrated.Give your child cool beverages to stay hydrated. Pedialyte and Gatorade may be extra helpful by providing a boost of electrolytes.
If your child has a sore throat, a popsicle may help to ease the pain while also providing fluids.Older toddlers may also be served warm or cold caffeine-free herbal tea with honey to ease a sore throat.Please note that honey should not be given to a child under one year of age due to the risk of botulism.You can also give your sick toddler chicken soup, which is a good source of fluids and nutrients.
 Giving your toddler a bath allows can help relieve some of the symptoms of sinusitis. The steam from a warm bath can help ease congestion and loosen mucus.


Taking a lukewarm bath may also help to reduce your toddler’s fever. Make sure that the water is not hotter than 90°F (32.3°C) or too cold.Your toddler may also benefit from having a warm, moist towel over her face to help reduce facial pain and open up the sinuses., Much of your child’s discomfort comes from his packed sinuses and nasal passages. You can help release mucus by using saline nose drops and suction.


Use salt water nose drops to help thin mucus in your child’s sinuses. Put drops into his nostrils according to the directions on the packaging.Use a bulb syringe to suction off the mucus.
 Extra moisture in the air helps to thin the mucus in your child’s sinuses and nasal passages. Running a cool mist humidifier overnight can help relieve pressure and ensure a better sleep.Make sure you keep the humidifier clean and dry to keep mold and bacteria from spreading through the air.
 As with any illness, your child needs plenty of rest in order to fight off a sinus infection. Make sure that your child has a comfortable place to sleep and that he rests during the day.


If your child is restless, give him quiet entertainment such as an interactive video or low-energy toys to play with.Keep your child out of daycare so that he does not spread the infection.
 Avoid giving your toddler OTC decongestants and antihistamine medications if she is under the age of four. Generally, these medications are not effective at treating sinus infections in young toddlers and are easy to overdose.


OTC decongestants and antihistamine medications, such as Claritin and Benadryl, are not effective at treating upper respiratory infections, especially those caused by bacteria.Talk to your doctor before giving any OTC medication to give your child. Your child's doctor can advise on allergy medications if your child has allergies along with a sinus infection.

