 A Shih Tzu is a great choice if you’re looking for a toy breed that has a laid back personality. Shih Tzus have long, silky coats and are gentle, affectionate lap dogs. This breed is great with children, and its upbeat demeanor means the Shih Tzu needs lots of playtime. The breed can be difficult to train.Shih Tzus weigh between 9 and 16 pounds, and live between 10 and 18 years.
Shih Tzus’ coats can grow exceptionally long, requiring excessive grooming. Most owners choose to keep their coats clipped short to cut maintenance.
 The charming, yet mischievous, pug is a great pick for families that want a laid-back small dog. Pugs are generally healthy with even-tempered and loving temperaments. This breed has a medium energy level and sometimes gets into mischief. They are quite curious and enjoy regular walks and playtime. The breed is prone to health problems including brachycephalic syndrome and orthopedic problems.Pugs weigh 14-18 pounds, and live between 12 and 14 years.
 Both English and American bulldogs are moderately friendly, docile, and mellow. This medium-sized breed is great with children, and very willing to please humans. In general, bulldogs get along well with other pets.Bulldogs tend to weigh between 40 and 50 pounds, and have a lifespan of 8-10 years.
 Basset hounds are good-natured creatures that love to cuddle up with you on a lazy afternoon. They also love leisurely, but long walks. Basset hounds have a mid-range energy level. They are patient, charming, and low-key.While basset hounds do shed, their coats do not need extensive grooming.
Basset hounds weigh between 50 and 65 pounds, and live between 10 and 12 years.
 Newfoundlands are known for their sweet, patient personalities. They are a highly intelligent breed, and can be easily trained. Newfoundlands make devoted companions and have a medium energy level. Since they are large in size, they need space to play and an owner who will prioritize playtime and daily walks.Newfoundlands have plush coats that require regular brushing and trimming.
Newfoundlands weigh between 120 and 150 pounds, and have a lifespan of 8 to 10 years.
 Bloodhounds are a laid back breed known for being friendly, inquisitive, and independent. This large breed has a medium energy level, and can be quite affectionate with its family. Bloodhounds are bred to live in packs, and thrive in the company of adults, children, and other dogs. This breed needs daily walks to prevent it from becoming bored. They also need a fenced in space to sniff around on a regular basis.A bloodhound’s coat need occasional grooming, ranging from daily to weekly brushing.
Bloodhounds tend to drool, sometimes excessively. This requires additional cleanup.
Bloodhounds weigh between 80 and 110 pounds, and have a lifespan of 8 to 10 years.
 This large breed towers over other dogs, and is known for its docile, laid back personality. Great Danes make wonderful companions, and are obedient, agile, and friendly. Gentle and loving, the Great Dane makes a perfect family pet. With a medium energy level, this breed is easygoing. Great Danes need a good walk about twice each day.A Great Dane has a short coat that doesn’t need much maintenance. A weekly brushing and the occasional bath are enough to keep this pup looking dapper.
Great Danes weigh between 110 and 190 pounds, and usually live between 7 and 10 years.

