 You can also visit the North Pole by traveling overland from Russia or Canada, typically by skiing, dragging a sled called a "pulk," and camping on the ice. You can do this either by booking a private guide or entering a race.


There are several organized races to the North Pole, including the Polar Challenge and the North Pole Race, which take you 300 miles (480 km) over the ice to the magnetic north pole.Starting in 2016, the Ice Race will provide a similarly grueling overland trip.Expect to spend roughly $35,000 dollars to participate in one of these expeditions. The cost includes training, flights, equipment, food, and insurance.Because these races are only open to a relatively small number of people, you'll have to contact the organizers for more information about registration, cost, etc. The Ice Race has an online form you can fill out, or you can email the organizer.Note that these races take you to the magnetic North Pole (the point the compass points to), rather than the geographical "True North" North Pole.
Private guides can also be hired for an even longer trip from Russia or Canada. This 500 mile trek is known as a "full distance" North Pole expedition.These expeditions typically depart in February.The full distance trip is by far the most extreme and costly option, and is only open to those with the funds and experience to make the trek. You'll need to contact the company providing guides for pricing.Adventure Consultants, one company that offers guides for full distance journeys, has a booking form on their website that you can fill out if you are serious about one of these trips.After you fill it out, they'll contact you to let you know whether you are eligible and if they can accommodate your adventure.
To even consider one of these overland trips, you should be in excellent health and must be able to certify that this is the case. Additionally, some guides for full distance trips require climbing experience and in some cases even prior experience with an ice axe and crampons., Book a ticket to your starting point for your race or expedition.


Organized races typically start from Resolute Bay in the northern Canadian region of Nunavut.Regularly scheduled flights from major Canadian cities such as Ottawa and Montreal are available through the First Air, Calm Air, and Canadian North airlines.Full distance trips typically leave from Cape Arktichevsky, Russsia, or Ward Hunt Island, Canada. To reach either of these locations, you normally have to charter a private flight, which can be extremely costly.If you take one of these trips through Adventure Consultants, however, they will organize a flight to Ward Hunt Island from Resolute Bay., Head north with your expedition until you reach the pole. These overland trips are grueling. You and your team or guide will spend 8-10 hours each day skiing over snow and ice.


This journey is treacherous, and will require you to navigate over pressure ridges, search for routes around areas where the ice has melted, and camp on pans of ice.At night, you'll take part in cooking dinner, and set up camp by building snow walls to block the wind. Temperatures can be as low as -40 degrees.
If you are going with one of the race groups, expect to spend about four weeks on the ice.If you are going on a full distance trip, you should expect to spend roughly 60 days.Some of the races and some private guides also have options for shorter trips that begin closer to the pole and only take about two weeks.If you can't commit to a month or more on the ice, it may be worth considering one of these options.
Upon reaching the pole, you'll either camp there for the night, or be picked up by a helicopter and taken to Barneo ice station to spend the night, depending on conditions.The next day, you'll enjoy a hot meal at Barneo before flying back to civilization.

