 Consider finding a breeder that’s close enough to make a personal visit. Visiting a breeder’s facilities is one of the clearest ways to see how legitimate they are. Trust breeders who are proud to show you their property.If they don't want to show off their facilities or take pride in them, steer clear.
Ask to see the facilities in full when you visit. Look for clean conditions and animals’ general demeanors to gauge the breeder’s quality. Dogs should be friendly, social, and not shy away from you or other visitors.
Make sure the location breeds only one or a few types of dogs. The breeder should not specialize in more than a few breeds and should provide living space appropriate for dogs' size and breed.They should be knowledgeable about their breeds' characteristics, history, and any potential genetic or developmental concerns. They should openly and clearly help you understand the type of dog you're buying.;
, If you find a breeder that’s too far away to visit, ask for a phone number, or call the number posted on their website. While email will probably be your initial means of communicating, never a buy a puppy unless you’ve spoken directly to the breeder.Breeders who ask to speak on the phone or volunteer their phone number in the first few emails are the most trustworthy. Look for a breeder who is easily accessible and is open about their contact information.
If they don't offer a phone number right away, try writing, "I'd really like to speak over the phone. I'm more comfortable making a purchase from someone I've had a conversation with, and I have a lot of questions about the process."
Cross check the area code with the location of the breeder. If they don’t match, find another breeder.
 When you contact your potential breeder, ask for references from previous clients. Look on their website for testimonials or other credentials. If they have a social media page, look through their comments.


Try asking, "Is there anywhere I can read testimonials from past customers? Do you have a list of reviews available, or offer any references? Do you have ties to any nearby shelters or humane societies?"

, Search online to find a vet near the breeder's location, and call them to ask if they know anything about their breeding practices. You should also think about contacting nearby shelters or trainers to ask about the breeder's quality and reputability.


Ask them if they've heard of that particular breeder and if they know anything about their practices.
Ask if they have any recommendations, especially if you're doing research on a breeder in your own area.
 When you speak with the breeder on the phone, pay attention to the questions they ask you. Don’t trust a breeder who isn’t interested in learning more about you, as they are more likely to be interested only in making money.They should ask you if you’ve ever owned a dog, why you are interested in purchasing a dog, and about details regarding your family and who will be the primary caregiver.
 Don’t settle for the pictures that advertise your prospective dog online. Ask the breeder to see a range of photographs from different ages. In addition, ask the breeder to place a small card in photographs of the dog with your name or the date written on it.Ask for several angles so you can verify that the card wasn’t edited into the image.
Also ask the breeder to see photos of your potential dog’s parents.
 The easiest way to avoid an online scam is to adopt from a local shelter or breed rescue club. Adopting instead of shopping online will eliminate all risks associated with buying online, including having your money stolen or never receiving your dog. In addition, adopting helps curb pet overpopulation, and avoids the risk of supporting a puppy mill, which mass produces animals in poor living conditions., When searching online for a reliable breeder, you’ll find plenty of legitimate ads on sites that list classifieds for free. However, you’ll have to spend extra time double checking these ads. Online scammers are more likely to post on sites that do not require a fee to post ads, such as Craigslist., Online scams typically copy and paste text from legitimate breeder sites. They also lift photographs from legitimate websites, but caption them incorrectly.Look for passages of text that seem inconsistent, as if one paragraph were stolen from a legitimate source and the next poorly written.
Look for photographs that are captioned incorrectly. For example, you might see a picture of one breed but its caption names it another breed.
Check for watermarks on the images that were placed there by a legitimate breeder. If it doesn’t match the name of the website you’re looking at, contact that name posted on the watermark.
Look for any blurry marks that might be covering up watermarks.
 Beware of rock bottom prices far below a breed’s standard. Look online for a variety of breeders, and email or call them to ask about their pricing. Make a trip to a local pet store or look at their website to get a better idea of what a standard price looks like.


If you see an outlier, or a price that’s far below most of the others you’ve seen, it’s probably a scam.
 If you suspect a website of being fraudulent, you can report it to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) if you’re in the United States. Use their toll free hotline: 877-FTC-HELP (877-382-4357). You can also fill out an online complaint form on their website: http://www.ftc.gov

, Puppy finder companies check the breeder's background, examine the puppy's health, and make sure the puppy's pedigree is in order. They also ensure vaccinations are up to date and help you with language issues and transportation if necessary.


A legitimate puppy finder company will have a proven track record, previous customers you can talk to, and a social media page where you can double check comments.
Puppy finders are not escrow companies. In other words, they don’t hold money until you receive your money in order to secure the transaction. If a breeder or puppy finder makes any such claims, they are most likely illegitimate.
 The breeder should provide a thorough contract that includes a health guarantee. A good breeder will have you agree to return the dog in the event that you can no longer care for it. In addition, they will provide documentation proving the dog’s breeding line has been tested for genetic and other health defects., A good breeder will offer a guarantee in case your puppy or dog shows signs of health problems within the first several days of ownership. Take your new dog to the vet within 24 hours of picking it up or having it shipped.Ask the breeder about their guarantee prior to finalizing your purchase. If they don’t offer a guarantee, find another breeder.
 Never use an unsecured wire transfer service when making a purchase online. If something goes wrong, these services will not help you get your money back.Use your credit or debit card that will allow you to dispute a transaction.
Before handing over your credit card number, ask the breeder for their merchant number. Call your credit card company to verify that the number is legitimate.

