 Yes, the spill will be plenty wet with soap, but you will need to wet it with water to fully clean up the spill. Warm water is the best way to separate the detergent from the carpet fibers. Fill up a spray bottle with very warm water (heated in the microwave or on the stove) and completely cover the spill with water.While vinegar may be a good all-purpose cleaner for the rest of your home, keep it away from the detergent spill. Start with clean water and no cleanser to remove the soap.;
, After a few minutes have passed, take a clean rag to the carpet and try your best to remove as much soap as possible. You’ll really need some elbow grease for this part.

Even when it seems like you’ve removed all the soap, there will still be some leftover. The carpet may feel hard once it dries. That’s ok, because you’re not done yet.
 After you’ve gotten up a lot of the soap with towels and your own manpower, it’s time to break out the steam cleaner. Run it over the carpet until there are no suds and the carpet feels like the right texture.You can rent a steam cleaner from your local home improvement store. It may seem like a lot of effort, but it’s worth it to prevent the soap from lingering in the carpet.
Follow the instructions on the steam cleaner carefully. Use the solution it comes with and be sure not to overfill the container.If you don't want to rent a steam cleaner, you can do the job by hand. Apply water, scrub, and repeat until the soap is completely gone. Use a fan to speed up drying.
 Liquid soap will leave a slippery and sticky residue on the floor if it’s not completely wiped up. This residue will also act as a dust and fluff magnet, so remove it as quickly as possible using paper towels or rags.


Don't wait to clean up the spill. Liquid soap will make the floor slippery, and infants and pets might be tempted to eat it., Find a mop and dip it in warm, clean water. If there’s soap leftover that you can’t see, the water will make suds. Continue to mop until there is no soap remaining.

The mop will remove any mess made while cleaning.
 After you’ve wiped up the soap and mopped up any residue, rub a clean rag over the area until it’s completely dry. Doing so prevents slips and keeps the floor from getting dirty if someone walks over it., You don’t want to run a vacuum cleaner or broom over a big pile of powdered detergent. First, get as much of it up as you can with a scoop or dustbin. Just make sure you avoid grinding the soap into the carpet. Lightly scoop from the top of the pile, instead., Using a regular vacuum is the fastest and most effective method for cleaning up powdered detergent. Remember that you may have to move the washing machine or use a narrow nozzle to reach under it.


Keep water away from the soap at all costs to avoid an even bigger mess.
If you don’t have a vacuum cleaner, a broom will work, but it will take more time to fully remove the powder.
 It's likely that some powdered detergent fell somewhere else. To get a thorough clean, check under and around the machine for tell-tale evidence of the spill.
 If you keep spilling your laundry detergent, it could be time to reevaluate your storage methods. Placing detergent where it’s easy to reach and away from places it’s likely to get bumped or kicked will help.


Beware leaving it on top of a front loader or dryer. The machine's movements can cause the detergent to "jump" and fall.
Detergent that is stored on the ground is likely to be kicked over.
 There is a range of suitable laundry detergent containers on Amazon.com or at your local home goods store that can hide the less pretty boxes and make your laundry neater and safer. Adding shelves can help you make the most of your space, too.If you use boxed powder detergent, transferring the powder into a sealable container can help to prevent future spills.
Make sure you tightly seal liquid or powdered detergent after each use.
 There’s no way to completely prevent laundry detergent spills, but switching to a clear or white detergent will ensure that if some does land on your carpet or floor, you’ll only have to deal with the suds -- not the dyes.