 Each state and the federal government is likely going to define the legal claim of constructive discharge differently. Before you bring a claim of constructive discharge, you need to make sure the facts of your case amount to that claim. For example, the federal government requires you to show that an illegal hostile work environment existed and you were left with no other reasonable option but to quit.In California, for example, you must show that your work environment was so unusually adverse that you felt compelled to resign and that the employer intended to force you to quit or that the employer knew of the intolerable conditions.;
, Constructive discharge cases are relatively narrow and winning will often mean you were subjected to harsh working conditions. Common situations that lead to these cases include sexual harassment; employment discrimination based on sex, race, or disability, and employers who ask you to break the law.However, single and isolated incidents of these actions do not even necessarily rise to the level of egregiousness necessary to claim constructive discharge. You will usually need to show that the harassment or discrimination was serious and ongoing., You need to prove that you were subjected to illegal treatment or working conditions. For example, being harassed because of your sex, race, ethnicity, religion, or disability status would certainly qualify as illegal harassment. By contrast, being bullied simply because your boss is mean does not qualify as illegal harassment.Go through emails or written notes and look for offensive language.
Also try to identify witnesses who observed the illegal harassment.
Remember that the harassment usually has to be ongoing. One isolated incident is usually not enough unless it is a crime of violence or something similar., You can also suffer constructive discharge when you complain about workplace safety or other violations and suffer retaliation as a consequence.Try to document the retaliation.


Were you demoted or docked pay for complaining about violations?
Did you lose opportunities for training or fringe benefits because you reported suspected illegal behavior?

, Generally, you can only sue an employer for constructive discharge if you put them on notice of the harassment or retaliation. They need to have an opportunity to address the problem. Accordingly, look through your papers and see that you told your boss about the illegal treatment.Find your copy of any grievance complaint or letter/email you sent to management about the working conditions.
Also look to see if management responded and investigated or whether they blew you off.
 In order to bring a lawsuit for constructive discharge, you must have quit because of the mistreatment.You can’t have quit because you found a better paying job.


Ideally, you wrote a letter to your employer stating your reasons why you quit.
If you spoke in person, then write down the details of your conversation. Note the date of the conversation, who you spoke to, and what was said.
 You can be compensated for any emotional distress that you suffered as a result of your employer’s illegal conduct.You should think about how you will prove the emotional distress that you have suffered. For example, you could get the following:Medical records, if your emotional distress has caused you to lose weight, become anxious, or suffer from depression.
Testimony from a therapist or counselor, as well as from family members.
A list of prescription drugs used to treat your emotional distress.
A journal. You can write down how the harassment has made you feel emotionally. Note changes to your eating and sleep habits as well as your overall mood.
 You would benefit from having a lawyer bring the lawsuit for you. Lawyers are trained in marshalling facts to prove constructive discharge. You can get a referral to an employment lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association.


Many employment law attorneys work “on contingency.” This means that you do not have to pay any fees. Instead, the lawyer will take a percentage of any amount you win in settlement or at trial. For example, many lawyers take 33-40%. You would still be responsible for paying court costs, such as the cost of filing the lawsuit and for court reporters.You can schedule a consultation with a lawyer and ask if he or she would represent you on contingency. Also ask if the lawyer is open to advancing you the costs of the lawsuit, which could total $1,000 or more.
 At the federal level, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) investigates claims of discrimination based on age, disability, national origin, sex, race, religion, color, and genetic information. They also investigate claims of retaliation for reporting discrimination.If your “constructive discharge” claim is based on any of these, then you must file a charge with the EEOC before you can go to court and file a lawsuit.
You can check whether you need to file an EEOC charge by using the EEOC Assessment System tool, which is available online., You can walk in and file a charge alleging illegal discrimination at any one of the EEOC’s offices around the country. You can find a map of offices at the EEOC website.Call the office and check what hours they are open.
You cannot file a charge over the phone, though you can give information over the phone to begin the process., If you live too far away from any EEOC office, then you should draft a letter and mail it to the EEOC office nearest you. In the letter, be sure to include the following:your name and contact information (address and telephone number)
name and contact information for your employer
number of employees employed at your job
a description of the events that were discriminatory, including when they happened
the basis on which you believe you were discriminated (e.g., disability, sex, race, etc.)
your signature

, You should make a copy for your records. Then you should mail it certified mail, return receipt requested to the EEOC office nearest to you. Hold onto the receipt, as it serves as proof that your letter was received.
 The EEOC has 180 days to investigate your claim. As part of the investigation, it may contact your employer. Because the EEOC is overburdened, the agency probably will not take formal action against your employer. However, before you can sue in court, you need to get a “Notice-of-Right-to-Sue” letter from the EEOC.If 180 days have passed, then you can request your “Right to Sue” letter, even if the EEOC investigation is ongoing. Once you file a lawsuit, the EEOC stops investigating the complaint.
 In some states it may be advantageous to take your complaint to state agencies instead of the EEOC. For example, in California, employment laws protect employees more than federal laws. Therefore, if you live in California, you will most likely want to file a complaint with the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH) instead of the EEOC). To start the complaint process with a state agency, you will usually need to fill out a questionnaire and set up an interview.


The questionnaire and interview will give the state agency an opportunity to assess your claims and collect facts., If your state's employment agency find that egregious action may have occurred, they will draft a formal complaint on your behalf. This complaint will be served on the employer and they will be given an opportunity to answer. If your complaint falls under EEOC jurisdiction, your state agency may choose to forward information along to them as well., If a settlement is not reached during the initial filing and answering period, your state employment agency will officially investigate your claim. In California, the DFEH has the backing of state courts and they can issue subpoenas and take depositions and interrogatories. If the investigation fails to uncover a violation of the law, your case will be closed. However, if a violation is found, you will move forward in the complaint process., A lot of state employment agencies will attempt to broker a settlement in the interest of justice and resources. In California, for example, the DFEH will schedule conciliation conferences and work on your behalf to resolve the issue. DFEH will present their findings to the employer and will attempt to find a resolution.If an agreement can be made, you will avoid litigation and hopefully receive a remedy that is acceptable to you.
 If no settlement is reached, you can ask your state employment agency for a right to sue letter. In California, as in most states, the law requires you to exhaust your administrative remedies before bringing a legal action.This right to sue letter will prove to the court that you have exhausted your administrative remedies.


However, California does offer an exception to this exhaustion rule if you make a written request to skip the administrative process and proceed straight to court. California recommends that you only take this action if you have an attorney to help you. If you do not have an attorney, it is advisable to go through the administrative process so you can build your case through a formal investigation., As you prepare to file your lawsuit, you need to go through all of your evidence and check that you can support all elements of a constructive discharge claim. For example, go through and check that you have evidence for the following:You suffered harassment or other illegal treatment. Make sure you can get eyewitnesses to testify and introduce notes, emails, or harassing phone voice mails into evidence. You can also testify as to the harassment.
You complained to your supervisor, boss, or Human Resources department but the harassment didn’t stop. Find letters, emails, or grievance forms. You can also rely on your own testimony.
The mistreatment was so bad that any reasonable person would have quit. This is basically a legal judgment. However, you should make sure that you introduce evidence of the most offensive harassment. For example, if anyone touched you without permission, then you should certainly introduce that evidence.
You quit because of the illegal treatment. Find your resignation letter or email. Also, you can testify that you quit because of the treatment.
 Generally, you can sue for “constructive discharge” in either federal or state court so long as you bring both state and federal discrimination claims. If you are bringing only a state law discrimination claim, then you would sue in state court.


You also need to sue in a court that has power over your employer. This power (called “jurisdiction”) typically exists when the employer is located in the same district as the court. For example, if your employer is located in Chicago, then you can sue in the federal district court for the Northern District of Illinois.
To find what federal district court to file in, you should use the federal court’s Court Locator.Type in the zip code for the area where your employer is located.
To find which state court to sue in, check your state Supreme Court’s website. Generally, you can sue in the county court where your employer is located.
 You start a lawsuit by filing a “complaint” in court. This document identifies the parties to the dispute—you will be the “plaintiff” and your employer is the “defendant.” The complaint also describes the circumstances that led to your constructive discharge. Your court may have a printed, “fill in the blank” complaint form that you can use. You should stop in and ask the court.


If you plan to sue in federal court, then the U.S. courts website has a blank complaint form you can download and use.If you hired a lawyer, then he or she will draft your complaint for you and handle all aspects of the lawsuit.
 The form complaint will ask for various information. You should type the complaint using a typewriter. Alternately, you could download the form and type in your information. The form will ask for the following information:your name and address
your employer’s name and address
whether you want a jury trial or a bench trial heard by the judge alone
the address of the company you worked for
the basis of the discrimination
a short statement of the facts, including the basis of the harassment or retaliation and the dates those acts occurred
the date you received your “Notice-of-Right-to-Sue” letter
the amount of money you want in compensation

, Once you have finished your complaint, you should make several copies. Take the original and the copies to the court clerk and ask to file.It costs $400 to file a lawsuit in federal court. If you sue in state court, then the amount will differ, depending on the court.
If you are low-income, then you can complete a fee waiver form. The court can waive fees for low-income people.
 You need to give your employer notice of the lawsuit you have filed. You can provide this notice by sending a copy of your complaint as well as a “summons.” You can download a blank summons and fill it out. The clerk must then sign it and return it to you.You need to arrange hand delivery of the complaint and summons. Generally, you can have anyone 18 or older make delivery, provided this person is not part of the lawsuit.
If you qualify for a fee waiver, then the U.S. Marshal will probably make hand delivery for you. However, Marshals don’t generally make service.
 After receiving your complaint, your employer can respond. Typically, your employer will file an “answer,” in which he or she responds to each factual allegation made in your complaint. You will receive a copy of the response.
 After your employer responds to your complaint, the lawsuit enters a fact-finding phase called “discovery.” The purpose of discovery is to allow each side to uncover all relevant facts and witnesses in preparation for trial.During discovery you will be able to use the following tools:Depositions, which are in-person interviews with parties and witnesses. These interviews are conducted under oath and answers can be used in court. In addition to being able to depose the other party, you will likely be deposed by the employer as well.
Interrogatories, which are written questions posed to parties and witnesses. These questions must be answered under oath and you can use the answers in court.
Requests for admissions, which are written statements the employer will have to admit as being true or false. These requests help narrow down the trial worthy disputes.
Requests for documents, which allow you ask that your employer turn over copies of all communications that mention you. You would ask for this information by sending a Request for Production. You could also request a copy of your employment file using a Request for Production.
 As soon as discovery concludes, the employer will most likely file a pretrial motion for summary judgment. In order to be successful, the employer will have to persuade the judge that there are no genuine factual disputes and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the judge will have to decide that, even if all factual assumptions were made in your favor, you would still lose the case.


To defend against this motion, you will file your own response. Your response should include evidence and affidavits that tend to show the existence of factual disputes. If you succeed, the litigation will continue., As trial approaches, you might try to settle one last time. Trials are expensive and time consuming If you can avoid one you should. Your judge might hold settlement conferences where they will mediate discussions. If these conferences fail, you may have to try alternative dispute resolution tactics.


Start by offering to go through mediation. During mediation, a neutral third party will sit down with both parties and attempt to find common ground. The mediator will not offer opinions and will not take sides.
If mediation fails, try arbitration. During arbitration, a judge-like third party will hear arguments from both sides. At the end, the arbitrator will issue a written opinion, which will determine who they think offered a more compelling case. The opinion will also offer up a possible award. At this stage, arbitration is likely to be non-binding, which means neither party will be obligated to follow the arbitrator's opinion.
 If no settlement can be reached, you and the employer will have to attend one or more final pretrial hearings to set a trial schedule. During these hearings, you and the other party will lay out your entire trial strategy and the judge will schedule accordingly. Make sure you address everything during these meetings. If you forget to have something scheduled, you might not be able to present it at trial., You will want to introduce helpful documents into evidence during trial. For example, you should introduce any offensive or harassing emails, notes, or letters. You can turn a document into an exhibit by attaching an exhibit sticker to it.


You can typically get exhibit stickers from an office supply store or from the court clerk.Remember to make multiple copies of your exhibits. You will need to give the other side a complete set of all exhibits. You probably also have to give the judge a set. The judge should give you a deadline for turning over copies of your exhibits.
 Your opening statement is a chance to give the court a sneak peek as to what your evidence will be. You don’t make arguments in opening statements. Instead, you provide a roadmap of how the trial will go.Make sure to say, “As the evidence will show.” For example, you can say: “As the evidence will show, on June 1, 2015, the plaintiff sent the defendant an email complaining about the harassment she was receiving.”

, You will call your witnesses first to testify. Remember that they must have personal knowledge of whatever they are testifying to. They cannot testify to gossip or other second-hand information.For example, a coworker can testify that they saw your boss harass you. However, the coworker cannot testify that someone told them that you were harassed.
 As the plaintiff in a constructive discharge case, you certainly will have to testify. You will need to tell the judge and jury about the harassment you faced and how it made you feel. If you have a lawyer, then he or she will ask you questions, otherwise you might deliver your testimony in the form of a speech. After you deliver your testimony, your employer’s attorney gets to cross examine you. Remember the following tips:Sit up straight and look the attorney in the eye. You will probably feel nervous, but you need to project calm confidence.
Always tell the truth. You have nothing to hide. Also, it is against the law to lie or stretch the truth.
Think before answering. Don’t just blurt out the first thing that comes into your mind.
If you don’t understand a question, then ask the attorney to repeat it.
Never guess. Say “I don’t know,” if you don’t know the answer to a question.
 Your employer gets to go second. He or she will also present witnesses. You will have a chance to ask them questions on cross-examination.


See Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for tips on cross-examination.
 After all evidence has been presented, each side will get to make a closing argument. You should use the closing to remind the judge or jury of key pieces of evidence. You also want to tell them how they should interpret the evidence in a way that is favorable to you.If you refer to a document, then make sure to hold it up to the jury: “Remember this email? This is the email that contained three sexist jokes.”
Also, remind them of who witnesses are: “You heard from Mrs. Smith, who worked in the office beside the plaintiff. And remember that she testified that every day for two weeks the defendant went into the plaintiff’s office and screamed at her.”

, After each side presents closing arguments, the judge will read the jury its instructions. The jury will then retire to deliberate. If you had a bench trial, then the judge might immediately deliver the verdict or take the case under advisement.


If you lose, then you should think about bringing an appeal. You start the appeal process by filing a Notice of Appeal with the trial court. You generally don’t have a lot of time, so meet with your attorney to discuss whether to bring an appeal.
An appeal is heard by a higher court which must decide whether the judge made an error in trial. If an error was made, then the appellate court might order a new trial.