 You will need tissue paper, your gift, a gift bag, any embellishments, your card and gift tag.You will need several sheets of white paper to wrap around the gift first, then colored tissue to line the gift bag.
You will need several colors of tissue paper that complement the color of the gift bag. Colored tissue paper makes a gift more festive!
Make sure your gift bag is appropriate for the occasion.
If you are going to curl ribbon to add as a decoration, you will need scissors to curl ribbon. Alternatively, you can use pre-curled ribbon or a pre-made bow.
 This will keep it from being seen once it is placed in bag.









You do not need to tape the packet of tissue paper closed.
If the gift is fragile, you should use multiple layers of white tissue paper or even newspaper to cushion the gift.
 Overlap each of the them several inches, alternating colors.


Use more or less paper depending on the size of the gift and gift bag.
If the gift is small, use half sheets of paper.
 This will allow your tissue paper to look evenly distributed as it sits in the gift bag.









Make sure the gift is centered on the tissue paper a layers.
If the gift is a long shape, place it on a diagonal.
 Take the opposite corners of the tissue paper and bring them over the gift.









Lightly scrunch the paper right above the gift.
Leave the rest of the paper as wrinkle free as possible.
Do this step gently to avoid tearing the paper.
 Be careful not to tear the paper and do not lift the gift by the paper edges.









Gently arrange the tissue paper about the top of the bag to your liking.
Don't overwork the paper. It will start to look wrinkled and used.
 This can add more pop and color to your gift if you feel something is lacking.









Lay out a sheet of tissue paper and smooth it.
Place your thumb and forefinger in the center of the tissue paper and lift it.
Give a flick of your wrist and use your other hand to straighten out the tissue paper.
Place it in the bag on top of the gift. Use alternating colors to add variety.
 You can place the card in the bag with the gift and tissue paper.









Alternatively you can place the card on the outside of the bag by taping it in place.
Place your gift tab on the front of the bag or on the handle.
 You can add ribbons, pre-made bows and curling ribbon to add a little flare to your gift.









These items can really personalize a gift and make it very festive.
Don't over-do the embellishments on the gift as it will take away from the effects on your gift bag and tissue paper.

