 Life can be lonely for elders. If they don’t have a spouse or family living with them, they may not see very many people on a regular basis. Try to visit them whenever you can make the time.If you can’t visit regularly because of distance, make a point of calling to talk to them on the phone.
Try to make visits or calls on a regular schedule. Sometimes surprise visits or irregular schedules can be disorienting for an elder. Visiting every Wednesday afternoon, for example, can be a regular activity that the person can look forward to.
 As people age, they process things and move more slowly. Your elder may need you to walk more slowly or repeat things that you say. Avoid showing impatience and remember that they’re doing all they can to keep up.Elders may have a particularly difficult time using or understanding newer technology. You may need to go very slowly when showing them how to use it, or you may choose to not introduce new technologies into their lives.
Let the elder set the pace for things like walking or preparing meals.
 Most elders will have a strong sense of propriety and etiquette. Their expectations for how people talk to each other are likely very different than yours. Don’t use the same kinds of slang and casual manners that you would use around your peers.If the elder is not a member of your family, refer to them as Mr., Miss, or Mrs. If they tell you to call them by their first name, you can then feel free to do so.
In some cultures, elders expect to be referred to as “sir,” “ma’am,” or something equivalent.
Always make sure that they have food before you serve yourself, and that they have a place to sit before you or other younger people are seated.
Avoid paying attention to your phone or computer when you’re with an elder. Try to keep your focus on them and your quality time together.
 Asking an elder about themselves is one of the best ways to show respect. It indicates that you are interested in who they are and that you respect the fact that they’ve lived a long life and have things to teach you.You can ask them to tell stories from their life. You can ask something like, “Do you remember anything from your time in the war?” or, “Where did your family move after they sold the business?”
If they're a member of your family, you can ask them about your family tree. This is a great way to learn about your own history. You can say something like, “Where did your mother’s family come from?” or “Did you know any of the people on Grandfather’s side?”

, This may be the most difficult thing for people of all ages to do. However, it’s important to remember that cultural norms and expectations change across generations. Things that seem perfectly normal to you may seem unthinkable to someone two generations older than you and vice versa.If matters of politics or social norms become a wedge between you and your elder, try to let it go. You can say something like, “I understand where you’re coming from, but I think we might just disagree,” or, “We can do things that way here, if you want. But at home I’ll probably still do things the way that works for me.”
You can also ask the person to talk about where they’re coming from. Be sure to do so in a way that doesn’t convey judgement, though. For example, you can say something like, “Tell me more about why you don’t believe in divorce. That sounds really interesting to me,” or, “I’d love to know more about what you like about your church.”

