 You can use these tips any time you're taking off clothes, no matter what you're wearing and how far you intend to go. But if you want to give your sexual partner a special striptease, choose your clothing and location in advance. Wear lacy or semi-transparent undergarments, stockings with garters, and a couple layers of sexy, easy-to-remove clothing over this. Consider placing one chair for your partner to sit in, and one for yourself to use during the performance.


Putting on music might help you find a rhythm, especially if you feel self-conscious or awkward.;
, Make the most of it by standing directly in front of your partner with your legs apart, your weight slightly over one leg. Maintain eye contact as you deliberately undo the buttons.
 Don't be in a rush to get naked; the "tease" part of a striptease will get your partner excited. Tell your partner to stay seated on a chair, and walk around the chair showing off your body from the front, back, and sides. Tug at the straps on your dress or bra, or the buttons on your shirt, as though you are about to take them off any second.Get creative with your own sexy poses, or include these:


If you're wearing a low-cut shirt, bend forward over your partner briefly.
Face away from your partner and bend forward over a chair or bed.
Touch your partner's crotch briefly, then pull away.
Sit on a chair and slowly part your legs while giving your partner a sexy smile.
Grab and stroke yourself around your breasts, crotch, or any body part your partner finds sexy.
 Either stand with your legs together in a feminine stance with one ball on the foot knee pointing in, or go for a stronger stance with your legs sexily spread apart with your weight slightly to one side. Cross your arms across your chest and suck your stomach in as you lift your hands up over your head.


If you have long hair, shake your head and let your hair flow out as you do this.
 Button-up shirts are perfect for stripping, since you can turn each button into its own mini-performance. Try leaving a couple buttons at the top and bottom undone in advance to make the outfit sexier. Remove the buttons slowly, one by one, as you continue to move around and pose. Once all the buttons are undone, slip the shirt down low over your shoulders, turn your back to your partner, and let the shirt fall to the floor.Unbutton the cuffs first, or undo them in advance before you enter the room.
You can sex this up a bit by only using one hand while having the other on your hip. Practice this in advance if you're going to try it.
 Keep teasing your partner between items of clothing, or ask "are you ready for more?" a few times before giving in. Lower the straps of your negligee or similar loose item of clothing over your shoulders and let it fall, or shimmy it down to the floor.
 A zippered skirt is great for beginners, since you can remove it easily and unexpectedly while striking almost any pose. A short, clingy skirt is another good option, and can be pulled up to reveal your butt before shimmying it off., You might want to practice this one in advance, since tight jeans tend to be less sexy when you're falling over with your legs trapped. Try kneeling, then pushing your jeans down to your knees while you stick your butt out at your partner. Sit back on your butt to pull the jeans off the rest of the way., You might want to leave your stockings on, especially with a sexy garter belt. On the other hand, a simple pair of nylon stockings can be a great prop. Put your leg up on a chair and roll them off slowly, then snapping it away slingshot style, or pretend to tie your wrists together. These are great visuals and good methods for adding a bit of cheeky humour to the mood.If you can walk around and pose gracefully with heels, you could leave them on as well as the stockings.
Try wearing a pair of stockings one size too large, with a garter belt to keep them on. This gives you more freedom of movement during your striptease., Tug at the straps of your bra throughout the striptease, to get your partner excited. When you're finally ready to remove it, turn your back to your partner, and unhook the bra. Let it drop to your floor, then turn around to reveal your breasts., If you have an opportunity to prepare in advance, pick a sexy pair or lacy panties or a thong, but don't pick something so tight that it leaves marks.Try slipping them off while standing with your legs straight, or lay on your back and pull them up to your feet, where you can flick them off.


If you're wearing a sexy garter belt, wear your panties over it, so you can keep your garter belt on.

