 Highly qualified employees want to work for a company that is interesting and exciting. The best candidates will pass right over a boring or poorly written job description. Your job description should catch potential employees' attention by presenting a killer description of your company's mission and the vital role you seek to fill.


Write what makes your company special and better than its competitors.
Write about your company's main goal. Make it sound important, whether you aim to save endangered animals or make the very best toothpaste on the market.
 Potential employees are going to want to get a feel for what it would be like to work for you. Air your company's true personality to attract candidates who will be a good fit. The language and content of your description should give readers a sense of what you're all about.


If your company is prestigious and formal, use serious, painstakingly correct language.
If your company is playful and innovative, feel free to use slang or jokes to let people know that having a big personality is part of the job.
 Start by listing the title and the key background requirements, which will hopefully weed out people who are under qualified and prevent them from swamping you with applications. Include detailed information about what the job entails, including general and specific responsibilities.


Make the job sound great, but be honest about the not-so-glamourous aspects of the work. For example, if you're hiring an office manager, you might want candidates to be prepared to run the office at a high level while also being willing to order supplies and keep the office looking nice. People who aren't interested in the less engaging work of being an office manager will know not to apply.
Don't go overboard listing more than 5 or so background, field and educational requirements. If you get too specific, you might weed out great candidates who can quickly pick up on how to do the job even if they haven't had the exact experience you're looking for. A person's work ethic and attitude can be just as important to their success as other skills or qualifications.
 Ask for a resume and cover letter as well as any other materials you might want, like a writing sample. Include your contact information and instructions for how to submit the materials. You might want to specify how you want the documents formatted and whether you prefer they be sent over email, fax, as an attachment, etc.


The way a candidate submits his or her application can be telling. If someone has trouble following basic instructions, you might not want to hire them.
 The benefit of posting your opening in public spaces is that you're sure to get a ton of applicants. The drawback is that you're sure to get a ton of applicants. You'll have a lot of resumes to sift through no matter what, so choose where you post the job opening wisely. Target job sites that draw people who are likely to be qualified for the position, rather than posting randomly in places that will be viewed by people who aren't qualified.Post the opening on your company website, on a page labeled "Careers" or "Jobs." This will draw applicants who actually took the time to check out your company, rather than stumbling on a posting in a public forum.
Post the opening in industry forums and relevant job sites. For example, if you're in the film industry, post the job opening on industry sites that will be frequently viewed by people who are already in the know.
Post the opening on general job sites if you want a lot of applicants. If you're hoping to get as many applications as possible, post on Craigslist, Monster.com and similar massive job sites. Beware that you'll be likely to get some spammy replies.
 Big companies might take out advertisements in trade magazines or websites to attract candidates in a bold, flashy way. In fact, advertising jobs on billboards is becoming trendy among the most competitive companies., When the applications start pouring in, it's time to hire the best person for the job. Look for applications from candidates that demonstrate the experience, skills, and personality you're seeking, and select a manageable number of people to interview. From there you'll be able to make a well-informed decision about who to hire for the position.


If you find your posting isn't recruiting the right kind of people for the job, go back and tweak it.
Be patient and go through as many application and interviews as necessary to find someone you're confident will do a good job. It's easy to get overwhelmed during the hiring process, but your hard work will pay off in the end.

