 In the bottom right of the home screen there should be an icon that says “Apps,” and it will have 16 little squares over it. Tap this to open the App Drawer, which contains all of the installed apps for on the device.;
, Scroll through the options by swiping left or right, and find the Play Store app. It will look like a little white suitcase with a play button on it. Tap the icon to open the Play Store.
 After the app loads, tap on the magnifying glass in the upper right hand corner to start a search in the Play Store. Use the keyboard to enter “Wave Alarm” into the search box. Hit the magnifying glass on the keyboard at the bottom right corner of the screen to start the search.
 On the upper left side of the screen under where it says “Apps”, there should now be a picture of a blue digital clock that reads “09:46” in a white box.


On the upper right side of the same white box, there should be three little dots rising vertically. Tap the dots icon, and a small gray box should appear containing the word “Install.” Tap this word.
 Another box should appear with a green button that says “Accept.” This is just stating the parts of the device that the app will need to access in order to work properly. Tap "Accept" to close this page, and begin installation.
 At the top left of the screen in the little black notification bar, a little box that has a check mark in it should appear.


Swipe down on the notification bar, and directly under the area that says “Notifications” should be the same blue digital clock. This should also say “Wave Alarm” and, underneath, “Successfully installed.”

, Tap the blue clock in the notification bar to launch the app.
 Once the application finishes loading, there should be a large blue digital clock in the middle of the screen. There should be three little gray icons surrounding it: a small bell, gear, and an “i.”


Tapping on the gear icon will bring up the Options menu for the app. On this menu are five sections: Upgrade, Alarms, Gestures, Display Settings, and Miscellaneous.
Under the Upgrade section will be a button that says “Upgrade to Full Version…” Tap if interested.
Under Alarms, the first option, “Snooze" sets the duration of the snooze time once it has been activated. Tapping the second option will return to the “Manage Alarms” menu.
Under Gestures are three options.

The first, “Motion Detection,” will bring up a menu box containing three different options. These options set what happens when the application detects the motion through the device’s proximity sensor. For example, what happens when a hand waves over the device. It can be turned off, so there is no reaction, by tapping the top option.
Selecting the second option will tell it to snooze.
Selecting the third option will turn off the alarm when motion is detected.


Checking the box to the right of “Use White Screen for Alarm” will tell the app to turn the screen on and completely white to increase the amount of light that the proximity sensor uses to detect hand gestures, in case the environment around the phone is too dark to detect motion when the alarm goes off.
Checking the box to the right of “Drag Finger up/down” enables the screen brightness to be adjusted by dragging a finger up and down on the main menu.
There are two options under the Display Settings section.

Checking the box to the right of “Disable Sleep” will enable or disable whether or not the screen of the device will turn off or not when the device is charging.
Checking the box to the right of “Enable Full Screen” will hide the top notification bar of the device when viewing the main menu.


There are six options under the Miscellaneous section.

Tapping the “Set Weather Units” option will bring up a menu box where Fahrenheit or Celsius may be chosen for the temperature read out on the main menu.
Checking the box to the right of “24-Hour Clock” will switch the main clock to military time or 12-hour mode.
Tapping the “Alarm Volume” option will bring up a menu box with a scrollable volume area. The current default alarm sound will be playing when this menu opens. Slide a finger left or right along the blue line to adjust the volume. Tap the “OK” or “Cancel” buttons to close the menu.
Checking the box to the right of “Gentle Alarm" tells the app that all alarms set should slowly increase from a low to high volume level once they are activated.
Tapping the “Set Clock Color” option will bring up a menu that asks the user to buy the full version of the app. Hitting “Cancel,” the box should disappear and bring up a menu box allowing the user select either “Blue” or “Red” for the main digital clock menu. After having made the selection, the menu box will disappear.
Checking the box to the right of “Control Sound Effects” will turn the sound effects for the app on and off. For example, the sound effect played when the app registers a gesture and snoozes the alarm when it goes off.
 On the main screen, tapping the “i” icon in the lower right-hand corner will open a menu box that says “Do you like this app?” at the top. It should have four options.


Tapping “I like this app!” will open the Play Store where the user will be asked to rate 1–5 stars in relation to how much they enjoyed the app. In addition, comments may be left about the app in this section.
Tapping “There’s is a problem…” will open a menu box where the developer of the app will explain that he only speaks English and that reporting any problems with the app in English will expedite the process of his reply.
Tapping “Get the full version!” will open a new menu with one button on it that says “Upgrade” with a pink heart next to it. Tapping this will open the Play Store where you can to purchase the full version of the app.
Tapping “About” will bring up a menu box containing copyright information and details about the creator and his contact information, as well as a general disclaimer.
 On the main screen, tap on the bell icon.
 A new page will load that says “Alarms” in the upper left-hand side. Underneath will be a + sign followed by “Add Alarm.” Tap the + sign.
 This will bring up a digital clock with an hour, minute, and AM/PM option menu. Tapping the arrows above and beneath each option will change the values respectively and allow the time to be set for the alarm. Once complete, hit the “Set” button on the lower right of the menu box to close the menu.


Only one alarm may be set in the limited version of the app. Purchase the full version to gain full access.
 After the box has disappeared, a small menu will appear containing six options allowing for customization of the alarm just created.


At the top, the “Alarm Enabled” section will turn the alarm on and off by checking, or unchecking, the checkbox on the right side of the screen.
The next option down is the “Time” section where the alarm may be set to a different time.
Tapping on the “Repeat” option will bring up a menu containing the days of the week. Check, or uncheck, the checkboxes to the right of each day to select the days on which the alarm to be repeated.
Selecting the “Sound” section will bring up a menu box that says “Select Media Type.” This menu is for selecting the sounds that will play when the alarm goes off. The options include playing from the current device’s “Alarm/Ringtone” sets, the user’s personal “Music,” or “Wave Alarm Sounds” that came with the app.

In order to use personal music, however, users must first purchase the full version of the app.


Checking the checkbox to the right of the words “Vibrate Enabled” will add vibration the alarm when it goes off. Uncheck the box to remove vibration.
The last area allows a name to be given to the specific alarm being created.
 Tapping “Save” (bottom left) will set the alarm and save the changes made to this alarm.


In addition, after saving an alarm, tapping on the alarm name will open this menu again.
Note that pressing the back key on the device will not work on this menu. Hit “Save” to return to the previous menu page.
 If you want to go back to the original settings, tap on “Revert” (bottom center).
 Hitting the “Delete” (bottom right) button will completely delete the alarm and its settings.
 After hitting “Save” and returning to the previous menu, the alarm just created may be seen just underneath the “Add Alarm” button.
 Checking and unchecking the checkbox on the left side of the screen under the + sign will enable or disable the alarm.
 Hit the Back button of your device to return to the digital clock (main menu).
 Tap on the app drawer and scroll to find the little blue icon for Wave Alarm. Tap to open.
 Tap the little bell to the left of the digital clock. Hit the + sign to add a new alarm. Set time for one minute from current time, hitting “Save” when finished.
 Set the phone down on a flat surface with the screen facing up, and wait for the alarm to sound.
 When the alarm does sound, start waving a hand slowly over the screen of the device back and forth, not up and down. Start at about 6 inches, and if the device does not silence the alarm repeat at a closer distance.


Note that if the alarm does not silence even when gesturing within 1 inch, the device may not contain a proximity sensor, or it may be damaged.
 Tap on the app drawer and scroll to find the little blue icon for Wave Alarm. Tap to open.
 Tap the little bell to the left of the large digital clock. Hit the + sign to add a new alarm. Set the time when the alarm should sound, as well as the settings for that alarm, and tap save in the lower left hand corner.
 Set the phone down on a flat surface with the screen facing up. The alarm will sound when the alarm time has been reached. Simply wave a hand over the device to interact with the alarm.