 Though you may think allowing your stitches to breath by keeping them uncovered will help to speed up healing, doing this can delay healing by as much as 50 percent. Moisture and wetness can prevent a scab from forming and lead to prolonged healing or an infection. Use a dry, sterile bandage to cover the stitch marks as they heal.Your doctor may give you an antibiotic ointment or advise you to use an over the counter ointment like Neosporin. This will help to prevent infection and encourage your stitch marks to heal fast.Use a fresh bandage every time you apply the ointment to the marks. You can switch to plain petroleum jelly after a week of using the ointment to encourage new skin to grow over the stitch marks.;
, Apply constant pressure to the stitch marks by using silicone sheet pads, such as Curad Scar Therapy Cosmetic Pads, ReJuveness Pure Silicone Sheets, and Syprex scar sheets. This can help the marks to heal and flatten any scarring.Many silicone pads are made to allow you to cut them to fit the shape of your stitch marks.
 Despite common belief, vitamin E has been shown by studies to prevent wounds from healing, rather than encourage healing. Some people may also develop an allergic reaction to vitamin E. Put medicated ointment or antibiotic cream on the stitch marks instead of vitamin E gel.Though applying hydrogen peroxide to open cuts or marks can help sanitize the area, hydrogen peroxide has been known to destroy new skin cell growth and slow down your body’s healing process.
 The sun’s ultraviolet light can have a damaging effect on your stitch marks and slow down the healing process. Lather up your skin, including your stitch marks, with sunscreen every morning before you go outside. Use a broad spectrum sunscreen with SPF 30.
 Massaging your healed stitch marks will help to break down any bands of collagen that have attached to the underlying tissue.You should gently massage the area with lotion in a circular motion for 15 to 30 seconds several times a day.

