 Google Earth gives you an up-close look at almost any place you want to see. Using Street View, you can actually explore the streets of Tokyo, or try to find Al Pacino's house. Look up your own house and see if anyone left a window open.


If you want to test your geography skills, check out GeoGuessr, which presents you with a random Google Earth street picture and makes you guess where in the world it is. The closer your guess, the more points you get., Want to see a list of the 25 Best Sandwiches in the World in .gifs? How about the top 20 toys kids loved in the 90s? Buzzfeed, Upworthy, Slate, The Awl, and other sites all have hilarious and interesting lists of random things you didn't know you cared about. Check them out for a great way to kill a little time and not think too hard.
 For news that matters to you, find your local news source online and read up on the stories that matter most to you. Increasingly, people engage with their local news sources less and less, which means the average Internet user knows more about what's going on in the lives of celebrities than in their own local government. Use the Internet to learn about where you live.
 Develop skills and better yourself while you're having fun. Massively open online courses, or MOOCs, are free and easy to find. It's like sitting in the hallowed halls of Harvard but in the comfort of your own home. Look for MOOCs by searching a database like this one.
 Whatever you're interested in, there's probably a whole online community of others who love it, too. Like gaming? Check out PC Gamer or IGN to learn about the latest games. Music fan? Check out Pitchfork, Aquarium Drunkard, or Brooklyn Vegan. Do some poking around and find a community with like-minded interests that you can engage with, or at least explore.
 If you're curious about what the internet looked like 10 or 15 years back, there's a handy way to travel back through time. The Internet Archive has built a tool that lets you access old versions of websites.
 If you're already here, you might as well join up and start contributing! Wikis like wikiHow and Wikipedia can only survive with user-generated content and users who are willing to perform all kinds of essential tasks that keep the site up and running. From patrolling recent changes to starting whole new articles, contributing to a wiki can be a rewarding and fun activity.

