 Local and national banks, as well as credit unions can give you the terms and interest rates they are offering on used car loans over the phone and online. Shop around and find the best rate for you. You don't have to apply for financing through the dealer, though you certainly can. Oftentimes you can get a fairer deal when you figure out your financing first before you walk into the dealership. Apply for financing through a bank or an app that connects you to lenders (like AutoGravity). Oftentimes, credit unions have the lowest interest rates, especially if you are a member. Check with your employer to see if they have any connections with local credit unions for you to take advantage of.
Many lenders offer 5 year loans on vehicles that are five years old at most. Older vehicles are often only eligible for 1 to 2 year loans. In many cases, the fear is that an older car will break down and then borrowers will default on their loans.
Additionally, lenders often impose mileage restrictions (often 100,000 miles) and will not finance salvage-titled vehicles. Typically, they will only fund loans for vehicles purchased through a franchised dealership, not through a private party or independent dealer. In these cases, you’ll have to get a deal loan. See below.
 The interest rates offered on used car loans are generally 4 to 6 percent higher than rates offered on new car loans. This is because lenders are fearful of financing used vehicles.Be as specific as possible with a lender. Provide the lender with information about the vehicle you choose. You will need to provide the car's make, model and VIN number, among other things. The more detail you can give the lender, the more firm your rate quote will be.
Talk to lenders about any fees or extra charges. Some lenders offer low interest rates and make back the money by tacking on additional fees and charges to a loan deal. You'll want to know about these, as well as any other specific loan agreement aspects like prepayment penalties, which can trigger fees if you pay the loan off early.
 Fill out the paperwork ahead of time. Many banks or lenders will pre-qualify you for a car loan based on your credit score, the type of car you plan on purchasing, and your driving history.
 It should outline the terms and conditions of the loan. Bring this letter with you to the dealership when shopping for the car. When you go to the dealer's lot, you can show them evidence pre-qualification from a reputable lender. This will expedite the car buying experience. It will also tell the car dealer you are ready to buy.


If you haven’t prequalified, you can get financing at the dealer's lot for a one-stop shopping experience, but having other lender alternatives helps you to get the best deal.

