 You can visit a physical office, or you can initiate the wire transfer online. You can fund the transfer with cash or with a debit or credit card. You can send the funds directly to the recipient’s bank account, or to another Western Union or MoneyGram office.You pay in your local currency, and the recipient in the United States receives the money in U.S. dollars. Therefore, know the exchange rate and adjust accordingly so that the recipient receives the correct amount.
For example, suppose you are in Australia and you want a recipient in the U.S. to receive $20, and the exchange rate is 1 AUD (Australian dollar) = 0.6985 USD (U.S. dollar). You would need to send $28.62 in AUD for the recipient to receive $20 USD.
The fees for sending money internationally vary depending on the amount you are sending, how quickly the money needs to be available and the payment type you choose.
 Western Union is the larger of the two companies. It has been established for a longer amount of time, so it has name recognition and people trust the company. Western Union fees can be expensive. MoneyGram fees tend to be somewhat lower. MoneyGram has also built its reputation on international money transfers., PayPal is an online remittance service. Both parties must be registered PayPal users. Also, both must have a registered bank account. To initiate a transfer, log in to your PayPal account and click on “Send and Request,” and then click on “Send Money to Friends and Family.” Enter the e-mail address, mobile number or name of the recipient. You enter the amount in your local currency, and PayPal exchanges it so the recipient receives it in his local currency. The price per transaction depends on the currency you are using. It is generally a percentage of the amount sent plus a flat transaction fee., With Xoom, you can transfer up to $2,999 USD from a bank account for a flat fee of $4.99 USD. It costs more to use a credit card. The money is deposited into the recipient’s bank account within two business days. The exchange rate is fixed at the time of your transfer.Xoom can send money to 56 countries outside of the US and allows you to send money to anyone with a US bank account.
In 2012, Consumer Reports ranked Xoom as the best way to transfer money internationally, beating out PayPal, MoneyGram and Western Union in fees and exchange rates.