 His appearance differs from the other sprites because he is a leader.
To unlock Oran, you have to wait until Winter 2nd when you leave your house in the morning for Thomas' Winter Request.
Thomas will appear and ask you for a randomly chosen item.
Make sure you have it, and when he comes by at 4:30pm to collect the shipping, hand it to him.
He will give you a piece of Golden Lumber before a cutscene happens where Oran appears and Thomas has an argument with him.;
,
To unlock Bran you must take your axe out of your rucksack and place it in the red tool slot.
When you approach a small wooden branch (commonly found on any farmland or similar) press Y until a wooden stump appears in your inventory.
Continue this until you have 99 wooden stumps in your inventory.
Collect one more, and a cutscene will appear where Bran comes back.

To unlock Decoy you must take your axe out of your rucksack and place it in the red tool slot.
When you approach a small wooden branch (commonly found on any farmland or similar) press Y until a wooden stump appears in your inventory.
Continue this until you have 249 wooden stumps in your inventory.
Collect one more, and a cutscene will appear where Decoy comes back.

To unlock Woody you must take your axe out of your rucksack and place it in the red tool slot.
When you approach a small wooden branch (commonly found on any farmland or similar) press Y until a wooden stump appears in your inventory.
Continue this until you have 499 wooden stumps in your inventory.
Collect one more, and a cutscene will appear where Woody comes back.

Phone Saibara Blacksmith on your phone and upgrade your axe to copper, silver, gold or mystrile.
After a few days your newly upgraded axe will arrive. Head to a tree stump in the ground. You can find them all around. Press Y longer than usual to obtain more power, and release. After a few tries the stump should vanish and the wood will appear in your hands.
Chop up 14 more of these.
A cutscene will appear in which Pierre will arrive

,
To unlock Tilus you must take your hammer out of your rucksack and place it in the red tool slot.
When you approach a small stone (commonly found on any farmland or similar) press Y until some stone appears in your inventory.
Continue this until you have 99 stones in your inventory.
Collect one more, and a cutscene will appear where Tilus comes back.

To unlock Stony you must take your hammer out of your rucksack and place it in the red tool slot.
When you approach a small stone (commonly found on any farmland or similar) press Y until some stone appears in your inventory.
Continue this until you have 249 stones in your inventory.
Collect one more, and a cutscene will appear where Stony comes back.

To unlock Rosh you must take your hammer out of your rucksack and place it in the red tool slot.
When you approach a small stone (commonly found on any farmland or similar) press Y until some stone appears in your inventory.
Continue this until you have 499 stones in your inventory.
Collect one more, and a cutscene will appear where Rosh comes back.

Phone Saibara Blacksmith on your phone and upgrade your hammer to copper, silver, gold or mystrile.
After a few days your newly upgraded hammer will arrive. Head to a boulder in the ground. They look like larger stones. You can find them all around. Press Y longer than usual to obtain more power, and release. After a few tries the boulder should vanish and the stone will appear in your hands.
Destroy 4 more of these.
A cutscene will appear in which Alpen will arrive.

Phone Saibara Blacksmith on your phone and upgrade your hammer to copper, silver, gold or mystrile.
After a few days your newly upgraded hammer will arrive. Head to a boulder in the ground. They look like larger stones. You can find them all around. Press Y longer than usual to obtain more power, and release. After a few tries the boulder should vanish and the stone will appear in your hands.
Destroy 14 more of these.
A cutscene will appear in which Rocky will arrive.

Phone Saibara Blacksmith and ask for a mystrile upgrade for your axe.
Wait while the order is being completed. It will take around 3 days.
When the axe is delivered, use it.
A cutscene will appear when Valie arrives

, With work, however, you can find him.
Unlock the 3rd Mine. This requires getting to the bottom of the 1st and 2nd mine.
Reach one of the following floors: 24, 35, 48, 52, 68, 71, 87, 99, 106, 118, 124, 135, 142, 153, 162, 178, 185, and 197.

Dig around with your hoe until you find the cursed hammer. This could take some time.
Call the church and get the hammer blessed.
Fen will be unlocked.

