 The state of Arizona allows the child's parent or legal guardian to change the name of a child under 18.The child must currently live in the county in which you file the request. For example, if your child lives in Maricopa County, you must file the name change petition with that court., If you are only amending the child's name on a birth certificate, you may not need a court order. If you are changing the child's name for any other reason, including adoption, you must request a court order.


If you only need to change the child's name on her birth certificate, you can so do easily within the first year after the child's birth. After 1 year, the change requires a court order.For further information, contact the Bureau of Vital Records at 601-364-1237.[
Complete and file the Affidavit to Correct or Amend a Birth Certificate with the Arizona Department of Health Services. You will also need to provide various documentation, depending on how old the child is. See the Arizona Vital Records website for full information.
Any name you choose for the child must be shown to be in his or her best interest. For example, if you adopted the child, a name change would clearly be in the child’s best interest as you are making the change to fully incorporate him or her into your family. On the other hand, a frivolous name change, such as wanting to change your child’s name to “Daenerys Stormborn” or “Coca-Cola,” is unlikely to be demonstrably in the child’s best interest.
 For a child, you must fill out the Application for Change of Name for a Minor Child. You can get the appropriate form from your county courthouse, by visiting in person or by visiting the court’s website.


For example, the form for Maricopa County is available here. You can find your court at the Arizona Courts Locator here.
 Use only black ink to fill out the form. Do not fold it, and try to avoid staining the forms. You will need to provide the following information about the child:Full name
Address
Relationship to you
Date and place of birth
New name you are requesting
You will also need to provide a statement about the reasons why you are requesting the name change. Be as clear as possible here.
 This sheet will accompany your name change petition. It tells the court the type of civil action you are requesting. In this case, you will tick Box 152, “Change of Name,” on page 2 of the form.You will also need to provide information about yourself. It will ask the name of the Plaintiff, which is you; there is no defendant in this case.
The form also asks for the name of your attorney. If you are using a family law attorney, provide her name. If you are not using an attorney, you are representing yourself pro se and should give your own name in this space.
 Make two additional copies of the Application for Change of Name for a Minor Child. You do not need to make a copy of the civil cover sheet.
 You may file the forms at any county courthouse within your county, or any Clerk of the Superior Court’s office. Some larger counties may have more than one location at which you may file.


Bring your completed forms and payment for the filing fee.
Plan to arrive at least two hours before the office closes. Contact the Clerk of Court if you are not sure of their hours., The Clerk of Court will walk you through the filing process. You will need to pay a filing fee in most cases. Most offices will accept cash, money order, personal check with photo ID, or Visa or Mastercard. Check with your Clerk’s office to make sure you know what type(s) of payment they accept. The fee may vary by county. In Maricopa County, the fee for Petition of Change of Name is $319.If you cannot afford to pay the fee, you may apply for an Application for Fee Deferral, which will offer a payment plan. This application requires you to provide copies of your two most recent paystubs.Give your forms, including the copies, to the Clerk. Make sure the Clerk stamps your copies and gives them back to you. The Clerk will retain the original Application and civil cover sheet., You must wait at least 4 business days after filing the application before contacting the court to schedule a hearing. Call the Court Administration office at the location where you filed your forms to schedule your hearing.


After you have scheduled your hearing, you must fill out the Notice of Hearing Regarding Application for Change of Name form. You can find this online from your courthouse website, or get a copy when you pick up your other forms. Fill in the date, time, and location of your hearing and make a copy of the form.File this form with the Clerk of Court just as you did for the application.
 If you are the child's parent, you must notify the other parent of a prospective name change. You must notify both parents if you are the child's legal guardian.If the child is 14 or older (but under 18), s/he must sign a notarized consent to change the name, or attend the name change hearing.
If the other parent agrees with the name change, provide him/her with one of the stamped copies of the application and a copy of the Notice of Hearing form. Ask the parent to complete the Consent of Parent to Name Change of a Minor Child and Waiver of Notice form and sign it before a notary.You must bring the signed, notarized Consent form to the hearing.
If the other parent does not agree with the name change, provide him/her with one of the stamped copies of the application and a copy of the Notice of Hearing form. Ask the person to complete an Acceptance of Service form and sign it in the presence of a notary. (You can find this online or at the courthouse.)Bring the signed, notarized Acceptance form to the hearing.
If the other person will not sign a form, you may send one of the stamped copies of the application and a copy of the Notice of Hearing form to the parent by certified mail, restricted delivery, return receipt requested. This will deliver the form only to the recipient you specify and shows as your proof that you have notified the parent. You must bring the return receipt from the Post Office and a completed Affidavit of Service by Certified Mail formto the hearing.You must serve this notification at least 30 days before the hearing.
 If you do not know where the other parent lives, you are allowed to serve notification via “publication” in a newspaper. You will publish a Notice of Hearing in the legal section of the newspaper’s classifieds once a week for 4 consecutive weeks before the hearing. Ask the Clerk of Court how to proceed.You will also need to obtain and file an Affidavit of Publication from the publishing newspaper. You will further need to complete a Declaration Supporting Publication, which states in detail the efforts you made to notify the other person. You must sign this in front of a notary and bring it to the hearing with you.
 You can get this at the courthouse or online. Fill out two copies, but do not sign it until you are in the presence of the judge at your hearing.], You must attend the hearing at court at the time, date, and location stipulated. If the child is 14 or older, the child must also be present at the hearing. Alternately, the child may sign a notarized statement consenting to the change of name.Make sure to bring all the necessary forms to the hearing. You will need to bring the following:


Two copies of the Order Changing Name for a Minor, filled out but not signed

Photo ID for yourself
Clerk-stamped copies of all filed forms
Proof of Notice
Notarized consent form or other proof that you served notification to the other parent
Prior name change orders, if applicable
Proof of naturalization or resident alien status, if applicable
A certified copy of the child(ren)’s official government-issued birth certificate. Do not bring a hospital birth certificate; this will not work.
Adoption decree, if applicable
Proof of Guardianship, if applicable
Passport or proof of immigration status if you are not a US citizen

, If the Judge approves your name change petition, you will sign the form in front of him or her. The Judge will then sign the form, making the order official. Go to the Customer Service Counter at the courthouse to receive a confirmed copy of the court order.You may need to pay for a certified copy of the court order to complete the name change with other agencies. If this is the case, ask the Clerk’s office how to obtain a certified copy and pay the appropriate fee.
 Go to your local Social Security office and get a new card. You will need to show proof of your child's legal name change, such as the finalized adoption decree, the name change court order, or an amended birth certificate with the new name.You must also provide proof of your identity and proof of your child's identity. A US driver license, state-issued non-driver ID, or US passport is sufficient. If your child does not have any of these documents, you may provide one of the the following:

Adoption decree
Doctor, clinic, or hospital record
Religious record, such as baptismal certificate
School daycare center record
School ID


If you have not already established citizenship with the Social Security office, you must provide proof of U.S. citizenship for you and your child (government issued documents like a passport, birth certificate, and driver's license can establish this)., If your child has an Arizona driver license, you must take your child's name change documents, your child's new social security card, and your child's current driver license to the MVD and request a new driver license with your child's new name. Do so within 10 days of changing your child's name.There is a $12 fee for a replacement license with your new name., The process to amend the name on your child's birth certificate varies depending on how old your child is. You will need to send copies of your name change documents and an application to amend your child's birth certificate to the Arizona Department of Health Service's Office of Vital Records (forms and instructions are available via its website).See the Office of Vital Records website for full details.
If your child was adopted, there is a slightly different process. If the child was born in Arizona and adopted in Arizona, the Office of Vital Records will amend the birth certificate within the month after the adoption is finalized. If your child was born in another state or country and adopted in Arizona, the Office of Vital Records will forward a request to amend the birth certificate to the appropriate registration authority. In most cases you do not need to do anything., If your child has a US passport, you will need to change the name so that s/he can travel internationally. The process varies depending on how long it has been since your child's passport was issued.Visit the State Department's website for full information on changing your child's passport.

