 A healthy mind exists in a healthy body. And for spiritual well being, a calm mind is what forms the basis. Therefore the first step is to eliminate internal diseases and work to achieve a healthy and fit body. Do activities that make you walk, run, jump, and play games. Do Yoga, opt balanced diet. Do not get into the trap of satisfying the taste of your tongue. The taste remains only for a few seconds but health is going to stay all your life.;
, The seed of spirituality sprouts in a mind that is well sown with good thoughts and beliefs. For that


Read good books that inspire you and follow the authors whose thoughts make you believe in the idea of optimism.
Go to places where your mind feels relaxed and calm.
Talk to such people who do not judge circumstances and people. The idea behind spirituality is adopting a non-judgemental nature; the concept of Truth. And that comes with acceptance.
 It has not been mentioned to practice meditation straight away, because there are a lot of misconceptions regarding what meditation really is. Therefore, understand the basic idea behind the concept of meditation.


Meditation is being aware and conscious. It is about being present at the 'present' moment.
Meditation is all about the moments when your mind is at peace, calm, and no thoughts are disturbing your inner self.
for example, when you see rain, animals, sea, dark sky and stars, and you are just observing them without having any thoughts of past or future, that is also a form of meditation because you are present at those moments without being lost into thoughts
If you can feel, see what is happening at this very moment, you are in meditation; otherwise you are just in your mind. Coming out of mind is meditation.
 It is important because there is a high possibility that you may not have understood each point regarding meditation. Until and unless you completely understand what meditation is, drawing instances from your life do not go to the next step.
 Do not take the plunge into doing meditation for the sake of doing it. Do it because you want to. If it is a forceful meditation, such as you may decide to do it for an hour in a day even if your mind cannot keep calm even for 10 minutes, then do NOT do meditation for that amount of time. It has to be effortless.


You need to close contact to the outside world that you receive through various senses, that is why it is recommended to close eyes while meditating.
Start observing your thoughts. Do not try to suppress them. That is what I meant by becoming aware of your thoughts. And when you know what it is going on in your mind, calmly let it subside and go away.
The most popular way of meditating is concentrating on your breath. But if that seems difficult, because we are not used to doing that; then concentrate on something that you find easy. You can chant a mantra, that has no meaning and do not create any image on your mind screen.
Then automatically your concentration will move to your breaths. Start observing it, feeling it. Soon it would be like as if you can actually feel your breath touching various parts of your inner body.
 The journey of self realization comprises of knowing various truths. To be precise, it is to become AWARE of all those universal truths that were always there, and also that ONE TRUTH which unites all beings. A simple way to do it is:


In your meditation state, when you begin with analyzing your body. You come to know that what you term as ‘I’ is not your body.
You go further, and may wonder if it is your mind that is ‘YOU’. But if it had been the mind, you would not have been able to observe it, so ‘YOUR MIND’ cannot be ‘YOU’.
Then maybe it is your subconscious mind that is ‘YOU’ but subconscious is that which you are not conscious of, and this can be changed with changing habits and behaviour patterns.
At the last stage, you come to the realization of your real self that is ‘YOU’.
While coming back to your worldly state, you will find the ‘YOU’ in everything that you denied for in the beginning.
 This should make you realize that whether something good is happening or something bad has happened, you are just observing it from outside even when such events occur with you. At that stage, such incidents would not affect you because you have got the realization of the TRUTH.

