 Walk into any kitchen store and you'll notice a dizzying array of items. But the essentials for a good kitchen can get you through 90% of all recipes. While you should expand your tools as you get better and better, you should, at least, start with:


Skillets (1 large, 1 small)
Saucepots (1 5-gallon, 1 1-gallon, or rough equivalents
Roasting pan
Casserole Dish
Dutch Oven (optional, but highly recommended)
Metal mixing bowl(s)
Knife set (minimum -- chef's knife, paring knife, serrated knife)
Cutting boards (at least 2 -- one for meat and one for other)
Dry and wet measuring cups/spoons
Metal tongs.
Mixing Utensils (whisk, wooden spoon, slotted spoon, ladle, spatula), You'll spend more time on your knife than any other tool, and it pays to use it well. Good knife skills don't only make your more efficient, they make your food taste better. Evenly cut vegetables cook evenly, avoiding the bias of meats and onions makes for more tender food, and proper technique saves you from dulled blades and hours of cutting. Some tips for professional knife work include:


Grip the knife with your thumb and curled index finger where the blade meets the handle. You want the back of your hand pointing up, not to the side, for the best control
If the blade is curved, cut forward and back, not up and down. You want to slide the knife through the food so that the curve of the blade slides along the cutting board.
Sharpen your knives every few months. Get the professionally sharpened once or twice a year. Dull blades can slip and cut you, and make cooking much less fun., Everything that you can safely prep ahead of time should be prepped ahead of time. Good cooks are excellent time managers, utilizing every second in the kitchen efficiently so they aren't running around with their heads cut off or leaving things accidentally on the stove.


Chop your veggies.
Measure out ingredients into cups or bowls.
Clean workspaces before cooking, not during.
Get all needed tools and items out of storage and in the kitchen.
Do each stage all at once. Don't skin an onion, then cut it, then skin another, then cut it. Skin all the onions at once, then cut all the onions at once., Good meal planning helps you get the most out of your shopping, re-using ingredients and minimizing waste. Write out a little calendar and plan out meals for the next 2-3 days to start, looking up recipes with some ingredient overlap for the best results


Keep a list of your favorite meals and recipes to make future meal planning easier.
Looking up recipes in advance will also help you see how different ingredients can be used different ways, expanding your cooking vocabulary.
 This makes it lots easier than a big cleanup. More importantly, it keeps your workspaces clean and clutter-free, allowing you to keep cooking or working on new dishes with ease.


Anytime you handle raw meat or fish, wash down all surfaces and utensils used.
Get in a habit of cleaning during downtime (sauteeing, waiting for a loaf to proof, etc.)., Good cooks hit the trashcan and/or compost bin a lot, trimming bits of food and unwrapping or opening ingredients. You'll be faster and more hygienic if you just keep a trash receptacle right on hand.
 Your shrimp are going to burn if you have to run around looking for the sea salt, onions and potatoes will lose flavor and texture if stored wrong, and leftovers will all go to waste if you don't keep the fridge in some semblance of order. There is a reason most professional kitchens are run with army-like precision. While you don't need to go so far as labeling everything you own, an organized kitchen allows all of your energy to go into the food, not finding it.Give yourself ample space, using the biggest cutting boards you can fit.
Keep everything grouped -- spices, vegetables, cooking oils, etc. -- so they are easy to find.