 Pour 1 qt (1 L) of vegetable oil into a deep, heavy-bottomed skillet. Set the skillet on the stove and allow the oil to heat to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius).A cast-iron skillet or Dutch oven works best, but any skillet with a heavy bottom will suffice. You can also use an electric deep fryer.
The oil should be at least 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) deep, if not a little deeper. Do not allow the oil to fill more than half the depth of the pan, however.
Heat the oil over a medium-high heat setting, and adjust this setting as needed to maintain the temperature throughout the frying process. Check the temperature continually using a frying or candy thermometer.;
, Place the okra in a colander and rinse it thoroughly under cool, running water. Afterward, allow the excess water to drip off by letting the okra sit in the colander for 30 to 60 seconds.
 Using a sharp knife, slice the okra into 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) pieces. Keep the pieces as uniform as possible.
 Sift together the cornmeal, flour, salt, black pepper, cayenne pepper, and garlic powder. Whisk lightly until evenly combined.


These seasonings will create a traditional Southern flavor profile, but you can vary them based on personal preference. For instance, you could also add paprika, chili powder, or onion powder.
 Place the eggs in a medium bowl and beat them lightly using a whisk or fork. Toss the sliced okra in the beaten eggs, stirring until all sides are evenly coated.


If desired, you could use 3 to 4 egg whites instead of using 2 whole eggs. Doing so will make the final coating lighter and crispier in texture., Working in half batches, lift the okra out of the egg and allow the excess to drain back into the bowl. Quickly toss the okra into the dry breading mixture, stirring to coat all sides.


Working in two batches instead of one will ensure a more even coating. Crowding the bowl, on the other hand, may create pockets of uneven coating.
 Toss the breaded okra into the hot oil and fry the pieces for 3 to 6 minutes, or until the breading turns golden brown.


Work in two or more batches while frying the okra.
Stir the okra gently to prevent the pieces from sticking together and to ensure that all sides brown. Do not stir too quickly, however, since doing so could cause the breading to break off.
 Using a slotted spoon, remove the finished okra from the hot oil and transfer the pieces to a plate covered with paper towels. Enjoy the fried okra after letting it drain for 30 to 60 seconds.


You can serve deep fried okra with additional salt and hot sauce.

