;
, This is useful if you want to immediately remove any stored data from Firefox. Accessing this window may differ depending on your operating system.


On Windows and Linux, click on “History” from the menu bar and select "Clear Recent History."
On Mac OS X, click on “Tools” from the menu bar and select “Clear Recent History.”If you do not see the menu bar at the top of the screen, you can either right click a blank space on the tab bar and choose “Menu Bar” to show the bar. Or click on the ☰ icon then click on History>Clear Recent History., Click on the drop down menu labeled “Time range to clear” to specify a desired range.
, This will remove data collected from all websites from your computer.


You can also choose to remove your browsing history, downloaded files, offline website data and any saved logins.
 Once you’ve chosen the content to remove, click on “Clear Now” to remove the content from your web browser.
 After clearing your data, be sure to take care of your web browsing activity to protect your personal information and your computer.


Removing your history will hide your activity from anyone who may track your information on your computer.
Avoid websites that may be suspicious of causing harm to your computer.
Deleting your information when Firefox shuts down may be useful if you share the computer with others or you are browsing in a public environment.
 Clearing your browsing data removes some but not all traces of websites that you’ve visited. You'll need to contact your internet service provider or format your hard drive in order to erase everything.


Any personal information you have given to a website will still exist after you clear your cache (in the records of the site itself). They also track your activity for security reasons. Contact the webmaster for assistance in removing your content and activity from their site.
Contact your internet service provider for more information on how your activity is tracked and how it may be possible to remove the activity. Your internet service provider may also track your activity for security and compliance with their terms of service.
Viruses or malware may not be removed from your device even after clearing your settings. The best method of removing this content is formatting your device. Make sure to backup important documents before attempting to format your device.

