 Write a program the day before the test. Under the "program" function on your calculator, type in formulas or cheat notes.


But lots of teachers now check the programs on calculators. So you could also put your notes under the "Vars" (Variables) button in one of the 10 Strings listed. Putting your cheat notes in different sections of the calculator will make it harder for your teacher to locate them if they search.;
, Send a quick text with the question to a friend you trust - and who is good at math! It's probably best to try someone not currently in the test with you, who could send you formulas and answers as needed.
 Try "Text a Tutor", a service that gives you access to a real math tutor via your smartphone. You can send in your questions via a text message or email in pictures of the questions.Response times are usually within 10 minutes. If you think you'll need a quicker turnaround time, get in touch with the service in advance to book the time.
"Text a Tutor" has an app that you can download to your Android phone. For iPhone and other smartphone users, you can still use the service even without an app.
 The app takes a picture of the equation and solves it immediately. This app is especially good if your test requires you to show the steps in solving a question, as you have the option to see the different steps (rather than just the answer).
This app isn't just for cheating; it's also good for studying. You can use it as a learning tool and understand how to solve math problems step-by-step.
 You could use a general search engine like Google or, better yet, type the question in WolframAplha.com. Wolfram Alpha is a computational knowledge engine; in other words, the site answers questions using data it has already sourced. Unlike a standard search engine, then, this site provides you with an answer, rather than a list of web pages that could have the answer.Keep in mind that using a cell phone is a very obvious way of cheating. There is an increased likelihood that you will be caught, as teachers and instructors are on the lookout for cell phones during the test. In many testing situations, you are required to put your phone away in your backpack or at the front of the room, meaning that this method won't work at all for you.

