 As with aggressive dogs, it’s critical that you assert yourself as the Alpha with dogs who are not aggressive but who have dominant or hyper tendencies. Be a strong, clear, calm and fair leader who your dog will respect and listen to. This requires praising him confidently and regularly for good behavior. It also requires asserting your leadership role calmly through being consistent in your expectations; issuing commands only once your dog knows them and you’re willing to always follow through with them; and giving and denying permission for activities like getting in the car, laying on furniture, stealing food, exiting the home, etc.
 Just as with human relationships, dog/human relationships take time to build. But the payout is significant – your dog learns to trust and respect you. He becomes a member of the family, playing his particular role just like every other person or pet in the family. If your dog trusts you and finds you interesting and fun, he will want to listen to you, make you happy and do things with you. Here are a few ways to bond with your dog.Take long walks together.
Initiate plenty of play time together.
Smile at and praise your dog.
Pet your dog a lot.
Train your dog.
Comb your dog’s hair.
Take short, fun jaunts together.
 Learning to read your dog’s body language will help a great deal in meeting his needs, in addition to anticipating and preventing problem behaviors. All dogs will have their individual signals, but there are a number of established signs that are important to know.


When you correct a dog and it sulks, leaves the room or turns its head, he’s signaling that he accepts what you’re saying. He’s acknowledging that you’re the pack leader, not him.
When a dog drops his head and shoulders to the ground from a standing position, it means he wants to play.
Licking a person or other animal is a sign of affection.
Running around and acting very excited doesn’t necessarily represent happiness. It often means that the dog needs mental and physical exercise, in addition to leadership.
A dog that wants to be the leader, or Alpha, puffs out his chest, hold his head high and tries to make himself look bigger. He wants to dominate.
Jumping on a person is a dominant action, not generally one of greeting. The dog is saying he’s the Alpha and wants to own or control the person.
When a dominant dog is baring its teeth and staring directly into the eyes of another person or animal, he’s saying he’s displeased. He’s sending a warning. It’s also a sign that he could bite.
When a dog’s tail is down and tucked, his ears are pushed back, or is leaning backward, it signals he feels insecure or scared.

