 This type of cream can significantly reduce flare-ups, though it may take up to 3 weeks. Your doctor can prescribe a stronger cream than you can get over the counter.The best time to apply the cream is right after you shower. Rub the cream on the affected areas.Make sure you only use the corticosteroid cream as your doctor directs you, as they can have serious side effects if you use them too long on any particular area.
 A lukewarm bath can help relieve the symptoms of eczema, taking the sting out of warm skin. Bath your child with eczema once daily, but not for more than 10 minutes at a time.Add a dash or two of bath oil to the water, and apply a moisturizer or corticosteroid cream afterwards.


Some people find colloidal oatmeal effective. You can find colloidal oatmeal at a drug store. Add it to a warm bath, and sit in the bath 10-15 minutes.When skin is infected, use bath time to soften scabs. Gently rub off the scabs after the bath, as creams should be applied directly to skin.Do not add bubble bath or other such additives to your bath. These will irritate your skin.
 A bleach bath sounds harsh, but it can actually be helpful to kill the bacteria on your skin that cause eczema flare-ups. If your doctor approves it, add a 1/2 cup of household bleach to a lukewarm bath. You or your child can take a bleach bath once a day. Don't soak in the bleach bath for longer than 5-10 minutes.For an infant or toddler bleach bath, add 1 teaspoon of bleach per gallon of water.
Do not apply bleach directly to the skin. This could cause irritation.
 While it can be difficult to isolate what irritants or allergens cause a flare-up, it can be important for dealing with atopic dermatitis. For irritants, everything from bar soap to laundry soap and to perfume and cigarette smoke can cause flare-ups.To isolate what irritants affect the person with atopic dermatitis, try switching out items one at time. For instance, you can start by trying a more natural laundry detergent. If that's not it, you can try switching out the soap used in the bath or shower for another one., If you have atopic dermatitis, you may also be more sensitive to certain allergies, including food and airborne allergens. They may cause normal reactions, as well as causing your eczema to flare up. Try to determine what causes allergic reactions for you by keeping a food journal, so you can track allergic reactions against what you eat.For food allergies, foods such as peanuts, wheat, soy, milk, and eggs can cause allergic reactions, including an eczema flare-up, in children and adults with atopic dermatitis.Some airborne allergens you may be more susceptible to include pet dander, pollen, and dust mites.Ask your doctor about allergy testing if you cannot determine what you or your child may be allergic to.
Some food allergies, especially peanuts, can cause life-threatening reactions. If you believe you or your child is having an allergic reaction to a food, seek medical care immediately.
 Fabrics that scratch the skin, such as wool and even some man-made fibers, can also cause flare-ups. Choose fabrics that don't scratch, and make sure clothing fits properly so it doesn't rub. Natural fibers such as cotton, silk, and bamboo are good choices, but avoid wool.Also, remove tags from clothes or by ones without, as they can rub, as well.Always wash new clothes before wearing them, as they can still have irritating dyes and chemicals in them., Keep your skin moisturized, as it can help keep eczema flare-ups to a minimum. In addition, it can help soften your skin, easing the pain of eczema.Pick a cream that is thick and fragrance-free. Fragrances can irritate skin if you have eczema. In fact, something simple such as petroleum jelly can be effective., Wet therapy is the process of apply wet bandages at night to help soothe eczema. They reduce heat on the skin, block you from scratching, and help moisturize the skin.First apply a corticosteroid cream to the irritated areas of the skin. Use a moisturizer all over the body after the corticosteroid cream. Remember the corticosteroid cream should only be applied to the areas where your eczema is flaring up.Soak cloth towels, clean bandages, or paper towels in water with a small squirt of unscented bath oil. Wrap the wet towels around the skin. Apply them to the areas that are most severe. You may need to completely cover your arms and legs if the eczema is really bad. Try a wet shirt if your chest is irritated.Remove them in the morning. You can also apply them during the day. If you do so, take them off when they are dry.Hold cool, wet towels against the face, but don't wrap them around. Keep them on for 5 minutes., Scratching makes the rash worse. In fact, scratching the rash can cause the skin to thicken in areas and lead to infection.If you have trouble not scratching, cut your nails short or wrap band-aids around your fingertips.
 Oral antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl), can be helpful to reduce the itching associated with flare-ups. Because they can cause drowsiness, take them before bed., If your atopic dermatitis doesn't respond to at-home treatments, she may recommend other topical or oral treatments. She may also recommend a referral to a dermatologist (skin specialist), who can prescribe other medications.If your skin becomes infected, or you develop open sores from scratching, your doctor will likely prescribe antibiotics.
Your doctor may prescribe oral or injected corticosteroids. These suppress inflammation by mimicking the natural effects of your body's hormones in greater doses. They have the possibility of serious side effects and are not recommended for mild cases or long-term use.Another option is skin-repairing creams. A certain class of drugs called calcineurin inhibitors (e.g., tacrolimus, pimecrolimus) alter your immune system when applied to the skin and help reduce atopic dermatitis flare-ups. They can cause serious side effects, so they are usually reserved only for severe cases.