 Also buy the strip of wood if necessary., Show them your sketch of the double frame: You'll need 3 long sides and 5 short sides( 1 long side ( air side) is reinforced so it adds up to 3 long sides; 1 short side ( air side ) is also reinforced, plus the central reinforcement so it adds up to 5 short sides ).You can also buy the materials needed to make the 2 clamps if you had decided to follow this option . Show the people at the hardware store the clamp sketch as well., Choose a corner, clear it up and start work.,, To do this, take the ladder and the wood strip and place them next to the corner.Take the level and check the verticality of the wood strip at the chosen corner.Take your pencil and draw a short line flush at the top of the wood strip., Make a pencil mark thru the "x" hole next to the corner. Take the profile away and drill an 8mm hole at the centre of the mark. Hammer in a plastic plug and with screw and washer fix the profile to the wall. Next prop the wood strip under the free end of the profile, put the level on the flat lower part and gently, push the profile up into the horizontal position and hold it there by propping it up with the wood strip. Once done, mark the other "x" hole. Gyrate the profile a bit out of the way, drill and fix, and the first profile is attached to the corner wall., Make sure that the wood strip doesn't budge. Take the marked long profile, a bolt, washer and nut and raise the profile making it sit on the corner end of the already fixed profile and on the top of the wood strip.Place the bolt etc at the corner to unite the two profiles and tighten by hand. Check horizontally, tighten fully and mark thru the 4th hole from the wood strip end end. Drill a hole on the wall through the "x" marked hole and fix. Next do the other "x" hole in the same way. Space evenly the rest of the fixation points on both profiles and half of the frame ( wall side ) is done., from the middle point. Leave ends free. Do the same with the 4 short profiles, no middle point needed with them. Leave ends free as well. Check end holes and tips of the 3 double profiles are well aligned and flush, then tighten up all bolts.
 A mark at 120 centimeter (47.2 in) on the strip of wood will help you find the point on the beam.

Open the clamp and fix it not too tightly to the beam, add a D shackle and a length of chain stopping a bit short from the frame. Now add the carabiner and hang the long double profile from its middle. Fix with a bolt,etc, to the free end of the short profile on the wall.Check level again and correct right angle ( chain & double profile ) by using some well-cut ample surface. Adjust and fix clamp and everything tightly. Now you can add the last short double profile that closes the frame. Place bolts etc and tighten.

The clamp that holds the main chain will be located on the vertical of the protruding corner of the frame. Proceed as with the other clamp but now adding two carabiners. One at the end of the chain and the other a bit further up using a D shackle. The two carabiners hold and further unite the two double profiles meeting at the corner.
,, File and wood saw might be needed or some narrow strips of wood to get a tight fit of the boards.

