 Pay attention to the types of foods that you are eating. Think about what you eat at school and the snacks that you have during the day.


What comprises a typical day of eating for you?
What are the snacks that you eat during the day? What meals do you eat in the cafeteria?;
, Check the food’s nutritional label or use calorie estimating app to help you get an idea. This is well help you gauge whether you are taking in too many or too few calories. It is important to remember that, depending on your activity level, body size, growth rate, and gender, the number of daily calories needed will vary., Use a scientific calorie calculator to see how many calories your body needs to maintain or lose weight. For healthy function, and long-lasting dieting results, your body needs enough calories to sustain the calories burned throughout the day. The calories you take in need to equal the calories you burn. Check with your doctor if you are unsure of how many calories your body burns.As a teen with a demanding schedule and growing body, this is especially important. Caloric intake depends on a person’s activity levels, which is considered by the calorie calculator.
Teen boys require an average of 2,800 calories per day, while teen girls require 2,200. Getting enough calories is essential to teen growth and development.For teens, the amount of calories needed increases by 200 each year. The peak requirement may be up to 3,200 calories between the ages of 16 and 18 years old if you are very active., You want to create a balanced diet, so keep in mind the five food groups: fruits, vegetables, grains, protein foods, and dairy. Notice patterns, such as if you consume a high amount of grains, but see that there are few protein foods listed.Do you notice a balance, or is one group more skewed than others are?
Write down which groups are lacking in your current eating regimen.
 Limit unhealthy foods by replacing sugary drinks like soda, artificial juice, and sports drinks with water. If you eat a lot of processed and pre-packaged foods, replace them with fresh produce, protein, nuts for snacking, and foods rich in healthy fats, like avocados. , Because your body is undergoing many physical changes, it requires larger amounts of certain vitamins and minerals. Emphasize foods that will help you meet your daily needs.Teens need between 45 and 60 grams of protein a day, whether from meat, fish or dairy. The densest sources of protein include: beef, chicken, turkey, pork, fish, eggs, cheese. Nutritionists recommend that that complex carbs make up 50%-60% of a teenager's caloric intake. A few examples of complex carbs are: sweet potatoes, whole grains, oatmeal, corn, lentils, and beans. They offer a lot of substance but contain little fat. Dietary fat should be limited to 30% of the diet. However, it is important to consume healthy fats because fats supply energy, essential fatty acids, and aid in the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins. Teens who eat a fat-heavy diet filled with lots of fatty, greasy, and/or fried foods will gain weight, even with an active lifestyle and workout plan., Avoid artificial ingredients such as preservatives and synthetic chemicals. Emphasize unpackaged items and fresh produce. Go shopping with your parents or send them a grocery list in order to ensure that you get the healthy foods you want. Shop the periphery of the grocery store, where natural produce and unpackaged items are located.
Choose short ingredients list with names that you can pronounce and recognize, this suggests that the food is minimally processed.
 Teenagers need 60 minutes of physical activity every day. You can get this by taking Physical Education (PE) or participating in a sport. You can also do things like walking or riding your bike places. Being active will help you control your weight and improve your overall health.Join a club sport or the local YMCA. If you cannot afford those, try borrowing equipment from a friend or neighbor. Your school might even let you check out certain items.
In addition to controlling your weight, incorporating more physical activity into your daily routine has the power to boost energy, combat health conditions, and improve your overall mood., Find an activity that you particularly enjoy and see how long you can do it. It is likely that the time will fly by if you are doing something that you enjoy because you will not be thinking of it as exercise. This can be shooting hoops, riding your bike or dancing to your favorite music.If you are unsure what activities you like, try out different things. You will not know what you like until you try it.
 Participation in psychical activities as a part of a group can be fun and help you get your daily exercise. You can join a team sport, shoot hoops with your friends, go on a hike with your family, or search for Pokémon in your local park.


Be sure to find people who are encouraging and supportive. Their positivity will help you reach your goals.
 As a teenager, you can have many commitments and it can be difficult to make time for exercise. The best way to maintain a physically active lifestyle is to develop and maintain a routine. This does not mean that you have to do the same activities every day at the same time. It simply means setting aside a certain period of your day for exercise or sticking with daily habits. Find the things that will help motivate you and give you enough time to stay active. If you decide to walk to school, be intentional about walking as many days as you can and not catch a ride.
If you are not a morning person, exercise in the afternoon if you feel more motivated at that time.
Joining a sports team or club will help you develop a routine. Daily practices will help you better schedule your physical activity. Plus, being part of a team will help hold you accountable.
 Try keeping a journal of your physical activity. Write down what you did and for how long. This will help you get a better idea of how active your and areas for improvement.You can also use an activity tracker or app, which will track and record your exercise for you. , Forming new habits are a matter of repetition, and if you push past the first few difficult days you are sure to notice how much easier it is to keep up your change in diet and exercise. You will likely notice that you have more energy, too!Manage your expectations and focus on consistency instead of getting fast results.
 Taking a rest day is essential to your workouts paying off and shaping your body. Your body will need days to rest between intense exercises. You will also have days where it is difficult for you to stick to your healthy eating habits. Do not beat yourself up on these days and instead embrace them as opportunities to indulge and relax.


Rest days keep you from burning out in your exercise routine and refreshes your desire to workout.
Pick one time a week to enjoy a soda or your favorite junky snack, but keep it in moderation.
 Quality sleep is also essential for teens to see the progress of your workout and dieting. Teenagers should get 8 to 10 hours of sleep a night. Although it may be tempting to stay up late playing video games or socializing with your friends, getting enough is vitally important for having the energy to stay active and eat healthy.Although you may be too old for a bedtime, going to bed at the same time every night will help you develop a good sleep routine. Try to find a time that works for you and stick with it.
 Time constraints and the social pressure to conform to a certain body type can make skipping meals look like an appealing option for teenagers. However, this throws off your metabolism and can lead to increased weight gain. This is a reason why crash dieting is unsustainable and usually followed by quick weight gain. It can also lead to eating disorders and other unhealthy habits. Keep a steady and consistent eating schedule to make sure that you are not depriving your body of essential nutrients.
Always eat breakfast. This is the most important meal of the day because it gets your metabolism going, which results in more calories burned, and helps you have more energy.
 While sugary drinks such as soda are hazardous to health, water supports your body functioning optimally, including losing weight. Oftentimes, your body’s signals for wanting more water can be mistaken for hunger. Teenagers should drink 6 to 8 glasses of water a day.Drinking enough water every day will help you feel full and prevent unnecessary snacking and eating when you are not hungry.
 There is a difference between wanting to attain a healthy weight and having an unhealthy fixation on weight loss. For teens, social media and societal pressures can be a huge source of anxiety surrounding weight loss. If you feel that your eating and exercise habits are becoming a preoccupation in your life, seek support in figuring out how to address these habits. Untreated eating disorders can lead to significant medical complications. Support can be found in professionals such as a medical doctor, psychologist and/or therapist, dietician, or physical therapist.
Group support can be a huge motivator and source of accountability in reaching your goals. Group coaching is available both online and can oftentimes be found locally in your city., Every day, say a positive affirmation in the mirror, "I am healthy and beautiful. I love me and who I'm becoming.” It may sound corny, but taking on a healthy lifestyle is a huge accomplishment in itself, and you should own that!


Positive affirmations are said to help in establishing a brighter, “can-do” mindset, which will make accomplishing your dieting goals that much easier.Dieting takes a lot of willpower, so make sure you reward yourself. Create a positive incentive, like your weekly portion-controlled favorite snack, to look forward to after completing all of your work outs.

