 Charoset is made to resemble the brick and mortar that the Israelites used to construct buildings for the Pharaoh in Egypt. Charoset is a hallmark of any Seder. To make vegan charoset:


Peel, core, and mince 1 to 2 Macintosh apples.
Shell and mince 1 cup (.24 l) of walnuts.
Combine the apples and walnuts and drizzle a kosher vegan red wine over it.
Add cinnamon and sugar to your desired taste.;
, The lamb shank represents the outstretched arm of God that helped the Israelites escape bondage in Egypt. Today, many vegan Jews substitute it with a red beet. You may also be able to substitute the lamb shank for a yam or another large vegetable.Depending on preference, you could roast the beat and place it as a whole on the plate, or you could cut it up into several pieces.
 Bitter herbs stand for the bitterness of the slavery the Israelites endured in Egypt. You don’t need to worry about substitutions when serving bitter herbs. Feel free to serve one of the following:


Radishes
Horseradish
Celery
Romaine lettuce, The beitzah represents the cycle of life and/or the idea of a new beginning. Many vegan Jews substitute the egg for an avocado or a white eggplant.


Consider serving slices of avocado or eggplant sprinkled with salt, pepper, and olive oil., Karpas represent spring and the idea of a new beginning outside of Egypt. There are a variety of greens you can use as karpas. They include:


Parsley, which is a traditional choice
Kale
Green onions
Celery leaves, You’ll also need to serve four cups of wine over the course of the Seder. While many wines are vegan, not all are. However, you’ll need to find a vegan wine that is also Kosher for Passover.


Look for a vegan wine that is marked with a P for Kosher for Passover.
Manischewitz is both Kosher for Passover and vegan., There are a variety of substitutes you can prepare to take the place of gefilte fish. One of the most popular is made from potatoes, parsnips, and onions. To prepare the gefilte fish substitute:


Peel, cube, and boil 1 potato, 1 parsnip, and 1 onion for 10 minutes. Mash them after you've boiled them.
Mix in 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 ml) of salt, 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 ml) of pepper, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of celery salt, and 1 tablespoon (7.5 ml) of matzo meal.
Shape the mixture into gefilte fish shaped patties.
Boil the vegetable stock and then add a whole carrot and the fish patties. Leave them in for 4 to 5 minutes., Mushroom and walnut pate is a great substitute for chopped liver. You can serve it as an appetizer before the meal or as part of the main course. To prepare it:


Heat a skillet on medium and add two tablespoons (15 ml) of olive oil.
Cook 10 ounces (.30 l) of chopped cremini mushrooms and add 1 small chopped onion. Let them simmer for about ten minutes or until they’re soft and brown.
Add ½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) of dried thyme, ½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) of dried rosemary, ½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) of herbs de Provence, ¼ (1.25 ml) teaspoon of black pepper.
Pour the mixture into a food processor and add 1 cup (120 ml) of chopped walnuts, ½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) of salt, and 1 tablespoon (7.4 ml) of water.
Process the mixture until it is smooth and paste-like and refrigerate., Matzo ball soup is almost a requirement for a Passover Seder. As a result, you’ll need to prepare a vegan version of it to serve yourself and/or your guests. To cook it:


Create a mix of 1 cup (120 ml) matzo meal, 3 tablespoons (44 ml) of potato starch, a quarter cup (30 ml) of vegetable oil, 1 cup of water, ½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) of baking soda, ¼ teaspoon (1.25 ml) of salt, and ¼ teaspoon (1.25 ml) of garlic. Use your hands to form these into golf ball-sized balls.
Place a stalk of (chopped) celery, 1 medium (chopped) carrot, a quarter onion (chopped), and 32 ounces (.95 l) of vegetable broth into a large pot. Bring your ingredients to a boil.
Drop the matzo balls into the boiling broth. Allow them to sit for about 20 minutes, then remove them and allow the broth to cook for another half an hour to one hour., Just because you are vegan, doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy your grandmother’s famous matzo ball soup recipe. All you need to do is use egg replacer instead of eggs in your recipe.


Substitute vegetable broth for chicken broth, if your recipe includes it., Chocolate matzo brittle allows you to take a holiday staple – matzo – and create a great dessert for your entire family. To create it:


Drop 1 cup (240 ml) of vegan semi-sweet chocolate chips and a half a teaspoon of cinnamon into a small saucepan.
Turn the saucepan on low heat. Once the chocolate has melted, break up 2 pieces of matzo. Stir the chocolate and matzo together.
After the matzo pieces are coated in chocolate, take them out and lay them onto a piece of parchment paper.
Sprinkle the matzo pieces with your choice of nuts and dried fruit. Consider using pecans, raisins, or cranberries.
Break into smaller pieces before you serve., Macaroons are a traditional Mediterranean dessert that have become associated with Passover. To make your own vegan macaroons:


Combine 1 cup (240 ml) of coconut milk, 4 tablespoons (60 ml) of sugar, and 1/4th teaspoon (1.25 ml) of salt in a saucepan. Place the saucepan on medium heat and bring to a boil. Then, allow it to simmer until it thickens.
Take it off the burner and mix in 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla and 2 cups (.48 l) of shredded coconut.
Place tablespoons of the mixture on a baking sheet and bake until golden brown at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). This could take up to 16 minutes.
Allow to cool before serving., Pick your favorite fruits and combine them together with spices, apple juice, and red wine to create a tasty vegan Passover treat. To make your fruit compote:


Quarter and slice 6 medium fruits and put them in a medium saucepan.
Add 1 cup of apple juice (.24 l), ¼ cup of wine (.06 l), 1 stick of cinnamon, and 6 whole cloves.
Stir everything together and allow it to simmer for 15 to 20 minutes.
Top with raisins, allow it to cool, and then put it in the refrigerator until you are ready to serve it.