 To do this, you need to ask yourself a few questions. Are these for a new job, to change position with a company you already belong to, and/or to add to your competitiveness in the future? Answering these questions now will help match you to a suitable college and program.Research skills that are in demand in your workplace if you're seeking to move within your own place of employment. Your own human resources contact may provide you with this information.
Pay attention to in-demand skills outside your workplace if you're seeking employment elsewhere from your current environment. The U.S. Department of Education's Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education is one starting place for information: ;
, The career choice you are planning to make, especially if it's something to move into more complex areas of the workforce, will usually require a more advanced degree.


Are you looking for research-intensive skill paths such as medicine, law, computers, engineering? Those require classroom instruction and supervised practical exercises--so you will need schooling.
Are you looking for financial or business training for career paths in banking or investing? Higher level positions in those industries require a college or even graduate degree.
 Keep in mind there are a number of cases where going back to school may not be the right option for you given your career choice. Some work fields will train you themselves without schooling elsewhere, or use online/correspondence training. Pharmacy technicians, financial clerks, real estate, law enforcement, and fitness training are just a few of the positions you could consider for employment without a degree.
 Will the additional time commitments placed on you by classes and schoolwork be a problem if you have existing family and work responsibilities? There are flexible schedules available at most colleges/universities that students in their 50s can take advantage of. After you've selected a college and program, if you are unable to handle a full-time load of classes, determine with your program's advisor how much time it will take to complete a degree with a part-time schedule.
Some classes are offered in multiple time slots, so this may create some flexibility.
Distance Learning/Online classes also may be an option to increase schedule choices. These will require computer/internet access.
Consider discussing your educational needs with your family members and employer if you feel comfortable. You may be able to arrange an alternate schedule with them that allows you time to attend classes and study. Some employers offer incentives or funding for educational advancement--consult your human resources contact for more information.
 There are many students in their 50s or older that attend classes in person. Being away from the classroom environment for years should not deter you from pursuing higher education regardless of your reason for doing so. Seeking more competitive skills and/or knowledge is not exclusive to any age. Make sure whatever school you choose is flexible and accommodating in scheduling for adult students specifically.
Many colleges/universities will have quite a number of adult learners, so you should not feel "alone" even if you may be the only one in a particular class.
Whether it's a class of 20 or 200, don't be afraid to participate in a class. You are all there to learn.

