 Though it can be challenging to live with a perfectionist, you should try to not to snap or freak out if the perfectionist annoys you. Take a few deep breaths and then ask the perfectionist if you can discuss the issue together in an open and respectful way.You may propose that you both practice active listening and take turns listening to each other discuss the issue. Doing this will keep the conversation civil and help you both reach a compromise.
For example, you may start by saying to the perfectionist, "I am struggling with your expectations for maintaining the kitchen. I work late and am not able to clean up until the morning. But I am aware that waking up to a dirty kitchen annoys you and you then nag me about it. Is there a way we can compromise on this issue?"
You should then listen intently while the perfectionist responds to your question. Do not interrupt the perfectionist or cut her off. Work together to come up with a compromise, rather than fight about the issue.
 Avoid generalized statements when you discuss any issues with the perfectionist, such as “You always want everything perfect” or “Nothing I do is ever up to your perfect standards.” Instead, focus on specific instances where you feel the perfectionist overstepped your boundaries and upset you with a need for perfection.


For example, you may notice that the perfectionist always complains about how you wash the dishes or clear the table. You may then say to the perfectionist, “I’ve noticed that you have been commenting on how I wash the dishes. I think I do a pretty good job, even if they are not perfect. Can we come to a compromise about this?”
You should bring up issues as soon as they occur and avoid keeping your discomfort to yourself. This way, you can both address the issue and resolve it right away. Doing this also prevents you from feeling resentful or angry at the perfectionist.
 There are actually many positives to living with a perfectionist and focusing on them may help you to appreciate the perfectionist, especially in moments of conflict. Perfectionists are often goal driven and pay attention to the small details, which means they tend be reliable and trustworthy individuals. Because they are driven to do things perfectly, this also means they focus on doing things the right way, with no short cuts. Often perfectionists will help others get things done and show others how to do things properly.You may want to think about an instance where the perfectionist took the time to help you do something properly or helped you focus on the small, important details of a situation. For example, maybe you forgot to send important mail but the perfectionist ended up doing it for you to ensure you did not miss an important deadline. Or, maybe the perfectionist helped you fix an issue with your car and spent time doing it the right way so you do not have issues with it anymore.
 Sometimes perfectionism can be taken to the extreme and result in medical conditions like obsessive compulsive disorder and panic disorder. If you notice the perfectionist is becoming more and more intense and demanding of you and of others, and this seems to correlate with outside stress or anxiety, you may want to suggest she get professional help.You should do this by sitting the perfectionist down in a quiet, private area. Start by noting that her perfectionism appears to be getting more intense and that it is becoming more challenging to live with her. You may then let her know that there is professional help available if she is struggling with other issues, like anxiety, stress, or depression, that may be triggering her perfectionism.
Many perfectionists have a hard time admitting they are having problems, as they do not want to be seen as imperfect. If you notice something seems off with the perfectionist or she seems to be crippled or trapped by her perfectionism, you may want to suggest she see a therapist or a psychiatrist. The psychiatrist may then diagnosis the perfectionist with OCD or a panic disorder and recommend treatment options so their issues do not spiral out of control.

