 In order to get a Presidential pardon, you first must have been convicted of a federal offense or of an offense in the District of Columbia. The President cannot pardon state conviction. Instead, only your Governor can pardon state convictions.You also must wait at least five years from the date that you are released from confinement. If you were not confined, then the five year waiting period begins from the date of sentencing.;
, The purpose of a pardon is to forgive an applicant for their crimes and to recognize that the applicant has accepted responsibility.Consequently, you cannot at any time in the pardon process try to claim innocence or to shirk your responsibility for the crime.
 In order to decide whether to grant a pardon, officials will thoroughly review your application and judge your worthiness. The factors considered in determining your worthiness for a pardon include:the nature, recentness, and seriousness of the offense
your overall criminal record
your acceptance of responsibility, atonement, and remorse
any hardships you are suffering because of the conviction
the extent of your involvement with community service or other charitable activities
your character and reputation

, As part of the application, you will need to answer questions related to your complete criminal history. This includes all crimes and infractions, such as traffic tickets, above and beyond the crime that you are seeking to be pardoned for.Accordingly, you should get complete arrest records from all federal, state, local, and foreign governments where you have ever lived. Call the police in these jurisdictions and ask how you can get a copy of your criminal record.


For tips on how to get your criminal records, see Review Your Criminal Record.
You also need to report delinquent credit obligations, whether you dispute them or not.These obligations can include unpaid child support, unpaid taxes, and unpaid credit accounts.
You also must report any civil lawsuit you have been a party to, including bankruptcy proceedings., You need to submit at least three character reference affidavits with your petition. You will be provided with the affidavit form as part of the application. When choosing your references, remember that you cannot use anyone who is related to you by blood or marriage.Instead, try to get letters from employers, leaders of volunteer or religious organizations, or people in the community who can attest to your changed character.
Be sure to give your references sufficient time to write a reference for you.
 You should definitely meet with a lawyer before applying for a Presidential pardon. Pardons are granted entirely at the discretion of the President, and you want to make the strongest case that you can. Your lawyer can help you find appropriate and compelling character references, as well as help you fill out your application properly.


To find a qualified post-conviction attorney, you should visit your state’s bar association, which should run a referral program. You may also ask your criminal defense lawyer for recommendations.
 You can get a copy of the pardon application by visiting http://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/pardon/legacy/2010/03/26/pardon_form.pdf. You can either print off the application and fill it out or download it and then fill in the information requested before printing.
 Be sure to provide all information requested. Also make sure that the information is legible; either type or print in ink.The application is very detailed. The following is some of the information requested:Your name and contact information.
The dates on which you were released and on which you satisfied any court-ordered restitution.
The offenses for which you are seeking a pardon.
A detailed description of the offense, including your involvement in the crime. Here is where you need to be honest about your involvement, without minimizing your guilt.
A description of all other criminal offenses (which you are not seeking a pardon for).
Information on your spouse and children.
Employment information since conviction or release.
Any history with substance abuse.
Financial information (whether you have been in default, have liens on your property, been in bankruptcy, etc.)
Reasons for seeking the pardon. Here you need to express remorse for the crime you committed. You should work closely with a lawyer as you draft this section.
 After you have completed the application, you must have it notarized.Notaries can be found at your local courthouse, county clerk’s office, or at most large banks. To find a notary near you, you may also use the locator at the website for the American Society of Notaries.Be sure to bring sufficient personal identification to show the notary. A valid driver’s license or passport should suffice.
 You should mail your application to the Office of the Pardon Attorney. The address is 145 N Street N.E., Room 5E.508, Washington, D.C. 20530.You cannot submit the application electronically or by fax. Instead, you must mail the original application with your signature on it.
There is no fee for applying., After you submit your application, pardon officials will conduct a background check. The investigation process could take a considerable amount of time, and you will not be updated on the status of the investigation.


No formal hearings are involved in the federal pardon process.However, an investigator may interview you, along with any character references. The investigator may also interview other people, such as neighbors or employers.If you are denied, then you might not even be told the reason why. The President is not required to give reasons why he either grants or denies pardon requests.There is no appeal process if you are denied a pardon, although you may apply again after two years have passed. You will have to complete and then submit a new application.