 A great way to stay organized is to have the same routine every morning. This way, you’ll be able to remember things that you’re missing because you will have your routine memorized. It is harder to forget things at home or come to school unprepared if you do the same routine each morning.In addition to showering and getting dressed, your morning routine should include a healthy breakfast and a quick check of the contents of your backpack to make sure you have everything you need.;
, Rather than waiting until the night before an assignment is due, try to begin working on homework and other projects as soon as you know what the assignment will be. Waiting until the last minute to complete homework assignments will make you feel less organized and will make it harder to organize other aspects of your student life.Organizing your life to include time for homework every night will help you stay on top of your schoolwork more effectively.
 This means for Math, you might want to have a blue book cover, blue folder, and blue notebook. For History, you might want to have a pink book cover, pink folder, and pink notebook. That way, you'll look in your locker or backpack and easily be able to get what you need for each class.

Organizing your school supplies by color coding will help save you time and help you keep all of the things you need grouped together in a way that makes sense to you.
 A backpack is a necessity for any organized student. You are probably not going to be able to fit everything into your locker, especially once you are out of elementary school. Having a big backpack will ensure that everything you need is with you at all times.A large backpack will help you bring all of the things you need to class every day. A big part of being organized is having the supplies you need at each class every day.
 Most schools provide these, but don't worry if your school doesn't. They are really cheap to buy on your own and fairly easy to find. After each class, write down every piece of homework for that class. At the end of the day, you should have all of your homework written down in the agenda.You should be able to find a school agenda book at any office supply store. Most grocery stores and supermarkets sell them as well.
 You’ll need to buy some other things to help you become an organized student. There are products and school supplies specifically designed for making organization more manageable. Purchase some folders, binder clips, pens, pencils, and a big trapper keeper.Try to get supplies that are various colors so that all of your things don’t look the same. This will help you pick out what you need in the short periods between classes when you don’t have much time.
 You need to come to class prepared every day. This means that you need to keep track of the things you’ll need to bring with you every day. Make a list the night before and write every single thing you need to bring to each class the next day. Talk to your friends and teachers to know what you need for each class.This is especially helpful for students who have A/B schedules with different classes on different days. You don’t want to leave some necessary supplies at home just because you forgot which classes you had that day.
Figure out how to lighten your load. Don't bring nonsense things – like a calculator to History or an eraser to P.E.
 Keeping due dates in mind is essential if you want to be an organized, successful student. You may want to purchase a white board or cork-board to write or pin on when projects are due. This will help you create a visual aid for yourself to help you remember deadlines.A fun way to get the project done easier and faster is to work with friends, if your teacher and parents allow that.
 In order to be an organized student, you need to prioritize the things you need to get done on a daily basis. Make a list of the things you need to do each day, with the most important items at the top of the list so that you know to work on these items first.As you work down the list, you’ll still be accomplishing your goals. But you’ll be doing it in a methodical, organized manner.
Figure out when you are naturally the most productive and try to do the bulk of your work during that time. If you are more alert and engaged in the mornings, then try to get up before school and spend some time on homework then. If late at night is your thing, try to create a schedule that allows you to stay up later to work on school assignments.
 Don't be afraid to ask teachers for help setting up a study schedule, or even if you don't understand what to do in class. They are there to help you and offer you advice. If you are struggling with completing or organizing your schoolwork, stay after class and discuss it with a teacher you are comfortable talking to.


Your teachers can be your best ally and source of knowledge when it comes to academic matters. Don’t be shy about discussing your struggles with them.

