 As a federal investigative and intelligence agency, the FBI has the authority and responsibility to respond to a range of federal crimes, cyber crimes, and national security threats. Contact the FBI any time to give information on the following crimes:Possible acts of terrorism or activities related to terrorism
People sympathetic to terrorists
Suspicious activities that could be a threat to national security, especially if foreign parties are involved
Computer crimes, especially those related to national security
Corrupt government activities at the local, state, or federal level, or in law enforcement
Race-related and hate crimes
Human trafficking
Civil rights crimes
Organized crime activities
Financial crimes involving fraud (corporate fraud, mortgage fraud, investment fraud, etc.)
Health care industry fraud
People who have committed or are planning to commit crimes including bank robbery, kidnapping, extortion, valuable art theft, large interstate shipment theft, and monetary instrument theft
Violent gang activity;
, Information submitted via the "FBI Tips and Public Leads" form will be reviewed as soon as possible by an FBI agent or professional staff member.


Note that you may not get a reply to your submission due to the large volume of submissions the FBI receives.
Provide as much detail as possible when filling out the form.
 The FBI has 56 field offices in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, as well as dozens more offices attached to U.S. embassies around the world. You can contact your nearest office with information on possible criminal activity. If you want to email the FBI, you will need to contact a field office, as the FBI has no central email address.


Look up the address, phone number, and email of the nearest U.S. field office here.
Find the phone number of the closest international office here.
 Though it is more efficient to submit a tip form or contact a local office, you can also call the FBI headquarters with a tip or complaint about criminal activity. The phone number is 202-324-3000, and the address is:


FBI Headquarters
935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
Washington, D.C. 20535-0001

