 Go inside of the biggest building. Bet an apartment on one of the floors by walking into it.


You can change the color of you apartment with the small bars beneath your TV screen.
It is better to get an apartment closer to the middle elevator rather than farther way for easy traveling.
If you ever want to lock your apartment use the red and blue buttons next to your door.
You can sell your apartment by pressing the button intended to do so outside of your apartment.;
, There will be a menu on the left side of you screen that can load and save outfits. This is useful for changing clothes without having to reset. On the top right corner of your screen there are shop and closet buttons. First, load the closet. Then buy whatever you like with gems. Don't forget to save!


It is suggested you buy things from the catalog with tix and Robux if you can so you look original. If you're short on currency, using the shop is just fine as well, but there will be other people that might wear the same things as you if they use the in-game shop.
There is a plastic surgeon (face changer) and some places where you can get free hair and hats on one side of the island. These are good for starting off, but if you want to be unique, even the in-game shop holds better hats.
 The load and save outfit menu on the side of your screen is useful for quick changes, but you don't have to use it. If you're using your own outfits from your ROBLOX inventory, arrange the outfit you want for that slot in the character menu and reset to put it on, then save it to the slot. Every time you reset, load the slots again and save your outfit to the loaded ones.


If you are using the in-game shop, the slots are a little bit useful but you can skip this step if you'd like.
A good way to use your slots is to use the first two slots for casual clothing when running around, the third for fancier clothes that you might wear to the club on the fourth floor, the fourth for pajamas if you ever plan on going to any sleepovers or are a role-player and don't like to sleep in your everyday clothes, and the fifth for a swimsuit or swim trunks.
 Go to the side of the island with the pet adoption spot and pick your favorite! Then go to Kooky's Pet Clothes and color your pet's fur and give it a hat or two. Don't forget to name it!


You can make your pet stay in one spot by making it sleep, and after some distance away your pet will teleport to you (Magically)! But sometimes if it won't teleport you can make it in pet commands.
Pets are great ice breakers. Since you can control their chat, make them say something embarrassing and scold them. The person who your trying to make friends with will laugh and if they have a pet too, your pets can socialize or talk smack about their owners in front of them! The bar to make your pet talk is right below the pet commands. Pets are great to be able to get talking to people!

, If there is a DJ in there just get on the floor and start dancing!


One of the best parts of Beach House Roleplay is the socializing, and the club is a great place to hang out with old and meet new friends.

