 A great way to help look after wolves, while raising awareness about the destruction of their natural environment, is to volunteer at a wolf sanctuary. Search online to see if there is one near you. You are more likely to find a local sanctuary if you live in a state that has wild wolves.Research the sanctuary and get in touch with them saying you’d like to volunteer.
Volunteer roles can be competitive, so you will have to show why you are a good choice.
Volunteering schemes can vary from evenings and weekends to placements where you are on site for a few weeks, perhaps over a whole summer.
Volunteers in sanctuaries will generally do a wide-variety of things, such as cleaning out enclosures, feeding the animals, working in the gift shop, and conducting tours.;
, If you would prefer to get out into the open country, there are a number of organisations that have volunteer programmes where you can do just that. Search for wolf preservation volunteering online and look for programmes that involve hiking or cycling in the country. You may camp and be asked to take photos of the environment, while acting as a positive spokesperson for wolves.You should understand that you are very unlikely to actually come into contact with any wolves.
You will most likely be tasked with maintaining the environment, assisting with daily jobs, and talking to visitors about wolves.This is a great way to experience the outdoors, meet new people, and help to save wolves all at the same time.
 Another way to volunteer is to help an organisation with their office work, as well as their campaigning, fundraising and outreach work. Search for the offices of wolf and wildlife charities that you could travel to, and contact them. Explain what motivates you, and what skills and experience you have that can help.


Volunteers are vital for many charities, so don’t be shy about getting in touch.Volunteering like this can also be great way to develop all sorts of skills and experiences that help you develop.
It might not seem as exciting as being in a sanctuary or out in the country, but a successful campaign needs people in the office.
 A great way to get involved in a movement to help protect wolves is to attend events and meetings that take place. There may be events locally that you can attend in order to hear people talking about the situation and what needs to be done. This is also a great way to meet people who know a lot about wolves and who can help you get more involved.


This may involve going to local Town Hall meetings, or other such events, and speaking up about the plight of wolves.
If your state has a lot of pressing issues to do with wolves, you may find debates and listening sessions about relevant legislation and regulation that you can attend.
Look on the websites of wolf charities for lists of upcoming events.