 Always make sure to move very slowly when trying to handle a hermit crab. Hermit crabs have compound eyes and can detect movement very well. If you move quickly, they’ll definitely see you and they’ll certainly be startled and will try to run away or defend themselves.;
, When you go to pick up your crab, make sure to pick him up from the back. If you try to pick him up from the front, the crab might pinch you with his claws. The initial moment when you pick up the crab is key, so don’t botch this up, and don’t pick him up from the front of the shell or try to touch his head, claws, or body., After you’ve picked up the crab, hold him by the back of the shell then outstretch the palm of your other hand underneath the crab’s walking legs. The reason that you outstretch your hand is so the crab has somewhere to rest his legs, and so he’s not panicking and trying to grab onto to your dominant hand and pinch you.


Flatten your other hand underneath the crab. Make sure that your hand is completely flat and that none of your skin or fingers are vulnerable to getting pinched by the crab.
If he tries to pinch you, slowly raise him up with your other hand just a couple of inches, and then try to lower him again.
Make sure you do this just a couple of inches from the ground of his terrarium or above a table. If you drop him, you don’t want to drop him more than an inch or two., Keeping all of your fingers together will prevent the hermit crab from pinching you with his claws. It will also provide a large, flat area where the crab can stand up. In addition, your crab will feel safer if there is a solid surface beneath him., Once you’ve got the crab to rest his legs on your hand, let him go and allow him to move around on your hand. After being released on your hand, your crab should become more relaxed.


Make sure your hand is only a few inches off of a table or the floor.
Don’t be afraid to let your crab move around freely on your hand.
Try to relax and keep a steady hand.
If your crab gets close to falling off your hand, pick him up by the back of the shell and redirect him., Feeding your crab while handling is definitely one way to get your crab used to and comfortable with handling. In fact, if you properly hand feed your crab, he will actually look forward to and enjoy handling.


Put some oats or fruit in your hand when your crab is relaxed.
Make sure your crab is comfortable.
If you try too fast, your crab might pinch you., Make sure to pick a time when your crab is already active. If your crab is not active, he won’t really do anything, and he might not even come out of his shell. The best way to engage with your crab is to make sure he’s already interested in moving around.


Never shake the crab’s shell.
If the crab doesn’t want to come out, and isn’t moving around, don’t force him.
Figure out when the best time for handling is depending on your crab’s habits and feeding schedule., If you can do so without scaring him, try to brush off as much sand as you can before picking him up. This will enable you to see him better. It will also help when you hold him, as he’ll be less likely to slip out of your fingers.
 While it might be tempting to put down your crab outside of his terrarium while you’re handling him, you need to be careful about where you put your crab down. Certain surfaces are unsafe for hermit crabs. Avoid:


Carpet. The fuzz or lint from carpet will cause problems for your crab.
Any surfaces that might have chemical traces or residues present.
Any surfaces that might present drop dangers, like table tops or stairs., One of the most important parts of handling a crab is staying still and moving slowly and deliberately. Staying still and moving slowly will ensure the safety of your crab and minimize the chances of you getting pinched. If you move around, the crab might get scared about falling and might pinch you.
 While a crab pinch might not be comfortable, it’s not the end of the world. Chances are, you’ll get pinched sooner or later. When this happens, stay calm. Try to get the crab to walk in the other direction – lure him with food or something. He should let go. If this doesn’t work, put your hand in the crab’s terrarium, and he’ll probably let go and walk off.