 All but the shortest haircuts can fit into a ponytail, and there are several different ways to make it look your own. Here are some options.;
, For a sleek look, hold your hair about where you want it with one hand. With the other, carefully comb hair back into your hand, starting at your hairline and going all the way around your head. For a more tousled look, hang your hair upside down and muss it, using some light hairspray or a root lifter. Fasten without smoothing hair out.
 Put your ponytail on the top of your head, at the nape of your neck, or somewhere in between.
 Try positioning the ponytail just behind your ear, or make the shift more subtle by positioning it just a few inches to the right or left. Whatever you do, make sure it looks intentional - you don't want people to think you just couldn't get the ponytail straight.
 If you have layers, bangs (fringe) or just want a less structured look, choose a few pieces at the top or side of your face to leave out of your ponytail. These can be curled, straightened, or just left as they are.
 For a trendy mod look, make the top of your hair "bump" up before it goes back into the ponytail. Backcomb your hair where you want it to have some lift, and set with hairspray. You can also add a cute headband to a bump, placing it about a half-inch away from your hairline.
 If you have long hair and a few bobby pins, you can mask the elastic used to fasten your ponytail. Pull a long, medium-width strand out of the bottom of the ponytail, near the center. Wrap it once around the base of the ponytail, over the elastic, and slip a bobby pin into it when it's back at the bottom. Wrap again, or as many times as you need to, and secure at the bottom again.
 Grab the hair around the top of your head, leaving the bottom portion loose. Fasten with an elastic or barrette. This will keep your hair out of your face while maintaining a long, soft look.
 Make your one ponytail into two ponytails, also known as pigtails. Be careful, though - while a ponytail is something women of all ages wear, pigtails are typically seen as being for teenage girls and younger, or costume occasions.








