 Jealousy may arise when friendship bonds start to weaken. This may be caused by distance, busy lives, or growing apart. To help try to fix the jealousy in the group, try spending some quality time together. Use this time to get to know one another again and remember why you were friends in the first place.


For example, you may start going to dinner more frequently, like a weekly pizza night or someone different hosting dinner every week. Do something fun together after dinner, like watching movies, playing video or board games, or sitting around eating dessert while talking.
Go on a group outing to somewhere fun, like a concert, a local park, a museum, or a community event. Try to use the experience to bond and have fun together.
Spend a weekend together. Rent a cabin or lake house and spend the weekend enjoying each other's friendship.
 If your friend is the jealous one, offer to listen to them with an unbiased ear. Tell them that you are there for them and will listen if they are having problems. However, make it clear that you still care about the other friend, but you care about them, too. Tell your friend you want to be there for them.For example, you can say, “I know you feel jealous of our friend. Jealousy is a natural emotion. I am here to listen to you and help you through this if you want. I will not judge. I care for you both, and I don’t want the friendship to be ruined.”

, Sometimes, people feel jealous because their friend is doing something they wish they could do. If this is the case in your friend group, use this moment as a learning moment. Get inspired to do something to better yourself or achieve a goal you’ve always wanted.For example, you may be jealous because your friend got into shape, learned to play an instrument, or made a career change. You may want something similar for your life. Instead of being jealous, use your friend’s success as inspiration to make a change in your own life.
 Often, jealousy arises when someone feels compared to someone else and lacking. To help yourself or your friend if this is the cause of the jealousy, focus on the positive traits. This helps people not feel left out or less important or liked than others.This should be for all the people in the friend group. Make sure everyone feels equally valued and each person’s strengths and accomplishments are treated with the same enthusiasm.

