  Medicare is health insurance from the U.S. government for people 65 and older.  Enroll by visiting the Social Security website at www.socialsecurity.gov or by calling 1-800-772-1213.  If you want your coverage to start the month you turn 65, enroll three months before your 65th birthday.  Medicare has several parts.Medicare Part A is hospital insurance that covers you inpatient care in a hospital.  It is free for most people 65 and older.

 Medicare Part B covers doctor’s visits, outpatient care and other services not covered by Medicare Part A.  You have to pay a premium for Medicare Part B.  It is based on your annual income.  As of 2012, the premiums ranged from $99.90 to 319.70.  The premium is deducted from your monthly Social Security check.

 Medicare Part C is the Medicare Advantage Plans.  This is insurance provided by a private company that contracts the Medicare to provide you Medicare Part A and Part B coverage.  It also usually provides prescription coverage.  You pay a monthly premium that varies depending on the plan you choose.

If you have a Medicare Advantage Plan, you don’t need a Medigap policy.



 Medicare Part D is prescription drug coverage.
  Some people choose to purchase an additional health insurance policy to cover anything not covered by Medicare.  These expenses include co-pays and annual deductibles.  You can purchase Medigap insurance from a private health insurance company.You can choose from 12 different Medigap policies.  They are known as Medigap A through F.  Medigap A is the most basic, and each subsequent policy offers more coverage.

 If you are married, you and your spouse must each purchase a Medigap policy.  


,  When you reach 65, you will be eligible for Medicare, but this doesn’t cover everything.  You will have to pay a premium for some of your Medicare coverage, and you will also likely want to purchase Medigap insurance.  In addition, you will have to pay out of pocket for anything not covered by your insurance, such as co-pays and deductibles.  Fidelity Investments estimates that a retired couple will need to spend $240,000 of their own money to cover 20 years of healthcare expenses.