 Saunas may result in a loss of a pint of sweat in just a quarter of an hour.
People with blood pressure or heart problems should not use saunas, nor should young children.To prevent dehydration, limit sauna time to 15 or 20 minutes per day.
Again, this, like most very-quick-fix treatments that cause various kinds of excretion, is just a way to drop water weight, making you slim down for a day or so. This is not a permanent weight loss method. You should hydrate by drinking a few glasses of water after spending time in a sauna to reduce the risk of dehydration.


If you are losing weight for a wrestling or similar weigh-in (a widespread unhealthy practice), go do that before you rehydrate.
 Some mineral wraps claim to help you slim down by literally making you “lose” inches off of your waist, thighs, and arms. The process involves a mineral-based cleanse that is supposed to detoxify your body, helping you shed weight, reduce cellulite (fat near the surface of your skin), and tone and firm your skin almost instantly.
 While the mineral body wrap is the most common, there are other kinds of wraps that claim to shed inches from your waistline. Again, these are not permanent weight loss options but they could help you slim down for that special day.



Get a lipase body wrap. Lipase body wraps are another quick-slim beauty treatment that follows a two-step phase. First, an enzyme wrap is applied to rid your body of fat tissue near the surface of the skin. A second mineral wrap is then applied, designed to tighten and smooth your skin. Get a European body wrap. European body wraps are another potential option for spa services aimed at dropping inches off of trouble spots. This procedure is supposed to firm and tone skin, reduce the appearance of cellulite or stretch marks and temporarily promotes weight loss.







Get a hot body wrap. Heat-based body wraps are perhaps a more well-known spa treatment, designed both to detoxify your body and stimulate smooth, toned skin. The heat and massage involved in most heat or steam treatments are targeted at improving circulation and helping your body slim down quickly.
 Liposuction is a surgical option for fast, targeted weight loss, generally only recommended for people with one or two specific areas of highly fatty tissue but otherwise relatively healthy body weight. Because it is a surgical procedure, it carries significant health risks and should only be performed by a licensed professional.