 Having money, even lots of it, won’t necessarily stop you from wishing you had something that someone else has. Feeling envious and trying to keep up with the Joneses won’t make you happy--quite the opposite. It’s much more important to find satisfaction with what you have, where you are in life.


Keep your eye on the intangible, non-material things you identified when defining “rich” for yourself. Things like valuing your work, the people around you, your health, etc. matter much more for happiness, in the end, than the stuff that you have or don’t have.
 Whether they are rich or not, everyone wants to be valued accepted by others to some extent. Close relationships with other people build your sense of security, intimacy, and fulfillment in life--all things that contribute to your sense of happiness. When you are rich, don’t neglect the people around you.Make sure to spend quality time with your family and friends. Do whatever you enjoy--go on a vacation with them, meet them for dinner, play games together, or just talk.
Spending quality time with people you love also shows them that you value them above all things, even money. This will increase their happiness as well.
 Accumulating material things might seem like one of the benefits to being rich. To some extent, it’s satisfying to get the things you want, but this satisfaction is usually fleeting. Studies show that spending money on experiences (like vacations, a surprise party for your partner, skydiving, etc.) contribute far more to long-term happiness than material things (like a Ferrari or diamond earrings) do.Spending money to free up more of your time can also increase your happiness. So, if you can afford it, pay someone to clean your house, mow your lawn, or other low-priority tasks, rather than doing it yourself, giving you more time to concentrate on what you love.
 Though rich people have more money than others, research shows that they tend to be relatively less generous than people with less money. The ultra-rich donate a smaller percentage of their wealth than those with more average incomes. At the same time, research shows that contributing to causes you value increases your sense of happiness. So when you are rich, give generously and reap the rewards of happiness!Find a charity or organization involved in something you value, whether it’s housing the homeless or giving seed money to startups, and donate.
 Giving doesn’t have to be monetary. If you can find ways to devote time to helping others, or to share your knowledge and experience, this can also increase your happiness. And if you are rich, it will can be easier to have the freedom to make this happen. Think about doing things like:Tutoring at-risk children
Giving motivational talks to young entrepreneurs about how you became successful
Getting involved in your community, through local politics, charities, etc.

