 Open the app (application) tray, also called the app drawer, and scroll through until you see “Settings”. It looks like a gray gear icon. Tap this to open.;
, Scroll down to find the Security settings option, and tap to open. A list of settings related to the security of your device will be found here.
 At the top of the page, you should see “Set up screen lock”; tap this to open the Lock Screen settings.


You should now see a series of seven different lock screen options in front of you—None, Slide, Face Unlock, Voice Unlock, Pattern, PIN, and Password—each will be a little different than the last. Note that some are far more secure than others.
 For those who want less hassle when unlocking your device, the first three options might just be for you. Be warned though, this can put the personal information saved in your device at risk if ever it gets stolen.
 This would be the obvious “None” option in the menu. Selecting this option means you won’t actually have a lock screen at all. When you hit your Power button, it will simply turn on your screen and you will be on your device homepage.
 Place your finger on the lock icon and move any direction, usually about an inch or so, to unlock your device.
 People have even used pictures of people to unlock their devices.


If you want to use this option, make sure that the area you are in is well-lit and you hold your device at face level with the screen towards you. On the screen, you should see a series of dots in a face-shaped circle. The device will use the front-facing camera to see your face. Once it can see your face properly, each of the dots on the screen will turn green. Once this has completed the circle, you are good to go.
There is a pattern unlock you must also set, which is used as a backup just in case the face unlock doesn’t work. A series of 9 different dots will appear on your screen. Place your finger on one and slide it across at least 4 different dots and repeat. Remember this pattern because you may need it later if your face unlock doesn’t work properly.
When unlocking your device for face unlock, you will also need to make sure that you are in a well-lit area. Press the Power button and you should see the face-shaped dots on the screen. Place your face inside these dots by adjusting the front-facing camera angle, and the phone should quickly unlock.
 For many people, security takes priority. If somebody steals your device, you probably don’t want them to be able open it and see all your personal information. Fortunately, these features offer the security you want

, The one you are primarily looking for is the top one, which should say “Unlock command.” Tap this.


Now, repeat a word or phrase that has 2–8 syllables, 3–6 times. Make sure to vary your voice tone and inflection so that the device can learn your voice a little better as you go. There should be a percentage bar that moves across your screen with each successful attempt.
When you’re done, you will be required to create a pattern in case the voice unlock is unsuccessful.
To unlock the device, you simply press the Power button, wait to see the screen, then speak the phrase you created earlier. You should see a little microphone button on the bottom middle of your screen. If you see an X on the mic this means the mic is off. Tap the mic button to turn the mic on again, and speak your phrase, same as before.
 The “Pattern” lock screen option is one of the most secure options for unlocking your device. A series of 9 different dots will appear on your screen. Place your finger on one and slide it across to at least 4 different dots, and repeat. You can then use this method to unlock your device.


This pattern will also lock certain features in your settings. You may need to enter your pattern in order to unlock these features should you need them. You will be notified if this will be required or not.
 You will need to enter a series of numbers in order to unlock your device. You will be required to enter a PIN with no less than 4 digits, and no more than 17. This will be required each time you would like to unlock your device.


This PIN will also lock certain features in your settings. You may need to enter your PIN in order to unlock these features should you need them. You will be notified if this will be required or not.
 The “Password” option is probably the most secure lock screen, as it can contain numbers, letters, and symbols. When you tap “Password,” you’ll be shown two text boxes. Enter your password, no less than 4 characters and no more than 17, in both boxes to finish. This password will now be required each time you unlock your device.


This password will also lock certain features in your settings. You may need to enter your password in order to unlock these features should you need them. You will be notified if this will be required or not.
 Regardless of the method you choose, it is important to make sure that your security measures work properly. Each time you choose a different method, make sure to test it out. Make sure you are comfortable with it, and that it works the way you want.