 This might sound obvious, but it can be easier said than done. Even a teacher who has decided that they don’t like you will have a hard time keeping that opinion if they see you consistently finishing your work on time.Make sure you complete assignments not just on time, but also thoroughly. For example, if an assignment asks for you to answer in complete sentences, do so. If a math worksheet asks you to show your work, make sure you do.
Ask for whatever help you need. If you have a hard time completing assignments, get help from a parent, friend, or tutor.
If your relationship with your teacher isn’t too terrible, you can ask them for help, too. Say something like, “I know I haven’t been great at finishing my work for this class. I want to improve, but I’m struggling with the subject matter. Would you be willing to offer me a little extra help or answer some questions for me after class?”

, Good teachers will engage students in discussions about the subject matter. Make sure you participate in a polite and engaged way. This usually means raising your hand to speak and listening when others are talking.Participating means staying present in class. Never take out your phone or send texts while in class.
Keep your head up and eyes alert during class discussions.
 Sometimes, a teacher may have gotten a bad impression of you because you act up in class, talk out of turn, or are generally disruptive. If that’s the case, try to keep a lower profile in class. This will show the teacher that you’re not always seeking attention.Make sure to always raise your hand to speak. If you speak a lot in class, maybe try keeping your hand down for a bit to let others talk.
If your teacher has a poor impression of you because you don’t participate much, try the opposite of keeping a low profile. Speak up more and let them know you’re engaged.
 Being on time for class lets teachers know that you value their time and energy. After all, it takes a lot of work for them to come to class, too. If you arrive to class with some extra time, ask if there’s anything you can do to help your teacher setup or prepare for class. They’ll probably be grateful that you offered.If you’re late consistently, write them a note to apologize and explain yourself.
Being on time is a good habit to develop early, as it will benefit you throughout your entire life.

