 A psychiatrist or psychologist will likely interview you and have you complete an array of questionnaires or assessments. These allow them to get a clearer picture of your symptoms. If it is determined that you are experiencing the symptoms of comorbid anxiety and ADHD, you will need to decide on the best course of treatment.

How your mental health provider chooses to treat your comorbid conditions typically depends on the severity of the disorders and which occurred first. They might try to treat the ADHD first if it contributed to the development of anxiety, or they might treat both conditions simultaneously.Your mental health provider may also ask about the events leading up to your anxiety to provide tailored treatment for your condition.
 In general, medication is one of the best courses of treatment for both children and adults with ADHD. Stimulants are the first line of pharmacological treatment for ADHD, but some stimulants may exacerbate anxiety symptoms for a short time. Atomoxetine, a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), is also used to treat co-occurring ADHD and anxiety.Side effects for stimulant medications may include sleep disruption, appetite changes, irritability, and involuntary tics.
Side effects of non-stimulants like Atomoxetine include sleep disruption, constipation, nausea, headaches, decreased sexual desire, and fatigue.
Your doctor may suggest several courses of treatment, and you may try multiple types of medications before seeing improvements. Also, even once you find a medication that is helpful, it may take several weeks for symptoms to improve.
 You can also discuss natural alternatives to medications with your doctor. Several natural supplements have been show to help improve the symptoms of ADHD, including ginko biloba, ginseng, phosphatidylserine, acetyl-L-carnitine, and pycnogenol.Be sure to discuss natural supplements with your doctor before trying them, and do not combine natural supplements with your prescription medications.
 In addition to taking medications for ADHD symptoms, your mental health provider may suggest psychotherapy. One of the most effective psychotherapeutic approaches for comorbid anxiety is cognitive-behavioral therapy, or CBT.CBT is an intensive therapeutic approach that helps isolate thought patterns that contribute to anxiety. Over the course of therapy, you may learn to identify unhelpful thought patterns and learn techniques to change them.
 Psychoeducation is a beneficial aspect of treatment for any mental illness. Helping you and your loved ones understand the nuances of both disorders helps you better recognize and cope with symptoms.You can receive psychoeducational information through support groups facilitated by mental health professionals and/or peers.

In these groups, you and your family can receive insight and support about your comorbid conditions and hear real-life testimonies from others who are going through similar ordeals.

