 The method described in this article is very adaptable and has no set quantities. It is up to you how much of anything you use depending on how many people you need to feed. Each portion will be two thirds leftover based and one third sweet potato, kumara or potato mash so work out how many you can cater for on that basis.;
, If you need to make the Bolognese sauce, chilli or similar go further (feed more people) you can use tinned chilli beans, Ratatouille, tinned baked beans, a jar of tomato or capsicum pepper based pasta sauce, tinned tomatoes, tinned chilli, some of all of these or anything else you think will taste good and have in stock or need to use up.
 The final dish will be baked in the oven. You can mix your leftovers with the additions in an oven proof dish that you can serve the completed dish in or a separate bowl. If you mix the leftovers and additions together in a bowl, you will need to transfer the mixture into an oven proof dish. The mixture should fill two thirds of the oven proof dish.
 Kumara is highly recommended here! Use ordinary potatoes if you prefer or if you have some that you need to use up. If you have mashed potatoes to use up, even better, use them up! If in doubt, add more kumara or potato, too much is easier to manage than not enough.
 The smaller you chop them, the faster they cook, putting the lid on the pan will help too. If in doubt, slightly over cooked is better than under cooked.
 Pour the water out of the pan but keep the kumara or potatoes in.
 You can add butter or a butter substitute to the mash. Add no more than a standard portion per person if you aren't a confident cook, add as much butter or butter substitute as you like if you've made mash successfully before. Kumara is tasty with or without butter. Ordinary potatoes can be a little bland without any butter. Add salt and pepper to taste. You can add whole egg, egg yolks, milk, cream, spring onions, cooked finely chopped white onions, grated or shredded cheese to the mash if desired.
 Essentially, you're making a pie. The mash is the topping. Spread the mash evenly over the "pie filling". Add grated or shredded cheese on top if desired. For an attractive finish, run the tines of a fork over the mash.
 The oven should be heated to a medium heat. The topping will brown slightly. When the filling is piping hot, you can take your creation out of then oven and serve it.
 You can add bread, vegetables, corn chips and dip on the side / as an accompaniment if you want to.

