 Do you have blue eyes? Match your bracelet to your eyes with an alternating blue/green, or blue/yellow bracelet. Are you planning on wearing a red outfit? Make a predominantly red bracelet. Maybe you don't want to match at all. You are versatile and unique, so why not make your bracelets the same?


Many websites sell multiple different colors, from monochrome bands to multicolored, tie-dye, and glow in the dark. Mix and match to your heart's content.;
, To make the most basic bracelets, you will only need rubber loom bands, a loom, and a metal hook tool to attach them together. However, the quality and style of these products differ wildly. Browse at a few sites to see which ones you like the most.









You can buy silicon, jelly, latex-free, and other types of loom bands. If you are allergic to latex, the type of band you buy is incredibly important to avoid allergic reactions. Make sure you get the correct looms for your project, and your health.
C-hooks are necessary to make bracelets that are easily removable. You will attach these to the end of your loom bracelet when you have finished attaching all the loops. It will attach to the other end of the bracelet, and permit you to put on and remove the bracelet at will. These also come in many different colors.
Making loom bracelets is possible without a loom, but it is more difficult to do. As these are relatively cheap, it is definitely a good investment to buy one, especially if you are planning to make many loom bracelets.
It is also possible to work without a hook tool, by using your finger or a common household item, like a pen or a screwdriver. Metal hook tools are also cheap, though, and the long hooked apparatus is very useful for getting in the small spaces in and around a loom to hook the rubber band loops. It is best to invest in one of these, if you plan to make many bracelets, as it reduces the time and hassle of your work.
 You will need a clean, well-lit, and flat area to do the most productive work on your future bracelets.


Try to pick an open area to work in, such as a clean kitchen table or a large desk. Working on the couch may be more comfortable, but if you drop your looms, you'll have to dig through the cushions to find them again. If you drop them on a table, they're still right there in front of you.
Working at a large, open space is also enticing to other people, who may want to join you. If you enjoy group projects, this is a great way to get your friends or family involved. If not, then pick a smaller space.
 Take your loops, your loom, and your metal hook tool and set them on your working area, such as a desk or a table.










Your loom should be facing away from you, and the direction of your bracelet making should run away from you, up the loom.










If you are making a multi-colored bracelet, make sure you alternate the colors here. If you have red and white, for the first infinity loop, place two reds, then for the second regular loop two whites, and for the third regular loop, another two reds.
 Placing it underneath the right loops of the infinity loop, wrap it over the right rung and on top of all three loops.
 Now, both loops should be wrapped around the upper two, regular loops.









Press down on all three loops so that they sink to the bottom of the two rungs, lest they spring off and ruin your work!

,,, Continually repeating step 7 will pull the fishtail out and increase its length.









Be mindful of your wrist size when you are doing this, as the circumference of your wrist will determine the size of your bracelet.
 Take your thumb and your index finger and wrap them around the loops of the bracelet still attached to the loom. Carefully edge it upwards until it is fully removed.









Make sure the bracelet is the correct size for your wrist, or the wrist of the person you are making it for, before removing it. It will be difficult to resize once you've finished making it.
 Be careful not to remove the integral bands, though, which are necessary for the bracelet's structure.
 Bringing the two heads of the remaining open loops together, insert your index finger through the space and then enlarge the opening. Insert the C-hook here.
 Huzzah! You're finished!








, Take your loops, your loom, and your metal hook tool and set them on your working area, such as a desk or a table.


You can use either staggered or even position for your loom, but even position is superior. Take the middle row of the loom and place it in the center, so that it is equidistant from the other two rows.
Remember that you are placing loops from right to left.
 Starting from the second-to-last rung on the first row, place this on the last rung of the middle row, on the rightmost edge.
 One rung should be the middle row rung that the diagonal loop is also on, so start from the edge of the loom and move one rung out.
 Starting from the last rung of the middle row, place it on the second to last rung of the third row.
 Do this starting from the second-to-last rungs of each row, so that they are on top of one of the rungs of the first three loops and ending on the third-to-last rungs of each row.









This is a good time to introduce a second color, if you are planning to use one.
 Starting from the third-to-last rung of each row, place one loop horizontally on the fourth-to-last rung, so that the first half of loop is on top of the previous loop, and the second half is on a new rung.









This is a good time to introduce a third color, if you are planning to use one.
 Make sure you continue introducing new colors as you desire, as well as alternating the colors to form a pattern.









Do not place any loops on the very last rungs of the loom.
 You should form a mirror image of the first, diagonally placed loops.









Ideally, you will have alternated all your colors in a certain pattern, so that the color at the beginning is identical to the color at the end.
You could also form a wave pattern with the colors. It is up to you how to pattern your loop bracelet.
, Starting from the second-to-last rungs on the right side, move down the loom until you have reached the second-to-last rungs on the left side.









You can use whatever colors you want, or you can use a single color to add a uniform layer on top of the pattern you have created.
 The right side will now be the left, and the left the right. The single, doubled loop that you placed at the end will now be closest to you.
,









This will form a teardrop shape between the second-to-last rung on the first row, and the last rung on the middle row.










Like with the first looping back, you will have to reach underneath the top band with your metal loop tool to reach the bottom band, which you will then loop over itself onto the next rung moving leftwards.
The loop of the second-to-last rung of the first row to the left will be looped diagonally onto the last rung of the middle row to the left.










The teardrop shape will be indicative that you are doing it correctly while looping the bands of the middle row back on themselves.










The first loop should move from the middle row to the third row diagonally, then horizontally, as in steps 12 through 15.
The teardrop shape will be indicative that you are doing it correctly while looping the bands of the middle row back on themselves.
,, Then, move the bands backwards onto the thick part of the tool above the hook.
 Slowly and carefully pulling upward with the hook tool, take the bracelet off the loom.









Avoid pulling too hard, as this may stretch your bracelet or even break some of the loops.
Make sure to leave your hook tool attached to the loop at the end, as it will be necessary later.
 Your bracelet will probably be too small for your wrist, so estimate the number of loops you will need and begin extending the bracelet. You can do this by putting loops horizontally on the rungs going left, doubling up on each end.









For a smaller wrist, such as that of a child's an additional six bands will be sufficient. If your wrist is larger, add as many as necessary.
You can continue using one color, or you can add multiple colors, depending on whether you want to continue with the pattern or just extend the size of the bracelet.
 Stretching out the final loop of the bracelet, simply attach it on top of the final rung of the new loop row.
, This is just like when you were making the main body of the bracelet.









Move all the way down the loom to the end.
You know you've done it right when the loops make a teardrop shape.
 Stretching the final loop to the vertical rung directly above it to make room, attach a C-hook to the end of the loop facing outwards.
, You're done!








