 There are several signs you should watch out for that indicate that your progesterone levels are low. Whenever progesterone is low, you will experience worsened symptoms of PMS such as bloating, cramping, fatigue, breast tenderness, and lower back pain.;
, If you're not sure whether you're experiencing PMS symptoms, you can undergo this blood test to get an accurate measurement of progesterone levels in your body. To perform this test, a sample of your blood is taken and tested. Normal progesterone levels are as follows:


Pre-ovulation: less than 1 ng/mL (nanogram per milliliter)
Mid-cycle: 5 to 20 ng/mL, Progesterone cream is available in local pharmacies and health food stores. When buying a progesterone cream, look for "USP progesterone" on the label.


This indicates that the progesterone cream is derived from a Mexican wild yam root that has been synthesized into a real human progesterone, which is most effective., You don’t need to apply the cream during menstruation, as PMS symptoms tend to subside once your period starts.


Additionally, once you start your period, progesterone levels in the body tend to rise to normal levels. Therefore, you should stop applying the cream during this time to avoid having excess progesterone in the body.
 Apply between 1/8 and 1/4 of a teaspoon of the cream twice daily - once in the morning and once in the afternoon. This is enough to achieve normal levels of progesterone in the body. , You should apply the progesterone cream to a single area of skin, where blood vessels are close to the surface. Since progesterone cream is fat-soluble, it is easily absorbed through the skin and blood vessels.


Examples of appropriate areas include: breasts, chest, neck, palm of the hands, inner arm, and face.
You should apply the cream to these areas on a rotating basis to prevent the skin from becoming irritated following repeated application of the cream.
 Side effects caused by progesterone cream rarely occur. However, in rare cases, using the cream excessively can produce side effects such as headaches, drowsiness, nausea and breast pain.Remember that the goal of using progesterone cream is to balance the hormones, not to raise the amount of progesterone in the body to abnormally high levels. Therefore, to avoid negative side effects, you should only apply the recommended amount of cream.
Another side effect of this cream is skin irritation brought on by repetitive application on the same area of skin, however this symptom can be managed by applying the cream to a different area of skin each day.
 If symptoms persists or become worse, seek medical help. Symptoms such as excessive sleepiness, severe nausea, persistent breast pain, or persistent skin irritation should not be ignored, so seek medical help right away.
 PMS occurs due to a hormonal imbalance in the body which affects a woman's physical and mental health. PMS symptoms become most pronounced when progesterone levels decrease and estrogen levels increase after ovulation. PMS may present as a variety of symptoms:


You may feel depressed, anxious or aggressive when suffering from PMS. You may experience changes in your appetite and hunger levels. You may suffer from insomnia or difficulty sleeping, resulting in poor concentration levels at work or school.
In terms of physical symptoms, you may experience headaches, abdominal cramping, bloating, constipation and/or diarrhea. You may develop acne, itchy skin or eczema. You may also suffer from joint pain and weight gain due to fluid retention.
 Progesterone is needed for the synthesis of other hormones in the body, such as testosterone, cortisol, and aldosterone. When progesterone levels decrease, the production of these other hormones also decreases, leading to hormonal imbalances within the body. These hormonal imbalance

, Progesterone has a direct connection with the neurotransmitters in the brain. Therefore, progesterone cream is most effective for treating the mental symptoms of PMS.


Progesterone cream works on the central nervous system to improve cognitive function. It also works as mood stabilizer.
Progesterone cream also has capability to restrict the inflammation or swelling associated with PMS, as it decreases the accumulation of water or fluid in the extracellular space.
Progesterone also works as a pain reliever and muscle relaxant. It therefore helps to relieve stomach cramps, as it decreases the painful contractions of the uterus.
 Aside from PMS, there are a couple of other possible causes of low progesterone levels, which may result in PSM-like symptoms. These are:


Stress: Emotional and physical stress converts progesterone into cortisol, which causes a deficiency of the hormone and the appearance of PMS-like symptoms.
Hypothyroidism: This condition alters the synthesis of progesterone and its secretion into the blood, causing a deficiency.

