 Try playing lighthearted pranks on other people, like prank calls or practical jokes, to mimic Naruto’s trickster side.


A good Naruto-style prank is anything that catches someone else by surprise. The character Kakashi calls Naruto the "number one ninja in surprising people."Make sure you don’t do anything harmful to another person, or hurt feelings with a prank. Even Naruto matures and grows out of being a prankster later in the series, acknowledging that he was simply looking for attention.;
, Adopt Naruto’s hyperactive personality by running and generally moving very quickly from place to place and activity to activity.


Try Naruto’s typical running style by tilting your head and upper body forward and putting your arms straight back behind your body to run forward.
You can also try out some of Naruto’s ninja moves. It’s best to learn proper grappling moves from a certified martial arts instructor, just like Naruto goes to an academy to learn his ninja moves.
 Be friendly to others and recognize that rivals or enemies can become your friends if you find something in common with them.


For example, Naruto’s best friend Sasuke Uchiha was also his childhood rival. Naruto eventually recognizes similarities between them, like the feeling of being alone, which brought them together.Make friends with all different kinds of people. Even though Naruto can be stubborn and play pranks, he is also cheerful, kind, and accepting of lots of different people.
 Try your best at whatever you do, whether it’s school work, a hobby, or a sport. Be determined and don’t let negative criticism or personal shortcomings get in the way of you reaching your goals.


Naruto has a hard time grasping basic concepts and is not a star academically, but he always works hard and doesn’t give up on his goals, which is a quality you can emulate no matter your skill level in any activity.
Inspire others with your hard work and resolve to achieve tasks and goals. Naruto’s determination often inspired other characters in the manga and anime, like Konohamaru and Inari, to not give up and to succeed., Try Naruto’s favorite food, ramen, which he is shown eating all the time in the manga and anime.


In the U.S., you can buy packaged ramen noodles with flavoring to prepare at home. You might also try ramen from a Japanese restaurant or prepared in a more traditional way with multiple vegetables, meat, and flavoring.