 Build a unique image that showcases your personality in a way that other people can connect with. Most rock stars have a slew of defining qualities that are specific to them. For example, Mick Jagger always wears tight, flashy clothes, sticks out his chest and explodes with energy to show he’s rebellious and doesn’t care what anyone thinks about him. You should define everything about your look and your attitude.Stay up to date with trends. You don’t have to follow them, but you should at least know what you’re choosing not to participate in.
Magnify your strengths. Find out what people like about you and and highlight it.;
, Your demo will be your calling card. You’ll give it out at shows and venues so people will remember you. Make sure it’s professional quality. If your demo isn’t good quality, people will think you’re an amateur.Make a rough recording on your own to make sure everything sounds the way you want it to. You don’t want to waste expensive studio time tinkering with your song.
Practice your songs with a metronome and record them to a click track to stay on rhythm. This will allow you to seamlessly add backup instruments to your demo.Keep it short. The people you’ll be giving your demo to are likely very busy. Your demo should be five songs or under.
Put your best song first. Hook your listener right away.
Make sure your demo has a cover that reflects your personality.
 You’ll need a personal website to showcase your music. Make sure it has plenty of pictures that show the image you wish to convey. Make sure your website looks professional. Your website should also have:


A way for fans to download your music
Performance dates where your fans can see you
Videos of live performances if you have them
A bio
Contact information for people who want to hire you

, Get profiles on Facebook, Twitter and any other popular social networking sites. Use these profiles to showcase your personality and let people know what's going on with your music.
 Get your music on ReverbNation, Bandcamp, iTunes and any other site that will help you market your music. These sites are great places to get discovered by other musicians.


Bandcamp even offers ways for fans to support your music with financial donations.
ReverbNation offers inexpensive promotion for your music so more people can hear it.
 Make t-shirts, stickers, posters and anything else with your logo on them. When someone wears or uses your merchandise, they’re promoting you. You want as many people to see your image as possible.


Merchandise lets people know who you are before they come to your show. They’ll want to see why other people like you.
 Whenever you play a show, encourage people to sign up for your mailing list. You’ll be able to personally email them about new developments with your music. Let them know when:


You have a show
You have new music coming out
You have a collaboration with other musicians

, Follow other musicians that are trying to get their music out there. They’re more likely to support you if you support them as well. Download their music. Use their merchandise. Go to their shows. Do whatever you can to help other musicians succeed.

