 Think of something interesting and draw it on to a piece of paper. Don't worry about coloring or shading it -- you'll be cutting it out and using the rest of it as a stencil.









Keep it simple at first. Geometrical shapes and circles in an uneven pattern are easiest and never cliché. Space them far enough apart if you're a beginner -- you don't want the paper to tear when being cut.;
, Keep the surrounding blank paper in tact. You have now made your stencil. Unfortunately, if it rips, you'll probably need to start over. Exercise care and precision.









Make sure your stencil fits appropriately on your shirt. If it doesn't, you'll have to resize or otherwise adjust it.
 Place the stencil so the mesh is directly on top (the two should be touching) and the handles are facing up. If there is space between the edges of your stencil and the edges of your screen, put masking tape on the underside. You don't want paint leaking where it shouldn't leak.









If you use the taping method, make sure not to tape the stencil to the mesh! Otherwise the stencil might move around when you're squeegee-ing it.
 Make a line at the top of the screen (the part furthest away from you). You don't want paint on top of the stencil at the moment. Try to spoon out as much paint as you think would cover the stencil.









It's a little difficult to use more than one color with this method. If you do try it, know that at some point or other, the colors will mix. If you're okay with that, go for it!

, Try to do it with one downwards movement -- or the least number of strokes possible. This makes it look as smooth and professional as can be.









Always, always, always, make vertical strokes. If you make both horizontal and vertical strokes, the paint will clump and be harder to dry and finish.
Once you reach the bottom, keep going and scoop the excess paint up the handle to be reused.
 Be careful! If you drag it at all, the paint may smear. It's best to do it layer by layer, lifting up and then off.









Leave to dry. The longer, the better.

If you printed onto clothing, then once it is dry you need to put a sheet of greasing or tracing paper over your design and iron it. This seals it, making it wearable and washable.



