 Seeing vibrant colors are very stimulating for children, particularly younger ones. If your toddler is on the younger side and is less verbal, perhaps around age one, hold colorful items like books or toys in front of them. You can do this while they are lying down and then quickly hide it behind your back and then bring it out again., Children also often find funny faces hilarious. Contort your face into different funny faces and shapes. Cross your eyes, stick out your tongue, or push out your lips. Encourage your child to make the funny face, as well. You can even show them what they look like in a mirror.Don’t make any scary faces. You don’t want to scare your child.
 Young children are often tickled by slapstick humor, which is humor that is based on being clumsy or embarrassing. When you are walking near your child, pretend to fall down. If they bump into you, you can also pretend to fall, and they will find it hilarious that they could make someone so much larger than them fall.You can also drop things on purpose. Make sure it is not sharp or breakable, however.
Make a funny noise when you fall or yell out “uh oh!”

, Children typically respond well to things that rhyme or have a melody to them, which is why songs are taught to children to help them remember their ABC’s. Make up a funny rhyme about their bathtime routine or dinner like “Macaroni and cheese for my baby Louise, but only if she says please and gives me a squeeze!”If you do the same rhymes often, your child will try to mimic them. They will also begin laughing even before you finish the rhyme.
Songs are a great way to teach the toddler how to do things while entertaining them at the same time.
 You might also develop funny pet names for them that you can use to make them laugh. Call them the name of a funny cartoon character or give them a nickname that rhymes or is alliterative like “Slim Jim” or Brit Brat.”Come up with funny names for yourself that they can use, too.
 Toddlers also often find funny noises hilarious. Pretend to fall asleep while you are playing with them and then begin to fake snore. You can also make sound effects when you are playing with their toys or feeding them their dinner. Pretend that their spoon or fork is an airplane.Avoid teaching them noises that mimic bodily functions like burping. They might do this in public and it could be embarrassing.

