 Many types of fruit contain 4 – 8% protein.This is less than many other high-protein plant sources, but eating a variety of high-protein fruits can boost your protein intake and ensure you get other vital nutrients. The following is a list of the fruit with the highest amount of protein:Avocado, 4 g each
Guavas, 1.4 g each
Passion Fruit, 5.2 g per cup
Pomegranate, 4.7 g each
Mulberries, 2 g per cup
Blackberries, 2 g per cup
Apricots, .5 g each
Raspberries, 1.5 g per cup
Nectarines, 1.5 g each
Oranges, 1.3 g each
White Grapefruit, 1 g per 1/2 fruit
Peaches, 1.4 g each
Cantaloupe, 0.9 g per wedge
Strawberries, 1.1 g per cup (sliced);
, Many vegetables contain protein, but leafy greens in particular pack a punch of this nutrient. Incorporate some leafy greens into each meal of your day to increase the amount of protein in your raw diet.The leafy greens with the highest amount of protein per cup are:Kale, 4 g
Collard greens, 2 g
Mustard greens, 1.5 g
Turnip greens, 1.2 g
Cabbage, 1 g
Spinach, 0.86 g
Swiss chard, 0.7 g

, Although leafy greens often have more protein, many other vegetables also have this nutrient. Adding some other vegetables to your leafy greens can help you get a broad range of vital nutrients and boost your protein intake.The vegetables with the highest amount of protein per cup are:Broccoli, 2 g per cup
Peas, 4 g (per ½ cup)
Asparagus, 2 g (per five spears)
Beets, 2 g
Carrots, 2 g
Cauliflower, 2 g
Bell peppers, 1 g
Celery, 1 g
Cucumber, 1 g
Onion, 1 g (per ½ cup)

, There is a reason you often see nuts in things like trail mix and energy bars: they are nutritional powerhouses. The same holds true for raw nut butters. Eat a variety of nuts in addition to your healthy raw diet. The following are the nuts and nut butters highest in protein per ounce:Peanuts, 7 g
Pine nuts, 7 g
Almonds, 6 g
Pistachios, 6 g
Mixed nuts, 4 g

, Seeds are another ingredient you might also see in trail mix and energy bars. This is because they’re nutritional powerhouses like nuts. You can add seeds and seed butters to any food you like. They’re also a nice alternative if you don’t like nuts. The following are the seeds are high in protein:Pumpkin seeds, 8.5 g per ounce
Flaxseed, 7.5 g per ¼ cup
Sunflower seeds, 5.5 g per ounce
Chia seeds, 4.7 g per ounce

, Spirulina is a blue-green algae that can increase your daily protein intake.You can add a teaspoon to your favorite smoothie for a boost of protein. One teaspoon of spirulina has 2 g of protein and a tablespoon has 6 g.Throw in a handful of leafy greens like spinach or kale, which won’t alter the taste of your smoothie.

