 There may be a legitimate reason why they didn't respond. Casually bringing it up gives them a chance to explain.
 At first, give the person the benefit of the doubt, and ask in lighthearted ways:


So you've been too busy with your cat grooming business to text me lately, huh?
What's up with your response time? It's like texting with a dial up computer.
 If the person is being evasive or not giving a legitimate answer, you may need to be more direct. Know that this can make people feel uncomfortable and create tension in relationships. So gauge how close you and this person are, how serious your communication usually is, and whether it would be appropriate to be direct. If this is a real frustration for you, then bringing it up directly creates an opportunity for understanding you wouldn't otherwise have.Ask more directly:


Why don't you respond to my text messages?
Why does it take you so long to respond to my text messages?

, When dealing with conflict it's important to approach things with an attitude that it can get better. So expressing understanding through your posture, voice, and choice of words are important.Equally important is understanding other people's style of communication. For instance, a professor may say, "I have no clue what you are referring to," while a surfer would say, "No clue, dude." Being able to appreciate the meaning and not just the register will help you to better understand others.
Sometimes we can run into criticism, defensiveness, contempt, and other emotions that block real communication. When you become aware of yourself doing this, take a deep breath and try to relax and open to understanding.
 Limited to electronic devices, we tend to think of texting as separate from other forms of communication. Ultimately though, it's still two or more humans sharing thoughts, feelings, actions, and intentions. And so when there is a problem in communication between you and someone else, it follows that texting will be difficult in its own way.


Listen to the other persons perspective and try to see why they feel how they do. It's possible they have a legitimate frustration and you could benefit from changing your behavior. Possibly they are actually focused on something they did and doesn't respond because of that. Either way, airing the circumstances will guide you back toward healthy communication.
If there are apologies that need to be made on either side, be kind and say or listen to what needs to be said.
 After all it is only texting, so on another hand, there's no need to take it too seriously.

