 If you’re being bullied via email, text, negative comments on social media, or other cyberbullying techniques, document this. Print off emails, save text messages, and capture screenshots of social media comments. You can also note days, times, and places where in-person incidents occurred. If you had friends present to witness the bullying, ask them to write a summary of what happened and what both you and the bully did. If possible, you should take pictures, audio recording, or videos as the bully harasses you., If you feel you’re being bullied, chances are you’re right. However, other people may perceive the situation differently. See what your friends think of the situation, and ask them what they would do. Listen to your friend’s advice, and try to put it into use right away. If you’ve already tried a method they recommend, let them know how it went.


Start by finding out if your friend thinks the situation is bullying. While you may be hurt by certain behaviors, other people may view them differently. Say something like, “Bryan is always calling me stupid. Do you think he’s kidding, or do you think he’s really being mean to me?”
Ask for advice dealing with a specific issue. Say something like, “You remember how Bryan called me stupid the other day? He does that a lot. Do you think I should say something?”This is also a good rule of thumb if you feel bullied in the workplace. Talk to you coworkers first, especially if you have a coworker who has more experience with the person bullying you., While friends will likely want to help you, they may also be friends with the person doing the bullying. This can prevent them from giving you the best advice. Your parents, siblings, or other family members may be able to offer more objective perspectives for you. You can practice interacting with the bully by role playing with a family member. Additionally, they can serve as advocates or mediators, if you want to confront the bully in a safe, controlled environment.


Depending on your age and the age of your bully, you may also want to have your family member reach out to their parents or other family member to meet with you.If your bully is a coworker, a human resources representative may be a more appropriate advocate and mediator., If the bullying continues to escalate despite your best efforts to confront or avoid the bully, it’s time to ask for help from someone in a position to intervene. This is especially important if the bully is physically harassing you. Use your documentation as evidence, and try to calmly explain the situation.


If you’re in school, have your parent or guardian meet with you, the principal or guidance counselor, and your bully and their parents.
If you’re dealing with a workplace bully, talk to your boss or human resources department about the problems, and ask for their help dealing with the bully.
If your bully is harassing you in an uncontrolled atmosphere like a public restaurant, library, on a bus, in your home, or in other public areas that do not necessarily have specific authorities, you may need to involve the police.