 In the intro to "Someone Like You," your left hand is responsible for playing the low (or "bass") notes. The first notes you'll hit are the notes A and E. Press these keys down with your pinky finger and thumb at the same time. Your pinky should be on the second A below middle C, and your thumb on the E above that A.









Hold this note for 4 beats. In other words, hold the keys down, then slowly and evenly count, "One, two, three, four." then release them.
If you don't know the names of the notes on the piano, don't worry. Simply put your pinky on the white key between the two rightmost black keys in the second cluster of three black keys (starting from the left side of the piano). This is A. Put your thumb four white keys above A. This is E. Note - these positions assume a standard-size piano.;
, After the 4 beat count of A-E, keep your thumb in its place on E and move your pinky finger on to G#. This is the black key just to the left of the white A key. Hold both of these keys for 4 beats.
 For the next notes, you must move your whole left hand. Place your pinky finger on F# and your pointer finger (or thumb, which ever one is more comfortable) on C#. F# is one black key lower than G#, while C# is the leftmost of the two black keys below the E you were just playing. Hold both of these keys down on for 4 beats also.
 For these notes, you'll have to move your hand again. Move your pinky finger three white keys to the left, placing it on D. Place your thumb on the A above it, which should be exactly the same note as very first A you played (only, this time, we're playing it as the higher of our two notes, rather than the lower.). Again, hold these notes down for 4 beats.
 Repeat steps 1-4 continuously until you can play these two-note chords without making mistakes.
 After repeating steps 1-4, now take your left hand off the keyboard and put your right hand on. Place your right thumb on the A key closest to middle C, then put your pointer finger on C# and pinky on E. Play A,C#,E,C#. Repeat this sequence, playing it four times per measure (one 4-note repetition per beat).









In this song, your right hand has to work a lot faster than your left hand. Listen to a recording of the song to get a sense of how fast you should be going - it's OK to practice this part slower than it's played in the song, slowly working it up to speed.
Note that, if you count both white and black keys, each note repeats every 12 keys up or down the keyboard. If you're having trouble finding notes with your right hand, simply count up from your left hand's bass notes to orient yourself.
 Keeping the rest of your right hand in place (pointer or middle finger on C#, pinky on E), move your thumb to G# (the black key below A). Play this sequence of notes as above: G#,C#,E,C#. Repeat this exactly as above.
 This sequence of notes is slightly different - you'll have to stretch your fingers farther than before. With your thumb on the F# below the G# you were just playing, place your middle finger on the C# above it, then your pinky on the F# above that! In other words, you're playing two different F#'s this time. Play the sequence: F# (low), C#, F# (high), C#. This may be a bit of a stretch for your right hand! Repeat this sequence with the same rhythm as above.
 Your thumb will play A again, but your other fingers will play different notes this time: move your middle finger to the D above A and your ring finger to the F# above D. Play A, D, F#, D. Repeat this as above.
 Repeat steps 6-9 over and over again until you can play it without messing up. Listen to a recording of the song and try to match your speed and style to Wilson's piano line. It may take a while to get this step completely right, but be persistent - the results are worth it!









One sure-fire way to get your playing up to speed is to practice with a metronome, which are available for cheap at almost every music store. Metronomes can count the beat for you, making it easier to keep your playing in time. You can even set your metronome to a slow tempo and slowly increase it to gradually increase your playing speed.
 Put both your right and left hands on the keyboard and play together. Play each part at the same speed - though your right hand is playing more notes than your left hand, both hands should change position at the same time every four beats. With luck, you'll sound just like the recording! If you're an absolute beginner, the intro to this song will probably take more than just one day to perfect. Keep at it! Set aside time each day to practice, and within about 5 days, you should see serious improvement!








