 Joining a new sport, hobby, or club can help you come out of your shell and get used to talking to people.Figure out something you'd be interested in and ask you parents if you can start doing it. Being in an atmosphere that forces you to talk to people will open you up and help you become less shy.


Join your school's football, soccer, wrestling, basketball, cheerleading, or chess team. Pick whatever interests you the most.
If you're not sure what programs your school has, ask a teacher or someone who works in the office.
There are also out-of-school programs like art classes, martial arts classes, dance classes, or religious study.
Ask your parents for help with signing you up for classes or giving you a ride to practice.
 One reason that might make you shy and unable to talk to girls is that you're scared they won't like you back.You can reduce this by introducing yourself to more people. The more you get used to talking to people, seeing what they like, and realizing that people enjoy your company, the less you'll feel anxious meeting new ones.


If someone doesn't like you it doesn't mean that you're a bad person or that there's something wrong with you. It just means that their personality does not mesh well with yours.
In life, you have to realize that everyone won't necessarily like you, just as you don't like everyone you meet.
 It's easy to automatically think that the girl you're going to ask out is going to say no, but it's not helpful to think this way. Instead of assuming that she will say no, believe in yourself. Think about your positive traits and be proud of the things that make you a unique person.


Instead of telling yourself "I can't ask her out, I'm too scared" say "I can't ask her out right now, but I'm working on my confidence.", The more you wait and think about introducing yourself or asking the girl out, the more you'll over-think the situation, and it could become awkward. Instead of coming up with a complex plan, just go for it. The best way to overcome your shyness and fears is to expose yourself to the situation.You may feel sad and rejected the first time around, but it will lessen with each time you ask new girls out.
The more you try, the more experience you'll get which will help you understand the best ways to ask out girls.

