 The MCAT is like the medical school version of the SAT or GRE. It's a standardized test that you must take to be considered for entrance into almost any medical school. Like most standardized tests, each school will have a different "passing" grade that you'll need to achieve, so check with the schools you're applying to.You'll need to prepare for the exam by using study guides and practice exams, which you can get on the MCAT website.
The exam is split into four sections, which are, broadly: biology, chemistry, psychology, and critical analysis.You'll receive a score in each of these sections, as well as a combined score.Register, pay the fee, and take the exam. When registering, you should register more than a month in advance, because the fees are cheaper. Keep in mind, the test generally runs in the $300 to $400 range, and if you cancel too close to the exam, you won't get a refund. The test has set dates throughout the year with test locations throughout the country., Each school will have a basic level for GPA and the MCAT that they use to screen out students. In other words, if you fall below that level, your application may be automatically rejected.For most medical schools, you'll need at least a 3.5 GPA and at least a 30 on your MCAT.
However, those numbers vary from school to school, so try to find that information on the school's website.
Nonetheless, if one of your scores falls below the minimum, you can sometimes still gain acceptance if you are stellar in other areas. For instance, many schools take into account how your GPA improved over the years. If you did poorly as a freshman and then improved, a medical school may admit you with a lower GPA, as long as you show promise in other areas.
Try a post baccalaureate pre-med program if your grades are bad so that you can improve your standing.
Other factors the school may consider is the competitiveness of your school, outside difficulties, and how difficult your major was.
 When applying to most medical schools, which confer the Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree, you can use a common application through the American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS). The centralized application service for osteopathic medical schools conferring the equivalent Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) degree is the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine Application Service (AACOMAS). Essentially, you fill out one application that's verified through AMCAS, and that one application is sent to all the schools to which you're applying.The application includes biographical information along with academic information, such as your GPA and MCAT score.With medical school, you'll often be sent a secondary application. Sometimes, it's sent based on how well the school likes your first application. Other times, it's sent automatically.
This secondary application will include more essay questions, including one on why you want to be in medical school. Pointing out your diversity is often important in this section. Keep in mind diversity isn't limited to race and class; coming from a rural area can be part of diversity, too, for instance.
 When applying to medical school, like any graduate school, your writing skills can make you or break you. Through your written documents, especially your personal statement, you need to convince the school that you can communicate well and that you deserve to be in their medical school.When writing a personal statement, it's important to stay focused. Pick a theme, such as why you want to go into medicine, a personal obstacle you've overcome, or a story about your academic career. Whatever it is, make sure it shows who you are, what you've done to get where you are, and why you want to be in medical school. In other words, show why you're special.
It's fine to build yourself up some in the essay, as that's part of the process, but you don't want to go into overdrive patting yourself on the back. Show some humility, too.
Edit thoroughly. Read your documents through several times to find errors and awkward sentences. Have others review all your documents to help you figure out where you can improve. Many professors are willing to read over these types of documents, so don't be afraid to ask (though maybe bring a cup of your professor's favorite coffee along if they agree).
 You may have one or two schools that you really want to get into, but your whole future is resting on you getting into a medical school — any medical school. For that reason, it's important to apply to a wide range and number of medical schools, so that you have a higher chance of being accepted somewhere.That means you can't just focus on the highly selective schools. You also need to apply to some "safe" schools that you have a better chance of getting into.
Apply to at least 10 to 12 schools.
 If you're lucky, you'll be invited for an interview. If you get asked to interview, it means you are one of the top candidates, though of course it isn't a guarantee you're getting in. If you're given a choice of times, pick an earlier interview. It also gives you a chance to see the school. Be sure to get there early and to dress professionally.You have a one-on-one interview, a panel interview, or a group interview. You may also have a multiple mini interview, which is when the school does a series of small interview "stations," each focused on a particular soft skill. In this type of interview, you'll only spend eight to 10 minutes at each station.
Be prepared to answer why you would be a good doctor. As with any type of interview, you'll need to convince the interviewers why the school would be glad to have you. You'll also need to be up on current issues in the medical community, and you'll need to be able to explain any problem areas in your application, such as a low GPA.
Also, assume you're being judged from the moment you step on campus and treat everyone you meet with respect. You never know who's there to report back to the interviewers and admission board., Once you've been accepted to one more or medical schools, you'll need to decide where you're going. When you've made a decision, make sure you send in your acceptance papers on time, as that tells the school you will be attending.Also, make sure to send in the rejection notice to the other schools.
Every school should provide you with a way to accept or reject a place at their school.
 If you don't get into any school, you can reapply the next year; however, if you do, you need to bolster areas of your application that were weak the first time around. For instance, if you don't have much clinical experience, take some time to volunteer or shadow a doctor. You can also take extra science classes to help prove you're ready for medical school.You can also retake the MCAT if you need to do so.
However, different schools do different things with multiple MCAT scores. One school may take the highest. Another might take the most recent. Still another might take an average of the two scores; therefore, it's important to check with the schools you're applying to.
 You will need to apply for financial aid through the federal government by filling out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), which allows you to apply for federal student loans. Many times, you'll also need to apply for financial aid through your school, so you'll be eligible for scholarships.If you've been an undergraduate in the United States, the FAFSA should be familiar to you. You'll need to fill in basic biographical information, as well as your income. One difference you may have is filling out the form as an independent adult, rather than a dependent. As a dependent, you would use your parents' income. As an independent adult, you'll use your income.
The federal government has eliminated some subsidized loans for graduate students, so you'll have fewer options than you did as an undergraduate.

