 Ask your hairstylist to thoroughly rinse your hair for 5 minutes. Your stylist will most likely use a clarifying shampoo to help remove any silicone or chemical buildup prior to adding the neutralizer. This will help ensure that your hair is properly cleaned before the chemicals are applied, which may eliminate some of the chemical smell left in your hair by the perm process.;
, Washing your hair with a clarifying shampoo may help reduce some of the chemical smells that have soaked into your hair. These shampoos help eliminate mineral deposits, chlorine, and other chemicals that have accumulated in your strands.Once a week, scrub your hair with a clarifying shampoo and rinse.
Follow-up with a conditioning treatment. Leave-in or deep conditioners will help your hair lock-in moisture, protect your curls, and will leave your hair fragrant and perfumed.
Washing your hair immediately after receiving a perm can release the newly set curls, so it is best to wait 2 to 3 days to wash your hair., Coconut oil can be found in your local grocery store. It has great conditioning properties, and its sweet, fragrant smell can help mask your perm’s chemical smells. Coconut oil also has antimicrobial properties, which may also help lift some of the odor from your hair.


Once a week, after washing your hair, comb the coconut oil through your hair and massage your scalp with your fingertips. Once you have distributed the oil, wrap your hair in a towel and leave the oil on for 30 minutes. Wash, condition, and rinse your hair afterwards.There are a number of coconut oil hair care products and masks that can help cleanse your hair and lessen your perm’s chemical smell. A coconut cleansing oil can help remove dirt and buildup, while a curl defining cream can help boost your curls definition while leaving them smelling sweet.Visit your local beauty shop to find these products or ask your hairstylist for recommendations.
 Using an essential oil such as lavender and rose will leave a pleasant aroma locked in your hair. Visit your local pharmacy, grocery store, or health food store to find a bottle of essential oil that you like.


Use about 8-10 drops of the oil and mix it with 2 tablespoons of coconut oil or olive oil. Work this mixture into your scalp. Cover your hair with a towel or a shower cap and leave in overnight. Rinse in the morning under warm water.