 The first thing you should do is teach your children the basic story of Easter. If they've talked about Easter in other places, they may not realize its biblical importance. Recount the full story to your children. While you can read directly from the Bible, pause to explain parts of the story that may be confusing. Depending on the Bible you use, language may not always be accessible to children.You should tell your children the basic story of Christ's persecution and resurrection. Explain to them how the days of Easter commemorate this. It can be helpful to discuss specific events as they relate to each day of the Easter weekend.
Try to use somewhat simplified language and teach children new vocabulary terms as you go. For example, "Christ was betrayed by Judas. Does anyone know what the word 'betrayed' means?";
, If you already have a children's Bible, make use of it. If you do not, purchase one online or at a local Christian bookstore. Children's Bibles often use language, symbolism, and allegories that can help simplify Biblical stories. If your child is struggling to understand the meaning of Easter, this can help., It's okay if you're not completely sure how to explain the story to your children. Even after going over the story with them, there may still be some confusion. Take your kids to church more during the Easter months. Take advantage of extra services and, if they're offered, Sunday school services. It can be helpful for children to hear about the resurrection from Christian figures of authority, such as priests and Sunday school teachers, to get a fuller understanding.If you have time, take your kids to all the services around the Easter holiday. Ash Wednesday, Holy Thursday, and Good Friday services can help your kids understand the meaning of the holiday.
If Sunday school classes are offered before or after these services, have your children attend. This way, they will have an opportunity to hear the stories in a child-friendly manner and ask any questions they have.
 There are many children's books on the market that explain Easter to kids. Rather than focusing on commercial aspects like painting eggs and the Easter bunny, such books talk directly about the resurrection of Christ. You can order these books online or pick them up at a local Christian bookstore.What is Easter by Michelle Medlock Adams is a book for very young children that makes use of illustrations to explain the story of Jesus.
If your kids like the Berenstain Bears books, pick up a copy of The Berenstain Bears and the Easter Story by Mike Berenstain. In the story, Papa Bear explains the story of Easter.
For slightly older children, pick up a copy of C.S Lewis's The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. This is an allegorical story that illustrates Christ's redemption and resurrection through an imaginary world.You may have to help children understand the connection to the Biblical story by explaining, for example, that Aslan represents Jesus. This book works best for older kids who already know the basics.
 The resurrection of Christ is a vital aspect of Christianity. Easter is a great time to teach this significance. In addition to explaining the story itself, explain why it matters.Explain to children that Jesus died for our sins. Tell them something like, "Jesus was the lamb of God because he was a sacrifice. Unlike you and me, Jesus was perfect. Because of that, he was an acceptable sacrifice for the sins of others."
Try to phrase this in a positive manner. Explain to children that, according to your beliefs, Jesus's death means they themselves will experience bodily resurrection. For example, "It may seem sad that Jesus had to die, but he was born again. His birth means that we can become perfect too by living through his words. We can also be reborn after death."

, You want to teach your children the values Jesus lived for during the Easter season. Easter baskets are often part of the commercialization of Easter, but you can make them into a learning experience. Rather than providing your children with their own Easter baskets, have them make baskets for others. You can have your children make Easter baskets to give to others in their church.Have your children place fun gifts in the Easter baskets, such as candy and baked goods. However, you should also provide some gifts that encourage your children to learn about the holiday.
For example, have your kids write out scripture on small pieces of paper. You can have your kids decorate this paper as well. You can then roll up the papers and place them in plastic Easter eggs.
 You do not want your children to feel they're missing out on the fun of the season. Painting eggs can be a great activity for young children. However, try to make the eggs relate to the Biblical story by incorporating Christian symbolism.Use color as metaphor. Have black represent sin, red represent Christ's death, blue represent sadness, and yellow can be his resurrection. You can leave some eggs white, to represent being purified by Christ's death. Colors like green can represent new life.
Talk to your children throughout the process of making eggs. Say things like, "You're making a black egg. What does that represent? Do you remember what you learned in Sunday School?"

, It's important children understand the positive aspects of Easter. While the story is at times sad, it ultimately represents new life and rebirth. Give your children gifts that represent this and use them as a way to talk about the meaning of Easter.Get plush toys that represent new life. For example, get toys of baby animals like chicks, calves, and piglets.
Some parents like to get kids very small, easy pets, like goldfish. These can represent new life as well. For example, "That goldfish is very young and new. What does new life have to do with Easter?" However, only get a pet if you have the time and money for it.
 Hide a variety of items in your house that relate to the story of Jesus. You can hide a rock, two sticks, and something in colors that represent the season. Something green, for example, can represent new life.Send your kids out with a list of items to find. Once children return with all the items, talk to them about how they relate to Jesus.
For example, say something like, "What do sticks have to do with what we learned about Easter? What kind of object can you make with two sticks?"

, If your children are very young, you may not want to go overboard on details of Christ's death. While you can let children know that Christ was put to death, try to place the primary focus on the resurrection. Talk more about the details of Jesus's rebirth to avoid scaring young children.For example, you can say something like, "Jesus did die, and it was very sad, but it's okay because he came back to life." Then, talk over the details of the resurrection story.
This may be confusing at first to young children, who may have trouble understanding the chronology of Biblical events. However, this is just a start. You will have plenty of time to go into further details as your children get older.
 As you start sharing more details of Jesus's death with children, let them know it's okay to be upset. Do not force them to suppress their emotional reaction. Tell your children that it's okay to cry and feel sad, especially on the days of Easter weekend where you talk a lot about the crucifixion of Christ.However, you should also remind of the significance of their pain. Say something like, "It's okay to be sad, but remember Jesus died so we don't have to deal with this kind of pain alone."

, As Easter comes to a close, remind your children to focus on new life. Talk to your children about how they will be born again through Christ. You want to end Easter on a positive note. That way, next year, your children will be eager to celebrate the holiday and embrace its religious meaning.