 One of the central considerations for determining whether or not to give to a charity is to consider the impact that your donation will have. You should look for charities that will maximize your donation and provide the most benefit for the largest number of people.


For example, Singer presents the ethical dilemma of whether to donate $1,000,000 to a charity that will provide a life-saving surgery for a pair of conjoined twins, or donating the money to a charity that would provide measles vaccines to thousands of children. The most good would come from donating the money to the charity that would provide measles vaccinations because more lives would be prolonged and improved as a result.Singer also acknowledges that it is important to consider the impact that a donation would have on the lives of people, which sometimes requires going beyond the numbers. For example, if you had to choose between donating $100,000 to a museum or to a charity that cures poor people of blindness, there is a clear choice without even consulting the numbers. You could save 1,000 people from a life of blindness with $100,000, but even if the number were much lower, the impact of saving someone from a lifetime of blindness is far more beneficial than providing a nicer museum experience for thousands of people., Many charities use emotional appeals to get people to donate money to them. Using emotional appeals to get donations is often effective, but the money that goes to these charities does not always provide tangible benefits. Set your emotions aside before you donate money to a charity and examine the impact that your donation would have on one charity compared to another charity.


For example, Singer notes that you may have a strong emotional response to a charity that is requesting donations to help train guide dogs for the blind. However, before donating to such a cause, consider the dollars and cents of your donation. It costs about $40,000 to train a guide dog in the United States, but it only costs $20-$100 to prevent someone from going blind as a result of trachoma. So while $40,000 would improve the life of one person if it went to the guide dog charity, the same $40,000 could prevent between 400 and 2,000 people from going blind if given to the trachoma charity., An important part of being an effective altruist is making sure that your money goes to the charities that do the most good. To figure out whether or not a charity uses its money well, use all of the tools at your disposal. Singer recommends several websites, but he endorses GiveWell.org as one of the best ways to research and evaluate charities.GiveWell looks at the way that charities spend their donations so that you can see how much of your donation will go to those in need as well as what your donation will provide.


GiveWell identifies interventions that have been proven to be effective in solving a particular problem, such as providing insecticide treated bed nets to help prevent malaria. Then, GiveWell investigates charities that focus on providing these effective interventions, such as the Against Malaria Foundation.If you are not sure where to start, the LifeYouCanSave.org and GivingWhatWeCan.org offer effective charity recommendations.Some of their recommendations include the Against Malaria Foundation, Give Directly, Schistosomiasis Control Initiative, and Project Healthy Children.If you want to support charities that help animals, you can also check out Animal Charity Evaluators to find out about the most effective animal welfare charities.Try the impact calculator on TheLifeYouCanSave.org. This calculator will show you how ten of the most effective charities will use your donation., Not all charity evaluation websites are equal in what they provide. For example, Charity Navigator is not an effective way to evaluate charities because it does not provide enough information about how charities use the money they receive. Although, Singer notes that the website may be helpful in warning potential donors away from charities that use only a small percentage of their donations to benefit their cause, for most charities, the information provided by this website does not help potential donors to determine whether or not a charity uses its money effectively.


For example, Singer explains that if given the choice of a charity that dedicates 92% of its revenue to programs and another charity that dedicates 72% of its revenue to programs, then one might be inclined to go with the charity that dedicates 92% of its revenue to programs. However, this decision would not take into account which programs are more effective. The charity that dedicates 72% of its revenue to programs may, because it employs more highly-qualified staff, be making a bigger impact, but it would be impossible to know without more data.