 In order to apply for and receive a Social Security card, you will need to verify your age, your identity, and your status as a United States citizen with valid, unexpired identification documents. You must present the original copies of these documents. The only copies that will be accepted are those that were made and certified by the agency that issued those documents.There are three criteria that must be met, and you will need to be able to provide the following documents to meet each requirement:


proof of citizenship, such as U.S. birth certificate or a U.S. passporta record of age and date of birth, including religious record showing date of birth, U.S. hospital record, or U.S. passportproof of identity, including a U.S. driver's license, a state-issued (non-driver) identification card, or U.S. passport. If none of these documents can be acquired or replaced within 10 days, other documents may be accepted, including an employee ID card, a student's school-issued ID card, a health insurance card (not including Medicare cards), or a U.S. military ID card.;
, Because the Social Security Administration only accepts original copies of all documents, you may need to acquire a new document, if any are missing. Each state, U.S. territory, and the District of Columbia has its own office for issuing vital records like birth certificates and marriage licenses. You can find your state's office by visiting the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website at http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/w2w.htm.


Some states have a state records office or vital records office.Other states issue vital records through the state Department of Health offices.Check with the CDC website to determine which office is responsible for vital records in your state.
Be prepared to pay the necessary costs for a vital records copy. Birth certificates vary in cost from one state to another. For example, California charges $25,Colorado charges $17.75,and New York State charges $30., Two applications, both of which can be found on the official website of the U.S. Social Security Administration, are available: one for people inside the United States, and one for people outside the United States.


The application for U.S. citizens can be found at the SSA website by visiting https://www.ssa.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf.
Non-citizens must fill out the required information on Form DS-230 or Form DS-260 as part of the Visa application process. Form DS-260 can be accessed by entering your case number through the Consular Electronic Application Center website at https://ceac.state.gov/IV/Login.aspx.
Generally speaking, the only non-citizens eligible for a Social Security number are those authorized by the Department of Homeland Security to work in the United States. A Social Security number is not required for employment, banking services, private health insurance, or drivers license issuance., You must read all of the instructions carefully and complete the application in its entirety. Submitting an incomplete, inaccurate, or fraudulent application may significantly delay the application process.The application must be printed on 8.5 inch by 11 inch paper, and must be filled out using only blue or black ink.Race and ethnicity questions are voluntary. Opting out of these sections will not affect your application, and you will not be penalized in any way, as long as the rest of the application is complete and accurate., Anyone over the age of 12 who needs a new or replacement Social Security card must visit a Social Security Administration (SSA) office in person. The purpose of this visit is to verify the documents provided to satisfy the SSA's requirements and to conduct any necessary interviews with the candidate.You can find your local SSA office by entering your zip code in the SSA website at https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp.
Some SSA offices permit applican'ts to apply by mail, provided that the applican't can verify his or her identity and citizenship. However, in order to apply by mail, the applican't must mail the original copies of all required documents to an SSA office. The documents will be returned after the application process has been completed, but some people may feel uneasy about sending the original copies of such important documents through the mail.