 Your teen may have a lot of different physical and behavioral symptoms of depression. They vary in number and intensity by individual. Recognizing that your teen has symptoms of depression can help you deal with the illness. Your teen may have depression if they have some of the following signs:


Irritability, anger or hostility
Sadness or hopelessness
Frequent crying or tearfulness
Loss of interest in activities
Changes to eating and sleeping habits
Restlessness or fatigueAlcohol or drug use
Self-harm such as cutting and burning
Poor school performanceWithdrawal from family and friends
Feelings of worthlessness or or guilt
Inability to concentrate or make choices
Unexplained aches or pains
Thoughts of death or suicide;
, Teen depression is not a condition that heals with self-care. Getting professional treatment is the best and most effective way to help your teen and deal with their depression.Schedule an appointment with your teen’s doctor. Make sure to tell the scheduler why you need the appointment so they can get your child in as soon as possible. Medical intervention can treat more than 80% of teens suffering from depression.Let your teen know about your concerns that they may have depression. Tell them that you have scheduled a doctor’s appointment to see how to deal with it. Assure your teen that depression is something that happens to a lot of other teens and adults. Make sure they know that there is nothing about which to be ashamed and seeing the doctor can help them.Tell the doctor any symptoms of depression you notice in your teen before the appointment. Allow your teen to talk to the doctor alone. This could help them relax and be more open with the doctor about any feelings of depression than if you were in the room. Ask the doctor any questions you have after the appointment.
 The doctor may refer your teen to a mental health professional for further treatment. This may help your teen manage the depression and help you more effectively deal with it at home and beyond. If your teen doesn’t feel comfortable with the mental health professional, try another one. Talk to your teen’s doctor about which type of mental health professionals can best help your teen:Psychiatrist: this is a medical doctor who diagnoses and treats depression. In addition, they can prescribe medication that may help your teen.
Psychologist: this is a health professional who also diagnoses and treats depression. They may use different forms of psychotherapy to treat depression, including cognitive-behavioral, individual, family, or group therapy. They cannot write prescriptions for medications.
Licensed clinical social worker: this is a person with a degree in social work. They may treat your teen’s depression but cannot prescribe medication.
 There are many different treatments for teen depression. The most common is a combination of psychotherapy and prescription medication. Allowing your teen to take an antidepressant can relieve the symptoms of his or depression and put them on the path to recovery.Ask your doctor what medication they think is best for your teen. The Food and Drug Administration currently approves only two anti-depressants for teens: fluoxetine (Prozac) and escitalopram (Lexapro).Closely watch your teen’s behavior if they are taking an antidepressant. Both medications can increase the risk of suicidal thinking or behavior in teens.The risk is highest during the first few weeks after first starting a medication or after changes in the dose.
Recognize that it may take two to four weeks for your teen’s antidepressant to begin working. Making sure your teen is in therapy, and supporting them at home can really help during this time. Some doctors may gradually wean your teen off of the anti-depressant after six to 12 months.Check that your teen gets their daily medication as directed by the doctor. This is one of the biggest ways you can deal with your teen’s depression., There are several other types of treatment that may also help you deal with your teen’s depression. Ask their doctor about alternative treatments. Make sure to involve your teen in the decision to try an alternative treatment. These can be especially helpful if therapy, medication, and self-care don’t work.Your teen, his or her doctor and you can consider the following alternative treatments:


A hospital visit that may either be a short or extended stay or outpatient day treatment.
Electroconvulsive therapy, or ECT, which is a surgical procedure that passes electrical currents through the brain to improve function. This is a safe treatment for teens and often has a high response rate. It can help your teen feel better relatively quickly.Transcranial magnetic stimulation, or TMS, which is a good choice for teens who don’t respond to antidepressants.This treatment uses a coil placed against your teen’s scalp to send a magnetic pulse to the brain. It stimulates the nerve cells that regulate mood. TMS is safe and may help your teen if other treatments aren’t working., Just like professional therapy can help your teen with their depression, so can talking with you about what they are feeling. Make sure your teen knows that they can always talk to you about anything and that you’ll help them in any way you can.Avoid asking lots of questions. Instead, listen to everything your teen says with an open mind. Don’t judge or give advice unless your teen asks you for it. The goal is to make sure you child is comfortable communicating with you.
Acknowledge your teen’s feelings. No matter how trivial something may seem to you, it is important to validate their feelings. Otherwise, you run the risk of your teen thinking that you do not take their emotions seriously.
 Depression is hard on your teen and it can be hard for you to handle as well. Offering your teen unconditional love and support, even if it’s sometimes difficult, can go a long way in helping them with depression. Reinforce your love and support often. For example, you might say, “I know you’re struggling and you should know that we love you very much. If you need anything, you can always come to us.” Your teen may not believe the statements, but reminding them is important.
Keep in mind that it can be difficult to deal with your teen’s inactivity or inability. They aren't lazy — they have a disease. Reminding yourself of this can may help you deal with your teen in a more understanding and supportive way.
Avoid saying, “Snap out of it” to your teen. No teen would ever choose to have depression. In fact, if they could “snap out of it,” your teen would.
 Just as it is important for parents to support a depressed teen, it’s also helpful if other family members also offer their help and understanding. Inform family members privately in an age-appropriate way and ask them to make a little more effort to make your teen feel accepted and loved.Tell adult family members, “Hey, I wanted to let you know that Colby is having a really tough time with depression. Please don’t say anything about it, but think about showing a little more understanding and love when you get the chance.”
Let other children know, too. For example, to younger siblings you could say, “Taylor, you know what? Colby isn’t feeling so great right now. Let’s make sure we let her know how much we love her. She may also not want to play as much as normal, but you can still ask. Just don’t get upset if she can’t or doesn’t want to play with you.”
Make sure family members accentuate the positive in your teen’s life. For example, filling in family on your teen’s recent accomplishment may be a way for other member to positively approach your teen.
 Educational professionals such as teachers, administrators, school nurse, and coaches often care about your teen as much as you do. They likely also want to promote your teen’s health and wellbeing. Informing educational professionals about your teen’s depression can help them relieve stress through accommodation to schoolwork or practices. It can also provide your teen with some extra love and support. Educational professionals are required to keep the information confidential, so you and your teen shouldn’t worry about other students or parents finding out about their depression.Tell teachers, coaches, administrators, and schools nurses about any problems at school that may contribute to the depression. They should also know about any therapies or medications your teen is taking, including what side effects they can cause.
Ask teachers to be more understanding and make reasonable accommodations to the workload. Let them know your teen may not be able to complete tests or homework at times because of the depression.
 Getting some type of exercise or physical activity can increase the levels of serotonin in your teen’s brain. More serotonin may relieve symptoms of depression and promote relaxation in your teen.Encourage your teen to get physical activity most days of the week. You can also do the activities with your teen, which may boost their mood.Let your teen choose activities they enjoy. This could be physical activities such as going for walk in nature, swimming, jumping on a small trampoline, or riding horses. They may also be creative activities including painting, making pottery, writing computer programs, or ballet dancing.
Consider trying yoga, tai chi, or qigong with your teen. Relaxing exercises such as these may particularly effective at relieving the symptoms of depression., An unhealthy diet can make depression worse. Making sure that your teen gets nutritious meals and snacks not only can relieve the symptoms of depression but also promote their health and wellbeing. Cooking healthy meals together can relax your teen and give them a place to talk if they want.Make a variety of dishes that have foods from the five food groups. Try to incorporate foods like asparagus that have folic acid, which can improve mood. Foods such as avocados, which are high in Vitamin B, may help reduce stress which can contribute to depression., Depressed teens are more likely to use alcohol and drugs than others. Let your teen know about your concerns with alcohol and drug use. Provide support so they can stop using these substances. Keeping alcohol or drugs in your home locked up can also deter use.

Explain that alcohol and drugs may help your teen feel better quickly, but will make their depression worse in the long-term and may put them at risk for harm.
Let your child’s doctors and therapists know if you suspect or know your teen is using drugs and alcohol. They can help incorporate quitting these substances as a part of the treatment for depression.
 Just as schoolwork can stress your teen, so can the expectation that they will do chores around the house. Reducing their chores or exposure to other stress such as fighting can minimize symptoms of depression.Adjust your teen’s chores or help them make them more manageable with smaller parts. Praise your teen for finishing chores or even just trying to do them. This can relieve their stress.
Suggest that your teen do things that can help them relax. This might include listening to music, watching a movie, playing video games, drawing, or taking a long bath.Let your teen rest. Sleep contributes to positive mental health and this can be especially important for a depressed teen.Allow your teen to sleep for nine to 11 hours every night. This can reduce stress and the symptoms of depression.