 You can use a simple eye mask as a stencil, or you can print out a template from the internet. You can also draw a bean-shaped mask by hand. Make sure that it's long enough to cover your eyes and nose bridge, and wide enough to go from temple to temple., If you drew the mask by hand, use a pencil to mark out where the eyes should be. At this point, you should make any necessary adjustments:

If the mask is too big, cut it smaller.
If the mask is too small, trace it again, but make it larger.
 Place the template against a sheet of black felt or flannel. Trace around it using a white dressmaker's chalk or pencil. Put the template away, then cut the mask out.Don't forget to cut the eye holes out as well!

You can also use black vinyl or faux leather instead., The elastic needs to be long enough to stretch around the back of your child's head and each the sides of the mask while he or she is wearing it. Don't make the elastic too loose, however, or it won't stay on.

Plan on using 7 to 9 inches (17.78 to 2286 centimeters) of elastic.You can also cut two long strips of black ribbon or vinyl instead of elastic. Plan on making each strip 20 inches (50 centimeters) long., Turn the mask so that the back is facing you. Place each end of the elastic on each side of the mask. Make sure that the ends of the elastic are facing inwards (towards the middle of the mask) and not outwards. Pin them in place with sewing pins.

The elastic should be overlapping the mask by about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters).
 It's best if you do this on a sewing machine, but you can do it by hand as well. If you are doing this on a sewing machine, be sure to sew up and down the elastic a few times so that it is nice and secure., The elastic makes it easier for the child to take the mask on and off, without having to tie it. Best of all, if the child gets tired of wearing the mask, he or she can simply slide it down and let it dangle from their neck.

If you used ribbon or vinyl straps, you will need to tie them in a bow behind the child's head.

