 Set it to 275ºF (135ºC).;
, Cut the bread into cubes roughly ¾ inches (1.9 centimeters) wide. If using unsliced bread, slice lengthwise down the loaf first, then cut through the stacked slices.A typical stuffing uses high quality sliced white bread, challah, or bagels. For more unusual flavors and textures, try sourdough or cornbread.Avoid crusty, airy bread, which tends to become mush.An electric bread knife makes this much easier.
 Once the oven has preheated, arrange the bread cubes on a baking tray. Bake until dry, about ten to fifteen minutes.


You can skip this step if the bread is already hard and stale, or if using cornbread.
Optionally, toast a couple handfuls of pine nuts or roughly chopped walnuts on a separate tray. If using pine nuts, remove after 5–7 minutes to prevent burning., Dice the celery, onions, and garlic, plus the parsley and sage if using fresh leaves. Chop the mushrooms roughly, for a texture similar to ground meat.
 Melt a third of the butter in a large, heavy-bottomed pot until it stops foaming, but before it browns.Add the mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally, for about 7 minutes. Wait until they start to sizzle and turn golden brown.


You can save time by cooking the mushrooms with the other ingredients, but this method adds a stronger mushroom flavor.
 Melt the remaining butter, leaving the mushrooms in the pan. Add all the vegetables and herbs you just chopped, plus thyme, salt, and pepper. Cover and let cook until slightly softened, about 5 minutes. Some of the vegetables should still be crunchy, especially the celery.


Stuffing uses more butter than regular sautéed vegetables, as it needs to be moist to stick together.
 Add the toasted bread cubes to the vegetable mixture in the same pan or a large bowl. Mix thoroughly.
 Heat chicken stock on the stove or in the microwave until steaming. Gradually add the stock while stirring, until all the bread is moist. If you plan to cook the stuffing inside the bird, just use ¾ of your stock, so it can still absorb turkey juices.


If the stuffing refuses to clump together, beat one or two large eggs, then stir it into the mixture. Wait until just before you stuff the turkey.
If you have the time, you can make your own turkey stock in advance. Place the turkey giblets in a small pot of water and let simmer one hour., Cooking the stuffing inside the turkey adds more flavor, but carries a significant risk of bacterial infection. The FDA and other food safety experts highly recommend the use of a food thermometer that can reach the center of the stuffing.If you do not have one, cook the stuffing separately.


Never stuff a turkey that you plan to grill, smoke, fry, or microwave.
Cooking the stuffing separately also saves about 15–30 minutes of cooking time.
 Cover in foil and cook for 30 minutes in a 325ºF (160ºC) oven. Uncover and cook an additional 10 minutes for a brown, crispy top.


Optionally, sprinkle with chopped nuts, crumbled goat cheese, or parmesan when you remove the foil.
 If you've decided to stuff your bird, do so while the stuffing is still hot. If you made the stuffing in advance, keep it in the refrigerator, then warm in a large pan.
 If packed too tightly, the stuffing may become rubbery and fail to reach safe temperatures. Add about ¾ cup stuffing for every pound of turkey (360 mL per kg).If you can fit your entire hand in the turkey, the stuffing has enough room to expand as it absorbs juice.If you have extra stuffing, cut open the skin at the thigh joints and over the breast and push the stuffing under. Additional leftovers can be baked separately, as described above.
 Immediately after stuffing, place the turkey in the oven and set it to 325ºF (160ºC). Before removing the turkey from the oven, check that its internal temperature has reached 165ºF (74ºC). Measure the temperature at the center of the stuffing, the thickest part of the breast, and the innermost part of the thigh and wing.A stuffed, 8-pound (3.6 kg) turkey takes about 3 hours to roast, while a stuffed 22-pound (10 kg) turkey takes about 5 hours.If the turkey is done cooking but the stuffing isn't, remove the stuffing and cook it in a greased casserole dish until finished.
An instant read thermometer takes about 15 seconds to read the temperature. A normal food thermometer must be left in for 5 minutes., Remove the turkey from the oven. Wait 20 minutes before carving or removing the stuffing. During this time, the turkey will finish cooking, and the juices will redistribute throughout the meat for a more tender meal.

