 Most people think of dieting as cutting back on food, or at least eating less of the things you want.Fortunately, this is not the case. Instead, a proper and sustainable diet replaces empty calories (like processed cheeseburgers and soda) with healthy alternatives. Depending on what your diet currently consists of, you can probably think of at least a few things you eat that your body would technically be better off without.


Whole foods, like green vegetables, are the key ingredient in a great diet. Eating well offers a ton of miraculous benefits to the body. If you're used to eating poorly, sticking to a good diet for a month may end up making you feel more lively than you did ten years ago.
Don't put too much credence into the so-called food pyramid. You are better off designing a meal plan that suits the specific needs of your body. There is a lot of debate regarding which foods are best health-wise, so it's best to do some of the research yourself.;
, Sleep is usually the first thing to be sacrificed in a busy schedule. This is a shame, as it accelerates the aging process and robs the body of its natural vibrance. Beauty sleep is a very real thing, and a sufficient amount of rest can do more for your looks than oodles of makeup.Remove all makeup before you go to sleep. Leaving it on can provoke negative reactions in your skin.Skin conditions like acne are known to improve when you get sufficient sleep.
If you suffer from dark circles beneath your eyes, it may be a result of insufficient sleep. Your body rehydrates itself while you're sleeping, and dark circles may be a sign you didn't give your body enough time to complete the process., Moisturizing your skin is a key component of keeping your skin looking young and healthy.Work a daily moisturizer treatment into your routine if you have not done so already. It's a good idea to do some research before you settle on a moisturizer. The most effective moisturizers aren't necessarily the priciest options.


Although there is some debate as to whether you should purchase a specific eye moisturizer for the area surrounding them, the delicate properties of eye-specific creams are better suited to controlling puffiness and eye wrinkles.Moisturizing your skin before sleep will help promote natural regeneration that occurs during rest., Stained teeth are very common to varying degrees, and even a great set of teeth can be brightened. A good place to start is by switching to a whitening toothpaste. Whitening gel strips are also available to bleach the enamel on your teeth. A great smile is an important part of being beautiful, so great teeth can't be overestimated.


You can get your teeth whitened more efficiently at a dental clinic.
If your dental health is in moderate to severely bad shape (such as in the case of missing or broken teeth) you are highly recommended to go see a dentist about the problems. Teeth can be repaired or reconstructed, though it may be costly if your insurance does not cover it.
 As you age, your skin will inevitably change. This is not a bad thing by itself, although many women don't care for the faded complexion and wrinkles that result from it. Anti-aging creams and moisturizers are designed specifically to combat these issues.If aging is a concern for you, purchase some and apply as per the product's instructions.


Some aging issues can be slowed down by proper eating and good sleep.

