 Assemble or take apart computers on a clean, hard surface to minimize static buildup. A table, countertop, or a plank of wood will work fine.;
, Carpets and socks can give you a charge. Stand in bare feet on wood, tile, or other hard floors instead.You can wear rubber slippers to completely block your connection to the floor, but this is excessive for home projects.
 Wool and some synthetic fabrics are especially good at gathering static. Cotton clothing is a safe bet.
 Static electricity is a much bigger risk in dry environments. Run a humidifier if you happen to have one, but don't bother buying one if not. The other precautions should be more than enough on their own.You can also humidify by hanging wet cloth in front of a radiator or fan.
 All new computer components should stay in the antistatic bags they were sold in, until ready for installation.
 This must be unpainted metal with a clear ground path, such as a metal radiator. This is the quick and easy option, and many people build computers without taking any other precautions. That said, there's a small but definite risk that this will not be enough. Rely on this only if your project is quick and the components are not valuable.
 These cheap devices are sold at electronics stores. Wear the wristband tight against your skin, and clip the dangling end onto a grounded metal object. Many builders attach the wristband to the bare metal of the computer case instead. This should prevent problems if all your components are electrically connected, but all manufacturers recommend fully grounding your wristband.


Do not use a wireless wristband; these do not work.If you get a wristband with a loop (rather than a clip), it's easy to slip it over the center screw on a wall outlet plate. This is supposed to be grounded (at least in US code), but you may want to double-check with a multimeter.Double-check that the band is clipped to a conductive surface. Paint will slow or block conduction.
 This is not necessary if you are already grounded, but it's a good idea if you're relying on touching the computer case. The trick is to ground the computer without turning on the power. Choose a setup below that gives you 100% certainty that you will not accidentally restore power.Plug a surge protector into the wall and switch it off. Plug the power supply unit (PSU) into the surge protector with a grounded (three prong) plug.
Clip a bare metal area of the case to a grounded object with a grounding cable.
If there is a toggle switch on the back of the PSU, turn it off and plug the PSU into the wall.
(United Kingdom only) Unscrew the compartment of a grounded plug near the prongs. Remove the fuse so no power will flow, then plug in the PSU.
 This is above and beyond for most home projects, unless you value your peace of mind highly. Simply place the computer parts on the ESD mat, and touch it as you work. Some models will have a place to clip your wristband onto.


Go with a vinyl ESD mat for computer repair; rubber is more expensive and not necessary for this purpose. It should be rated "conductive" or "dissipative," not "insulative."