 Are you good at inventing? Dancing? Art? Writing? Acting? Cooking? Singing? Modeling? A particular sport?


Find your talents, or take lessons in things that appeal to you and see if you are good at them. When you find the things that you are good at, work hard at them.
Take as many lessons as possible and practice all the time when you don't have class or other work to complete. Consider applying for specialized classes or schools that help you focus on your talent. (Triple Threat is an amazing dancer, and she practices all the time and is a rule-abiding Alpha).
Look for careers doing those things your are good at and enjoy. If what you are doing seems 'uncool' to others, forget them; they'll be cheering for you someday.;
, Be the best at everything you do, or become good at it. As an example:


Triple Threat is the ultimate law-abiding Alpha, who follows the rules and does amazingly in everything she does.
Skye Hamilton was the best dancer in Westchester, which is what landed her at Alpha Academy.
 An Alpha is not stupid; she does not use excessive vulgar language or fail classes. At Alpha Academy, the only way you can buy anything is to get As. (As Shira said, "You could live off an A for a week, but an F will leave you skinnier than salmonella. That's just like life m'dear: You fail, you starve.")


Aim to get straight As throughout the entire school year. If that's too easy, get an A+. Bs are acceptable, but they aren't the best.
Expand your vocabulary, read books, and make sure your grades are up.
Never use vulgar language, because it makes you look stupid.
Apply for scholarships if you are starting your senior year. Apply to as many as possible. Get sponsored, and participate in school extracurriculars and philanthropy. It will get you most recognition and having different activities looks great on college applications.
 Do you think those girls made it every time? No! They had to try to be the best, they had to work for it. If you can't land that pirouette, practice every day till you can.


Skye Hamilton said Triple was like 'a social-less robot,'but it allowed her to be the best dancer in the class.
Shira would have never tolerated crying during failure. In Belle of the Brawl, she said "Failure should make you TRY, not CRY."

, No matter what you're doing, always come out on top. It may not always be a competition, but the only way to be the best is to beat the rest. That's what being an Alpha is all about: hard work paying off. You can't be an Alpha as a number 2 - unless you're a pencil- which is highly unlikely. Number 2. The letter B. Second place is spelled B-E-T-A. Not Alpha.


Study for those tests to get the highest grade.
Practice your instrument so that you can be the best in band class.
Dance extra hours so that you can be the top ballet dancer in your class.
Beat the rest, be the best!!

, In real life, the stakes are not so high when it comes to being the best. Instead of being brutally competitive toward your fellow Alphas and trying to be better than they are, focus on the only way to truly be the best – to be better than your past self.


When it comes to your friendships with other girls, it is best to support each other because there are going to many Alphas out there and there is no way to truly be "better" than someone else.
Do NOT go out of your way to sabotage your competition, even if you have a personal vendetta against them. You may knock them down a few pegs at first, but people will eventually find out and it will backfire majorly.
 At Alpha Academy, everything is tailored to their special dietary needs. If you're a singer, you will probably need some tea sweetened with honey to improve your vocals. If you're a dancer, you will need protein bars and shakes. If you're an inventor, songwriter, actress, or writer, you will probably need brain food like fruit smoothies and low-fat popcorn.


Eat healthy meals, and skip fatty foods and avoid too much red meat. Stick to poultry, seafood and plant-based proteins for the most part.
You don't need to eat like an anorexic person (nor should you develop an eating disorder), just eat and pay close attention to each bite, and when you have even the slightest feeling of being full, even if you haven't finished your food, put the fork down.
Include a wide variety of healthy food in your diet. They serve plenty of exotic and vitamin/antioxidant rich food at the Alpha Academy: curry, croissants, chamomile hibiscus tea, acai berry sorbet, etc.
 Every Alpha needs to be in good health and good shape to perform her duties. The Alpha is a machine with a heart. She has a sharp mind, and a toned body. Find an exercise regime if you aren't doing anything physical. Participate in a sport; any sport or physical activity should do. (Alpha Academy has like, every sport/club in existence) Whether it's practicing extra for ballet or playing soccer, you need to be in shape.
 An Alpha is on top of everything, and is immaculate! (Don't be like AJ - in the books it says her bed and night table is a complete mess! Foundation on her sheets! Allie even mistook AJ for being a ferret hidden in her bed! )


Carry around mini bottles of Purell like Allie A.
Shower every day, shave, and wear antiperspirant/deodorant.
Wash your hair at least every other day, condition, and use leave-in conditioner if you have to. Rinse your hair with cold water when washing and conditioning your hair to make it shine. Let it air dry, or give it a perfect blow dry.
Never have any acne or skin problems. Get a tan if you want, and find facial/body products that leave your skin smooth, soft, and blemish free. Tailor your use of skin products according to your needs. Dull skin? Facial scrub! Acne? Salicylic Acid wash! Lackluster? Vitamin/antioxidant rich moisturizer. If your skin problems are persistent or painful, go to a dermatologist for a regime tailored to your needs. Always wear sunscreen and makeup with SPF in it to prevent premature aging- even if you don't burn in the sun.
Have a manicure and pedicure that looks beautiful and professionally done.
 Perfect skin, rosy cheeks, plump pink lips, and doll lashes are all ideal (the Alpha Academy girls know what looks best on them).


Never use too much makeup. All you really need is: #**concealer/foundation or tinted moisturizer

lip color/gloss/balm
mascara (fake lashes if you want thicker ones)
eyeshadow (if you want)
blush (a highlighter can be used to accentuate your bone structure)


You can use brands from Sephora, which is usually what the girls use. However, there's some drugstore products from Loreal Paris, Revlon, Maybelline and Cover Girl that work beautifully. Try different brands to see what works best for you.
 Make sure your hair is perfect and beautiful every time. Always look gorgeous wherever you go.


Use hair products that work for your hair type.
Carry a mini hairbrush/comb and a travel-size hairspray in your bag to touch up your tresses throughout the day. This is especially helpful if you're prone to flyaways or frizz.
 (Have you ever seen an Alpha in sweats and a hoodie? And if you have, what were they wearing? Probably a cute hoodie from Victoria's Secret Pink and skinny Abercrombie sweats tucked into expensive limited edition Ugg boots).


You don't need to be rich to have a great wardrobe, and it doesn't need to be entirely designer either; save the splurging for a special occasion or a practical item you'll use a lot, like a handbag.
Have a pretty extensive wardrobe, and include flattering dresses, jeans, tops, bottoms, lounging clothes, weekend clothes. Just be in style, and make sure the clothes look beautiful on you.
 Buy an iPod Touch (the real life version of the aPod) and use it as an organizer. Don't let the little things others do bother you. Have a designer handbag/backpack (or at least a super cute one that goes with all outfits) and keep all your stuff in it: your makeup bag, cell phone, iPod, chewing gum, hairbrush, elastics/bobby pins, etc.
 Learn how to flirt, and how to attract the guys you want.


Remember to keep your priorities in place. You can have a relationship with a boy without failing a class or missing a step in ballet. 'Boys are toys--only to be played with after the important things are done'.
Read articles about boys online and in magazines like Cosmopolitan. Learn how to talk to guys, and be confident. Talk to boys all the time, and look good for the fellas! Flirt, girls, flirt like mad!

, After you've completed all these steps, you need to actually go out and DO something with it.


Sign a contract with a talent agency, go to casting calls, try out for your ballet school's Nutcracker when you know that scouts are going to be there.
Remember to start off small before you go big - that's just how it is.
Make as many connections in your area of expertise as possible, you never know when they may come in handy or offer once-in-a-lifetime opportunities.
 Just because you are super-efficient doesn't mean you can't have a bit of fun once in a while. Go and meet your Brazille boy late at night, text him, flirt, take risks. Not only is Alpha Academy a Paradise, but the girls have fun doing everything they do. (The Jackie O girls sneaked out to meet the boys in Alphas, and they almost got caught. But they had fun doing it.)

, Make yourself known throughout school so that even if you don't know everyone, absolutely everyone knows about YOU. (The Alpha girls are known throughout their school - and the world - as the best).


Be fun and outgoing, very social and sweet. Be confident and talk to people, ask them questions about themselves, or compliment them on an outfit. Smile at people. Talk to absolutely everyone you come in contact with.
At the same time, keep a good head on your shoulders and avoid being manipulated by others, especially guys.
 At the end of the day, the only way to truly be an Alpha is to BE YOU. Alphas are all unique individuals with one thing in common – the drive, desire, and determination to WIN.


The Alpha's journey is a tough one, filled with challenges and obstacles. This is why it's extremely important that you don't lose yourself along the way.
You are you – and that's what makes you special. You have all the raw materials. Now all you need to do is go out and work for what you want. That's what makes you an Alpha.

