 Self-hypnosis is when you put yourself into a trance like state by concentrating on a single thought or object. You can use these techniques to calm yourself, relax, and begin to control the anxiety attack.


Tell your therapist before starting self-hypnosis. Have your therapist check to make sure you are performing it as efficiently and effectively as possible. Make sure to work with a professional since self-hypnosis works on the subconscious mind, which can be extremely complex.
While there are no well-described side effects of self-hypnosis, you still should work with a professional. This helps you ensure greater chances of success. ;
, If you accept the idea of self-hypnosis, you have a greater chance of it working. Work with your therapist to create some self-affirmation statements. They should be genuine, honest, positive, and simple. Keep them in present tense and use I. Examples include:


I am a brave person.
I can control this or I am in control.
I am confident in myself.
 Start by using progressive relaxation. During progressive relaxation, tighten your muscles and hold them tight for five seconds. Then relax the muscles and move on to the next group of muscles. Make certain you won’t get interrupted. Wear loose clothing and make sure you are warm enough. You can also play soothing music.Sit down in a comfortable chair. Begin by relaxing all your muscles, starting at your toes. Consciously relax your toes, then move on to your feet, ankles, calves, thighs, buttocks, and abdomen. Next, move to your fingers, hands, wrists, elbows, and shoulders. Finally, relax your neck, your face, and your head.
Use pillows if you need to make sure you can relax all your muscles.Try to let your mind think only about the muscles you are relaxing.
Go through this step a second time, starting from the opposite end. If you started with your feet, start with your head this time. You should go through the progressive relaxation process twice.
 The object you choose can be anything. When choosing an object, find something that will allow you to comfortably look upwards slightly. Focus on the object as much as you can. Don’t force your focus. If you have random thoughts, allow them to pass and then refocus on the object.Become aware of your eyes and your eyelids. Slowly close your eyes.
Breathe deeply and slowly. Relax with each breath. If you are breathing too fast, you can count your breaths or time the space between your breaths to slow it down.
Image a clock pendulum in your mind. You can also imagine an object that slowly sways back and forth.
 Count back from 10, telling yourself that when you reach one, you will have reached your subconscious state and that you are hypnotized. The start repeating your positive “I” statements. Repeat the “I” statements 10 times.Picture yourself as you would look making those statements to someone else. You might imagine repeating these statements to a person who most means the most to you. You may choose to make these statements to someone who frightens you the most. Talk to your therapist to decide the statements you should use and the person to you should imagine when making these statements.
 Once you have made your statement, pinch yourself on the back of your hand. Eventually, you will be able to train yourself to get back to the place of strength in your subconscious simply by pinching the back of your hand. Your subconscious will have created that pinch as the trigger that reminds your subconscious of your “I” statement.
 Begin to come out of your self-hypnosis by reversing the process. Start at one and count up to 10. In between each number, repeat your “I” statements


When you reach 10, open your eyes, and take a deep breath. Remain where you are for a few minutes and then get up slowly.
 You can practice this every day, or as often as you want. This will help you get better at it and make it most effective for your situation. Just remember to work with your therapist.

