 The lowest risk option for taking out loans for plastic surgery is a simple bank loan. If you're wary about using a credit card, consider taking out a personal loan from your bank.


Bank loans have a fixed interest rate and a fixed amount of time where you have to pay. This prevents you from accruing large amounts of interest over time. A bank loan can also help your credit rating, especially if you've never taken out a loan before.
Even with low interest, keep in mind interest rates on loans can still add quite a bit to the final cost. Try to ask for a secured loan if you know you can make payments on time.
 Depending on your financial situation and credit score, a bank might not approve a loan for cosmetic surgery. If this is the case, you can look into alternative types of loans. One such type is an unsecured medical loan.


Unsecured medical loans are usually brokered through third parties. Your doctor may offer to act as a third party to help you get an unsecured medical loan. This is a good option if you have a low credit score and are having trouble securing money through other means.Interest rates on these types of loans can be quite high. You also might need a co-signer and if you fail to make payments your negligence will affect the co-signer's credit rating. Always read fine print when taking out a loan of this type. If you have any questions, consult an attorney., If you have a 401K you can withdraw up to 50% of the balance. Repayments are automatically deducted from your paycheck. While this allows you to avoid interest rates and prevents you from missing payments, this can affect your taxes. You might lose certain tax benefits or have to pay double taxes for some costs. Talk to an accountant before taking money out of your 401K.
 If you're a home owner, a home equity loan can help pay for cosmetic surgery. These loans use your house as leverage and the amounts are based on your current mortgage payments.


As mortgage rates are at historic lows, this can be very affordable for homeowners. It is also a fairly quick way to get the needed money together. The housing market, however, is extremely volatile. If anything should happen and you need to sell your home, having taken out a home equity loan puts you in an extremely vulnerable financial position.Home equity loans are easy to obtain but as they carry a somewhat high risk they should be a last resort.

