 This can be commentary or music that will be heard over your slideshow. You can record an MP3 directly on your computer using a variety of free, downloadable software. Make notes to indicate how many seconds into the recording each slide should appear. Save the file onto your computer. Slideshare only accepts MP3 format.;
, If your MP3 file is anything other than the presenter talking (for example, if it contains music) it must be uploaded to a web server, a media server, or any podcasting service or a file repository. Make sure that the MP3 is freely downloadable (without permissions or passwords). Record the URL where the MP3 can be accessed. The URL should end with .mp3, such as http://www.archive.org/download/abc_64kb.mp3


If the MP3 file is of just the presenter talking, you will have a chance to upload it later.


To find a slideshow that you've already uploaded, hover over your account name on the upper right corner of the page, then click on "My Uploads" in the menu that pops up.






Click on the Edit/Delete link.
, Otherwise, click on "Or link an already uploaded mp3 audio file".


If you do the latter, you will be asked to input the MP3 URL from earlier.
 SlideShare will automatically divide your slides equally across the duration of your audio file, but you can fine-tune the audio segments to control when each slide appears. In the synchronization tool, you can simultaneously view the slides, a zoomed-in view of the audio and a full view of the audio. To edit your audio:

Begin by clicking on the first slide.
Drag the blue edit marker to where you would like the audio to end for that slide (consult your notes). A flag labeled "slide 1 end" will follow the marker where you drag it so you can keep track of the start and end points for all your slides.






Click on slide two and mark the end points for the audio for slide two. The audio for slide two begins where the audio for slide one ends.






Repeat until the audio has been marked for all slides.
Double-check that the audio is correctly divided by playing it from the beginning to the end of the slideshow. You can also use the small play button located on the flag of each marker to play the audio for an individual slide.
 Click on the "Preview saved work" button in the bottom right corner to check your work before publishing.
 Now your Slidecast is ready to be shared!