 If you want to keep your Huntsman spider happy, you need to have a proper amount of room for them to run around in. The enclosure may be higher than it is wide, as some Huntsman spiders like to climb up rather than sideways.

Make sure there are no gaps for the Huntsman to escape through, they are swift and can fit through small gaps with ease. These spiders are said to be major escape artists.
A plastic terrarium is recommended for this animal, as glass magnifies light and causes the enclosure to heat up. Try to keep the temperature between 24-28 degrees C.;
, You don't want the spider to be in a boring container do you? You can add sand, natural-looking gravel, ground bark, soil or leaves in the bottom of the container. For decorations on top of the substrate you can add whole bark as it is ideal, or a lot of secured rocks with crevices for the spider to hide in.

Make sure that the substrate can sustain water droplets for half an hour or even longer.
Make sure the substrate chosen is clean and free of chemicals, as they might harm the Huntsman.
Follow the items listed above as they mimic the spiders natural habitat.
 Make sure to place it out of direct sunlight as it will make the enclosure hot, and make sure the light is not too bright as they come out to eat at night., If it looks cramped, make sure to buy an enclosure bigger for it to feel comfortable.

Watch the spider. If it seems to be on a particular ornament and is not moving that means it may be in hunting position, or maybe like that particular ornament.
Make sure not to move the spider too much. It might get stressed and you may damage it while transporting it.
 Choosing what to feed a Huntsman may be the hardest part; it depends on where you got it from, how big the spider is and when the last feeding was. You can feed small Huntsman spiders: wingless fruit flies, pinhead crickets and other small insects. Bigger spiders get more interesting, you can feed them adult crickets, moths, younger spiders, cockroaches and much more!

Do not feed your spider ladybirds as they may be poisonous to them.
 Anything bigger might take them on or even eat them.