 Bombay (Mumbai as it now called) is well connected to all the cities across the world by flights. It is also has flights to other destinations in the country.;
, But for all intents and purposes, you can refer to a good travel website and take a few print-outs.
 It is always hot and humid in Bombay. But do not dress too skimpy! Remember this is conservative country. People will stare at you like you have 2 heads and no legs if you are weirdly dressed. Also, if you plan in visiting any religious spots, you need to have your legs and arms covered. Carry a small scarf as you may need to cover your head too.
 Places to eat will include the ultra famous Bade Miyan joint. This is located just behind Taj Mahal Hotel in Bombay. It is street food at its best.
 Here, you will find loads of tourists like yourself. You'll also find annoying photographers/tattoo artist(henna tattoos)/people acting as guides, who will want to show you around. Remember that there is no entry fee or any such thing. Its free and you don't need a tour guide to help you out with anything.
, Sunsets in Bombay are famous.
 But you can take a cab - prepaid or post paid. Buy a cab tariff card so you won't get cheated). Juhu and Bandra are the places where all film stars stay. The young and happening crowd of Mumbai is always here!

, You can visit a good pub or go to the one located in your hotel (if it has one!). Other goods spots to frequent are located in the five star hotels in Bombay.
 Obviously this doesn't apply if you ask a question to someone who's rushing for work! But in a cafe or church, if you ask for some pointers, people will definitely help you out.
 It gets thousands of visitors per month. It is believed that Mother Mary fulfils the wishes of all the devotees and people throng to this church to light candles.
 It is believed that the coffin of Haji Ali - a Muslim saint, floated from Mecca to Bombay and rested here. This is where they built a shrine for him. It is also believed to be a place with great healing powers. Please check the tide before going in here, as it is located out in the sea. During low tide you can walk over the walkway, but during high tide, the walkway gets submerged and you will be stuck inside the 'dargah' for a couple of hours!

, Because of the ban on plastic (sometimes taken seriously by the shopkeepers) you may need to carry your own bag, into which you can stuff your things. Colaba causeway has great street shopping. You can buy almost everything there. Be sure to bargain. Offer to pay little less than half of the quoted price.
,