 A way to speed up the natural popping of the pimple is to use a hot compress. Wipe the pimple with alcohol. Cover the pimple with cellophane and secure.If you don't want to use cellophane, soak a washcloth in hot water, then squeeze out the excess water. Fold the cloth in half and place it over the pimple. Leave the compress on for 10 – 15 minutes. You can do this three to four times a day.This helps when you have a lot of painful inflammation.
 Wet a black tea bag with hot water. Place the tea bag over the pimple and cover with a hot, wet washcloth. The tannins combined with the heat will help reduce inflammation.
 Milk has alpha hydroxy acids, which help unclog pores and remove dead skin. Soak a cotton ball in milk, then squeeze it. Wipe the milk along the pimple. Let it sit for 10 minutes, then wash the area with lukewarm water. You can repeat 3-4 times a day., Tea tree oil has antibacterial properties that can kill the pimple causing bacteria. It also helps speed up the healing process. Spread the tea tree oil mixture on the pimple with a cotton ball.Always dilute tea tree oil. Use one part tea tree oil with nine parts water. (So, if you use 1 teaspoon of tea tree oil, mix it with nine teaspoons of water.)

, Aloe vera has antibacterial properties that can help clear up pimples and reduce swelling. You can use the gel from the inside of an aloe vera leaf or gel from the supermarket. Apply the gel to the pimple and leave on for 20 minutes. Then rinse with lukewarm water. Repeat twice a day.
 Apple cider vinegar has antiseptic properties that can prevent infection and bacterial growth. It also helps shrink pores. Soak a cotton ball in vinegar and wipe it over the pimple. Leave it for about a minute, then rinse with water. Do this three to four times a day., A saline solution can also help get rid of the pimple. Mix a teaspoon of Epsom salt with 1/2 cup of hot water, making sure the water dissolves. When the mixture has cooled some, use a cotton ball to spread the saline solution on the pimple. After it dries, rinse off. Repeat two to three times a day.

