 Research suggests that a lack of communication impacts employee morale more than differences in communication style and frequency. It matters less how you do it, so long as you do. The existence of a superior's effective communication with their employees is the single most influential factor in enhancing job satisfaction and group cohesiveness is superior-subordinate communication.Give clear expectations, by outlining employee roles exactly. Careful consideration should be put into training. Provide your employees with a means to understand where their job begins and ends.
Provide a vision. Let your employees see what you're progressing toward.
Don't feel you need to know everything.
 Be forward. Employees can feel lost without feedback, and that can contribute to low morale. If an employee's job security relies on how you perceive them, it can make him very insecure, contributing to low morale.


Instate a regular performance review process.
Coach/mentor your staff by giving them your help and encouraging them. Be available and supportive. Take time to communicate and check in with each person.
Celebrate accomplishments. Revisit past progress. Let your employees know you appreciate them by saying it., Ensure they take a 15-minute, paid break during the day. They can get some fresh air or chat on their cell phone in the break room to clear their heads. Standard diffusion of anger techniques can also work, such as walking away and counting to 10, before responding to a co-worker who is aggravating them. Learning how to deal with these situations can lower individual stress and raise morale in the workplace.
 This can boost performance and increase output. By celebrating attainable goals, or by participating in an office fundraiser for a local charity, you offer employees an intangible benefit: a good feeling. This is called intrinsic motivation. Intrinsic motivation uses the natural good feeling that comes with certain activities as a motivational tool.
 Many companies ask that their employees get a manager if there is a problem with a customer. By allowing employees to make some decisions, like price adjustments within reason, you empower them and give them a sense of independence. This can, in turn, improve loyalty.
 “EVPs” are planned, managed efforts that receive funding and personnel from a business to motivate and enable employees to volunteer in their community. By contributing to employee satisfaction, volunteer opportunities have been shown to increase morale, improve employee recruitment and retention rates, enhance productivity, and ultimately positively impact profits. 