 Most Pokémon cards have a symbol below the bottom right corner of the Pokémon's image.This symbol identifies the set. Some examples of set symbols include a flower (Jungle set, #2), a hollow star (Neo Genesis set, #8), and the letter 'R' (Team Rocket set, #5).Sets are usually released four times a year.


If you have purchased cards from Pokémon International, or possess cards from this series, the set information will be located in lower right hand corner at the bottom of your card. These symbols can be small and easy to miss; look carefully!, It'll be easy for you to group all like symbol cards together, but for further organization you'll need to arrange by set number. Each set has a designated number of cards, and each card is numbered within its set. This will help you organize your cards with even greater precision.


You may need to use an online card directory to determine each cards position in a set. Many online set directories will first require you to choose the set category (like Base, Aquapolis, and Jungle) before linking you to the card number directory.
The base set of the first cards released in English do not have a symbol. You may want to gather these cards together and arrange them according to HP (hit points) or alphabetic order., Within sets, there are sometimes special cards that have a number higher than the set directory lists. These are "secret rare" cards. For example, you may see a card that is 63/62. This is not an error; this means that you have a special card., You'll find that some of your cards only have a card number and no set number. This indicates that the card is a promotional card, also referred to as a "promo." These are frequently given as a bonus to players when they purchase a deck.


Although promotional cards have no set number, you can still organize these according to card number or release date. You'll have to look up this information online, as there are many promo cards, each with a different number and release date.You should also keep an eye out for "black star promos." These are extra special cards that are produced specifically for promotional events., Depending on which method of storage you have chosen, this may be a binder, a box-sleeve, or even a card catalog. Now that your cards are organized by set, you can insert these into your storage container to complete your organization.


If you are using a binder, make sure the card slots are big enough for your Pokémon cards. Some card binders are intended for smaller cards, and trying to fit your Pokémon cards in these might cause your cards to bend or otherwise deform.
When organizing your cards by set, trust the set symbols and number, even if the Pokémon on the card appears to be the same. Charizard from the Dragon Frontiers set and Charizard from the Power Keepers set have different numbers, pictures, and abilities.