 It is widely known that stress can increase your heart rate. When you are stressed, your body releases adrenaline, increasing your heart rate to assist in dealing with the stressor. Breathing techniques relax and calm your body and mind, thereby lowering your heart rate. Sit up straight. Put one hand on your belly and the other on your chest. Inhale deeply through your nose. You should feel the hand on your belly rise, but the hand on your chest should not move. Breathe out slowly, with your mouth barely open. Use your hand on your belly to push air out, if you want. Repeat this exercise 10 times.
Quickly inhale and exhale through your nose (about three breaths a second), keeping your mouth closed. Then breathe normally. Repeat this process for 15 seconds or more.;
, Meditation can be used as a technique to calm the body and mind. It is often used by people suffering from illness or physical problems to attain physical relaxation, mental calmness, and psychological balance.Mindfulness meditation is a simple and effective way to begin a practice of daily meditation:Sit in a comfortable position, whether in a chair, cross-legged, or kneeling.
Begin to pay attention to your breathing. Your mind will eventually wander. When you catch your mind wandering, bring your attention back to your own breathing.
Don’t stop to dwell on or judge your thoughts.
Continue this process for a short time, such as five minutes if you are trying it for the first time. Repeat this practice frequently, at least once a day. As you begin to practice mindfulness meditation regularly, you can gradually increase the length of the sessions, if you desire.
 It can help you focus and relax, decrease the negative impact of stressors, and ultimately lower your heart rate. Try the following technique for 10 to 20 minutes:Prepare yourself for visualization. Avoid watching television, surfing the net, and other stressors.
Find a quiet and comfortable place to rest and meditate.
If possible, lie down.
Start by closing your eyes and taking a few deep, slow breaths
Focus on imagining a setting that you find peaceful and relaxing. For example, imagine yourself at a beach, walking, striding in the sand, with the breeze blowing in your face. Imagine you are gently floating on the water.
Then, allow yourself to explore that peaceful place you are imagining.
When you are ready to leave, take a few deep breaths and open your eyes.
 It relaxes your body and mind, which can contribute to a lower heart rate.


Sit comfortably in a chair, or lay down
Tense the muscles in your toes. Hold for five seconds, then release and relax for 30 seconds.
Work progressively, tensing and releasing other muscles in your body in the same way: your legs, your thighs, your abdomen, your arms, and your neck.
You can repeat the exercise by working the muscles from your neck back down to your toes.

