 A regular old pot and drip grind coffee will not do for this method.


You’ll need an ibrik (variously known as a cezve, briki, mbiki or toorka, among other names), a small metal pot (traditionally made of brass) which is thinner at the neck than base and usually has a long handle.
You’ll also need water and sugar (or, though less traditional, a sugar substitute), of course.
This method requires Turkish grind coffee, which is as fine a grind as you are likely to encounter. Specialty shops, coffee roasters, Middle Eastern shops, and some mainstream retailers may have this grind.
Also look at the grinding machine found in your grocery store’s coffee aisle -- many of them actually have a Turkish grind setting.If grinding your own beans, make the grind as fine as you can.
 This is optional but traditional. Add to taste, but 2 teaspoons for an 8 ounce ibrik is probably a good reference point.









You can substitute an artificial sweetener (such as aspartame) for the sugar as well.
 Do not overfill -- leave some room in the neck for frothing or you will end up with a giant mess on your stove.









If you want to make less coffee, you need a smaller ibrik. It needs to be filled to the lower neck to brew properly. A typical small ibrik is about 8 ounces, enough for two 3 oz. demitasse cups.
 Allow the coffee grounds to float on the top of the water.









These floating grounds act as a barrier between the water and air, facilitating the frothing process.
Depending on how strong you like your coffee, use one to two rounded teaspoons of coffee per demitasse serving, or roughly three rounded teaspoons (or one rounded tablespoon) for an 8 oz. ibrik.
 Some people recommend using a low setting, but medium to high heat will also work. You’ll just have to pay even closer attention to prevent a messy boil-over.









The coffee will foam. Foaming is not the same as boiling.Do not let it boil, and really do not let it boil over unless you love vigorously scrubbing a scorched stovetop.
 Let it settle back down, then -- finally -- you can stir it.









Traditionally this process is repeated up to three more times. Put the ibrik back on the heat, wait for it to froth up to the top of the neck, then let it settle down and stir.
 Let it rest for 1-2 minutes before drinking to let the grounds settle.









When pouring, leave the last bit of coffee in the ibrik to trap some of the “sludge.” Likewise, when drinking, leave the last bit in your cup.
Turkish coffee is traditionally served with a glass of water as a palate cleanser.

