 Many people believe that different types of trees carry different energies within them. When you make a wand from a tree branch, it can carry that energy within it.Oak wood is sacred because of the tree’s longevity and great growth.
Birch wood is said to hold the energy of love.
Ash wood makes a great wand for healing and general magic.;
, Consider the type of wood you want to use, and go for a hike in an area where that specific tree will be. Look for a fallen branch or stick that is at least twelve inches long.Follow your intuition, and let it help guide you to a stick that speaks to you.
Try to find a fallen branch rather than a living one. If you’re going take a living one, make sure to ask the permission of the tree first. If you feel uneasy about it, you should not take this tree’s branch.
 Whether you take a fallen branch or a live one, you should leave something as a thank you offering for the tree. Many different things can be used for this offering as long as they contain natural ingredients.Apple juice
Home made cakes, cookies, or bread
Charged crystals

, You need to consecrate your wood to cleanse it of any old energies before carving your wand. You will need a few items set up to perform this ritual.A white candle
A sage or cedar smudge or sagewood incense
A large feather
A clear quartz crystal
A lighter or matches
A small altar to hold the wood

, To perform the ritual, you will start facing North. Place the altar with the wood on it to your left, and the tools to perform the ritual on your right.
 Standing facing north, begin the ritual by lighting the incense and saying a prayer for energy and assistance.
 Use the feather to fan the smoke out into the room. Move clockwise in a circle as you fan.


Turn to the right to face east and fan the smoke asking for guidance.
Then, turn and face the south to fan the smoke and ask for help ridding the wood of bad energies.
Next, turn again to the right to face west and thank your guides for helping you as you continue to fan the smoke.
Finally, face north again and sit down in the circle. Put the incense in a holder on your right side after you sit down., Place the candle in front of you and light it while saying a prayer to acknowledge the divine presence around you. Hold the crystal in both of your hands and imagine the white light of divine knowledge flowing through the top of your head and through your arms into the crystal. Place a thought in the crystal about cleansing the wood of any negative energies, and then place the crystal back down to the right.
 Bring the piece of wood to sit right in front of you and say a prayer welcoming it into your presence. Use the incense or smudge to wave smoke around the wood. Envision the smoke cleansing the wood of all past energies.
 Hold the crystal above the wood and envision it absorbing the negative energies being released from the wood. Envision the energy moving through the crystal an out into the universe to be dissipated. Then place the crystal on top of the wood and ask that its positive energy be placed into the wood.
 Close your eyes and thank the divine for helping you clear the negative energy from your wood. Blow out the candle and then clean up the tools used for the ritual.
 Use a knife to carefully scrape all of the bark off of the stick. You can also use your hands to pick off the outer layer and then use a knife to help get any bark that’s left on.
 Use the knife to whittle the stick into a wand shape. Carefully scrape off layers of the wood to make one end of the stick more pointy. Take your time and whittle slowly until you get the shape you want.
 Use the knife to carve patterns or runes into your wand. The different symbols you carve will bring different energies to your wand, so be careful what you choose.You can also char your wand to give the carved patterns a different look.
 Rub your entire wand with sandpaper to make it smooth. Continue to use the sandpaper to smooth the wood until the entire wand is finished.
 Your wand should be unique to you and represent your personal energies. Add embellishments to your wand to create a wand that will respond to you.


Drill a hole through the end of the wand to attach a leather carrying string.
Attach feathers to the end of the wand.
 You can add additional decorative touches to the wand with metal wire or crystals. Choose gemstones or crystals that have a special meaning to you to provide positive energy to the wand.Affix crystals and energy stones to the wand with glue.
Wrap copper or silver wire around the wand to give it more strength.

