 Stand up straight, keep your chin up, and don’t slouch. Walk with confidence and take pride in your accomplishment. However, mind your footing, and make sure you don't trip on your gown!


Note if you’ve received any instructions about standing up with your row at the same time, or about how to line up and proceed to the stage.
Sometimes schools or universities will have you hold onto a name card or name pronunciation card. Know if this is the procedure, and hand it over to the proper usher when the time comes.;
, Whether it’s your dean, school principal, or another distinguished person, show them respect by looking them in the eye. You also want to avoid just looking at the floor or keeping your head down since you’ll probably have family and friends taking pictures of you every step of the way. Do your best to look photogenic:Remember to smile, or look happy or proud to be where you are.
Try to look at your family and friends when they take your picture.
 Once you approach the presenter, reach out with your left hand to take your diploma. As the presenter hands you the diploma, reach with your right hand to shake hands. Be graceful with your hand motions, and don’t just grab the diploma and hold it at your side.While you’re on stage, keep the diploma raised up after you’ve accepted it and shaken hands.

Shake your presenter’s hand firmly.
If you wear dangly bracelets on your right hand, consider not wearing them for the ceremony or wearing them on your left hand instead.Don’t run away after you’ve accepted your diploma. There will most likely be a professional photographer on hand who will take your picture either as you receive your diploma or immediately after shaking the presenter’s hand., It’s easy to lose focus and feel like you’re all set after you’ve accepted your diploma. However, remember that there’s still an audience out there, and you don’t want to trip and fall or look sloppy. Continue to mind your footing, keep your head up, and walk with confidence.


Again, either professional photographers or family members will be taking your picture, so proudly present the symbol of your accomplishments.
 The tassel on your cap symbolizes your transition from student to graduate. Some schools or colleges will have you move your own tassel when you receive your diploma, or have the presenter to do it for you. Sometimes, all graduates proceed with tassel change in unison after everyone’s received their diploma.


Traditionally, the tassel is worn on the right side of the cap before graduating, then is switched to the left side during tassel change.
Your ceremony’s organizers will give you more information on details like tassel change at your graduation rehearsal.

