 Most likely, you are tuning correctly and there is a legitimate problem with your guitar. However, it doesn't take much time to try a different tuning method. This is also an opportunity to confirm your suspicions: if the intonation is correct, plucking at the twelfth fret should produce a pitch exactly one octave above the open string. Confirm this with an electronic tuner for each string.

Some musicians reliant on digital tuners may benefit from learning to tune by ear, for situations when a tuner is not available.

If your guitar has decent intonation but rapidly goes out of tune, you may need to replace the machine heads or the bridge.
;
, Your choice of strings affects your intonation, and changing strings is one of the easiest adjustments for a layman to make. You can discover the appropriate gauge for your guitar by consulting a professional luthier or using an online guitar string calculator.

Different brands have different systems, so don't assume that every "light" string is the same gauge.Heavy strings may wear out your nut quickly, especially if it is made from weak materials.
 Many guitarists don't realize that replacing a seriously worn fret can make a much bigger difference than adjusting the nut.If a string has worn a groove into the fret, take it to a luthier for a new fret.
 A warped neck can cause poor intonation, but unless there's an obvious problem, you're usually better off trying the adjustments above. You may need to adjust your truss rod if your strings buzz more easily on low frets than high, or vice versa. Look for a peg above the nut and adjust with a socket wrench, or a hole near or in the sound hole and adjust with an Allen wrench. Experiment until the string has an equal tendency to buzz at all frets when tuned.Although truss rod adjustment is not as difficult as many musicians think, it is a good idea to make small adjustments at a time.

If you've never adjusted a truss rod before, ask a luthier for assistance or at least adjust slowly. Loosening will add relief (distance from string to neck), while tightening will reduce it. Extreme adjustments could damage your guitar.

You can also measure your neck arch by pressing the G string at the first and fourteenth frets, and looking closely at the distance between that string and the sixth fret. Most players will prefer a distance about the width of a medium gauge first string.
 Always keep your guitar in a humidity range between 45 and 55%, and away from sunlight and heat. A professional quality case and regular use will go a long way toward preventing the warp and wear that can mess up intonation.
