 Jump starting a vehicle involves using the electrical system of another running vehicle to charge the battery in yours sufficiently to allow it to start and charge itself. Before parking the functioning car, make sure you locate the battery in both vehicles, as some vehicle’s batteries can be found in the trunk. Once you have located the batteries in both vehicles, pull the running vehicle up to yours close enough so allow your jumper cables to connect both batteries.If the battery is in the trunk of one of the vehicles, back it up to the other so the cables can reach.
Set the parking brake on both vehicles to ensure they don’t move during the charging process.
 Remember that once you connect the jumper cables to a battery, touching the positive and negative ends of the other side of the cables will produce sparks that may be dangerous. With both cars shut off, connect the jumper cable to the positive terminal of the dead battery and then to the positive of the good battery. Be sure not to allow the negative cables to dangle into the engine bay where they may touch metal that could serve as a ground to complete the circuit. Next, connect the negative cable to the negative terminal of the dead battery, followed by the negative cable on the appropriate terminal of the good one.You may need to clean the terminals on both batteries to ensure a strong connection.
Be sure you connect the positive ends to the positive terminals and the negative cables to the negative terminals. Mixing these up could result in damage or a fire.
 With the cables securely connected, start the functioning vehicle so its electrical system can begin charging the dead battery. Do not take the functioning vehicle out of park or neutral during the charging process. Allow the vehicle to run for a few minutes before attempting to start the other vehicle.After a minute or two, attempt to start the dead car. If the battery only died recently, it should start right up.
If it doesn’t start after a minute or two, allow it to charge for a bit longer. If the battery has been dead for some time, it may take longer to charge it enough to start.
 Once the vehicle starts, you can disconnect the jumper cables from each vehicle. Allow the vehicle that had a dead battery to continue to run for a bit. You may have charged the battery enough to start the vehicle, but if you turn it off right away there may not be sufficient electricity to start it again. By letting it run, you give the vehicle’s alternator an opportunity to charge the battery the rest of the way.If the vehicle dies once again after it is disconnected from the other car, check to make sure the battery is securely connected.
If the vehicle runs well, take it out for a short drive to thoroughly charge the battery before turning it off again.

