 After recovering from the shock of your parents’ divorce, you’ll likely start to confront the fact that your own life will be different moving forward. This is especially true if you’re still living with one of your parents. You should ask your parents any questions you have about your future, in both the short and long term.Plan a time to sit down with both of your parents together, as soon as is possible. If their relationship is volatile or they are unwilling to speak with you together, make plans to speak with them separately.
While talking about what has happened may be helpful, ask questions about what will happen moving forward. Feel free to be direct by simply asking, “What’s going to happen next?”
Don’t worry about “adding” to what they’re going through. While you’ll likely feel this way, it’s better for everyone to communicate your concerns. You may learn that your parents have already been thinking about your future as well.
 Your siblings will likely prove to be an extremely important source of support, no matter what your relationship with them was like before the divorce. The experiences you’ve shared give you better insight into one another’s lives than most. Talk about how each of your parents are doing, how each of you are doing, and what you can do to help each other, as well as your parents.If anyone is having a particularly hard time dealing with the divorce, you and your other family members can plan to talk to them together about seeing a therapist.
Reach out to extended family members as well. In particular, your parents’ siblings may be better able to help and support them than you and your siblings.
 Don’t put your own life on hold simply because your parents have hit a rough patch in their lives. Keep any long-term plans you’ve made, especially if you’re pursuing a significant goal. For instance, if you’re planning to move out and go to college next year, you still should. Similarly, if you intend to get married yourself in the foreseeable future, don’t start to question your own goals and intentions on account of your parents’ divorce.If you are having fears about the future, then try talking with a trustworthy adult, such as a parent, teacher, or religious leader. For example, you might start by saying something like, “The divorce is making me question some of the things that I had envisioned for my future. I am starting to feel fearful about ____.”
Continue participating in normal everyday activities as well. For instance, keep going to your weekly volleyball meetup, and try to maintain an active social life.
Keep yourself occupied with personal interests and relationships to keep your stress levels low and stay focused on your own goals.
 Holidays and celebrations may become a source of stress as you try to navigate how to include your parents, or decide when to visit them when they both may want your company.While they may be willing to be around one another to share in your accomplishments and other key events together, they may also wish to compromise, and work with you to plan to be a part of separate occasions.


Ask your parents to speak with one another about attending events that you want them both to be a part of, such as your graduation, a big sports game, or a birthday party.
Hopefully, they will be able to put their differences aside. You may even want to frame it in these terms, by asking if they’d be willing to focus on the positive for a day, in the interest of enjoying a special occasion altogether. Try saying something like, “I know you two have a hard time being around each other, but I was hoping we could just have a day to focus on this milestone in my life.”

, Whether a sibling or a friend, you need to be able to tell someone how you’re honestly feeling about your parents’ divorce from time to time. Another way of looking at it is allowing others to support you. Stress, depression, and sadness will all make it harder to go about your daily life, let alone maintain a happy, healthy frame of mind.You can also find a support group of people roughly your age who also have divorced parents.
If you continue to struggle with mental health issues, see a therapist! A school counselor or your doctor’s office can help you find one.
 It may sound impossible, but there is likely some good that will come from your parents’ divorce. Most importantly, there was a reason they got divorced, and one – if not both – will be better off in the long run because of their separation. Meanwhile, think about what you like about each of your parents as individuals. If you continue to spend time with each of them, you’ll likely come to know them better than you did when they were together.