 Blur sticks appear colored in the package, usually a warm medium shade, but they are actually transparent when applied. This means you do not need to worry if the blur stick will match your skin tone. However, you should make sure the blur stick will work with your skin type. Blur sticks are often good for people who have oily or combination skin, as they reduce shine and minimize your pores.Blur sticks can also be used by people prone to acne or breakouts as it will keep your skin looking supple and dewy, without clogging your pores.
If you have dry skin, blur sticks can be beneficial as they can help to moisturize any dry patches and prep your skin for other makeup. You may want to exfoliate your skin first if you have a lot of dryness on your face to make applying the blur stick easier.;
, Silicone can clog your pores and cause breakouts. Avoid blur sticks that contain silicone or any oils. Many blur sticks on the market are silicone free and oil free.Check the list of ingredients on the product to confirm it does not contain silicone or any oil.
 To ensure you find a makeup blur stick that feels good on, try shopping for the product in person. Go to your nearest beauty supply store and try a few blur sticks directly on your skin. Swipe the product on the side of your face and make sure that it does not feel tight or sticky when applied.









Talk to a sales representative and ask them to recommend blur sticks. There are several best selling makeup blur sticks that may be right for your skin.
 To apply the makeup blur stick, begin by washing your face with your cleanser. Pat your face dry. Then, uncap the makeup blur stick and sit down in front of a mirror.








If you plan to wear eye makeup, put it on before you apply the blur stick. Doing your eye makeup before the blur stick or any foundation will ensure you do not get any makeup on other parts of your face., Hold the blur stick in your dominant hand and apply it on your face, starting on your cheeks and jawline. Apply it with light sweeping motions on your cheeks, jawline, nose, forehead, and around your mouth. Make sure you also apply it under your eyes.








Use sweeping motions so the product is absorbed into your skin. Do not dab the product on as this can lead to an uneven application.
If you have any areas on your face that are oily or red, make sure you apply the blur stick to this area. You can try applying the blur stick to only problem areas on your skin if you'd like, though it is a great primer for your entire face.
 Once you have applied one coat of the blur stick, use clean fingers to blend in the blur stick in any areas that are not blended. Then, allow the product to dry on your face for 1-2 minutes before you apply any other makeup.As the product dries, you should notice that your skin looks less oily and red. It should also look more even and supple.
 The blur stick is meant to act as a primer for your face, making it easier to then apply foundation or tinted moisturizer. Some people wear the blur stick on its own for a more natural look. If you tend to wear foundation or tinted moisturizer, apply it once the blur stick has dried.









Use a beauty blender or a clean makeup brush to apply liquid foundation over the blur stick. You can also apply a tinted moisturizer if you tend to wear lighter coverage on your face.
You can also apply setting powder to your face after you have put on the foundation if this is part of your normal beauty routine.
 As a finishing touch, you can also apply blush and bronzer to your face. The blur stick should help to keep the blush and bronzer in place.








Use a clean makeup brush to apply the blush and bronzer on your face as you usually would. You should notice that the blur stick does not dry out your face once you layer other products on top of it.
 You can also use the blur stick throughout the day to touch up your makeup. This is especially useful if you are prone to oily skin when you wear foundation or other makeup. Simply swipe the blur stick over any areas of your face that are feeling oily or that need a touch up. It should help to blur and smooth out your makeup.








Makeup blur sticks are also ideal because they are small and can be carried in a bag or purse easily. They also travel well as they are in stick form and will not leak in your bag.

