 Credit cards allow you to purchase items now and pay for them later. The fine print, however, governs when you pay the credit card company back; how much credit you’re eligible to receive; interest on the outstanding balances, and what kind of fees will be leveled against you in the event of late or non-payment. It is important to read your credit card agreement closely before signing up for a credit card.


Most credit card companies have service lines available 24 hours a day.If you are ever concerned about your credit limit, charges, or fees, call your card-issuing company.
If you received your credit card through a credit union or bank, they can often assist you in figuring out how much you owe, what the consequences are for late payment, and identifying any fees which may apply to your circumstances.
Generally, ideal credit card terms will offer:no annual fee (the fee you get charged just for having and using the credit card)
a long grace period (the period of time before your charges begin accruing interest)
low interest rates (the rate at which your charges increase before you’ve paid them back)



, These extras tend to be overpriced and unnecessary. Signing up for these extras usually entails having their costs automatically charged to the card they’re offered with. These charges can quickly accumulate and lead to credit card debt.


If you see a credit card which comes bundled with such an offer, do not sign up for it.
 Having a high credit limit is not a bad thing, but higher credit limits carry a higher risk of debt. Make sure that you keep your balance low on any credit cards that you have, especially on high limit cards. For example, if your credit limit is $5,000, then you should have a balance of no more than $500.


If you accrue heavy debt on a credit card with a high limit, your credit card company might cut your limit down to a lower level, and charge you fees to do so.This will hurt your credit score and make it more difficult to get loans or other credit cards in the future. It’s best, therefore, to deliberately select a low credit limit on your card.
 Take control of your finances to make better spending decisions and avoid credit card debt. Tabulate your total household income, including revenue you gain not only from your own work, but from your spouse and anyone else contributing financially to paying household expenses. Next, calculate your total household expenditures. Subtracting the expenses from the income total will provide you with a clear picture of what your financial situation is.


If you’re generating less income than you’re spending, identify unnecessary expenditures and eliminate them.

