 Time is definitely the greatest gift of all and something we each have the power to bestow. Spend time with him doing things you know he'll appreciate, such as going for a walk, climb, or hike together; going fishing, cycling, or sailing together; watching a movie together; visiting an art gallery or museum; attending a sports match. Choose whatever you're sure he'll enjoy and make sure there is time to just chill and talk together.;
, If you're able to afford an expensive gift, try an experience gift. This sort of gift involves purchasing an experience that is not your ordinary activity. Think racing a car on a racetrack, skydiving from a plane, going for a balloon ride, taking a fighter pilot flight, doing a bungee jump, etc. You know your Dad best, so you'll know what experience he would find simply awesome and breathtaking. While it's costly, it will be a gift he's never going to forget!


Other more hands-on experience gifts include cooking classes, ice climbing, wilderness/outdoors first aid classes, learning to make things classes, etc.
Ask the rest of the family to pitch in on this sort of gift; that will reduce the costs and save your siblings having to find a gift (and Mom might even help too).
 Arrange for an old army buddy, a long lost school friend, a cherished and admired mentor, or someone else he cares about to turn up for the day. Organize the travel, the accommodation, and the day's activities so that it all proceeds according to plan. Be sure to call this person another name when talking to family about them, so that your Dad is thrown off the scent!


You can use sites like Facebook and friend reunion services to look for people and get in touch with them quickly.
 Month clubs can bring many surprises to Dad's door, with monthly shipments of all sorts of goodies such as chocolate, books, wine, cookies, pies, barbecue sauces, gourmet delicacies, and other delights. It's not something he's likely to arrange for himself, so indulge him.


Another great once-a-month gift is an arrangement to send him to a new restaurant every month for a set time. Draw up an itinerary of suggested restaurants and let him know he can choose one a month for the next "X" months, all costs covered. You can either call the chosen restaurants ahead with your credit card or have him forward the bill to you.
A monthly gift can be for as many months as you can afford; it doesn't have to be for the whole year. Or, you could be the source of the monthly gift by sending him a batch of homemade cookies or a new cake every month!

, While this isn't something that costs money, it is priceless and he'll love it. Thank him for the things he has done for you and be sure to specify precise things that have happened in the past year in which you felt he has supported you, cared for you, and made you feel special. Tell him that you're proud of him and that you're incredibly happy to have him as your Dad. This is the sort of gift that will make his day.


Enclose this letter inside a homemade card. For more details on making the card, see How to choose a design theme for a Father's Day card (this is also applicable to a birthday card).
 Clean out the pool or gutters, sweep the yard, put away your junk, bring him the quotes or information he's been asking for, show him your trip photos, etc. Whatever it is that you've been putting off doing at his request, do it!

, Once in a while, a gift that's a little saccharin sweet but fun can go down well, especially in tandem with a decent gift. Such gifts can be mugs, t-shirts, badges, and other trinkets that have messages about great dads, and similarly worded Dad pride. Have fun with this one and give it in the spirit of having a laugh together.

