 A solo musician or a DJ is likely to charge less to play at your wedding than a big ensemble. Before you start looking for musicians, take a look at your wedding budget and decide on a maximum amount you are willing or able to pay for the music.

If you’re not sure what the typical rates are for wedding musicians in your area, discuss it with a wedding planner or check out a site like Costhelper.com to get an idea of what to expect., Do an internet search for musicians or DJs who perform at weddings in your area. If you know what type of group or musician you are looking for, you can narrow down your options with an entertainment directory like GigMasters.com.While you are looking at your options, make note of:


Reviews and testimonials from others who have hired the musician(s) you’re interested in.
Quoted price ranges. Do they fit your budget?
Music samples. Listen to recordings or clips of the musician/group performing to make sure their style fits your needs.
 If you can, check out live performances by a few of the musicians or DJs you are most interested in hiring. This will give you a better idea of how their music sounds in person and what sort of dynamic they have with an audience. This is also a good opportunity to make a face-to-face connection and get an idea of how well you might work together., Once you’ve narrowed down your choices to a couple of different options, contact your potential wedding performers and arrange to meet with them as a couple. Make sure that you’re all on the same page, and that they can work with your schedule, song choices, and venue.Once you’ve agreed to work together, make sure to put your agreement in a formal contract.
 If you have any friends who are musicians or DJs, consider asking them to perform at your wedding. Your friend will probably be honored to be asked, and will appreciate the work. Having a friend play or DJ for you will also add an extra personal touch to the ceremony.

While you should not expect your friend to perform for free, they will probably be willing to offer you a rate that is considerably lower than the industry standard.

