 You know those thousands of baby photos you’ve been taking? Make it a resolution to select your favorites and print one off every month or so. Keep them altogether in a photo album. Not only will you love the keepsake, your child will appreciate this immensely when they’re your age.Try to keep this resolution going throughout their childhood. If you want, you can even plan and take a certain type of photo at regular intervals and keep these to visually catalog your baby’s growth over time.
 Speaking of tangible memories and new year’s resolutions, the new year may be a perfect time to collect a few items to store in a time capsule. While more of a long-term resolution than most, it will be incredibly rewarding for you and your child to crack open a box on some special day in the future with something in it from each year of your lives together.Consider planning on opening the capsule together on the last New Year’s Day you share together before they move out of the house. The time will pass faster than you think.
 See if you can rival the interesting facial expressions your baby is making. Try to do this once a day. Heck, this might even be a good opportunity for a selfie with your little one.Not only will these photos make especially good scrapbook material, you’ll wind up bonding even more with your baby and relieving a bit of stress each day by keeping up with this resolution.
 Daily writing can be a therapeutic and rewarding resolution. Get a journal and commit to writing in it every day. You don’t have to make long entries. The important thing is to add to the journal daily. Both you and your child will be extremely glad you did.For instance, “Friday, January 13th: Jacoby pooped thirteen times today. Thirteen!”

, Let’s face it, the nursery rhymes you have memorized wore out their welcome pretty quick. Fortunately, it’s the sound of your voice that matters to your baby, not the words you’re saying.Especially when they’re fresh out of the belly, sing them whatever you want. It’s never to early to start them in on some Radiohead, for instance.
Similarly, have you been missing the days when you’d wake up and read a couple of wikiHow articles to stay informed? Commit to keeping the tradition alive, just read them aloud so Bartholomew knows they’re being raised by especially knowledgeable and capable adults.

