 When you filed for divorce, you had to complete financial affidavits. These forms contain information about your income, assets, and debts. Review that paperwork now. If the judge has questions, you want to be able to answer intelligently.


Make a couple extra copies of all documents. The judge might have misplaced theirs.;
, Divorces come in two stripes: uncontested and contested. The type of divorce you have determines what will happen at the hearing:

If you agree on everything—child custody, child support, division of property—then your initial hearing might be your only appearance in divorce court.
However, if you and your spouse can’t agree on everything, then the initial hearing has a different purpose. The judge will need to come up with temporary orders relating to custody and money. These orders will stay in place until you have a trial on these issues 9-12 months down the road., Even if you’re fighting about child custody, it’s better to have a parenting plan in place. This plan can be temporary until your trial. Decide when your children will stay with each parent and how you’ll transport them between places. Type up the plan and take it to court with you.If you can’t come up with a plan yourself, then the judge will have to come up with temporary arrangements. Often, the judge takes the easy way out and keeps living arrangements the same until you have a trial on child custody.
 You want the judge to think you’re a serious person, so look serious. You don’t need to wear a suit, but you should wear dress pants and a dress shirt. Anything clean and conservative works. Pretend you are going to a job interview.Avoid loud jewelry, hats, or heavy perfumes or colognes.
Women should pay attention to the fit of their clothes. Don’t wear slinky dresses or anything too revealing.
 Courts aren’t equipped to watch small children. Your children might create a nuisance, so it’s best if you can leave them with someone for a couple hours. Also, some judges will get upset if the children are present., Remember to arrive early. You need to find parking and probably go through courthouse security. Get to the courtroom 15 minutes before your hearing starts. When you enter the courtroom, tell the bailiff or clerk your name and case number.Turn off all cell phones before going into court. You don’t want the phone to ring or noisily vibrate while you’re there.Don’t bring food or beverages into court either.
 Every state has its own divorce laws. You can find these laws (called statutes) online. Read all of the divorce statutes and pay closest attention to those that pertain to your case.For example, if you’re fighting over custody, read the child custody laws. All states decide child custody based on the best interests of the children, and the statute should list what factors a judge considers.
 Courts have their own rules which tell you how to file papers with the court, schedule court hearings, etc. You can find the rules online or by stopping into the court clerk’s office.Sit down and read the rules carefully. Judges get annoyed when you don’t follow their rules.
Pay close attention to “discovery” rules. Discovery is the process of getting information from people, including your spouse.
 You should have a lawyer if you and your spouse are fighting over child custody or money. You’ll be at a disadvantage if your spouse has a lawyer but you don’t. Lawyers cost money, but there’s ways to reduce the costs.

Many states let lawyers provide “unbundled” legal services. This means they’ll only handle parts of the case and leave the rest to you. For example, you can hire a lawyer to perform research or appear for you in court. Obtain a referral from your nearest bar association and ask the lawyer if they offer unbundled legal services.Your court might have a family law facilitator or a self-help center. The people who work there can provide basic help, but they usually can’t offer legal advice.
 A motion is a written request for the judge to give you something. This is the proper way to ask for the judge’s help: you type up a motion, file it with the court, and send a copy to your spouse. You also ask the clerk for a hearing date so you can talk to the judge about the motion.For example, you might need to file a motion if your spouse doesn’t pay temporary alimony or bring the children over to visit.
Motions have a particular form, so find a sample online or see if the clerk has a sample. Some courts have fill-in-the-blank motion forms, which makes things easy.
 Courtrooms are open to the public, so you should sit in on divorce cases to check out how the court is run. Sit quietly in the back and bring a notepad.

Remember that divorces happen in stages. If you have an upcoming hearing on a motion, then observe the judge on a day they handle motions.If you’re preparing for the trial, ask the court clerk when the next trial is scheduled and whether it is open to the public.
 You’re probably going to court because you disagree about child custody or the division of marital property. Good witnesses in a child custody dispute include anyone who has seen you or your spouse with your children. You want people who will testify that you are a good parent.


Your witnesses must have personal knowledge of what you want them to testify to.For example, someone who saw your spouse slap your daughter can testify as to what they saw.
However, you can’t have your mother testify to a rumor that your spouse slapped your daughter. She didn’t see anything happen, and gossip isn’t generally allowed in court.
 A subpoena is a legal command to come into court on a certain date and testify. You should serve all of your witnesses with a subpoena. Generally, you can get a blank subpoena form from your court’s clerk.

Read the court’s rules to see how much notice you must give each witness (typically a couple of weeks).
 Documentary proof is often helpful to your case, so identify key documents early on. For example, you might think that your spouse is hiding money in a bank account. You can ask your spouse for bank documents or ask the bank.

File a Request for Production whenever you ask your spouse to hand over documents.
When you ask a third party to turn over documents, you should subpoena them. You can typically get a subpoena form from the court clerk and serve it on whoever holds the documents.
 By the time you get ready to go to trial, there should be no surprises. You’ll know exactly what your spouse is arguing and the evidence they have. For example, your spouse might want child custody because you have an alcohol problem. You can expect plenty of questions on that topic.

Anticipate what questions your spouse’s lawyer will ask based on the arguments they have made in their court documents.
 If you have a lawyer, they can prep you for trial. However, if you’re representing yourself, stand in front of a mirror and answer the questions. Look at yourself and how you respond. Do you appear credible?


Practice truthful answers, since lying will get you in trouble., Prepare for a brutal cross-examination by having a friend pretend to be your spouse’s lawyer. Give them a list of questions and ask them to interrupt you as you give answers.

You must remain as calm as possible when you testify. Your credibility will be diminished if you get angry., You also get to ask witnesses questions at trial. List what information you need from each witness, and then draft questions that will draw out that testimony.Have a friend pretend to be a witness so you can practice asking questions., The purpose of an opening statement is to preview the evidence for the judge. You don’t argue, but you offer a roadmap of what evidence will be presented.Your opening statement should be as short as possible.

A basic opening statement might be something like the following: “Your Honor, this is a dispute about who should have primary custody of our daughter, Megan. As the evidence will show, my husband, Michael, has had an alcohol problem for the past twelve years. You’ll hear from his mother, who will testify that the problem began when he was in high school, and you’ll hear from Mrs. Anderson, Megan’s kindergarten teacher, who’ll testify that Michael picked her up when drunk.”

, This is your chance to convince the judge to decide in your favor. You can only use the evidence presented at trial in your argument. Remember to shoot down the evidence your spouse presented or explain how it actually supports your case.For example, a portion of a closing statement might go like this: “Your Honor, Megan’s best interests are served by giving me primary custody. Now, you heard testimony from two witnesses about my alcohol problem, and I admit that I had a problem once. But I’ve been sober for the past four years. I presented evidence that I’ve successfully completed a 12-step program, and no witness testified that I’ve been drunk over the past four years.”

