 Out of all the hand puppets you can make, this is probably the easiest, making it a great choice for young kids who want to participate in the fun but aren't coordinated enough to try some of the harder puppets. To make the bird, simply turn your hands so that your palms face you, cross your hands over each other, and lock your thumbs together. Stretch your palms open to make the bird's wings.To make the bird "fly", curl your fingers inward, then outward again.;
, This hand puppet is also quite easy, though it requires you to extend your ring finger and little finger without extending the rest of your fingers, which can be tricky for some people. To make the greyhound, start by raising your hand in a fist with your thumb facing you. Raise your little finger and ring finger so that they're parallel to the floor while keeping your index and ring finger curled in. Raise your thumb slightly to make the dog's ear.








To make the dog's mouth move, move your little finger up and down.
 This shadow puppet uses both hands and part of one arm, making it one of the biggest ones out there. To make the swan, begin by raising one arm, bending it at the elbow, and bringing the tips of the fingers together so that they make a point. With your other hand, spread your fingers wide and put the fleshy part of your palm on your bicep to make the swan's tail feathers.
 This shadow puppet is a great stepping stone for beginners looking to branch out into more difficult puppets. To make the camel, raise one arm, bending it at the elbow so that your hand points toward the ceiling. Curve your middle and ring fingers forward gently while you arch your index finger back to make the camel's eye — get used to doing this, as it's something that's used in many of the more advanced puppets. Let your little finger droop slightly to form the camel's bottom lip. Tuck your thumb out of the way behind your hand.









To make the camel's mouth move, let your little finger bounce up and down limply.
 This shadow puppet is great for puppet shows because it's easy to make him "talk." To make the old man, raise your palm, then point your index finger forward. Curve your middle, ring, and little fingers in an arc to form the man's eye. Bend your thumb in and raise it up to the index finger to form the man's jaw.









Making the man talk is a cinch — just move your thumb back and forth to match the words you say.

