 A classic of French cooking, ratatouille uses summer squash and the related eggplant as a centerpiece of simplicity. Its late-summer cuisine at its finest, and it's pretty easy to make with fresh vegetables.


In a pot, sauté a diced green, yellow, and orange pepper, in olive oil, adding two cloves of minced garlic, a half cup of diced onion, and three diced tomatoes. Season with thyme, bay leaf, and kosher salt. Remove from heat when the tomatoes are broken down and the mixture has the consistency of a sauce.
Spoon the tomato mixture into the bottom of a cast-iron skillet, a dutch oven, or another baking-ready cooking vessel. Set the oven to 275, and top the tomato mixture in the skillet with 3-4 various summer squash, sliced into rounds, and one smallish eggplant, sliced into rounds, and top it with 3-4 cloves of minced garlic, salt, pepper, and olive oil.
Cover the skillet with foil, roasting for about two hours, then remove the foil and bake it for 30 minutes more. Sprinkle some balsamic vinegar and fresh chopped herbs over the top to serve.
 Integrating some grated squash into a rice dish can be an excellent way to spice up plain-old rice, either as a side or as a centerpiece dish. This recipe goes incredibly well with any type of curry or Indian dish.


Coarsely grate two small-medium summer squash, and sauté gently at the bottom of a pot with onions and garlic. Season with one tablespoon each of cumin and coriander powder, and a 1/4 teaspoon of turmeric. Stir.
Add a cup of jasmine rice to pot and stir until fragrant. Add 2 1/2 cups of water, bring to a boil, cover and reduce heat to low. The rice should be done in 30-40 minutes.
Serve topped with chopped cilantro, raisins, and sliced almonds.
 Summer squash is perfectly tasty when eaten raw, and this cold salad is perfect as a side dish for hot summer days, or even as a topping for burgers or hot dogs. It has a consistency and taste a bit like cole slaw.


Grate three or four small-medium squash, and mix in a bowl with one medium grated carrot, half a red onion, sliced finely, some minced bell pepper, a minced clove of garlic, a sprinkling of sunflower seeds, and a bunch of chopped parsley.
Dress the salad with two tablespoons of good olive oil, a tablespoon or so of balsamic vinegar, the juice of half a lemon, and salt and pepper to taste.
If you'd prefer, you could also dress the salad in any commercial bottled salad dressing you like.
 Squash fritters are bit like potato pancakes, but with a slightly different texture, and more colorful to boot. These are great topped with applesauce, tomato sauce, coleslaw, or just eaten solo. This recipe yields about 20 fritters.


Grate, salt, and squeeze 4-5 small or medium squash, rinsing them thoroughly to get the water out. Grate half a medium white onion, as well, and mix with the squash in a bowl, adding a cup of white flour, one half teaspoon each of salt and sugar, and an egg. Mix thoroughly.
Heat vegetable oil in a skillet over medium-high heat, until shimmering, and add a spoonful of the fritter mixture. Cook on each side 3-4 minutes, or until golden brown, then remove and blot with paper towel to remove excess grease.