 There are a number of fields that require research assistants, so you’ll need to narrow it down to the areas that you are interested in and qualified for. This is usually fairly straightforward, as it should relate directly to what you are attending or attended school to study.STEM fields almost always need research assistants. STEM stands for Science, Technology, Engineering and Math.
Psychology, anthropology and even history are other great fields that you may find work as a research assistant in.;
, There are some skills that all research assistants should possess in order to be successful. Depending on the field you work in, there are some different skills or traits you may want to have that are specifically suited for your field.You will need to have strong reading comprehension skills in order to conduct research and convey the information you find.
Most research assistants are expected to be relatively computer savvy, with experience in common office applications as well as data entry or other field specific software suites.
You will need to be self-motivated, as research assistants are often expected to work independently and with limited supervision.
 There are research assistant positions that exist solely within the academic world and may even provide you with college credits. These positions can offer pay and help you to develop skills that can lead to a career in college level education. Academic research assistants are often graduate students that have already earned bachelor’s degree in the field they are studying and are now pursuing a subsequent degree.
Academic research can help you start a career in education. Working as a research assistant can lead to becoming a research fellow which is often a step toward becoming an associate professor, and ultimately a professor.
Being an academic research assistant involves assisting senior educators in their work, which may include preparing for classes or helping to advance their extra-curricular academic pursuits.
High school students may be eligible for some research assistant positions at local colleges or universities. These positions can help you get into a good college and are great ways to develop skills that will help in your education and future professional life.
 Being a research assistant in a professional setting can be quite different from doing it for a college or university. Usually, research assistants help senior level researchers, scientists or experts advance their work by doing clerical work, researching related materials and serving as a professional assistant.


Professional research assistants must meet the minimum requirements for the position, but are usually not required to be pursuing further education.
Being a research assistant in a professional setting means working in a for-profit environment that may be more result driven and competitive than academic research.
Professional research assistant's career paths can lead to overseeing your own projects and can help you shift into an operations or managerial position in the research field.
 There are different types of research assistants that have different responsibilities based on their level of qualifications. In order to know what kinds of research assistant jobs to apply for, you must determine what you are qualified for. Most research assistant positions in academia and the private sector will require a four-year degree in the specific field of study.Professional research assistants are expected to be adept at using common office software suites like Microsoft Office or Apache Open Office. You will also be expected to understand and follow common safety procedures for your field.
Graduate students may work as research assistants doing different work as they pursue a master’s degree or PhD.
Make sure your degree qualifies you to work in the field of your interest. It will need to be directly related to the position you are applying to.
Working as a research assistant in school can serve as an excellent qualification to get a job as a professional research assistant.
 Many schools have research assistant programs that can help you identify positions you may want to apply for. Speak to your professors to see if they know of any positions or have any that they are looking to fill.Schools often have job placement offices that can help you locate a research assistant position in either academia or the private sector.
The professors you study under will often be aware of research assistant needs within their departments.
 If you are unable to find any research assistant openings that seem right for you at your school, consider expanding your search to other schools in the area. Some schools will even let you work for school credit at another accredited institution.Research assistant positions can sometimes count as internships if your degree program requires one.
Speak to your school advisor about opportunities to get transfer credits by working as a research assistant at a nearby school.
Contact the department of your interest at other local colleges and universities to inquire about any research assistant openings.
 If you are looking for a research assistant job in the private sector, a great place to start looking for openings is on job board websites like Monster.com or Indeed.com.


Looking for research assistant positions in the private sector is no different than looking for any other job online.
Use search terms that are specific to the field you want to work in as well as the phrase “research assistant” for the best results.
 Social media platforms like LinkedIn can be a great way to look for open positions as well as to network with people already working the field you want to find a position in.


Start by creating a LinkedIn Account.
Search for open positions and reach out to others in the field you are interested in to help you identify open research assistant positions.
 Research assistants often have to serve as a "jack of all trades" because of the varied work that may be required throughout your research. Because of this, finding a professional research assistant position will likely require you to be able to demonstrate proficiency with computers, as well as an understanding of how to differentiate between credible and non-credible sources.Professional research assistants will be expected to be able to maintain spreadsheets and have strong written and verbal communications skills.
It is important that you are able to quickly determine the level of credibility of a source while researching. Make sure that you are comfortable evaluating the credibility of academic sources.
 You will need to put together a résumé with your professional or academic qualifications. A good résumé can help land you an interview for a research assistant position. If you don’t have relevant professional experience, don’t worry, an academic résumé will suffice for most research assistant positions.


You will need to put together a professional looking résumé.
It may help to adjust your résumé slightly to better suit the requirements laid out in the opening you want to apply for.
 Most schools have research assistant positions that they fill internally with students pursuing a degree in that field. Each school will have slightly different procedures for how to apply and interview for said positions.Speak to your professor about what you need to do in order to apply for a research assistant position in accordance with the school’s guidelines.
Adjust your résumé to match the requirements laid out by your school, then submit it with your application in the way they dictate.
 Your school may not require an interview process in order to secure a position as a research assistant if it is part of your degree plan. That doesn’t mean you should skip the step entirely. You may want to meet with the professor you would be working with in order to ensure it’s something you want to do.Meet with the professor to make sure they are someone that you can work with and that it’s an environment you will be comfortable in.
The professor can give you a better idea of what to expect while working as a research assistant.
 If you are applying for a research assistant position in the private sector, you will likely be required to conduct an interview. Many schools require the same for academic positions as well. Make sure you arrive on time and be prepared to make a great first impression.


Make sure that you are dressed appropriately for a job interview.
Remember that your first impression is important at job interviews, so try hard to make a good one.
Brush up on how have a great interview before you go to get yourself in the right mindset.

