 Your location should be selected before any other planning is done, because light and soil conditions will affect which plants will grow well. Outline the boundary of your planned annual bed by sprinkling flour along the ground.;
, Choosing flowers will largely depend on aesthetic preferences. However, if your bed is partially or even fully shaded, you will need to choose flowers that can cope with low light. Information regarding preferred light conditions for each plant can be researched online or found on the back of seed packets.
 Using a pointed shovel or spade, dig to a depth of approximately 6 inches (15 cm) following the outline you created with flour. Continue to loosen the soil through the entire area of the flower bed, piling the soil back into the bed when you are finished.


Ideally, the soil in the flower bed should sit about 6 inches (15 cm) above ground level. This will improve drainage and keep the soil warmer. If loosening the soil alone does not raise the level adequately, add local topsoil over the top of the flower bed.
Folding compost into the soil is best accomplished at this point. If you do not have a compost pile on your land, you can buy compost in bags from a nursery or hardware store.
 Once an adequate height has been achieved, you should smooth the soil out to prepare it for planting. You can do this with either a rake (ideal for large flower beds) or a hand cultivator. This process will also help to break up any large clumps of compacted soil.
 Gently remove each plant from its plastic cell pack and work it into the soil. Pay attention to the ideal spacing based on the type of flower; this information will be provided on the plant ID tag or on the seed packet. The outermost row of flowers should be positioned around 6 inches (15 cm) from the perimeter of the bed.
 Once the entire bed is planted, water the annuals until the soil is moistened throughout. Keep the bed watered and weeded carefully for a few weeks until the flowers are firmly established. Add fertilizer if desired after a few weeks.

