 Are they compatible? You've likely seen your best friend in a relationship with someone else before. Is she flirty with other men even when they're not single or does she become all-consumed in a relationship with someone? Examine her (and your own) common traits when dating someone and see if you can handle this step-up in relation with her.;
, Does she do things which completely irritate you (and vice versa)? If so, the chances of lasting in a long-term relationship will be affected. Annoying habits are easy to brush over for a few months before they become all you notice.
 There's way more give-and-take in a relationship than there is in a friendship. Can you truly accommodate each others wants and needs? Can you do so maturely?

, If you're already best friends, you already knew each others secrets and some very personal information about one another. Can you trust your friend not to fall in love with someone else again or use that information against you if you break up?

, If the attraction is mostly physical, a fling may not be worth damaging such a close friendship over. If you don't want to risk the mental component of your relationship, look at finding a casual sex partner elsewhere.
 Remember, she might look at you as a brother-figure and then be shocked when you tell her how you feel about her. This could ruin everything, but it could also make the relationship better. Weigh the risks against the possibilities. Be careful about coming out too suddenly or openly. No matter what you have to say, there's always a gentle way to say it.
 Don't tell her right away. Drop subtle comments like, "You know, we've been friends for a long time," or "What would I do without you?" These are essentially harmless displays of affection toward her. However, don't drop them too often because you will risk being too obvious.
 Enjoy the same activities you always have as best friends. Show her that you're fun to be around.
 If you both have a sense of humor, tell each other jokes you like. It serves to entertain you both (and if you're lucky, you may get emotionally little closer before you even properly realize). If you have an inside joke, use it when it fits the situation.
 It's important to understand what she needs. If she wants a shoulder to cry on, offer one. If she's cold, lend your jacket. Over time, she's bound to notice how great you are. You need to make sure she sees what a great boyfriend you would make and starts thinking about the idea herself. Remember to be there for her because you care about her, not because you expect anything in return.
 If you're lucky and compatible, things will work out. Most relationships are made long in advance and are just waiting to happen.
 This is often easier for a guy than a girl because most girls are pretty considerate of feelings. Give her a chance to understand you and when you think the time is right, tell her what you think. Of course, you may risk ruining and/or losing your friendship, or at least changing it even if you don´t want to. But if it turns out lucky, then she will be even more considerate of you and your feelings.
 If she doesn't end up liking you back, stay cool. Be casual and try not to let the friendship get awkward. Try to get things back to the way they were before.

