 If you have tried therapy and self-care techniques and continue to have anxiety symptoms, you may wish to be prescribed an anti-anxiety medication to help regulate your symptoms. Talk to your doctor or psychiatrist (a doctor who specializes in mental health conditions) about anti-anxiety medications.


If you are struggling with severe symptoms that are preventing you from making changes you have discussed in therapy, it may be time to consider a medication.A counselor or psychologist is not able to prescribe medication. If you are currently seeing a counselor, however, you could consult with them about taking a medication, Benzodiazepines help address the short-term symptoms of anxiety, and are commonly prescribed for generalized anxiety disorder as well as panic attacks. These drugs are often prescribed on their own, but are sometimes prescribed in conjunction with antidepressants.Benzodiazepines will provide relief of anxiety symptoms for a fixed amount of time, depending on the dosage and type of medication. The effects of the drug will eventually wear off.The most common side effects of this type of medication include nausea, blurred vision, headaches, confusion, fatigue, and nightmares.Benzodiazepines can be habit-forming. You may build up a tolerance to a benzodiazepine if you are taking it over a long period of time, and you may feel like you require a higher dosage to reap get the same effect from the medication. Doctors will usually prescribe this type of medication for a short period of time to avoid dependence issues.Or, your prescription may be only to use "as-needed," such as when a panic attack hits or when you're unable to sleep due to your anxiety.
 Antidepressants are usually a long-term anxiety treatment option. Antidepressants often need to build up in your system, so it can take a while before you begin to see improvement. It sometimes takes some trial and error in order to find the right antidepressant that works for you -- different people respond differently to them.Most commonly, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), are used to treat anxiety. Selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSNRIs) can also be prescribed.
Tricyclic antidepressants are also sometimes prescribed to treat anxiety.
The most common side effects of antidepressant medication include nausea, weight gain, diarrhea, sleepiness, and sexual problems., Talk to your doctor right away if you experience new symptoms as the result of taking a medication. Some side effects are more common than others, and some can indicate a serious problem that requires medical attention.


Side effects vary by medication, so it is important to read the information that is provided with your medication, and ask your doctor beforehand about what you can expect.
Serious side effects requiring medical attention can include suicidal ideation, worsening anxiety, difficulty with thinking or remembering, or other unusual physical symptoms.