 Injuries to the jaw can result in the loss or damage of teeth, which may lead to severe toothache. If you or someone you know has experienced an injury such as a fractured or dislocated jaw, you should call 911 or seek medical care immediately. Temporarily bandaging the jaw around the top of the head or holding it gently in place with your hands until you get medical care is recommended. Do not attempt to correct the position of the jaw yourself. Signs of a broken or dislocated jaw after sustaining injury include:Jaw tenderness or pain, worse with biting or chewing
Loose or damaged teeth
Teeth that do not line up properly
Facial swelling or bruising
Difficulty moving the mouth or jaw
Emergency symptoms (e.g., difficulty breathing or heavy bleeding from the mouth);
, The salt helps to reduce swelling and inflammation and also fight off infection-causing bacteria. Dissolve one teaspoon of salt in one cup of warm water. Rinse your mouth repeatedly and swish the salty water around your mouth for a few minutes.The pain from your toothache may instantly subside or take a few minutes to reduce itself.
 If your toothache is caused by injury to the teeth or jaw, or if you experience inflammation in your gums, apply an ice pack or a cool water bottle to the outside of your cheek for 5 to 10 minutes. If you do not have an ice pack, you can also wet a cloth in cold water, strain the water and hold it up to your cheek to help reduce inflammation and pain.Apply the ice pack or cold compress only on the outer side of your mouth; do not put it on the tooth or pain will increase.
If you experience bleeding gums, rinse your mouth with warm water before applying a cold compress.
If bleeding persists from the gums or teeth, immediately see your dentist or healthcare provider.
Although a cold compress helps reduce inflammation, consuming cold foods or beverages can increase tooth pain and sensitivity, and therefore should be avoided until the toothache goes away.
 Oil pulling involves swishing around oil in your mouth to remove harmful germs and bacteria. At least one study has shown it can reduce the amount of some bacteria found in your mouth.It may reduce the likelihood of infection and may ease (though not resolve) tooth pain caused by bacteria.


Take a tablespoon of oil and swish it in your mouth (like you would a mouthwash) for one minute to experience the benefits. If you can, try to swish the oil longer for 15 to 20 minutes. Do this procedure on an empty stomach to ensure that the oil absorbs and detoxifies as much bacteria as possible. After you're done swishing, spit the oil out (in the trash, not in a sink or anywhere you could clog the plumbing) and wash out your mouth with lukewarm water.
If you have gum disease, be aware that the oil will not penetrate deep enough to cure the infection. You need to see a dentist or periodontist.
Oil pulling should not replace your regular brushing and flossing.
Coconut oil is the most popular because it has a pleasing taste and contains antioxidants and vitamins, like vitamin E. Sesame oil and olive oil are good alternatives as well.
 Studies show that chewing sugar-free gum for 20 minutes a day following meals can help prevent tooth decay, which leads to toothaches. Chewing gum neutralizes acids produced by bacteria, strengthens tooth enamel and jaw muscles, and provides disease-fighting substances throughout the mouth. Sugary gum should be avoided as it increases plaque-causing bacteria and may cause cavities.Don’t let chewing gum replace brushing and flossing, as they are the most important steps of your oral care routine.
 Cigarettes and chewing tobacco are harmful to your oral health as they can cause and aggravate gum disease, oral cancer, and slow healing after a tooth extraction or surgery or during a toothache. They can also reduce your sense of taste and smell, weaken tooth enamel and stain teeth.


Smoking is also responsible for lung, heart and various other health problems. Talk to your doctor to make a treatment plan that can help you quit smoking.

