 Exercise will help tire out your body. Regular exercise also is important for your overall health and physical fitness. Staying active during the day will enable you to get better sleep at night, but you should not exercise within three hours before bedtime.Exercise or strenuous physical activity just before bed can stimulate the production of endorphins, which will keep you awake.
However, aerobic activity in particular, such as cycling or walking, will release chemicals in your body that promote healthy and restful sleep. Try going for a 20-minute walk in the morning or early afternoon three to five days a week.
 Natural sunlight can help boost your melatonin levels. Melatonin is a hormone that will make you sleepy. If your body's melatonin levels are suppressed because you stay inside under artificial light too much, you may have difficulty falling asleep.If the weather isn't conducive to outside activities, you may want to consider getting a sun lamp. In the alternative, use low wattage bulbs and light your house as much as possible with natural light rather than high-wattage, artificial light.
Turn off or turn down artificial lights, including the television, at least an hour before bed to give your eyes and your body time to adjust and wind down for bed.
Sunlight can also give you some Vitamin D. Visit a doctor to have your Vitamin D levels checked. If they are low, you can also get a supplement.
 If you stay isolated and cooped up in your home alone for most of the day, you may start feeling lonely or depressed. Joining a group, taking a class, or volunteering can help keep your mood and activity level up, leading to better sleep.Engaging socially can be especially difficult if you're retired and don't drive or have mobility issues. Try to connect with a neighbor or younger family member who is willing to do activities with you.
 Try to stay awake during the day so that you are appropriately tired when you need to sleep at night. Napping during the day may disrupt your sleeping cycle and make it more difficult for you to sleep at night. Instead, go to bed and wake up at the same times every day to set a consistent schedule.
 You want to drink water consistently throughout the day, so that you maintain a good level of hydration. Avoid chugging water or other beverages right before you go to bed, or you might find you have to wake up in an hour or two to go to the bathroom.At the same time, if you don't drink enough, you may wake up thirsty. Keep in mind that if you feel thirsty, your body is already dehydrated.
If you find yourself frequently waking up to get water, you may want to keep a bottle or glass of water on the nightstand so you don't have to get up and can go back to sleep more quickly.
If you are taking a prescribed diuretic, avoid taking it in the evening if possible. As the diuretic will make you go the the bathroom several times, you may be up for hours following your dose.
 If you're having a big meal shortly before bed, you may experience indigestion or other discomfort that makes it difficult to fall asleep. Eat dinner at least three hours before bed time, and avoid spicy foods or anything else that you have difficulty digesting.If you feel hungry at night before bed, have a light, calming snack that is easy to digest, such as warm milk, crackers, or oatmeal.
 Caffeine is a stimulant and will keep you from getting a good night's sleep. Try to avoid drinking any caffeinated beverages or eating any food, such as chocolate, that contains caffeine after 2 or 3 p.m., You might think that a night cap will help you fall asleep, but alcohol before bed can result in shallow and disrupted sleep. If you want to have a drink, have it with dinner or no less than two or three hours before your bedtime.