 Wear something that you can sit in comfortably without adjusting. This could be pajamas or workout clothes, or just a comfy T-shirt and jeans—whatever works for you. Many people take off their shoes when they meditate, but don’t feel like you have to if you don’t want to.
 A few gentle stretches will loosen your body up and get it ready for meditation. Do some neck and back rolls, stretch your arms up above your head, touch your toes (or get as close as you can).
 Sit or kneel comfortably on a chair or cushion. Your arms should hang at your sides and your hands should be loose or in your lap. The most important thing is to keep your spine tall and straight and to face forward with your chin tucked in slightly.You may find it helpful at first to meditate with your back against a wall or a straight-backed chair until you feel comfortable sitting up straight on your own.
 Once you’ve set your posture, take some time to relax all of your other muscles. Your shoulders, arms, legs, and belly should all be soft and hang loose. Breathe in through your nose and as you breathe out through your mouth, relax any muscles that are still tense. You may need to do this a few times before you feel fully relaxed.It’s also a good idea to close or unfocus your eyes. Visual stimulation will distract you and make it harder to relax., Pay attention to the way your breath moves in and out of your body. Don’t worry about altering your breathing, just be mindful of how it’s happening. After a few breaths, start counting your breaths, starting with one on your first inhalation, two on your first exhalation, three on the next inhalation, and so on until you reach ten. Then start again with one on the inhale.


If your mind starts to wander as you do this, don’t panic. Just bring your attention back to your breathing and continue counting where you left off. If you can’t remember where you left off, start back at one., If you want to, after 30 seconds of focusing on your breathing, you can add in a mantra. A mantra is a word that makes you feel relaxed and calm, which you repeat silently to yourself while meditating.


The word can be anything you want, as long as you can remember it and as long as it brings out your inner calm. Don’t pick a word that will make you angry or make you want to laugh.
Silently repeat the mantra to yourself.
If you find your mind wandering, don’t feel bad. Just gently bring your focus back to your mantra and your breathing.
Continue repeating your mantra until your time is over., Don’t just get up when your timer sounds. This will shake your mind out of its calmness and diminish the effects of your meditation. Instead, take it slow.


Take note of your body and its physical surroundings. Feel the cushion or chair beneath you and the position of your body.
Take in any smells, tastes, or physical sensations you feel.
Open your eyes only when you feel ready, part of the physical world once again.