 Click Start and select Control Panel. For Windows 8 users, press ⊞ Win+X and select Control Panel from the menu.


Before proceeding, make sure that any browser windows are closed. Print these instructions if necessary.;
, You can access this in different ways depending on how your Control Panel is configured. If you are using Category View, click the "Uninstall a program" link in the "Programs" section. If you are using Icon View, click the Add/Remove Programs or Programs and Features option.
 Examples of programs that may be related to Delta Search are “Delta Toolbar,” “BitGuard,” “Mixi.DJ,” and “BrowserProtect.”

, Click the Uninstall/Remove button that appears in the toolbar when you select it. Each Delta Search program will then be uninstalled and removed from your computer.
 This is typically located in the dock of your Mac computer.
 Most Applications folders are sorted alphabetically.
 Drag the Delta Search icon from your Applications window and hover over the Trash icon in your Dock. Release your mouse button to drop it in the Trash.
 Click and hold your cursor if you do not have two mouse buttons. Select “Empty Trash” from the pop-up menu to remove the Delta Search program from your Mac.
 Click on the Gear icon in the upper-right corner, or click the Tools menu if there is no Gear icon.
 This will open a new window showing all of your installed and active add-ons. By default, the "Toolbars and Extensions" tab should be selected, but choose it if it is not.
 Look for the "Montera Technologies LTD" section and highlight all of the Delta Toolbar entries. You can press Ctrl and click each entry to select multiple ones.


Look for entries like "Delta Toolbar", "delta Helper Object", "Mixi.DJ" and "Yontoo".
Take this time to highlight any other extensions that you don't remember installing or don't use.
 All of the highlighted entries will be disabled. This will remove the toolbars from your Internet Explorer window.
 In the "Manage Add-ons" window, click the "Search Provider" tab on the left. Click the search engine that you want to set as your default (Bing, Google, Yahoo!, etc.) and click the "Set as default" button.


Click the "Delta Search" entry and then click the "Remove" button.
 Click the Firefox button in the upper-left corner of the window.
 This will open the Firefox Add-ons Manager.
 In the list of your Extensions, find entries such as "Delta Toolbar", "Yontoo", "Mixi-DJ" and others. Click the "Remove" button next to each entry to uninstall it from Firefox.
 The quickest way to restore your default search engine is to use the SearchReset add-on. When it is installed, it will automatically reset all of your search settings to their default values and then uninstall itself. You can get it by clicking the "Get Add-ons" tab and searching for "SearchReset".
 Click the Chrome menu in the upper-right corner of the window. The icon is three horizontal bars.
 This will open a new tab in your browser with a list of you installed Extensions.
 In the list of your Extensions, find entries such as "Delta Toolbar", "Yontoo", "Mixi-DJ" and others. Click the trashcan icon on the right end of each entry to uninstall it from Chrome.
 Click the "Manage search engines" button in the "Search" section. Highlight your preferred search engine and click the blue "Make default" button that appears.


Highlight the "Delta Search" entry and click the "X" that appears to remove it from the list.
 Look for the "On startup" section towards the top of your Settings menu. Click the "Set pages" link and remove the Delta entry. You can then set whatever page(s) you'd like to open when you start Chrome., These two programs are two of the most powerful anti-malware programs available. It is important to run at least two different malware scans, as not every program will detect everything. These programs will remove registry entries and prevent Delta Toolbar from reinstalling itself.


Both of these programs are available for free. You can also use programs such as Spybot S&D and HitmanPro.
 AdwCleaner does not need to be installed in order to run. When you open it, click the "Scan" button. AdwCleaner will begin searching your system, which may take several minutes. Once the scan is complete, any results will be displayed in the tabs in the main window.


Click the "Clean" button to remove all of the selected entries.
 Unlike AdwCleaner, Malwarebytes will need to be installed before you start using it. follow the prompts to install it, and then run the program.


By default, Malwarebytes will be set to perform a quick scan. This is typically all you need to find the offending files. Click the "Scan" button to start the scan. This scan may take several minutes to complete.
Click "Show Results" when the scan is completed. All of the malware entries will be displayed and automatically selected.
Click the "Remove Selected" button to remove all of the selected entries.
 While running the two programs above will usually catch everything, it never hurts to be sure and get a second (or third) opinion. Use programs such as HitmanPro or Spybot to perform additional scans. This will help ensure that all traces of Delta Search are removed.

