 Don’t let a grudge fester inside of you. Immediately call attention to their tactics. Let them know that you are not happy with what they are doing. Make eye contact and use a firm, clear voice. By being assertive, you will establish that you are serious about what you are talking about.
 Asking is a very indirect, polite way of calling attention to their habits. If you have tried talking through the problem and failed, give your friend a firm, direct “Stop.” This may jar them and express just how upset you are with the situation. Call attention to previous times when you pointed out their bad behavior to reinforce how their pattern of bullying has persisted.


Try saying, "Hey. I asked you to stop pulling pranks on me. I talked to you last time, and then we talked privately, and you said you understood. Now I'm telling you: I'm not going to put up with it any more. Stop it."

, Some people may respond with anger or crying in an attempt to guilt you for calling them out on their rude behavior.You should remain strong and calm in the face of such emotional manipulation. You can apologize for upsetting them, but you should not back down.

#* You can say, “I’m sorry that this is upsetting for you, but when you put me down, I feel the same way that you are feeling now.”, If the friendship turns verbally abusive, you may need to seek outside help. Because the abuse is coming from a trusted friend, it can be difficult to find support groups that will boost your confidence and provide advice. If you are still in school, approach your parents or a teacher for help mediating the situation. If you are in college, try going to your university’s counselling services for assistance. In the workplace, ask your boss or HR to intervene. Outside of the workplace, you can find friends, significant others, or counsellors who can help you navigate the difficult situation.


Venting to another person can help give you perspective, and it will also help you process your emotions so that you can confront your bullying friend without crying or yelling.Try not to consult a friend who is also friends with your frenemy. They may try to defend your bully or they may tell your bully what you said in an innocent attempt to patch your relationship. Try to find someone who is distant from the situation. They can provide a clear-headed and objective perspective on the matter.

