 If someone begins to talk to you, try to keep your answers short and to the point. Providing very little information or encouragement will let them know that you are not interested in a long chat. However, do listen carefully in case they say something of importance to you.Avoiding eye contact will make your classmates less likely to approach you for conversation. Instead of looking directly at one person, try to skim the room with your eyes.
Being a loner doesn’t mean that you can’t provide a reaction to what someone says to you. If a person is talking and you feel like offering your sympathy, do so. In fact, introverts are often known for their emotional awareness.
Noncommittal responses such as, “Uh-huh,” and, “Mm-hm,” often signal to other people that you are not engaged in the conversation. This will usually lead to a talk being cut short.;
, Instead of hanging around in the hallways or outside of the school to socialize, make your way to your ride home. The sooner that you get home, the sooner you can recharge in peace and privacy. If you take this same action every day it will become a routine and your classmates will know what to expect.You may want to time your arrival at the bus carefully, otherwise you could end up sitting and waiting for it to fill up.
 Cell phones are generally not allowed in the classroom. However, you may be able to bring your headphones and wear them in the cafeteria and other public spaces. You can also use your phone in permitted areas. Getting on a library computer also sends a message that you want your space.Just make sure that you are still aware of your surroundings as you immerse yourself in technology. For example, watch where you are walking as you make your way around campus.
 Find a place to sit away from others in the cafeteria. Try to walk on the edges of the hallway away from where people are congregating. Don’t hang around in the classroom immediately after class. The fewer people you encounter, the fewer random conversations and forced social interactions you will have.It is a common misconception that all loners are shy. Many loners are perfectly fine in social situations, they just prefer to avoid them if possible. Loners can often be classified as introverts at heart.
 Get to know your school environment and look for a few places that you can escape to during the day for some privacy and solitude. This is especially important to do if you find your classroom time to be mentally draining. Escaping in this way shows that you are a loner by choice, not by circumstance.If one of your fellow students questions you about your habit of disappearing, simply tell them that sometimes you prefer to be alone.Look for places currently not in use, such as the school theater or empty classrooms.
 Instead of attending the seasonal dance with a large group, go by yourself or not at all. You could always spend that time pursuing a hobby that you enjoy, such as painting. If you attend a function requiring tickets, purchase the seats around you to ensure your solitude.If someone makes a big deal about you not going to a particular event, just remind yourself that your peers are busy with their own lives, so everything will blow over rather quickly., This is not a necessity, as it may make you feel like less of a ‘true’ loner. However, everyone needs help on occasion and having a few classmates you can turn to for assistance is never a bad idea. Just remember to return any favors as soon as possible so that you don’t feel indebted to anyone.Just because you are a loner in high school doesn’t mean that you can’t have friends or a social life outside of that space either. If you have a best friend from childhood, who goes to a different school, look to that person for support.

