 It’s important that they know so things do not escalate too. much.Know that there’s nothing wrong with telling someone about bullying. There’s no shame in telling others about potentially dangerous things happening.
Share information with teachers that you like. Make sure you feel comfortable with the teacher you’re talking to. You’ll be more honest that way about any ongoing bullying.
Teachers want to help prevent bullying. Don’t be afraid of telling them. They want to help end any bullying behavior.
 Whether it’s happening at school, in the neighborhood, or online, it’s important for your parents to know about any ongoing bullying. Don’t be scared to tell your parents. They will admire that you want to help protect other people from bullying. Express to your parents how you feel about the bullying. Be honest about your feelings and how the bullying has affected you in your desire to help others. Make sure your parents discuss any bullying problems at school with administrative officials. They may want to talk directly to the bully’s parents, but the school needs to know as well.
 Talking to friends about ongoing bullying makes them aware of what’s going on. They may be able to help you protect others or, at the very least, give you someone to talk to. Know that your friends have your back in protecting others from bullying. If they are not willing to help you out or stand up for you, they may not be a good friend.
Ask your friends about the bullying has made them you feel. It’s important that they feel safe and comfortable talking about it.
 Bullies can make others feel bad about themselves. Know that bullying is wrong and that it’s not the fault of those being bullied. Bullying can make others feel ashamed. People who are bullied often believe they are to blame for what’s happening to them. Tell your friend not to feel ashamed; it’s not their fault.
Shame can also cause anger. Your friend may lash out at others because they feel like they cannot stand up to their bully. Reassure your friend that he or she does belong with others. Don’t let bullying make them feel like an outcast. Bullying behavior is the true aberration. 