 For all those wondering about this unusual suggestion, it is important that you first confirm whether you are really into this guy romantically. It might just be a misconception of your feelings to start with. Once you are sure about your feelings for this guy friend of yours, you can begin formulating the ultimate game plan to transform him into your sweetheart. Ask yourself:


Are there butterflies when you're around him? Do you feel as if your heart skips a beat when he is near you? How do you feel about him when you're apart?
Has anything intense happened between the two of you lately? For example, experiencing grief, loss, hurt, tough times, etc. It's important to disentangle your feelings from having shared a deep experience, as you don't want to mistake what you've gone through together for romantic feelings. Be sure that your feelings go well beyond a deepening of your friendship.
Can you see this being long term? It's not a great idea to lose a friend when things go sour. You must reasonably foresee a good chance of this change to an intimate relationship as going the distance.;
, It is essential that your friend too has some feelings for you romantically. Or else it can all too soon turn into a situation wherein you assume the role of a stalker. You can give him suggestive loving looks and see if he responds in kind. For a more thick skinned person, you can try asking him out for a dinner or lunch, depending on his favourite time of the day. Make sure it's just for the two of you. If he is enthusiastic about it, it definitely means that something is cooking.


Is he even free? It's not nice to bust up his relationship with someone else. It's not useful to try to come between him and a sporting or academic pursuit that he's already told you is all he is concentrating on for now. Be reasonable.
 What's better than physical contact to establish intimacy between two individuals? Try hugging or kissing him on the cheek whenever there is an opportunity. Guys respond well to physical affection. It will establish the much needed intimacy which takes your relationship to the next level. It will give him a clue that you are ready to be something more other than being his friend.
 Try to find out about his favourite activities. If you are ignorant about his hobbies, it won't help you much. Gather information about his hobbies and try to make yourself knowledgeable about them.


For instance, if he is into basketball, make sure you are aware of the rules and regulations of the game even though you are not keen on playing the game. This will establish a line of understanding between you two.
 It is said that there is only a fine line between friendship and love. Once you find that you are in love, it's always better to come clean about your intentions to him. Guys appreciate frankness in a girl. Even if he is not interested in you initially, this will give him the guts to approach you if he develops feelings for you later. It will also help him to see you in a different light other than being a friend.

