 Who you call to report suspicious border activity depends on the level of danger involved. If you suspect that someone's life is in danger, or if you know a victim of human trafficking, you should contact your local police immediately.Don't take the law into your own hands or become involved in illegal activity yourself, whether to get more information or to protect possible victims.
If you're concerned for your own safety and want to submit a report anonymously, call Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS.
 While you want to take care not to put yourself or anyone nearby in any danger, the more factual details you have about the activity, the more likely it will be stopped.You may want to create an outline with the dates, times, and locations of activity you've observed.
If you're observing continuing activity, take notes of your observations as the incident is happening. You may be able to record more information in the moment than you would be able to remember later.
Documents and photographs also may be helpful if you can acquire them safely.
 Particularly if you've observed ongoing activity on several occasions, your MP may be able to investigate and help you report the situation to Border Services.Call your MP's office and tell the staff member that answers that you want to schedule an appointment.
After you've scheduled your appointment, you may want to look into your MP's background and positions, if you aren't already familiar with them. Learning about your MP's stance on immigration can help you understand how to approach them.
Bring all the information you have about the immigration fraud you're observing with you to the appointment.
Explain to the MP that you're not asking them to investigate the matter. You only want them to help you report and bring the issue to the attention of someone in Border Services who will do something to stop the fraud from continuing to happen.
 The CBSA is responsible for investigating immigration matters that relate specifically to smuggling and illegal border crossings. The agency has a hotline you can call at any time 24 hours a day, seven days a week.Call 1-888-502-9060 to file your report with the CBSA Border Watch. Press "1" when prompted to speak to an agent, and tell the agent what you want to report.
Include as much specific information as you have, including names, addresses, ages, and physical descriptions of those engaging in fraudulent activities.
At a minimum, the CBSA needs the persons complete name, age or date of birth, and a description of the fraud the person has committed.
Ask the agent for a log or case number so that if you have to call again, you can give that number to the agent who answers.
 While the CBSA will begin investigating your report as soon as possible, the time it takes to complete an investigation varies, and they will not give you any information regarding an ongoing investigation or its results.Your identity will be kept confidential. While the CBSA may share information with other law enforcement agencies, your identify will not be revealed and you likely will not be contacted again as a result of your report.
For that reason, if you learn new information it's up to you to call the CBSA number again and let the agent know what you've learned.
Keep in mind that the CBSA prioritizes certain types of issues, such as terrorism and human smuggling, over others.
The CBSA takes every tip seriously and will investigate it as soon as possible as far as they can given what you've told them.
Even though you can't expect to learn anything regarding the progress of the investigation, additional information can move the investigation forward.

