 ‘SPF’ stands for ‘Sun Protection Factor’. The SPF describes the amount of time that the sunscreen will protect your skin from the sun before you start to burn, versus the time it would take your skin to burn without the sunscreen. Doctors recommend that SPF 30 be used for most children, though children with especially pale skin can use 40 if need be.Dermatologists do not recommend using SPF 75 or higher, as they will not protect your child from the sun’s UV rays anymore than an SPF 30 sunscreen would.
Do not use a sunscreen that is lower than SPF 15, as this will allow too many damaging rays to come into contact with your child’s skin.;
, Broad spectrum protection sunscreens will protect your child’s skin from both UVA and UVB rays, both of which are radiations that can cause your child’s skin to burn., Good sunscreens continue certain active ingredients that are more effective against the sun’s rays than other ingredients. One of the most important ingredients is Avobenzone, which is a chemical that has the ability to absorb UVA rays.


Your sunscreen should also contain Titanium Dioxide and Zinc Oxide, which are both natural minerals. They are soothing substances in the sunscreen that make it comfortable for your child to wear, while also acting as UVA and UVB blockers. These minerals are not absorbed by the skin, which means that they can protect your child’s skin until they are washed away. Your sunscreen should be made up of at least 5% of each mineral.
 Look for sunscreens that are fragrance free and PABA free. PABA stands for “para amino-benzoic acid”, a chemical that can irritate sensitive skin. Both fragrances and PABA should be avoided if your child has sensitive skin, as both have been known to cause rashes and skin allergies.


The chemicals used to create the fragrance of the sunscreen can be very harsh, and may irritate your child’s skin.
 Water resistant means that the sunscreen is still effective 40 minutes after being exposed to water, while waterproof means that the sunscreen is effective 80 minutes after being exposed to water. Both have the same effect, but one just lasts longer.


Regardless of which type of sunscreen you use, you should reapply the sunscreen after your child gets out of the water and dries off.
Waterproof and water resistant sunscreens are not just meant for days spent by the pool; they properties also help to keep the sunscreen effective when your child sweats.
 You do not have to look exclusively at ‘kid-friendly’ sunscreens; adult sunscreens can also be used to protect your child’s skin from the sun.


One good thing about kid’s sunscreens is that they often come in fun bottles, which may help to make your child less fussy about having to put the sunscreen on.

