 As directed above, remove the pork from the refrigerator or freezer and allow it to warm naturally. If the meat is frozen, allow it to defrost overnight.
 As you wait for your pork shoulder to warm, set a frying pan or skillet on the stove top. When it's hot enough that beads of water flicked into the pan boil up instantly, add a few tablespoons of oil.
 Add your cut of pork shoulder to the skillet. Cook in oil over high heat until brown on all sides (this can require several minutes for each side). Slow cookers like crock pots use moist heat and therefore can't give the pork a delicious "crust" on their own, which makes it necessary to crisp the exterior of the pork in a pan before slow cooking.
 Delicious as a cut of pork shoulder can be on its own, if you're using a slow cooker to braise your pork to moist, delicious perfection, you'll want to make sure it's not alone in the pot. Vegetables and seasonings add their flavor to the pork (and vice versa), increasing the complexity of the flavor in the dish. In addition, slow cooked "stew"-style vegetables make a great side dish for pork.


Feel free to add any vegetables you like. Chopped onions, garlic, carrots, and potatoes all work well.
Additionally, any seasonings are fair game. For Latin-flavored carnitas, you might try cumin, garlic powder, and pepper, while for a more European flavor, you might try sage, rosemary, and thyme.
 Place the pork shoulder into the crock pot on top of the other desired ingredients. Sprinkle any seasonings you're using over the pile of ingredients. Then, cover 1/2 to 3/4 of the pork shoulder with liquid. This can be a variety of things - water, unsweetened apple juice, beer, or, commonly, stock are all frequent choices. Make your choice based on what pairs well with the ingredients and seasonings in your pork dish - there's no one "right" answer. Feel free to mix and match!


As an example, if you're making the carnitas described above, you might try slow cooking your pork in Mexican beer for a delicious, complex taste.
Also, when you're picking liquids for slow cooking, it's important to remember that the leftover liquid can be used as a sauce or gravy for the finished pork.
 Place the cover on the crock pot and begin the lengthy slow cooking process. Slow cooking allows plenty of leeway in terms of cooking time, but, generally, you'll want to cook for roughly 2 hours per pound of meat. Check several times during cooking, adding more liquid if needed.


The pork shoulder is done when it is very tender and pulls apart with little effort.
 Many slow cooked pork shoulder dishes (like carnitas, etc.) are eaten as "pulled" pork - meat torn into shredded bits. To make pulled pork, open the slow cooker when the meat is done and use two forks or kitchen tongs to pull the pork apart. Continue "pulling" as needed to achieve a satisfactory shredded texture.

