 Your DPI may get ruined in a humid or moist environment because the medicine becomes clumpy, clogging the inhaler. To prevent your medicine from clumping, don’t store your DPI in the bathroom or in an area without air conditioning. Your breath also contains moisture, so it’s also important that you don’t exhale into the inhaler., The cap protects your inhaler from becoming dirty or contaminated. When you’re using the inhaler, make sure to put your cap down somewhere safe so that you don’t lose it. Depending on what kind of inhaler you have, the cap will look different.If your inhaler looks like an upright tube - called a “rocket” inhaler - then the cap will cover the length of the inhaler. It may be a different color than the base.If you have a diskus inhaler - called a “flying saucer” inhaler - you will remove the cap by placing your thumb on the thumb grip and pressing away from you. The cap will slide away to remove the mouthpiece., The medicine is already in the inhaler, but with a DPI you must release it into the delivery chamber before you can use it. This keeps your medicine dry. Depending on whether you have a rocket or a diskus, how you load the inhaler will differ.

Do not shake your inhaler.
If you have a rocket inhaler, twist the base as far to the right as it will go, and then as far to the left as it will go. You will hear a click when the medicine is loaded.If you have a diskus inhaler, slide the lever away from you until it clicks. The click tells you that your medicine has properly loaded.If your model is a twisthaler inhaler, then the medicine will load when you take off the cap. There is no need to do anything else.If you’re still having trouble, then check with the directions for your model because DPIs vary more in how they’re used compared with other inhalers.
 Stand up or sit up straight with your head tilted slightly back., While holding your inhaler away from your mouth, inhale deeply. Then exhale, completely emptying your lungs.Make sure that you do not exhale into the inhaler as this can ruin your dose.
 The mouthpiece should be between your teeth and your tongue. Close your lips around the mouthpiece to create a seal., You do not need to press anything because the medicine is ready to be inhaled. Inhale as deeply as you can so that the medicine is able to get into your lungs., Leave the inhaler in your mouth while you count to ten., Before you exhale, remove the inhaler and turn your face away from it. Let out your breath and then breath normally., Put the cap back on your rocket or twisthaler inhaler or slide the cap shut if you’re using a diskus inhaler.If you are supposed to take a second dose, repeat steps 3-10 to deliver a second dose.
 Gargle with water to remove any excess medicine that might remain in your mouth to prevent an infection from developing.