 It’s important that understand the zones in volleyball. In volleyball, you have 6 players and 6 zones on each side of the court. Each team has a front row called an attack zone and a back row called a defending zone.Middle hitters will typically play in zone 3, or in the middle, front row.


The front three attack positions from left to right are Zone 4, 3, and 2.
The back three defensive positions from left to right are Zone 5, 6, and 1.
During the serve sometimes middle hitters will play the back middle zone, or zone 6.;
, To be an effective middle hitter in volleyball you need to constantly keep your opponents guessing on how you are going to attack the ball on any given play. Hitting the line means that you’ll be hitting the ball parallel to the sideline. Hitting an angle means that the ball will be traveling at an angle towards the outside defenders.A hard driven spike can be used at an angle or along the line, and is very difficult to defend.
A short or long line tip is used to trick your opponent into thinking you’re going to spike the ball, but instead, you lightly hit it through their defense., The teamwork you have with your setter will determine how well your shots are going to be set up, and the tempo and timing that you share. Create verbal or nonverbal ways to signal to your setter, so that you can improve each other’s timings.


You can signal the setter with your non-dominant hand to let them know where they should set the ball.Talk to your setter about the tempo that you're both keeping. If the ball is being set too early or too late, make sure you adjust your timing.
Remember that it’s not always about you. If your setter is having a difficult time finding the right tempo, try to alter how quickly you are approaching the ball.
 Watch champion games from the NCAA so you can observe technique from the best players in the world. Make sure to observe how they spike the ball, their timings, and any other strategies that their team may employ in order to make your attack more effective.


Visit the official NCAA website for volleyball at http://www.ncaa.com/.
You can watch volleyball games on sports channels like ESPN.
 You aren't the only offensive position on the team. You also have outside hitters who will also be going for setups, and can help to throw off the defense when the ball is being set.


One hitter can fake the spike, while you go up and execute it for a quick kill. This technique is called a tandem attack.Another strategy you can use is to fake an angle shot, then go for a shot down the line., If you have specific questions, then your coach should be the first one you go to. They will be able to help you understand where you fit in the team, and what’s lacking depending on the team's chemistry.If you are having chemistry issues with other members on your team, bring it up to your coach and see if he can determine solutions for you.

