 Do your research, and learn as many random facts and important information about the band/band members.


Their names are Bill Kaulitz, Tom Kaulitz, Gustav Schäfer and George Listing. Bill and Tom are identical twin brothers. Bill is the youngest of the band and Georg is the oldest. Go research them, at www.TokioHotelamerica.com or www.TokioHotel.com.;
, (Eg. Gustav has been playing the drums since the age of 5!) or how before they were Tokio Hotel they were known as Devilish. Devilish has some pretty good songs too, Try "It's so hard to live".
 Set them as your background on your computer, phone, whatever. Print some out and tape them up on your walls. (This is obviously optional)

, Try to know all the lyrics to all their songs. Don't just listen to their English songs, listen to German ones, too. Make sure you really like Tokio Hotel before you buy their CD.
 Buying their music is a huge part of being a dedicated fan.
 Singing along (NOT screaming) is always fun at concerts. Learn their lyrics even the German one (Take in mind that without proper German lessons from a professional you will have an accent.)

, Most people haven't heard of Tokio Hotel in the USA. Be proud to be a fan and share their great music with other people.
 Unfortunately their official European merchandise site doesn't ship to the U.S. Try their American merchandise site (Go to their official website, scroll down and click Merchandise) They have about 3 shirts,a button set, key chain,poster and their CD for affordable prices.You can also go to Hottopic.com , They have the Bill Kaulitz baby doll tee and 2 Hot topic exclusive Tokio Hotel shirts. They go for about $20-$25 U.S dollars.
 Concerts give you the full experience of listening to music and being around other fans too.
 So laut du kannst, Zimmer 483, Scream/Room 483 & Humanoid) They also have many singles. They also have 3 DVD's ( Leb die sekunde, Schrei!-Live and Zimmer 483-Live in Europe tour) You can buy their DVD's & CD's at their official European merchandise site but again they don't ship to the U.S. If you live in the U.S and want to purchase them. Their DVDs go for about $10 for LDS, $2O For Schrei! and $25 for Zimmer 483- Live in Europe ( Shipping prices vary). Anything more expensive then don't buy, It's a rip-off. Their CD's are priced from $10-$20, Schrei! so laut du kannst being the rarest and most expensive. You can buy Scream in the US for about $10.00.
 They are really important too, Listen to the drum intro in Wo sind eure Hände/Raise your hands or the Bass "solo" in the intro of Beichte. They are also incredibly talented, but for some reason fans seem to like Bill and Tom more ( Maybe it's because they're gorgeous and they have good personalities ) Georg and Gustav are the same they just tend to hide from the limelight.Remember Tokio Hotel without Georg and Gustav wouldn't be Tokio Hotel, It would just be Bill & Tom Kaulitz.

