 Chargebacks typically involve the receipt of faulty or defective merchandise, so you should gather evidence of the product's defects as well as documents such as receipts to prove the transaction amount.Keep in mind that federal chargeback protection only extends to purchases over $50 that are made in your home state or within 100 miles (160 km) of your address. This may mean that chargeback protection isn't available for your internet transaction.
However, many banks and credit card companies have their own chargeback policies that provide protection for transactions beyond those covered by federal law.
You will need to gather information about the transaction, including any receipts or email confirmations, as well as your bank or credit card statement that shows the transaction you wish to dispute.
Keep in mind that the more information you have to support your arguments, the more likely your bank or credit card company will be to side with you.
 You can call your bank or credit card company's customer service number to find out more information about its particular chargeback procedure and take the first steps to get that process started.Typically you must demonstrate that you have already made a good faith effort to work with the merchant to resolve the problem, and were unsuccessful.
If you previously attempted to negotiate with the merchant and he or she refused to work with you, a copy of the letter you sent and proof of its receipt should fulfill this requirement.
Sometimes it just isn't possible to contact the company with which you have a transaction dispute. For example, you may have purchased a subscription through a website that was subsequently taken down, but you are continuing to be charged the monthly rate despite the fact that you're not receiving the product or service you ordered.
In this sort of situation, you'll have to explain to your bank or credit card company why it was impossible for you to attempt to resolve the dispute on your own.
Most banks and credit card companies allow you to begin the chargeback process over the phone. Call the customer service line and follow the prompts to dispute a transaction or speak directly to a representative.
Keep in mind that in most cases you must notify your bank or credit card company within 60 days of the date of the transaction if you want to initiate a chargeback.
 After it receives your initial request to initiate a chargeback, your bank or credit card company typically will send you forms to fill out with details about the transaction and the reason you're requesting a chargeback.The forms require you to provide written details about the transaction, including the date of purchase, the items or services you purchased, and why you want to refuse payment. Stick to the facts, and keep your answers brief.
You also may have to describe any other methods you attempted before requesting a chargeback, and why these methods were unsuccessful.
Typically you must attach copies of any documents or other evidence you have to back up your claims.
 Typically your bank or credit card company will contact the merchant about the dispute after receiving your completed forms. Within two billing cycles, it will determine whether to approve or deny your chargeback request.While you may receive a call from your bank or credit card company, it's more likely that you'll receive a written notice after the investigation is complete.
Your bank or credit card company will either return the funds to your account, or send you a written explanation as to why your chargeback request is being refused.
Typically, provided you have sufficient evidence of the problem, your bank or credit card company is going to take your side and put the funds back in your account. However, be aware that the merchant may then come after you for the money.

