 This type of training places the emphasis on endurance over speed. You will run more slowly over much longer distances--perhaps even a marathon.


Consider the muscles that you want to build. Long-distance runners tend to become lean and sleek, where sprinters are more powerful and compact.
 Make sure your running shoes fit your feet as close as they can without being too tight. If your shoes are too tight, you may develop blisters midway through a long run. The longer you run, the better your shoes need to be.


If you run every day, your shoes may only last as much as 4-6 months. If your feet begin to hurt whenever you put on your running shoes, it may be to get a new pair.
Some shoe stores can design shoes specifically for your feet. If you can afford it, consider getting shoes that match your arch and foot shape, as this will make your stride more natural.
 Run at 50-75% of your top speed to conserve energy. If you need a break, slow down to a slow jog. Do not stop.


If you live near a school, consider running around the track. Standard-size tracks are a quarter-mile long per lap. If you are completely new to running, start by running a mile. If you have been running for a while, you can build up to three, four, or even more miles.
If you live near a park or an open-space preserve, consider trail running. Be aware that hills and rough terrain will make it more difficult to run, especially at first.
If you have a gym membership, consider using the treadmill. A treadmill makes it easy to track your speed and the distance that you have run, and you may prefer to start out in a controlled environment.
 Carbohydrates are full of the energy that your body wi If you're planning to run a 10k (a 10-kilometer race; 6.2 miles) or something even longer, it's wise to eat high-carbohydrate foods a day or two before. You don't want too much fiber, protein, or fat, and your food should be easily digestible to avoid nausea during a race.


Tortillas, oatmeal, bread, pancakes, waffles, bagels, yogurt, and juice are all high-carb, easy-to-digest options.
Fruit contains plenty of carbohydrates, but many fruits are high in fiber, and fiber is not easily digestible. Peel the skin beforehand to keep your fiber levels down.Don't worry about the calorie count--calories are just energy, and when you run long-distance you will burn most of this energy long before it is stored as fat.
 The packets are filled with concentrated sugar and carbohydrates; they are also available in a chewable block form (Clif Shot Bloks). The formula replenishes your glucose sugar levels, and one packet should give you an energy burst about 20 minutes after you eat it.If you do decide to use energy goo, test it out while you are training--at least a week before a big race. You don't want stomach troubles during a long race.
 Walk briskly for 5 minutes before you start running. This will get your circulation going without expending too much energy prematurely. You want to prime your body for its impending feat of endurance.


Again, perform core-building exercises like lunges and squats. Warming up is essential whether you are sprinting or running long distances.
 If you start out too quickly, you'll tire quickly and you may have trouble finishing the run. Instead of running all out (like you would in a sprint), run at a pace you can keep steady. You'll last much, much longer.


Be aware of your limits. Build distance slowly, patiently, and you will find yourself improving.
 When you're feeling tired in the midst of a long run, try lowering your pace to a slow jog and building back up to running as soon as you can. Slowing down to a walk will break your flow and may drastically limit how much ground you cover.
 When you sweat, your body becomes dehydrated quickly, and it is of the utmost importance that you stay hydrated during a long run.


If you take water with you on your run, only drink small sips. Gulping down large amounts water in the middle of a run can cause cramps.
Keep your water cold, if you can. The colder it is, the more quickly it will be absorbed into your system., At the end of your run, downshift to a jog, then a walk. Breathe deeply and slowly. Your heart should be beating near its resting rate by the time you stop.


Take time to stretch and breathe. Ease out of the run.e You may cramp if you sit down immediately.

