 If you have experience in another field that will not translate, you will be wasting time by trying to get all your training in an entry-level position. Instead, you should get a certificate, an associate's degree or a bachelor's degree to show that you have acquired new skills that will help you to be successful and you are committed to a new career.


For example, someone who has worked in customer service and now wants to go into business management, would need to seek a degree in business administration to get a job with a management track. Many companies offer management training with their entry-level positions, but they only hire people who show promise and dedication in the new field.;
, Full-time, part-time and unpaid internships are available for people who are learning a new field. Working for 3 months to a year for a company in your new industry will give you valuable experience that will set you apart from the competition.
 Go online and buy industry magazines to study the trends in companies and employment. You should find out where the majority of the entry-level jobs are located and what these companies look for in a new hire.


Many job-search websites and agencies are now listing the best places to work for recent graduates. Visit experience.com/entry-level-jobs/2011-best-places-to-work to get an example of this type of article. Try to find the list of top companies in your industry.
 The size of a city and the number of large employers have a large effect on the number of chances you have for employment. Consider moving to mid to large-sized cities like Austin, San Antonio, Denver, Seattle, Cincinnati, Rochester, San Jose, Raleigh or Minneapolis.


Make your move a strategic one. Research the top 20 companies in your industry. Make a map and chart where they are located. If you are looking for an entry-level computer programming position, it is better to move to San Jose, near Silicon Valley, than to go to Rochester or Honolulu.
In some industries, you can look for jobs in other cities before you move. You must be willing to travel for interviews and express your desire to move to the area. Although some companies prefer to hire people who are local, others will offer relocation expenses for a new hire they are confident about.
 Hiring managers do not take more than 30 seconds to 1 minute when vetting resumes. Keep in mind the following guidelines and seek help from a resume consultant if you feel as though your resume is not good enough:


Pay attention to formatting. Keep your resume at 1-page length, especially if you have relatively little experience in the industry. Use 10 to 12 point font, in a popular style, such as Times New Roman or Arial. Use approximately 1-inch (2.5 cm) margins.
Use either a chronological or functional structure. If you have taken a number of internships or jobs in a similar field, you should choose a chronological structure. If you are new to the field, structure it by skills and qualifications, listing the jobs and duties under the necessary skill headers.
Write an executive summary/objective at the top. This group of 2 to 3 sentences is your elevator pitch. Assume that a hiring manager merely reads this section and include your skills, drive and accomplishments in short, dynamic prose. For example, "Driven business administration graduate seeking a marketing assistant position to help develop communications campaigns. Successfully completed international business and social media marketing internships. Reliable, deadline driven and adaptable in team environments.
Include action verbs. Under job or functional heading, include sentences that lead with evocative action verbs. Consider including the following verbs, if they apply to your experience and skills: achieved, adapted, analyzed, constructed, coordinated, designed, developed, evaluated, forecasted, generated, improved, increased, launched, measured, negotiated, organized, presented, reported, solved, supported and trained.
Include your accomplishments along with your skills. A common mistake in resume writing is listing qualifications and skills, but not success. Include any time you were singled out or you achieved something at an internship, school project or applicable job.
 Just like any resume, a cover letter should be tailor made for each job application. This 1-page piece of prose allows you the chance to talk about your accomplishments and skills, and tell the hiring manager why you are the best choice.
 There are a number of ways to find these positions; however, you must assume that many positions are never advertised. Cover more ground by looking in all of the following areas during your job search:


Look for online job postings on large job search engines like Craigslist, Monster, Career Builder and Indeed. You should assume any job found on these sites is highly contested. Also, look on industry specific areas, such as computerwork.com and marketingjobs.com.
Apply directly to websites of top companies in your industry. Pull out your research and go directly to the company sites. Contact the hiring managers with your resume and cover letter, even if they do not have a job posting listed.
Contact your school's alumni association and ask for contacts. Keep your alumni membership active during this time. Many alumni have networks set up to help new grads get entry-level positions or mentors in their field.
Go to career fairs. Every year there are industry-specific career fairs for teachers, technology, business and many other fields. Enroll yourself in the career fair and travel to where the major firms look for talent. Think of your time at the fair as a long interview.
 If you aren't able to find an entry-level job right away and you are located in a metropolitan area, then hiring a recruiter will give you access to jobs that are not listed. This recruiter often works for a fee paid by the companies and they will help you polish your resume and interviewing skills.
 Prepare in advance by looking professional, researching the company and doing mock interviews with friends or family. Once you feel as though you can answer most any question in a positive way, you are ready.

