 This is now your "gargling cup." While you don't have to use a special cup to put your gargling liquid in, it's often safer than drinking directly out of a bottle of mouthwash, for example, because you avoid transmitting bacteria.;
, A little bit is fine — better to start out with less than with too much.
 The goal is to try to get the front and sides of the mouth, areas that gargling won't get, during this first sweep.


Move your cheeks in and out, and your tongue back and forth, to swish the gargling liquid back and forth in your mouth.
Some people enjoy warming the gargling liquid up a bit before gargling. While it probably won't be pleasant if you're using mouthwash, warm water and a little bit of salt feels nice in the back of the mouth.
 Keep the small flap in the back of your throat, the epiglottis, closed so that none of the liquid gets accidentally swallowed.


This may take a bit of time to get used to, but when done correctly, the vibrations in the back of your mouth will cause the gargling liquid to move about, almost as if the liquid were boiling.
Gargling will coat the back of the mouth with whatever liquid you choose, eliminating some bacteria and soothing a sore throat.
 Continue with your oral health routine by brushing your teeth or flossing.
 Mix a half-teaspoon of salt in a cup of warm water. Stir to dissolve. Gargle the saline solution three times a day to help prevent respiratory tract infections.


One study found that people who gargled a simple salt solution three times a day had a 40% decrease in upper respiratory tract infections.Not only does the saltwater gargle appear to ease cold symptoms, but it also keeps you healthier during cold and flu season.Other studies point to evidence that saline solutions help fight against sore throat and congestion., Mouthwash helps simultaneously freshen your breath, clean your mouth, and fight against infection. They are used by millions of people, morning and night, as part of their oral health routine.


Mouthwashes with alcohol tend to be more potent but carry the risk of several adverse side effects, including mouth ulcers, corroded fillings, and even the elevated threat of cancer.Use them sparingly.
You can also make your own mouthwash if you'd like. In fact, it's quite easy. Here are some quick and refreshing recipes:

Peppermint and tea tree mouthwash
Angelica mouthwash
A host of other simple mouthwashes



, Potassium bicarbonate, or baking soda, is a renowned cleaner used for tons of home applications. Who knew it made such a great mouthwash? Actually, one teaspoon of baking soda and 8 ounces of water does a great job at rebalancing your oral pH.Add a bit of essential oil like peppermint oil for antimicrobial properties and you've got a great gargling liquid!

, The benefit of this gargling liquid is that it's actually something that you can drink after gargling, unlike the other solutions. Try adding a tablespoon each of honey and lemon juice to 6 ounces of water. Gargle, then swallow, especially if you have a sore throat and want to eliminate some mucous.

