 It'll pretty hard to do the Harlem Shake if no one's shaking, and even harder to make a video without a camera. The more people in the video, the merrier -- but try to aim to at least have half a dozen or so. With more people, the video will be more visually entertaining.


Get a group together that has vastly different styles. Does Dave do a mean robot? Julia does a creepily accurate impression of Miley Cyrus? Does Jaime get kind of shy in front of a camera, but can bust out an awkwardly funny hip thrust? Awesome.;
, Let's say you're filming your video in the school library. At the beginning, the group is wearing cardigans, glasses, loafers, and pocket protectors. Helmeted man busts in, does his thing, and with a quick cut, all of a sudden the dorks and geeks of the library scene are flailing about in squirrel outfits and massive amounts of sequins. The change-up is what makes the video so darn captivating.


Obviously that squirrel is dancing with a top hat and cane. Sequin girl is holding a boombox above her head and awkward Jaime in the back has so much bling he can barely stand up under the weight. And where did that disco ball in the corner come from?

, You'll be busting out the meanest dance moves since the Macarena, so make sure wherever you are, hitting the floor is completely kosher. You want to find a place that's between the mediocrity of your basement and the illegality of a five-star French restaurant. Unless you know the owner, of course.


Try to have a unique setting where it's natural for people to be going about their daily lives. A locker room, the library (...possibly frowned upon...), the mall, maybe even a downtown walk? Just make sure the people not involved in the video won't ask too many questions!

, This is how long it takes for the song to build up until the beat “drops”. Everyone in the surrounding is to pay absolutely no attention to the masked dancer, going about their business in silent oblivion.


This mask just has to obscure their head. It could be a helmet, a ski hat, a cardboard box -- whatever keeps the dancer anonymous and stands out.
 People should be going all out with the dancing; the crazier, the better! Extensive use of props and costumes is encouraged.


To make the video more visually appealing, incorporate variety. No two people should be dancing the same way, and there should be visual levels; you can have a boy doing the “worm” across the floor, while some people are dancing on tables. The more visually interesting you can make the frame, the better the video.
 The video of the lone dancer should play until the song goes “Do the Harlem Shake!”, at which point the video should cut to everybody dancing. This goes on for another 15 seconds, until the lion’s roar sounds in the song. That is the end of the video.


Your computer probably comes with some type of movie making program. Uploading the video should give you the option to edit, where you will be prompted to your default program. You can also take a quick look at video editing programs with a quick Google search -- many have free downloads.
 Upload it onto YouTube and share it with all your Facebook friends. Maybe yours will be the next one that goes viral. Why not?

