 Humans are naturally scared of what they don't know about. Since you don't know what will happen when you are getting braces, you are scared of it. When you go to get braces, you will first get x-rays of your teeth. Then, the orthodontist will take a metal stick with a hook at the end and take out your spacers/separators. Third, your orthodontist will take a metal circle and put it on your molar with a metal stick. Your orthodontist will keep on telling you to bite down on the metal circle until it is fitted around your molar, so your wires and brackets can be attached to it. If the circles fit well, then the orthodontist will take them out, if they don't he/she will keep trying until the appropriate size is found. Then your orthodontist will take a cement like substance and glue it to your teeth. After that, your orthodontist, will take the same metal stick with a hook at the end and glue brackets to your teeth. After all your brackets are on, then the orthodontist will put the wire in the brackets in your mouth. After your wires are put in, your brackets sort of snap and they will then tell you to pick a color, mostly they let you pick up to three colors and they will put in colors. Lastly, the orthodontist will give you your equipment and teach you how to use them.;
, They will talk to you and calm you down. Also, they will probably be a lot more gentle with you when they are putting the braces in since they know you are scared.
 They will tell you all about how to take care of braces. They will also probably tell you about when they first got braces.
 If your orthodontist says it won't hurt, your parents say it won't hurt, your friends say it won't hurt, and even this article says it won't hurt, then it won't' hurt. So quit worrying about it, why would people with braces walk around totally calm and happy if it did hurt? However, after about one or two days, it does start to hurt a little. Your mouth will be getting used to having the braces in. After that, it will get better.
 After you get braces, celebrate! Get yourself a yummy snack or desert. Just make sure your allowed to eat it now that you have braces.

