 There is no denying that we are our own worst critics. More often than not, you simply can't create enough distance between yourself and your own picture to be a great judge of the shots. Prune away any obviously bad shots (out of focus, blinking, etc.), then have some friends or family members point out their favorites.


Don't ask for advice if you're not going to take it. Even if you think a shot isn't your best, if multiple people pick it out then it clearly resonates in some way.
 You could spend hours talking about photo editing, but the basics will handle 95% of your shots. Brightness and Contrast are the most important features. Use it to create a nice range of blacks, whites, and grays. Lower the brightness to remove any bright white spots, then up the contrast so that any black pixels in the image are deep and dark.


Avoid any bright "pure white" patches. Lowering the brightness usually takes care of this, but you could also start to experiment with Luma Curves. To do so, pull the far right slider to the left to lower the total white output.
 Sharpness, when added subtly, can take great pictures and make them even stronger. Note, however, that too much sharpness makes an image grainy and unattractive. Each photo editor has different settings, but even adding 4-5% sharpness will separate amateur editors from pros.
 Saturation is a measure of the color intensity, so higher saturation means more vibrant colors. This is a nice subtle way to make your skin, eyes, and hair really pop, but you can overdo it. For real Photoshop pros, try upping the Saturation in just the reds and oranges to give yourself a natural looking "tan glow."


You can use saturation to help fix some small shooting errors. If, for example, the light makes you look a little sickly, lower the saturation in the greens and up some reds and oranges.
 In general, you'll want to find, edit, and print 4-5 images. Many modeling gigs require upwards of 10. Whatever you do, make sure you only send your very best pictures. If a shot is good, but not great, toss it and take another one.