 Of course you'll have disagreements - everyone does - but it won't be that hard in the long run.
 Don't use duct tape in the middle of the room. Just have your bed side and have her/his bedside.
 Just because you're in their room and you've been wanting to use that new video game, just ask. Don't just take, it's still their personal space. And that goes for the sibling, too.
 Your sibling is still a person and deserves kindness, no matter how much you despise the person. Speak nicely and calmly, and stay positive around the person. Don't ignore or bully your roommate - it will only make things tougher!, About the division, personal stuff, when to talk to each other, and et cetera.
 Every person does have his or her own space and privacy, and you need to respect that, but you also need to be accommodating. Siblings are part of your family, so be supportive when you need to be.

If you need help with something, ask your sibling. Not only will it bring you two closer to each other, but also will aid you in your work.
 You may not be able to control how big a mess your sibling is, but you can control how messy you are. Keep your area of the room fairly organized; using drawers, boxes, or other storage containers can help. This can prevent misplacement of belongings., You have to realize that sometimes you need a friend, a helping hand, someone whom you can trust completely. Only family comes closer to it. Friends come and go, but family remains with you no matter how stormy the weather is, so take advantage of that!

Try enjoying the time with your sibling when you both are sharing a single room. Tell each other stories and play games.
 Especially if you have a younger sibling. They need rest, and so do you! So, don't be messing around with the video game or texting/talking, they don't want that.
 Most likely, your sibling doesn't like sharing her/his room either, so just deal. And play an occasional game with them. They like playing with you and spending time with you, and hey maybe you'll find something in common.
 If you don't have a lock, hide it.
 If they are like "Oh, I`ll help you look!", and 2 seconds later they say "Oh, look! Here it is!", and sulk afterwards then chances are they stole it. If they find it on the floor, it probably just rolled over there. If they find it in a boot or something,there is a 75% chance that they stole it.

