 If your child is really into a particular activity like jumping rope, check with the manufacturer to ensure that the tracker you’re considering can accommodate that activity in its calculus. If your child often goes swimming, you’ll need a waterproof fitness tracker. Heading into the fitness tracker selection process with an understanding of what your child intends to do with the device will make the decision easier., Some fitness trackers need to be recharged every seven days. Others need to be recharged only once per year. The more the fitness tracker needs to be charged, the more likely it is that your child will fail or forget to charge it, or lose the charger itself. Find a fitness tracker that requires minimal charging so that your child is not inconvenienced., If you find a fitness tracker that allow you to enter your child’s name in the display, they will feel a greater sense of ownership over the fitness tracker. Likewise, if you can find a fitness tracker that offers the ability to change the font colors or background graphics, your child will be pleased., Most fitness trackers come in a variety of colors. Get a fitness tracker with a color that your child will love. Ask your child what their favorite color is if you are unsure. Just ask them, “What is your favorite color?”, A waterproof fitness tracker will prevent damage when your child accidentally jumps in the pool or tub without removing it. It will also prevent damage from even more mild exposure to water, including walking home from school in the rain, or splashing and playing in the sink.If your child loves swimming, diving, or playing other water sports, a waterproof fitness tracker is a must.
 Before you buy a fitness tracker for your child, visit an electronics or sporting goods store where such devices are sold. Have your child try several fitness trackers on. Buy a tracker that is comfortable and fits your child’s wrist properly.You can discover whether a fitness tracker fits your child’s wrist in one of two ways. You could ask your child, “Does that feel comfortable?” Alternately, you could look at the strap around your child’s wrist and ensure that it is snug but not tight.
With snap-band fitness trackers, have your child shake their wrist a few times to ensure the tracker does not fall off or become loose with activity.
Some fitness trackers aren’t worn on the wrist at all, but are rather clipped onto a pants cuff or belt loop. Have your kid test devices of this type, too, and ensure they won’t become detached from your child’s clothing during physical activity., Some fitness trackers can exchange information between them. And if your child’s friends have a particular fitness tracker and like it, they’ve essentially tested it for you. Plus, your child will be more likely to enjoy something that they know their friends already think is neat.<REfhttp://www.eatright.org/resource/fitness/exercise/family-activities/fitness-trackers-for-kids</ref>


Some fitness tracker manufacturers offer discount rates if a large number of trackers is made at once. Consider talking to parents of your child’s friends to see if they want to place a large order at the same time.