 When you are recovering from depression it is especially important to get professional help in order to help ensure that the gloomy mood does not return, or that it is less severe if it does. Thus, if you have already been attending treatment continue working on your treatment plan.


If you already have a therapist, discuss new goals that you’d like to work on. Make sure you follow through and continue attending your appointments.
If you don’t have a therapist to help treat your depression, try it. This can be useful even if you aren’t currently feeling depressed. A therapist or psychologist can help you reduce the likelihood of worsening depression by using specific interventions, such as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), which help to change your thinking to promote lasting well-being.Continue seeing your psychiatrist and taking medication as prescribed.
Talk to a medical doctor about your health, diet, and exercise.
 Addiction can worsen the symptoms of depression, making recovery difficult.Whether it be substances, food, gambling, shopping, self-harm, sex, or eating disorders, you can get specialized addiction counseling. It may be necessary to treat the depression and addiction simultaneously, as depression and addiction are often closely linked.One way to seek help is to speak with your medical doctor, therapist, or psychiatrist. They can give you a referral for chemical dependency treatment. Some therapists even specialize in drug treatment. You can participate in outpatient treatment or inpatient treatment (drug rehab).
You can also seek help by joining a 12-step group such as Alcoholics Anonymous (A.A) or Narcotics Anonymous (N.A).Recovery from any addiction takes time, but it will be worth it in the end and will help to support your overall health and reduce your depression.
 Sometimes during a bout of depression people can lose contact with important friends, family members, and other interpersonal relationships. However, social support is so important to maintaining a depression-free lifestyle, reducing the likelihood that depression will re-occur, and bouncing back from difficult life situations.Send an email, text, card or letter asking how your friend is doing. Focus on the positive things you're doing in your life, and ask questions.
Phone a friend and invite her to meet up for lunch or a coffee.
 Social support, especially support from others that are in your same position, can be extremely useful in recovering from depression and continuing to maintain a healthy outlook., After a depression you may feel well enough to cultivate new relationships, especially if you have discarded damaging or unproductive friendships. By doing the things you are interested in, you may be able to meet people with the same interests and similar personalities.


Join a church, club, sport team, community college, neighborhood center class, charity, etc.
Try Meetup.com, which is a useful website for finding groups of like-minded people with similar interests. Some examples include: singles groups, hiking groups, acting troupes, and rock-climbing enthusiasts.
Can't find the right group or club? You can start your own! Try starting a book club. Spread the word amongst friends and acquaintances, put ads up at local libraries, and ask everyone to bring a small plate to share. Or, you could start a fitness club and meet at a park and pay for a personal trainer, splitting the cost between the group.
Whenever you receive a social invitation, try to say yes. The more times you say yes, the more invites you might receive. Also, for every time a friend invites you to do something, invite them to something the following week. This keeps the balance equal and you both feel valued.

