 Schedule regular physical and dental exams with your veterinarian to make sure that your horse is healthy and up to date on her vaccinations. Common vaccinations include tetanus, eastern and western equine encephalomyelitis, equine influenza, rhino pneumonitis (equine herpes), and rabies. Your horse will also need to be dewormed regularly.Horse teeth continue to grow as they age. Eating grass and hay helps to grind down your horse’s teeth, but it is still important to have a dentist check for any signs of rotting or other dental problems that may be causing your horse discomfort.
 Horses can sleep standing up, but they need to lay down to get deep sleep. Keep your horse’s stall clean so that she will be able to lay down without getting filthy., It is important for horses to be with other horses. Make sure that your horse has a companion or two that she can interact with on a regular basis. If possible, let your horses see each other in their stalls., It is important to make sure that your horses are warm enough in the winter, but cold does not bother horses as much as the heat. Horses cannot get rid of excess heat in their bodies except by sweating, so use extreme precaution in the summer. Do not make your horse do anything strenuous in hot weather., If you think that your horse may have been poisoned by something she ate, call your veterinarian or ASPCA Animal Poison Control Center's 24-hour hotline at (888) 426-4435 right away. There are several species of plants and one species of beetle that can poison your horse if she ingests one of them. Potential hazards to your horse include:Wilted red maple leaves
Black walnut
Oak leaves
Taxes species (yew, Japanese yew, American yew, English yew, western yew, oleander and rose laurel)
Rhododendron and azalea
White snakeroot, richweed, white sanicle, jimmy weed, rayless goldenrod, burrow weed
Yellow star thistle, St. Barnaby's thistle, Russian knapweed
Blister beetles (sometimes found in alfalfa hay, especially in the Midwest and Southwest)
Ragworth/Ragweed

