 Stretching your muscles is essential to prevent injury and help your muscles get the most benefit out of your efforts. It also limbers your shoulders and back to help them engage effectively in your workout.









Slowly swing your arms in circles, making the circles slowly bigger.
Reach your elbow up and pull your hand back to your shoulder. Gently push your elbow back behind you until you feel a stretch.
Put your arms to the side with your hands up, forming a small, square "U." Have a friend grab your elbows and slowly pull them back behind your back. Resist slowly by pulling your chest muscles together.

You can also do this against a wall by yourself. Put your hand on the wall and walk past it to stretch out your pec., Concentrating on slow, deliberate movements helps strengthen all the muscles associated with the motions you are using in your workout. This enables your stabilizer muscles to grow and will help you perform real activities with better control.









You want every motion to be in control. Think of being fluid, not jerky, with each lift or push., Concentrating on keeping your chest muscles contracted and tensed as you perform the repetitions can help challenge and tone your muscles more with the same number of repetitions. You can feel your chest muscles working, so focus in on them. Otherwise, your form will start to suffer.
 If you are working on toning and firming, aim for about 20 repetitions of each exercise, with the repetitions growing difficult by the end. If your goal is a large chest, aim for 8 to 12 difficult repetitions; once you can perform 12 without much trouble, increase the weight or resistance for that exercise so that 8 becomes the maximum again.









You should be struggling, but still able to complete the exercise, at the 8th, 9th, and 10th rep of each set., Back, shoulder, and arm exercises not only help strengthen the pecs, they also balance muscle strength and growth. This prevents poor posture and an unsightly physique that can be caused by working only one muscle group to excess.
 Unless you are at an advanced level of strength training, you should allow your pecs to rest 1 to 3 days in between targeted workouts. You may feel like you'll gain muscle faster by crushing it every day, but your muscles need the time to actually rest and grow new muscle fibers. Hitting your pecs every day is not only painful, it prevents them from actually growing. More importunately, it is the fast way to end up with an injury.