 Regardless of how good or bad your current credit score is, you will need to meet some basic requirements first. The requirements help the lender to gauge your capability to repay the loan.Must have valid forms of identification, such as a driver or motorcycle license, and a social security number.
Must be at least eighteen years old.
You should be earning enough discretionary income to pay the payments. Demonstrating you earn enough to cover the monthly payment will increase your chances of getting the loan.
Have held stable employment for at least six months. Having a stable source of income will show that your payments are more likely to be on time and the proper amount.
If you are self-employed, you may need to be able to prove that you have worked in your industry for at least two years, and provide a profit and loss statement or a gross earnings statement for the past year.
 It may seem like having a bad credit score leaves most of the application process up to luck, but a little communication goes a long way. Discuss some of the following points with your lender:If you had a one time reason for your poor credit, such as a medical emergency, explain this and assure your lender that this expense was unavoidable and is in the past.
Prove your level of income. Showing exactly how much you earn isn't always required, however, doing so will show that you are serious and capable of paying your loan. Bring in the last two years tax returns or your last six pay stubs to share.
Let them know how stable you are. If you have lived and worked in the same place for a period of a few years, let your lender know this. Stability indicates that you are more likely to fully pay back the loan on time.
Explain any filing for bankruptcy. If you did file for bankruptcy you should explain why, especially if it was due to a major life event such as a medical bill.
 Showing that you are willing to work to protect your lender's investment will go a long way in their consideration of your application. Demonstrate that you are willing to work with them by informing them of the following actions you should take:Allow them to automatically take payments from your account. This shows that you are confident that the funds will be there as well as assuring them that you will not miss a payment.
Inform them that you will be purchasing full coverage insurance, extended warranty, and a GAP policy.
Full coverage insurance and GAP policies will help protect the value of your motorcycle in case of an accident or theft.
Having an extended warranty will help protect the value of the motorcycle by replacing and repairing parts covered by that warranty, should they fail.

