 Processors require clean rooms because any speck of dust can damage the processes that occur inside them. Physical contaminants include skin cells that flake off, dandruff, clothing fibers, and loose hair. Paper, pencils, packaging materials, and many other things shed dust, and even tiny particles can damage the delicate products built and tested in clean rooms.
 There are a couple of different sets of standards, but in general, the lower the number, the cleaner the cleanroom.,, Clean room apparel varies. It may consist of gloves, a cap, and smock at its most basic all the way up to a full "bunny suit". These are the general instructions.,,

Do not wear cosmetics, hair spray, perfumes, or colognes into a cleanroom.
 Skirts, high-heeled shoes, shorts, and in some cases, short-sleeved shirts are not appropriate attire. Also steer clear of clothing that is especially fuzzy or tends to produce a lot of lint or static electricity., Wherever possible, do not wear outdoor shoes into the cleanroom environment; change into a clean and appropriate pair of shoes dedicated for the lab environment
If there is a machine at the door for this purpose (spinning brushes), use it. Place your foot and shoe together inside it. Hold the handle to steady yourself, then press the button. You'll feel a slight tug on your shoe from the moving brushes, but it won't damage your shoe.
If there is an adhesive doormat, step on it several times.
 Leave them at your desk or use lockers, if they are provided.,, Top-to-bottom is a good general rule to follow, and it is a good idea to use a bench to separate the "dressed" area from the "getting dressed" area.
Start putting on your cleanroom gear on the "getting dressed" side of the bench.
Put on a hair cover (bouffant cap) and/or hood. Use a beard cover to cover any facial hair beard or mustache). Adjust hood when closing snaps on front and back so it is snug and comfortable.




 An inspection process with hoods and coveralls.

Put on coveralls or a smock. If in two parts, put on jacket first, then pants. Zip or snap it closed all the way up, over the neck of the hood if you are wearing one. Close any snaps at the cuffs to gather the sleeves snugly around your wrists.
Sit on the bench to put on shoe covers or booties. Be sure to tuck pants inside the booties, and don't let the booties touch the ground on the "getting dressed" side of the bench. Alternatively, use an automatic shoe cover dispenser.






Put on latex gloves, or the appropriate substitute for those allergic to latex. Tape sleeves and ankles if necessary.
 If it is necessary to touch surfaces or items, be sure to change the affected glove before entering the cleanroom.,,

Keep cleanroom protocol in mind whenever you work within a cleanroom.
Keep your cleanroom apparel on at all times when working in the cleanroom.
Do not bring in any of the following items: pencils (note that graphite is conductive), erasers, non-cleanroom paper, wood, abrasives, or packaging materials such as cardboard. Keep non-cleanroom paper in a plastic sleeve if you must refer to it. Use only cleanroom tape. Be aware of what else you bring in.
Correctly wipe down any equipment you bring in. Do not remove cleanroom equipment from a cleanroom.
Move slowly and evenly. Rapid, sudden, or jerky movements can shed many particles.
 Even cleanroom apparel gets dirty as you wear it and work in it. If it has been a while, make sure you have yours cleaned and get a fresh one.
Use fresh gloves, hair covers, and disposable shoe covers every time you enter.
You can reuse smocks, coveralls, reusable shoe covers, and reusable caps or hoods, but exchange or have them cleaned periodically.
 Remove cleanroom attire each time you leave the cleanroom. Do not exit the cleanroom wearing or carrying cleanroom attire. Put it on each time you enter and take it off and store it correctly each time you leave.