 It is helpful to know why your boyfriend’s friend means so much to him. By understanding why your boyfriend values his friendship, you can learn to respect and like him, too. Perhaps his friend helped him through a rough time in his life. By knowing that he is a loyal friend, your views about him might change.For example, you can ask, “How did you and Joe become such good friends?”
You can do other little things to acknowledge his importance to your boyfriend as well. For example, you can reach out to him on special occasions or congratulate him on accomplishments. If he suffers a loss, you can send him a thoughtful card.
 Give his friends a chance. Offer to hang out with them the next time they go out to eat or see a movie. By hanging out with his group of friends, you will be able to see how much fun they have, and why your boyfriend loves to hang out with them.You can ask, “Hey, can I tag along the next time you guys get pizza and wings? I would love to get to know your friends better.”

, By respecting your boyfriend and his friend’s space and friendship, you can change any negative opinion his friend has about you. Your boyfriend’s friend will appreciate your consideration, and begin to appreciate you, as well. This will eliminate any animosity, like jealousy, that has resulted from you and your boyfriend’s relationship.Try to hang back and observe their dynamic. Chime in when appropriate, but do not try to change or direct the conversation.
 You might find yourself in a situation where you are seriously concerned about the effects your boyfriend and his friend's behaviors might have on your boyfriend's health, for example, drinking, gambling, or doing drugs. Address the issue by expressing your point of view without using an accusatory tone. Being accusatory will trigger a defensive response from your boyfriend. This often leads to regretful feelings and miscommunication.Frame your grievances through your own experiences by beginning with the words, "I feel..." instead of "You and your friends..."
You can say, "I feel that we should spend more time doing activities that are fun and productive, like running, biking, or camping."

