 The exact class you take will depend on the infraction you’ve been charged with, along with other factors. If you take a different course, then you won’t get credit.Accordingly, find out exactly what you need to take.


Look through your papers. You may have been sent a letter telling you what course you must take.
Call the court clerk or your probation officer if you have questions. Have your case number handy so that they can look up what you need to take.;
, Ask the court clerk if there is a list of approved providers. Many courts pre-approve providers so that you can easily find a course that will be accepted by the court.Alternately, they may offer their own courses you can take by registering with a government website.If you need to find your own course, then look online. Type “online course” and then the type of course into your favorite search engine. For example, if you need to take a DUI course, type “alcohol highway safety course.”

, Instead of looking at the class as one box to check off, you should commit to getting the most out of it. Accordingly, find a class that is taught by someone experienced in the field.You will learn more from an experienced teacher, which will help you more in your life.


Contact providers and ask about the education levels and experience of their teachers.
Also ask if you can have a class syllabus sent to you. Look through and check the assignments.
You can also visit the Better Business Bureau (BBB) website and check the company’s rating as well as any complaints.
 You don’t want to take an online class only to be told it was the wrong one. Once you find a provider, double check with the court clerk or your probation officer that it has been approved.This step can save you time and money.
 You won’t have forever to take your class, so find out the deadline by looking through your papers or asking the court clerk. If you miss the deadline, you may have to pay fees or your probation could be extended., Some classes aren’t offered every month, and some can take months to complete. In order to meet your deadline, you should sign up for the class as soon as possible.Even if you don’t have the money, ask if you can register. You may be able to register and then pay later.
 Some online classes will let you stop and start up the class at a later date.However, other courses may require that you complete the course in one sitting. You need to know this information before you start up the online program.


Look for a Frequently Asked Questions tab. The provider should explain whether you need to take the course in one sitting.
If you can’t find anything, call up the provider and ask.
 You want to stay engaged as you take your online class, so block off sufficient time to watch the program. Sometimes it helps to take notes as you watch, which will sharpen your attention on the material.


If you were provided written material, make sure to have that out with you as you watch the class. You don’t want to have to stop the program to find relevant materials.
Limit your distractions. For example, don’t have other web pages open on your browser, which will only tempt you to look away from the class., Some online courses will require that you take a test. Make sure that when you take the test you go somewhere without distractions so that you can focus. If you don’t pass the test on the first try, you may be able to take it again for free.
 You need proof that you have completed the required class. Get your certificate and keep it safe until you need to present it to the court or your probation officer. Depending on your course provider, the certificate may be emailed or mailed to you.If you lose your certificate, contact the school as soon as possible to obtain a replacement.