 Reading is a great way of advancing your Spanish language skills (though not necessarily your pronunciation.) For beginners, simple children's books can offer an easy, entertaining way to get accustomed to basic grammar and sentence structure. For intermediate speakers, on the other hand, books for middle-schoolers and teens offer greater challenges.


As you read, try to avoid looking up every new word you come across it in the dictionary. This will slow you down and also make it impossible for you to discover the words' meaning on your own through contextual clues. Consider looking up words that appear repeatedly and are crucial to understanding the context.
A good way to find Spanish books easy enough for non-speakers to read is to use reading list sites like Goodreads.com. Here, a quick search can find you dense lists of Spanish books for children and young adults., Singing along with Spanish songs is a great way to have fun while learning new Spanish words and phrases at the same time. There's no single song or genre that's best for this, but if you're unsure where to start, try checking out the "Latin" category on the Billboard charts to see which Spanish songs are popular today.Below are just a few popular Spanish-language musical artists who are popular today or have been popular in the past — there are many, many more:


Shakira
Pitbull
Juanes
Ricky Martin
Los Lobos
Buena Vista Social Club
Selena Quintanilla
Esperanza Spalding

, If you're looking to brush up on your ability to understand spoken Spanish, try tuning your home or car radio to a Spanish language radio station. Listening in to a Spanish talk show is a great way to train your ear to pick up common words and phrases at the rapid pace that most Spanish speakers actually use in conversation (plus, you can do it during your daily commute.) Most major metropolitan areas in the United States now have at least one or two Spanish stations on the air. In areas with a large Latino population, like California and the Southwest, there can be lots to choose from.


If you're listening online, try tuning into the Radio Nacional de España (Spanish National Radio) at rtve.es/radio. This online station is easy to connect to (though not all programs may be available globally) and can give you valuable practice listening to the Castillian form of Spanish spoken in Spain.
 If you spend hours in front of the TV each day, why not use some of this time for Spanish practice? Check your local cable TV provider for a guide of Spanish-speaking television stations, or search online for sites that offer Spanish programs like sitcoms, news, and soap operas. Note that popular streaming services like Netflix usually have at least a small selection of Spanish shows and movies available.


One fantastic way of learning Spanish is to watch Spanish-language soap operas (or telanovelas.) These shows are great for beginners because it's usually possible to follow the plot from visuals and the melodramatic acting even if you don't understand every word of the script. Just a few well-regarded telanovelas you may want to check out are:Marimar: Features a young Thalia, who would go on to become one of the most successful Mexican singers of all time.

La Usurpadora: Telanovela based around a now-classic "good and evil twins separated at birth" plotline.

Amigas y Rivales: Early-aughts telanovela aimed at a younger crowd which featured an abundance of teenage drama.
 If you're aiming to build your Spanish skills, working interactions with actual Spanish speakers into your routine is practically a must. One easy way to do this is to start going to Spanish-speaking businesses for your weekly needs and attempting to make your transactions in Spanish. For instance, tasks like ordering at a restaurant, making a withdrawal at the bank, buying groceries, and taking your car in for regular maintenance can all be great practice if you speak to the employees in Spanish. Best of all, if you're lucky, this can even help you make new friends and connections in places you never otherwise would have.


Even better than spending time at a Spanish-speaking business is working at one. Working with employees who don't know English well forces you to use your limited Spanish skills to solve problems — though it can be stressful at first, this is fantastic, effective practice in the long run.

