 This list of genes will affect the DNA points you get during your game. For Neurax Worm Brutal, choose Catalytic Switch. This genetic code will give you more DNA points popping blue bubbles or is also known as cure.


During the game, researchers will frantically look for a way to cure the virus you unleashed, sending groups of people to other countries to uncover the secret in order to eradicate the worm. Whenever there are researchers, blue bottles will appear.
Catalytic Switch is very effective during the middle and later part of the game.;
, For this genetic code, choose Aquacyte. This gene will increases the chance of the plague to spread by sea.


Most of the countries have ports, especially countries that are difficult to infect such as Greenland and Iceland.
With this gene, infection spreads through water; this includes ships and will be more effective than normal.
 This will give you the choice of changing the value per evolving and devolving your Neurax Worm. For Brutal Mode, choose Ionized Helix. This will give you bonus DNA when devolving


It’s fine if you insert other genes here as long as it does not affect the cure progress rate.
 These genes will let you change how your plague mutates. It can either increase the chance of mutation or decreases it. In this mode, use Darwinist.


This increases the chance of your plague mutating and will be helpful since you will be focusing on spreading the worm later on.
You can also use Genetic Mimic; this gene makes your plague harder to cure. The chance of mutating doesn't require DNA points.
 This is where you can find the set of genes that can influence the behavior of your Neurax Worm in different environment. In this mode, Extremophile is much preferable since it gives your worm a minor bonus in all environment.
 This is vital. You need to choose a country that has a poor health system in order for your Neurax Worm to spread quickly and effectively.


Choosing a rich country will delay the generation of your DNA points, which will affect the outcome of the game.
It's advisable that you choose India as your starting country because of its warm temperature; it's granted that your Neurax is used to hot climate. Furthermore, having China as a neighboring country will boost up the spreading of your Neurax once it crosses the border.
 Transmission affects the infectivity of your Neurax. To successfully win this mode, evolve Egg 1 first. The egg will make Neurax Worm produce eggs, which will eject from the host brain in the thousands.


This is effective in crowded countries such as China.
This will also unlock the three key transmissions in this mode. Upgrade each: Bird 1, Insect 1, and Rodent 1 to have the Neurax travel in different living creatures to hasten the infectivity.
 Concertina Locomotion, found under the Transmission tab, has the ability to grip onto portions of the body while pulling or pushing other sections, allowing faster movement outside the host and increasing the infectivity of the Neurax.


This will unlock Undulatory Locomotion. Undulatory Locomotion has the ability to propagate flexural waves along the length of worm, increasing the infectiousness.
If you have enough DNA points, evolve Undulatory Locomotion after Concertina.
 Evolving Undulatory Locomotion will unlock two additional transmission gene: Air and Water. Evolve these. The Neurax will start spreading to other nations, and the number of people infected grows.


If you don't have DNA points at this time, go back to the game and pop bubbles. Once you have enough points, evolve the Air and Water gene.
Air can make your worm dehydrate to become lighter, allowing them to float in the wind, which is useful in countries with arid condition. This also invades planes, which can help the migrate to other country.
Water gene makes your Neurax develop flexible cell membranes, allowing them to survive at a range of depths. This also affects people's water, infecting them if they drink straight from the tap. Effective in poor countries.
 Thanks to the passive gene we chose before starting the game, Neurax is evolving Symptoms without the need of DNA points. Now that we have spread to other countries, it is best to strengthen Neurax by evolving the Drug Resistance 1. Your worm will become resistant to class 1 and class 2 drugs, increasing the ineffectiveness of the drugs in wealthy countries.


If you have enough DNA points, evolve Cold Resistance 1 and Cold Resistance 2. Since our Neurax is already used to hot climate, it's ideal to focus on Cold Resistance instead of Heat Resistance. This evolves the Neurax to withstand cold temperatures and climates, increasing its infectivity in northern countries.
 Go back to your game and have Neurax spread. Pop all the red bubbles. As the Neurax spreads, the world will start focusing on creating a cure. Evolve your Air 2 and Water 2. This will unlock a new gene, Air 3. Evolve it.


If you still have enough DNA at this point, go back to Abilities and evolve the Drug Resistance 2 and then return to your game and watch the Neurax spread across the country.
Pop any bubbles, including the blue.
Trojan Planes will appear more. Use those planes to spread Neurax in countries that aren't affected by the worm yet, especially Greenland, Iceland, Sweden, the Caribbean, and Madagascar.
If your Cure reaches 25%, open your Disease window, click Abilities tab, and then choose Genetic Reshuffle 1.
 World Cure is now in progress, and every country in the world is now infected with Neurax. You will now focus on infecting all the people and leave no one healthy.


First you need to evolve the Genetic Swap.
Evolve Mutative Regeneration 1 and Mutative Regeneration 2.
Since there are only few or no dead people yet, Corpse Feeder 1 is useless. Mutative Regeneration, however, increases the chance of mutation.
 This increases the control over the host’s brain.
 Tendrils will mesh with the frontal lobe, the conscious thought-center, and gain the ability to mentally manipulate the host.
 Hormone production will be altered, lowering maturity and the levels of hygiene, and increasing the infection of Neurax.


This will unlock the next gene, which will lead people to losing their minds—this will direct you to the mind control gene later on.
 Mania Excess Serotonin production triggers manic episodes, leading to increased contact with others and the inability to focus.


This also affects the productivity of people in creating a cure.
 Severe damage to orbital cortex triggers OCD—forcing the host to be obsessed over a specific worm-related take. This increases infectivity and severity of Neurax.
 Surges of Dopamine and Serotonin compel the host to constantly think about the worm and trigger intense rushes of pleasure.
 Overdose of oxytocin and vasopressin forces the host into a permanent state of worship or acceptance, treating the Neurax Worm as an eternal god. People who are infected will halt their research for the cure.
 This will have the infected people focus on spreading the worm to citizens that are yet to be infected.


The game will soon end after 400 days or more with the humanity worshiping an ancient worm.

