 Many causes use walks to raise awareness, including raising awareness for eating disorders. The NEDA has walks to raise awareness across the country, so use their website to find one near you. If there's not one near you, you can work to bring one to your area.Walking for a cause raises awareness in several ways. It garners media attention because so many people are gathered together for a cause. It also raises awareness because you are asked to help raise money by getting people you know to sponsor you.
When approaching friends, family, and co-workers, keep your spiel short and sweet. You could say, "I'm participating in the NEDA's walk to raise awareness for eating disorders. This cause is important to me because I have family members who have been affected by eating disorders. The walk is next month. Would you be willing to sponsor me?"

, Many communities have organizations that raise awareness for eating disorders. By working with those organizations, you can help the cause. Volunteering your time at one of these organizations is a great way to contribute to raising awareness.Contact your local organization for nonprofits to see if there's a group like that in your area. You can also use a national directory, such as the one put together by Eating Disorder Hope.These organizations likely need a wide variety of volunteers with a wide variety of skills, so don't worry that you won't have anything to offer.
 One way you can raise awareness is to talk to your government officials. They have the power to enact laws that can make a difference for those with eating disorders, and it's especially important to call or write when you know a piece of related legislation is up for a vote.Stay in touch with advocacy organizations to find out what legislation is up for a vote. For instance, you can get on a mailing list for an advocacy organization.
Contact your representatives. You can work at the local level, by talking to city council members about initiatives in your area. You can also work on the state and national level, by contacting senators and representatives, as well as your governor and the president.
You can call your representatives, where you will be put in touch with a staff member. State your name and give your zip code, so they know where you live. Discuss why you're calling (eating disorders), and add why it's important to you. The staff member will pass your information on to the representative.
Another option is to write an email or letter. Once again, state why you're writing, and give a short anecdote about why it's important to you. You can find the addresses for your representatives online.
 One way you can help raise awareness is to start a blog. A blog is a series of posts that you share with the internet in a dedicated space. Blogs are free to start, and all you need to do is put together what you want to say.


It's a good idea to have a focus for your blog. For example, you could focus on sharing your personal journey with an eating disorder or you could focus on ways eating disorders affect a certain population, such as high school students.
If you would rather make videos, then you can start a video blog, or "vlog," on a site such as Youtube. You can use your vlog as a platform to raise awareness and connect with other people.

