 Search for "Fresh Paint" using the search bar at the top right corner.;
, This may take a few minutes. After that, you are ready to use Fresh Paint.
 From there, you can choose Fresh Canvas, Custom Canvas, or Fun Pack.


Clicking Fresh Canvas takes you directly to a canvas so you can dive in and start drawing.
Clicking Custom Canvas allows you to choose the size, type, and color of your canvas or paper. You can click "Start Painting" once you are finished choosing your canvas or paper.
Clicking Fun Pack lets you buy an "activity pack," which has templates for you to color in.
, When you click on the paint palette icon on the left and then click the paintbrush, you will see an assortment of tools. Luckily, understanding how to use these tools is simple.


There are three types of painting tools: watercolor, oil, and pencil/pen/pastel. When you click one of the painting tools, four more similar tools will appear. These five variants of give different textures. Use a tool by clicking on it and then click and move your mouse across the canvas.
The tools above the painting tools are, from left to right, the blending tool, the eraser, the width picker, and the water. The blending tool, as its name suggests, blends multiple colors on the canvas. Use it by clicking and moving your mouse around the colors you want to blend. The eraser erases anything you do not want on your canvas and works in a similar way to blending tool. The width picker adjusts the width of the tool you are using. Press the plus sign for a thicker tool and the minus sign for a thinner tool. The water removes the current color from the tool.
 There are three ways to choose a color.


Click on the colored circles to choose from predefined colors. Look through the colors and click on the one you want to use.
Click on the palette with paint to mix colors. Pick one predefined color and paint with it on the palette. Pick another one and repeat. Once you have the colors you want to mix, click the water and move your mouse around the colors to make another color. Clear the palette by clicking the icon of the palette with bubbles underneath.
Click on the white, gray, and black circle to choose the hue and shade of your color. Move the white circle to choose your color by clicking and moving your mouse.
 Click on one of the squares to choose a type of canvas or paper. Clicking the square with bubbles underneath clears everything from the canvas so you can start over. Clicking the colors shows a circle so you can pick the hue and shade of the canvas.
