 Admitting your drug addiction is a very hard thing to do. You might feel that your friends will think less of you or judge your behavior, but reaching out is still the right thing and a good step toward your recovery. Chances are that your friends already know, on some level, that things are wrong and want to help you.Remember that drug addiction is a mental health issue. Just talking to others can reduce your stress levels, improve your mood, and help get you concrete support.
Consider saying something like, “Hi guys, I want to talk to you about something very serious in my life. Do you have time to talk?”;
, You’ll want to set aside time either for a group or one-on-one discussion, since this is not a subject that you should hurry. Still, try to pick a moment when you are ready and your friends are not busy with work and won’t be distracted.This sort of conversation is also best in a private and calm setting and in-person, like at your or your friends’ home, as it may get emotional. However, a phone conversation can work, too, if you are unable or unwilling to go to see a friend.
Ask your friends is they are free, i.e. “Do you have some free time, an hour or two?” If your friends don’t have a block of time, put the ball in their court, i.e. “What time would work for you?”

, Your friends don’t necessarily need to know everything about your drug addiction. In fact, you have a right to decide what and how much to tell them. But you shouldn’t sugar-coat the problem. Be honest and open with them. That way, they will know where you stand and can help as best as they possibly can.Be upfront and tell your friends that you have an addiction, i.e. “James, I want you to know that I have a Percodan addiction,” or “Julia, I’m addicted to cocaine.”

, One way to impress the severity the problem for your friends is to explain and give concrete examples. This will make your addiction less abstract. Rather than being an “addiction,” they will get a sense of how drugs are affecting your life.You might say when your addiction started, i.e. “I’ve been taking pain killers ever since my back injury last year, but it’s getting out of control” or “At first, I was just having coke at parties. Then, once in a while for a pick-me-up. Now I can’t stop using it.”
You can mention scale, too, if you feel comfortable, i.e. “My original prescription was to take two tablets a day. Right now I’m taking one about every hour.” Or, “I’m using about $200 of cocaine every day.”

, Be honest about the situation, as well, and let your friends know if you are still using. Addicts overestimate how well they can conceal their addiction, so you may end up insulting your friends’ intelligence by lying about or downplaying your use.Be clear about your usage, i.e. “It’s pretty out of control. I’m still using every day.” If you’re attempting to get things under control, though, say so: “I’m trying to cut back and get clean. But I can’t do it on my own.”

, Addictions aren’t just about the addict. They affect everyone around the addict, including spouses, family members, and friends. You may have hurt or angered these loved ones in the past, either by hurtful words or by deeds like stealing. Recognize how you’ve wronged your friends and then apologize. This can start a process of reconciliation.

You might say something along the lines of, “Please forgive the mistakes I’ve made and the things I’ve done to hurt you” or “I’ve said and done things in the last few months that I’m ashamed about and have hurt you. I’m really sorry.”
Ask for understanding, though. Let your friends know that you love them and that you don’t want to hurt them, but that you’re dealing with an enormous problem: i.e. “Please don’t see this as who I am. This behavior is part of my addiction.”

