 Begin any written policy with a strongly-worded statement that your company has no tolerance for harassment in the workplace.


Harassment includes any conduct that creates an offensive, intimidating, or hostile work environment.Even without complaints, it only takes one out-of-line employee to create a permissive environment where harassment seems acceptable.
Embody your stance against harassment in a written policy that reassures employees that such activities are not tolerated and that complaints are taken very seriously.
Make sure employees know that your written policy controls, not anything coming from a supervisor or co-worker that might contradict that policy.
Keep in mind that not all forms of harassment necessarily violate state or federal law. For example, federal law does not explicitly protect employees against harassment due to sexual orientation. However, your policy should stress that harassment is unproductive and unwelcome in the workplace, regardless of whether it is specifically prohibited by law.;
, Providing examples can help employees understand what actions are improper and what behavior crosses the line to harassment.Many employees may believe that only supervisors or others in a position of authority can be guilty of harassment, but this is untrue. Co-workers can harass each other, and in some cases an employee could even be on the hook for harassing someone who doesn't work for you, such as a vendor or a customer.Your policy should make clear that any examples or descriptions of harassment provided are not exhaustive. If a statement or action by an employee makes someone else feel uncomfortable, it should be treated as harassment.Explain to your employees that if they have questions about certain conduct, or doubts about whether it would be appropriate, they should err on the side of caution and assume the behavior should be kept out of the workplace.
Your employees also should understand that their intention is irrelevant to whether they are engaging in harassment. If the person who is the target of the words or actions feels harassed, the words or activity constitute harassment. It doesn't matter if those words or acts were meant to be a joke.
 Employees who have been harassed should have a good understanding of exactly what they must do to have their concerns addressed.Your policy should be simple and straightforward.Employees will be less likely to file complaints if it looks as though they'll have to cut through a bunch of red tape to have their concerns heard.
List specific employees in charge of handling harassment complaints, but also stress that employees can go to any supervisor or manager if they are being harassed.
In addition to describing the procedure for handling and investigating complaints, provide options that may be available to an employee who is experiencing harassment. These options should be designed to alleviate the problem and prevent any further damage while the complaint is being investigated. For example, you might separate the employees involved by putting them on different shifts or having them work in different departments.
 Your consequences should be realistic and should be applied uniformly.Make sure you include similar consequences for acts of retaliation against employees who file complaints, and against employees who file false or frivolous harassment complaints out of spite or a desire for retribution.Your disciplinary sanctions should escalate and include termination for egregious or repeated offenses.Make it clear that no sanctions will be imposed without a full investigation that uncovers clear evidence of harassment.
 From their first day, your employees should have a good understanding of the type of behavior that isn't acceptable in the workplace.


Written policy handbooks can provide a general awareness of workplace harassment and understanding of how inappropriate behavior is handled in your company.
Although you can and should make it clear that illegal harassment isn't tolerated in the workplace, you also should include a clear statement that any sort of harassing behavior is unproductive, unprofessional, and inappropriate in the workplace environment., Continuing education and training keeps your employees up-to-date on any changes to the policy and increases attention to workplace harassment.


Harassment training seminars should be conducted at least once a year, and in some states this training is required by law. For example, California requires all employers with more than 50 employees to provide two hours of interactive sexual harassment training every two years.Train supervisors and managers in how to recognize harassment and how to handle this type of behavior, even if no complaint is filed., If you want to avoid workplace harassment lawsuits, you can't assume that your company is free of harassment because no one has complained.Look around the workplace and take note of any offensive notes, signs, or posters you see.You can talk to the employee responsible for them before they potentially become a problem. For example, you may have an employee who has a swimsuit calendar on the wall above his desk. Understanding that a female employee may take offense to this calendar, you can ask the employee to take it down rather than displaying it prominently.
 The EEOC has pamphlets, signs, and other materials that can help educate your employees on the dangers of workplace harassment.


You can download and print these materials yourself at http://www1.eeoc.gov/eeoc/publications/index.cfm, or you can order pre-printed materials free of charge from the government agency.Making materials readily available keeps the issue of workplace harassment out in the open, lessening the likelihood that employees will be afraid to file a complaint because of fear or intimidation.
 Since reporting harassment can be a sensitive subject, you should ensure employees can talk to someone with whom they feel comfortable.


You also may want to designate someone outside the company to take and investigate complaints. Even if he or she is never contacted, this sends a message to your employees that no one is exempt from the policy, and harassment isn't tolerated from anyone at any level of the company.
 Even though you may view a particular complaint as trivial or frivolous, treat it the same as you would any other.Keep in mind a full-blown investigation won't be necessary for every situation that gets reported. However, taking the complaint seriously from the beginning ensures the problem can be resolved quickly and efficiently.Maintain objectivity when dealing with complaints. If you or the person handling the complaint feels he or she cannot be objective because they are close to the person accused of harassment, the complaint should be handed off to someone else who can remain neutral., Employees need to know that to the extent possible, their identities and the details of their harassment complaints will not be disclosed.


Details about a harassment complaint should only be shared with others when absolutely necessary to help resolve the problem. You should strive to protect the anonymity of harassed employees in particular to every extent possible.If specifics about harassment complaints become the fodder for gossip around the workplace, you may open yourself up to a lawsuit for a hostile work environment., Employees will not believe you are taking their complaints seriously unless you investigate them and attempt to resolve them as quickly as possible.Investigating complaints thoroughly and efficiently can be the best way to avoid workplace harassment lawsuits.Even if the issue is not resolved 100 percent to the harassed employee's satisfaction, he or she will be less likely to file a lawsuit if you took the complaint seriously and handled it immediately.
In contrast, delaying or dragging your feet on an investigation can make it look like you're trying to sweep the situation under the rug.
Make sure you're investigating all complaints, regardless of the reputation of the employee who made the complaint or the relationship between the complaining employee and the employee alleged to have harassed him or her.
For example, you may get a harassment complaint from an employee with a reputation for complaining about everything and having a generally poor attitude. Treat this complaint the same way you would one that came from your most reliable and productive employee.
 In the event an employee does file a report with the EEOC or with a state agency, you must have written documentation of the steps you took to resolve the situation.Keep a single file for each complaint, beginning with a log sheet that lists the dates of each step taken on the matter from the filing of the complaint to each resolution.If there are any documents related to the complaint, such as email exchanges or particular photos or posters an employee has indicated made him or her uncomfortable, include these items or copies of them in the same file with the original complaint.If you interview an employee face-to-face, record the interview or take written notes. Have the employee review any written notes before you add them to the file and confirm they are accurate., Your anti-harassment policy won't be very valuable if you don't enforce it the same way every time, with every employee.


You must hold all employees to the same standard, regardless of their rank or role in the company. If certain behavior would be inappropriate for your lowliest wage-earning employee, it is equally inappropriate for an executive or general manager.Bending the rules or allowing an exception for any employee, for any reason, can open you up to claims of unfair treatment, which could form the basis of a workplace harassment lawsuit.After you've resolved the situation and disciplined any employees as dictated by the policy, follow up with the employee who was victimized to make sure the conduct has ceased and the employee is no longer being targeted.