 Smelly breath can have many causes, but is often caused by bacteria that can grow in the mouth when food particles are allowed to remain too long. Plaque, the sticky substance which forms on your teeth between cleaning, is a byproduct of these bacteria and with any remaining food particles. Taking care of your teeth by brushing at least twice daily and flossing at least once, is essential for preventing bacteria from growing. , Food particles and the bacteria that feed on them can often become trapped in the narrow gaps between teeth. Swishing an antibacterial mouthwash allows you to clean these harder to reach areas, potentially reducing bad breath. Many varieties are available, but be sure to pick a variety labeled "antiseptic" or "antibacterial." These mouthwashes will help kill bacteria in your mouth which may be causing bad breath. Be sure to follow any instructions on the label.When gargling mouthwash, make sure to swish it all around your mouth, over your teeth and into both cheeks. Then tilt your head back, and briefly gargle the mouthwash in the back of your mouth before spitting out.
Some mouthwashes contain a high percentage of alcohol. If alcohol irritates your mouth, you should instead opt for an alcohol-free mouthwash.
 When you are dehydrated, your glands produce less saliva. When your mouth is dry, dead cells, food particles and other debris can accumulate, encouraging the growth of bacteria which can cause bad breath. Remaining hydrated will help ensure that your glands produce enough saliva to keep your mouth moist.For an adult in normal health, drinking eight 8-oz. cups (1.9 liters) of water per day is recommended.
Eating an apple or raw celery, chewing on sugar-free gum, or sucking on sugar-free candy will stimulate the salivary glands and encourage a cleaner, more moistened mouth.
 Not all bad breath is caused by the presence of bacteria. When you eat strong-smelling food, such as garlic or raw onions, some of the chemicals responsible for the food's smell can be released into your lungs as a part of the natural digestion process. Coffee and alcohol can also lead to bad breath when consumed, since they tend to encourage dry mouth and can coat your tongue., Raw fruits and vegetables are naturally abrasive, helping to remove plaque and debris from your teeth as you chew. Fruits and vegetables which contain a lot of vitamin C, such as oranges, broccoli, and bell peppers, can also help reduce the presence of bacteria in the mouth., The pungent chemicals in tobacco can leave a displeasing odor in the mouth. Smoking and chewing tobacco have also been linked with oral cancer, as well as many other illnesses affecting many different parts of the body. Quitting tobacco is difficult, but comes with a host of health benefits, including a cleaner, and less smelly, mouth.Ask your dentist or doctor for ideas and suggestions on quitting smoking.
 If regular oral hygiene practices have proven ineffective, be sure to mention your issues with bad breath to your dentist on your next visit. Your dentist will help you determine if the odor is being generated in your mouth, or if it is due to some other factor. It may be helpful for you to make a log of what foods you have eaten in the week prior to your visit, as this can help your dentist determine if the odor is due to problems with your diet.

