 Replace your child’s sugary snacks with healthier options. Your child will learn to eat the healthier snacks and won’t ask for the sugary junk food if they’ve never had it. Even if they complain at first, eventually the new habit will form and they will get used to their new snacks.Try healthy sweet snacks like fruit, yogurt with no or low amounts of sugar, and raisins with no sugar added. Get your toddler to help you make trail mix without candy, marshmallows, or candied fruit. Serve them natural peanut butter with no sugar or hydrogenated oils added.
Provide your child with snacks that are savory instead of sweet, like whole grain crackers, cut up vegetables, hummus, guacamole, salsa, cheese sticks and slices, slices of avocado, and air popped popcorn.
 Whole fruit is healthier, but too much can provide too much sugar. To help make sure your child isn’t eating too much sugar from fruit, only feed your child one to two servings per day.Go for fruits with the lowest sugar content, like berries, peaches, kiwis, and pears. Limit the amount of high sugar fruits, like grapes, pineapple, and super sweet apples.
A serving of fruit is a small apple, one cup of fruit, or a banana.
 You don’t have to eliminate cookies, cakes, or muffins from your child’s diet completely. Instead, make cookies, cakes, and muffins from scratch. This helps you remove the sugar content by substituting pureed fruit, honey, or skipping the sugar completely. You won’t add unnecessary cups of sugar, high fructose corn syrup, or other chemically processed sugars to your homemade cookies.Don’t buy prepackaged ready to bake cookies, or cake and muffin mixes. Most brands still contain sugars, high fructose corn syrup, along with other unhealthy additives like trans fats.
 Most juices are full of added sugars and high fructose corn syrup. Even no sugar added or 100% fruit juices provide a concentrated amount of sugar that can be too much for your child. Give your child juice only occasionally, limiting it to around four ounces of no sugar added each day.Try diluting the juice with water to reduce the sugar content.

