 Infantry units are the soldiers and personnel units in the game. They are made in the Barracks. Tap on the Barracks to see what units are available.


Not all units are available at all times. The units’ availability may depend on the mission, on your Battle Stars, or on your available gold coins.;
, There are nine different Infantry units in the game. A unit can be a combat or non-combat unit. Combat units are those that can fight, attack and defend themselves. Non-combat units are those that cannot fight, but have specialized purposes.


A Scout is identified with the binoculars it carries. It is used to clear out the fog that blocks portions of the map. It is a non-combat unit.
A Grunt is identified by the rifle it carries. It is the basic unit for combat.
A Bazooka is identified by the bazooka it carries. It is a powerful anti-tank and anti-ship combat unit.
An Engineer is identified by the wrench it carries. It is used to take over empty or enemy structures. It is a non-combat unit, but highly essential. You should escort it with at least another combat unit.
A Grenadier is identified by the grenade it carries. It is a powerful combat unit against infantry and vehicles, causing a splashed damaged across all units nearby.
A Sniper is identified by the sniper rifle it carries and is always lying on the ground. It is a powerful combat unit against infantry, able to take an enemy out with just one shot.
A Commando is identified by the turban on its head. It is a powerful combat unit against infantry and cannot be easily taken down.
A Technician is identified by the green bag it carries. It is used to build fixed defenses, like sentries and mines. It is a non-combat unit, but highly essential. You should escort it with at least another combat unit.
 Tap on the unit you want to build then tap on the “Buy” button with the amount of gold coins need to make it. The selected unit will immediately be generated from the Barracks, ready for use.


You can only buy a unit that you can afford.

