 The "classic" cross country skiing described above is how most people learn to cross country ski. Skate skiing is best for athletic skiers interested in faster movement or racing, or for people with experience ice skating or roller skating., Skate skiing involve powerful, angled motions of the skis to provide a faster boost. This is rarely possible away from groomed trails, with a firm snow surface. Specialized skate skis are also helpful for providing additional strength and control, although you may attempt to skate ski on ordinary cross-country skis.Note: While most skate skiers do use ski trails, you cannot skate ski inside the ski tracks cut into the trails. Skate on the surface of the trail itself, next to the ski tracks.
 Bend at the ankles and knees, but keep your upper body straight and relaxed. Bend your elbows and keep your hands in front of you., When you are first learning, it's a good idea to practice without ski poles, so you can focus on your leg motions. Ski poles will add extra power later, but should not replace strong leg movements.
 Keep the skis pointed outward in front of you in a V position. Turn your right foot onto your little toe, setting the outward edge of your skis against the snow. Rotate your ankle as you push gently against the snow, so the ski returns to a flat position ready to glide forward. Bring your right foot back into its original position, then practice this motion a few times with each foot.
 Still without the poles, practice this same motion, but push harder and glide on the opposite ski. Push with your right foot, then lift it as you shift all your weight onto your left ski to glide forward. Repeat the motion in reverse with your left foot, trying to keep your whole body directly above and in line with the ski moving forward.If you are having trouble keeping your balance, stop and practice balancing on one ski at a time without moving.
 Once you can repeat the gliding motion, practice the "V-1" skate skiing motion.To do this, plant both poles into the snow at the same time one of your feet lands on the snow. Your remaining foot hits the snow while your poles are up in the air.


The V-1 sequence of motions goes "lift foot 1 foot (0.3 m) 1 + both poles land, push with all three, lift foot 2 foot (0.6 m) 2 lands."
You may time the poles to coincide with your left foot or your right foot, whichever is most comfortable.
 The "V-1" position described above should already get you moving faster than the classic cross-country skiing style. However, as you become more experienced, and especially if you develop an interest in racing, there are several more techniques you may wish to learn. Possibly the most common of these is the "V-2" style, in which you plant both poles and push just before each foot lands on the snow.Experienced skate skiers most commonly use this on flat terrain to gain more speed, and resort to the "V-1" technique described above only when climbing hills.


The V-2 sequence of movements goes "lift left foot, plant both poles, push, left foot lands, lift right foot, plant both poles, push, right foot lands."

