 Most towns and cities have community mediation clinics that offer mediation services for common disputes that people have, including pet custody issues.To find a community mediation center near you, do a search on the internet or call the county court clerk's office.
Particularly if you live in a larger city, you may find several different service centers. Look at their websites or call for more information to find the one you like the best.
You also may be able to get a recommendation by calling a local animal law attorney. They may have a particular mediation clinic that they prefer.
Most community clinics are relatively affordable. You can expect a single mediation session to cost a few hundred dollars, although many have sliding-fee scales to assist lower-income individuals.
 Since mediation is a voluntary process, you can't force your former partner to participate if they aren't interested. However, you can tell them about it and do your best to convince them it's the easiest way to resolve the dispute.The mediation center you've chosen may have a pamphlet that explains their process and services in a straightforward way.
Emphasize to your former partner that with mediation, a neutral third-party will work with the two of you to emphasize a mutually agreeable solution. They will not pressure you to come to an agreement, and if you don't reach an agreement you can walk away.
Another benefit of mediation is that any agreement you reach is confidential. This may be helpful if your former partner is concerned about how it will look to be arguing about pet custody in a public forum such as a courtroom.
 If you already attempted to resolve the dispute with your former partner in person, you may have notes from that attempt that you can use to frame the points you want to bring up in mediation.A previous attempt also can help you isolate the issues about pet custody that are particularly contentious.
It can help the mediator if you can figure out where there is significant disagreement, as opposed to more minor issues on which you could both find common ground.
Take some time to think about what your goals are for the medication. Perhaps your ideal outcome is that you have full custody of your pet and your former partner never has anything to do with either of you.
Given the odds of that outcome happening are slim (or you wouldn't be at this point), try to think of some areas on which you would be willing to compromise. You can present those ideas to the mediator.
 On the date of your mediation appointment, try to get there at least 10 minutes early so you have time to get to the right place and get settled before the session actually starts.Mediation is not court – the session typically will be in an office-like setting. However, try to dress neatly and conservatively. You want the mediator to have a good impression of you.
Bring with you any notes or other materials you want to use in your negotiation. You also may want to bring a picture of your pet, so you can look at it and focus on that during negotiations.
Typically you'll be directed to a private room, although you may have to wait in a waiting room. If your former partner is not there yet, you may meet your mediator, but don't expect to engage them in conversation.
Your mediator usually will keep conversation to a minimum so they can remain neutral and assist both of you in finding a mutually agreeable solution to your problem.
 Once you and your former partner have arrived, the mediator typically will provide a brief introduction and explain the basic procedure. Then they may ask each of you to give a brief opening statement.Your opening statement doesn't have to be a long, involved speech, like an opening statement in a courtroom. Nor should it include a single conclusory statement like "I want full custody of my pet." This kind of statement is not helpful for mediation.
Come up with two or three points in your favor that you want to emphasize. For example, you might say "I believe I am entitled to full custody of the dog because I brought him home from the pound, named him, and feed him every day. I have taken him to the vet regularly and his registration is in my name."
This isn't just about factual arguments, though. If you're short on such points, you may be able to point to the unique bond you share with your pet. For example, you might note that your cat sleeps with you every night and comes running to the door when you come home from work.
 After the initial part of the mediation has concluded, the mediator typically will have you and your former partner move to separate rooms so the real work of mediation can begin.Before moving to separate rooms, the mediator may identify particular issues upon which both you and your former partner can agree.
If you're able to find common ground, it sews the seeds for continued agreement and compromise – even if the issues you're able to agree on are fairly minor points.
Once you've separated, the mediator will move back and forth between you, discussing the situation and trying to find room for compromise.
 If you and your former partner are able to reach an agreement through mediation, the mediator typically will write up an agreement for you both to sign. Read it over carefully and make sure it reflects everything you've discussed.Your custody agreement can cover many different aspects of pet care, including not only which of you gets to keep the animal in your home, but what kind of food your pet can eat as well as specifying activities or particular veterinary services.
For example, your former partner may be willing to let you have custody of your dog if you agree to take him to his favorite park at least once a week.
Take this agreement seriously – even if it includes relatively minor things – and understand that once signed it is a legally binding document and can be enforced in a court of law.

