 He or she will assess the state of your gums, looking for soft, swollen, or red gums and visible plaque or tarter at the base of your teeth.In addition, your dentist may perform x-rays, in order to assess whether the disease has spread into the bone surrounding the teeth.
 If you already have gingivitis, the dentist will perform a scaling and polishing treatment. In this procedure, calculus deposits and plaque (tartar) are removed from the surface of the teeth. It is recommended that you visit the dentist every six months for a routine scaling and polishing. Because you are having such extreme symptoms, the hygiene appointment will most likely take more than one appointment.



Scaling: Your dentist uses ultrasonic or manual scalers to remove calculus deposits and plaque from your teeth. These calculus deposits are mineralized and cannot be removed with normal brushing. To tell if you have calculus deposits, run your tongue over the back surface of your teeth — calculus deposits will feel rough. Professional removal of plaque greatly improves periodontal health.Polishing: After the calculus deposits have been removed the dentist will polish your teeth. To do this, the dentist or dental hygienist will use a polishing paste and a rubber brush. Polishing pastes contain fluoride to help strengthen your teeth and prevent tooth decay, and abrasives like siliceous minerals to keep the surface of your teeth smooth and shiny. The smooth surface finish will prevent bacteria from sticking to your teeth and gums., After your teeth have been cleaned, your dentist may recommend antibiotics if the infection is serious enough. These can be taken via a prescription mouthwash, topical gels, or in pill form., Your dentist will make suggestions for further treatment. If your gingivitis has developed into gum disease, and it has moved deep into your teeth, you may need to consider surgical options. Options include flap surgery, bone grafts, and guided tissue regeneration.Tooth extraction is also a possibility, since gum disease will lead to bone disease and bone is what anchors the teeth.
 The best way to further prevent inflamed gums is to maintain excellent oral hygiene. This gets rid of bacteria inside your mouth and also prevents other dental problems.


Make sure that your toothbrushing technique is effective in removing plaque and remember to see your dentist every six months for a routine checkup and cleaning.
Drink plenty of water after eating. This can wash away food particles and the potential for gum-damaging bacteria.