 The object of Dungeon Dice Monsters is to be the first player to kill your opponent’s Monster Lord. The Monster Lord represents you on the board and it is more difficult to kill than your regular monsters. As you attempt to get closer to your opponent’s Monster Lord, you will need to build dungeons and attack your opponent’s other pieces., Before you set up the game, you should make sure that you have everything you need to play a game. If you are missing something, then you may need to improvise. For example, if you are missing one of the Monster figures, you can use a coin or some other small item to represent that monster on the board. Check for the following items before you get started:12 dice
2 Crest Counters
10 Dungeon Pieces
6 Monster Figures
1 Monster Lord Figure
7 Monster Cards
1 Damage Marker Sheet
1 Field (game board)
1 Official Rule Book

, Each monster card has some important information on it that you will need to know how to interpret. Study the information on your monster cards before you play them so that you know which ones are more powerful. The information on the monster cards include the monster’s:name
level
hit points
explanation of special ability
number of crests needed to perform special ability
tribe
attack power
defense power

, Before you set up the game, you should figure out who will be going first. The best way to determine who goes first is to flip a coin, but you can also play a game of rock, paper, scissors to decide., After you have familiarized yourself with the game components, you can set up the game and get ready to play. Setting up Dungeon Dice Monsters is easy. The first thing you need to do is to lay out the game board.If you are playing a basic game, then you will use the inner 11 by 11 square field. This type of game is recommended if you only have the starter set.
If you are playing an advanced game, then you will use the whole field. This game is recommended if you have booster packs in addition to the starter set.
 You can play either Yugi’s or Kaiba’s monsters. If you won the coin toss or rock, paper, scissors, then you get to choose which one you will play as. Your opponent gets the other set. Place your monster cards to the left side of the board facing up. Place corresponding figures on top of the cards., The starter game set only comes with one monster lord, so your opponent will not get a figure unless he or she owns one. Otherwise, just have your opponent use one of the cardboard monster lord tokens as his or her monster lord. Place the monster lord tokens or figures within the white area of the board., The dungeon pieces are two-sided and each side has a different color, so you can keep them all in one pile near the board. If you are playing with Yugi’s monster’s then you will be red and if you are using Kaiba’s monsters then you will be blue., Dungeon Dice Monsters comes with 12 dice in four different colors. At the start of each turn you will select three dice to roll and the symbols that you roll will determine how many crest points you earn and whether or not you can summon a monster.Keep the dice separated by color to make it easy to roll all of one color at a time.
 Each player will need to have a crest counter to add up any crest points that he or she earns by rolling the dice. Keep your crest counter right in front of you so that you can easily add crest points as you earn them. There are 5 types of crest points that you can earn from dice rolls and they match up with the symbols on the dice.The only symbol that does not earn you crest points is the summon crest, which looks like a start with a number inside of it. This symbol allows you to summon a monster right away.
 You should select the dice set that corresponds with the monster level that you hope to summon. Therefore, if you want to summon a level one monster, then you should select the level one dice set. Once you have selected your dice set, roll the dice to see if you can summon or just collect points., If you roll crest symbols other than the summon crest, then you can add them to your crest counter. Make sure that you pay attention to the symbols and only give yourself the number of crests indicated by the dice roll., If you rolled 2 summon crests of the same level, then you get to summon a monster right away. Make sure that the monster you summon matches the level of the dice you rolled.For example, you cannot summon a level 3 monster if you rolled the level 2 dice set.
 After you have selected the monster that you want to summon, place a dungeon piece on the board and place your monster on the dungeon piece. Now your monster is on the board and you may use progress crest points to advance it into other dungeon spaces that you add to the board.Make sure that the first dungeon piece you place on the board is touching one side of your monster lord’s space. All other pieces that you place must be connected to other dungeon pieces.
Dungeon pieces may not overlap or go over the edge of the field.
 Continue to roll the dice, summon monsters, build dungeons, and collect crest points in your following turns. You may also begin moving your pieces forward on the board and attacking your opponent’s pieces. During your turn, each of your monsters may move and attack once.Keep in mind that you must use crest points to move and attack. You cannot move or attack if you do not have enough crest points.
If you use one of your monster’s special abilities, then you cannot move and attack with that monster during that turn.
You may move and attack as many of your monsters as you like during your turn as long as you have enough crest points to do so.
 Every time an opponent attacks you, you will need to place damage counters to indicate how many points of damage that monster has taken. If the monster is killed, then you will need to flip the card over and remove the monster figure from the board., The winner is the first player to kill the other player’s monster lord. Monster lords have 3 life points instead of hit points. That means that a monster lord will die after it has been attacked three times. It does not matter how powerful the piece is. Any three attacks will kill the monster lord.Place one damage counter on your monster lord’s space for each time that it is attacked. Your monster lord is dead after it has been attacked three times.
If you find yourself in a position where neither player can move or attack, then the player with the most life points left wins. If life points are equal, then the player with the most monsters on the board wins. If the number of monsters is equal, then the player with the most high-level monsters wins. If that number is equal, then the game is a tie.

