 Being a detective with a local, state or federal law enforcement agency is a demanding job, both physically and emotionally, in addition to requiring you to be mentally sharp at all times. You'll probably put in a lot of hours and see disturbing crime scenes. Ask yourself if you're prepared to deal with these elements of the job.;
, If you want to be a high-ranking detective working on priority cases, you'll likely need a bachelor of science degree in criminal justice. Find an accredited university or college (not a website claiming to offer criminal justice degrees) and put your four years in. A college degree will help you earn a higher salary and advance your career.


Learn a second language if you can. Speaking another language, especially in an ethnically diverse area, is a huge benefit as a law enforcement officer. It will help you make yourself useful and attract positive notice from your superiors.
 Most law enforcement officers start as patrol officers and move up as positions open. Keep your skills sharp so that you can test well and present a stunning application when a detective gig opens.
 When a detective slot opens, focus heavily on your application for the promotion. Highlight all the reasons why you're the best candidate, and discuss why your strengths make you a perfect fit for the job. Reread any written submissions several times for proofreading, and have a friend read it for clarity and spelling, if possible. Be prepared to take tests, undergo evaluations and answer probing questions, such as what your weaknesses are.


Display mental toughness throughout the process. Your ability to organize information in a coherent manner while withstanding distressing or drawn-out situations will be vital to becoming a competent detective. Show your superiors that you already possess this aptitude.
 Police work is currently listed as the third most stressful job in America. Keep an eye on your stress levels, and develop a hobby to help you relax and ultimately be better at your job when you're on the clock.

