 Rather than picking out an activity by yourself, it's a good idea to check with the group and see what everyone wants to do. Make sure to do something that everyone is comfortable with. If your dad hates heights, don't suggest something that would put him in an uncomfortable position. Make sure that everyone is on board and excited about the activity.
 Try to reach a consensus about what would be the best activity for all of you. Although it might seem daunting to go do something with your girlfriend and your parents, it has the potential of being a great bonding experience. Doing things together creates memories between all of you and can make everyone feel closer to each other and more comfortable in the future. Just because you are choosing to do an activity, it does not need to be something incredibly exciting or time-consuming. Even having dinner could be a good thing to do all together. Other options could be talking a walk around the neighborhood or seeing a play or movie together. An activity that involves physical exertion is always a good option, as studies show that exercise increases your mood. Pick an activity that you feel suits you all best. Go for something casual over something fancy. You want to feel at ease when you are all doing something together. A casual setting can help you to relax, while a formal one might make you feel nervous or stiff.
 Although some activities can be engaging or exciting, make sure that you don't get too wrapped up! After all, this is supposed to be a time when your girlfriend and parents are getting to know each other. You are the common denominator between them, so don't forget about your role as a bridge between them Make sure that you are not paying attention only to your girlfriend or only to your parents. If you are at dinner, make sure everyone is included in the conversation. If you and your girlfriend are on the same ping-pong team, for example, make sure to talk to your parents as well.
Try to keep up conversation between your parents and your girlfriend. Just because you are all doing an activity, that doesn't mean you can't talk! If you are playing a game, talk about how its going, it doesn't have to be anything deep!
Don't be too competitive. Maybe you're a naturally competitive person. Or maybe your mom always beats you at bowling and you're finally winning for once. It's important not to be competitive when you are doing activities with your parents and your girlfriend. The point of doing something together is to bond, not to win. Try to remember that even if you have a competitive urge.
 Make sure that they are all enjoying the activity that you are doing. If one of them looks like they aren't having fun, go over to them and check up with them. If they aren't enjoying themselves, ask them what they would like to do after the activity is over. If they don't have a preference, ask everyone or suggest an activity and see how everyone feels about it. Remember that this is about everyone having a good time.
 After the activity is over, tell your parents and girlfriend how much fun you had. You can even say something like, "Thanks for doing that with me, I had a lot of fun." Even if you didn't have a fantastic time, it is a nice way of letting your parents and your girlfriend know that you appreciate them and that you want them all to get along together. This gratitude could go a long way in making interactions between everyone easier! 