 Even if you're not eating a pumpkin, you should inspect and clean it before carving. You want your pumpkin to be clean before you handle it for carving.Remove any mushy or moldy spots on the pumpkin with a knife.
Rub the pumpkin down with a vegetable brush or a clean, rough cloth. Then, run the pumpkin under water to remove any dirt.
 If you brought your pumpkin from outside, it may be a little cold. Let the pumpkin sit until it's around room temperature. You can use your hand to gauge whether the temperature of the pumpkin matches the temperature of the room. Pumpkins are easiest to carve at room temperature., It's actually easier, and safer, to carve a hole at the bottom of the pumpkin to start, but carving the top is the traditional method. Using the bottom way, you can smooth out the bottom of the pumpkin's inside where you will later set down your candle. This reduces the risk of the candle toppling over, which could cause a fire.








Turn the pumpkin sideways and use a knife to trace a large hole at the bottom of the pumpkin. Your opening should be big enough that you can easily reach inside the pumpkin. Take a small knife and gently cut around the hole, and then use your knife to pry out the bottom.
Take your knife and use it to level out the bottom of the pumpkin. Cut off the excess seeds and strings from the bottom of the pumpkin, striving to cut a neat line. You're trying to create a level surface on which you will place a candle.
 You can now reach into the pumpkin and dig out the seeds. A spoon, particularly a serrated spoon, works best here. If you're using a pumpkin carving kit, you may have received a serrated spoon with the kit. You can also use an ice cream scoop. Some people prefer to use their fingers to dig out the seeds.








Dig out all the seeds using your hands or a spoon. Make sure there are no seeds left in the pumpkin when you're done.
If you're saving the seeds to roast later, make sure to set them in a safe place.
 Use a clay modeling tool, which typically comes with a pumpkin carving kit, to smooth out the inner walls. You can also buy a clay modeling tool at a craft store if you don't have one. Run the tool along the walls of the pumpkin, removing strings and making the walls smoother overall.








After the walls are smoothed out, there will be a lot of strings and goo stuck on the side of the pumpkin. Remove these with a spoon.
 Once you've cleaned out the pumpkin, place the bottom back in place. You should be able to simply press it back into place using your hands. You can then cut another, similar sized hole on the top, near the stem. Your pumpkin is now ready to carve for Halloween.