 This does not mean that you are randomly grabbing fistfuls and hair and trying to straighten those. When you have sections that are too thick the iron can't straighten them properly and you will need to reapply heat which is more likely to cause damage to your hair.









When you create sections it is easier to keep track of your progress. So split your hair into the middle at the back and bring it forward. This gives you two sections. Because you're trying to straighten thick, curly hair you'll need to separate it into at least four sections. Two on top and two on the bottom.
Make sure the rest of the sections are clipped out of the way when you are working on one of them.
 Because your hair is thicker and curlier you're going to need a higher heat setting. While you still probably won't want to go all the way up to 450 degrees, you'll need to do a little experimenting to see what temperature works best to straighten your hair.


If your hair is color treated as well as thick and curly you will need to stay in the safer zone of 300 degrees to 350 degrees.
 You want to clip the top two sections on the top of your head so they're out of the way. Divide the two sections you've already created on the bottom part of your hair into smaller sections, about one to two inches wide.








Use a comb or brush to pull a section of hair as taut as possible with your one hand, while smoothing your flatiron along that section with the other hand.
You start at the roots of your hair and move the ends of your hair in one fluid smoothing motion.
 This rule isn't set in stone, especially for thick, curly hair, but the more you avoid going over your sections more than once, the less damaged your hair is going to be in the long run.
 This will give you the smooth, polished look and cut down on frizz as much as possible. It's good to have a smoothing product that resists humidity, if you're living in a place where that's an issue.









Serums are the best choice for thick hair.
It's also a good idea to apply it to your hair after it's cooled down from the straightening process. Coat a brush with product and brush it through your hair for an even application.

