 In our modern age, ending a relationship may still have loose ends with regards to social media like Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. If you're still "friends" with your ex via social media, assess how often you find yourself on their feed. Are you constantly checking on what they're doing?Limit your time on social media sites after a break-up. Social media sites often give false impressions of real life. They tend to focus on the positive, happy times. But real life is not what's on Instagram.
Avoid spending time looking at your ex's feed or the feeds of your ex's friends. If you can't be present with your new guy, you're likely still hung up on the old one.
Assess the types of photos you're posting. Are you posting pictures to possibly get the attention of your ex? Or are you posting pictures because you're genuinely happy with the new guy?

, A new guy should not be a "replacement" for the last one. No two people and no two relationships will be the same. Avoid looking for a new person to date so you can emulate the feelings you had with your ex. Focus on being present with the new guy in your life. If you seem to be constantly distracted or comparing him to your ex, it can be difficult to find out if you actually like the guy.
On the other hand, avoid using a new guy as a "crutch." Don't be fooled that a new guy will fix everything.
You may be inclined to find someone who's the exact opposite of your ex. While at times this may work, don't try to find someone who is completely different just to avoid being reminded of your ex. Think about the qualities that actually matter to you in a relationship.
 Make sure to take time for you. Being single is not a bad or negative thing. The most important love in your life is yourself. You have worth and value.Get to know what matters to you. Find out what makes you happy and confident in yourself.

Find passion in life rather than seeking another guy to validate you as a person. Avoid feeling like you can only do things when you're with someone. Try new things on your own. Take classes that interest you. Find hobbies that fulfill you. Be adventurous.
 Every relationship and every break-up is a growing experience. It's a time to learn about yourself and find out what truly makes you happy. While it is important to be accepting of new relationships and new people, it's important to think about what really matters for your happiness.


Don't be blinded by looks alone. Think about what makes a good relationship for you. Does the guy you're interested in seem to be a good fit for you? Or is he just a friendly person who seems nice?
A healthy relationship revolves around love, kindness, honesty, joy, patience, openness, and loyalty.Think about what your deal breakers are. Is this new guy already in a relationship or dating multiple people? Is he trustworthy? Is he often angry or abusive? Is he inattentive or uncaring? Does he have a history of STDs? Does he have a drug or alcohol problem?