 Skipping sleep can aggravate any issue you might be facing. Adults need 7-8 hours of sleep a night, with as few interruptions as possible. Sleeping too much can cause lethargy and depression, while sleeping too little can damage your immune resistance, your weight, and your mental health.If you are having trouble sleeping at night, try to build a relaxing bedtime routine. Give yourself an hour before bed to brush your teeth, change into soft pajamas, and do one restful activity, such as reading, meditating, watching a show, or listening to music.
Cut down on alcohol and caffeine, and try not to nap.
When a work-related or stressful thought comes to you at night, say gently to yourself "It's not time to think about that. It's my bedtime."

, Regular exercise can make you more energetic, confident, healthy, and relaxed.Most adults should get at least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity or 75 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity a week. Break your exercise up into shorter increments across the week. If you don't like the gym, try going on brisk walks, taking bike rides, or attending dance or yoga classes.
 Cooking at home is cheaper and healthier than eating out, so teach yourself to cook the things you love, and keep a well-stocked fridge. Rather than bothering with vitamins and supplements, eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, and vary your diet. Eating a wide range of foods will help you get the nutrients your body needs.Make sure to get the protein and carbohydrates you need for energy.


Eat at least three meals a day with healthy snacks in between.
 Treat yourself the way any human deserves to be treated: with compassion, respect, and love. Instead of being down on yourself, speak to yourself with calm attention. When negative thoughts and feelings come to you, name them. Identify the situations that bring those feelings on. Accept the feelings as they come, but analyze the beliefs behind them.If you have a negative feeling that comes often, name it and treat it like an annoying by-product of your environment. Say "oh, there's body-shame again. Probably because I'm in this waiting room surrounded by magazines depicting one body type."

, Mindfulness means paying attention to your thoughts, senses, and feelings in the moment, without interpretation or judgment. It can relieve your anxiety, and help you relax out of a negative spiral.To practice mindfulness, pay attention to your senses. List everything you can see, smell, hear, and feel in the moment.Try saying what you are doing when you begin to feel tense or stressed. Say "I am walking up the street. I am holding my jacket closed. I am breathing."
Feel the breath coming in and out of you. Notice which parts of your body rise and fall. When your mind wanders, remind yourself to pay attention to your breath. To relax your whole body, tense and relax each muscle in turn.
 Know what you are earning and spending. Make sure you have enough to pay for your monthly expenses and put aside for the future. If you are spending more than you earn, see if you can reduce your expenses. Having a budget will reduce your anxiety and help you make better decisions.


Calculate what you make each month, what you are spending, and what you are spending it on. Then calculate what you can afford to spend each month.
If you don't have a savings account, open one. Calculate an amount you can afford to deposit in it every month.
Ways to start saving money include cooking at home, buying ingredients from scratch instead of buying processed food, taking public transportation, and not buying drinks from bars or coffee shops.
 One realistic way to help yourself is to recognize the value of an outside opinion. There are some situations we can't get out of on our own. If you are struggling with an addiction, mental illness, money trouble, legal trouble, or abuse, you might have trouble recovering without the knowledge and skillset of a professional.

