 You will need to have a valid cable television package in order to watch live TV from the Xfinity website. If you are only receiving internet service from Xfinity, you will not have access to live TV.

Click the Sign In link on the Xfinity homepage to log in with your account information.
If you don't have an account set up, you can create one by entering your account number, birthday, address, and phone number. If the entered information matches your account information, your account will be created.
 At the top of the Xfinity homepage, you will see a row of buttons that take you to various parts of the Xfinity network. Click the TV button to open the TV page.

Select the "Watch Online" tab in the TV page if it is not already selected.
 At the top of the "Watch Online" tab, you will see several options that let you choose what kind of programming you want to watch. Click the "Live TV" option to see what's available to watch live., A list of available channels will appear, along with what programs are currently airing. Not every channel will be available due to different contracts, and some require an extra subscription. Click the "Watch" button on one of the available channels to begin watching.

If you are prompted to install anything in order to watch, follow the instructions to ensure that everything is updated properly.
 You will need to have a valid cable television package in order to watch live TV from the U-verse website. If you are only receiving internet service from U-verse, you will not have access to live TV.

Click the Sign In link on the U-verse homepage to log in with your account information.
 Click the Browse button next to the search bar at the top of the U-verse homepage. Select "Live TV" from the menu that appears. The U-verse Live TV guide will appear, listing everything that is currently airing., U-verse has some channels available to watch anywhere as long as you are signed in. Other channels, labeled "In-Home Only", can only be watched from your computer as long as you are connected to your home network., If you want to watch channels that require "In-Home Only" viewing, you will need to download and install the browser plug-in. This plug-in authenticates your browser and ensures that you are connected to your home network. You can install the plug-in by clicking the "Install Plug-in" button at the top of the page and following the instructions.

You will not need the plug-in if you are only trying to watch regular streaming channels.
 Hover over the channel you want to watch and click the "Watch Now" button that appears. A new tab will open, and after a few moments the video will begin playing., You will need to have a valid cable television package in order to watch live TV from the Time Warner website. If you are only receiving internet service from Time Warner, you will not have access to live TV.

Click the Sign In link on the Time Warner homepage to log in with your account information.
 Hover over the TV menu option on the Time Warner homepage, and click the "Watch TV Online" link. This will take you to the Time Warner online video player.

If you are not signed in yet, you will be asked to sign in to access the guide and player.
 On the left side of the player, you will see a list of available channels. This list is based on your current television package as well as what is available for online streaming (not all channels support online streaming). Scroll through the list to find a program you want to watch., Click the program to begin streaming it in the main video player screen. You can adjust the volume and screen size by using the controls at the bottom-right corner of the player.