 Remember to count every cabinet, closet, drawer and door. Then do it again. You'll be really annoyed with yourself if you miscount and have to wait to get more knobs!;
,, The trend right now is for large scale knobs, but you need to be careful. Huge knobs on small scale furniture can look a bit cartoonish, which may be just the look you're after! If you have frame and panel doors and drawers, you'll want to consider the width of the rails. As a general rule, knobs or pulls no wider than half the rail width look best.
 Knobs generally ship with a 1 ½ – 2" screw, and you should check to be sure this will work for your installation. Doors and drawers will sometimes need two different screw lengths and different pieces of furniture may need different sizes. Drawers with faces applied as a separate piece will require screws to pass through 1 ¼" - 1 ½" of wood or substrate. Doors are usually made of ¾" lumber so 1" screws usually work. You can measure the depth of the face where the screw will go in. In addition to length, you must have screws that are the correct diameter. This won't be an issue if you can use the screws that came with your knobs. But if the screws that came with your knob aren't the right length, the best thing to do is figure out the length you need and take the knob to the hardware store with you so that you're sure to get a screw that is the correct diameter.
 (For stubborn screws, squirt a little W-D40 onto the screw head, or use a drop or two of Goo Gone directly on the screw head. Allow the substance to set for a few minutes and the screw should come out with little effort.)

, Drill holes if needed. The holes you drill should be the correct diameter, and should be drilled perpendicular to the surface. If you drill at an angle it can be hard to get the knobs to screw in tightly.
 (Just enough to get it started.)

, Tighten the screws after all screws for that handle have been installed and you are satisfied with the fit, the look, and the alignment of the new handle.
