 For a good quick fake-out, use the outside of your foot instead of the inside of your foot to slice the ball in the opposite direction. This is a trick commonly used in soccer.


Bend your ankle so that your toe is pointed toward your plant foot and strike the ball with the outside edge of your foot, just behind your little toe. When you strike the ball, straighten out your foot to make it go in the other direction.
 This might not be the most practical way to kick a ball off the ground, but doing a spinning heel kick can be a great fake-out when you're messing around with your friends. It's hard to control, but with some practice you can learn to strike the ball accurately almost every time.


As you step toward a ball on the ground, plant your non-kicking foot on the opposite side of the ball that you normally would, twisting your body around as you do it. Swing your kicking foot around, sweeping into the ball with your heel. If you're right-footed, you would turn clockwise and if you're left-footed you would turn counter-clockwise.
 Rainbows are one of the cornerstones of fancy soccer footwork. If you want to really improve your skills, pulling off a rainbow can help impress your teammates. There's not much cause to use it in a game, but it's an intimidating way to practice in front of the other team.


As you're dribbling around, step with your kicking foot in front of the ball, stopping the ball with your heel. Use the instep of your non-kicking foot to trap the ball against your heel. In one fluid motion, do a little hop step with both feet, flicking the ball up and over your head, back in front of your body.
It'll take some practice to get the right amount of hop and power into the kick to get it to go where you want it to go. Practice while stationary at first, then gradually try to do it at speed.
 Done properly, a bicycle kick can be one of the most spectacular shots in all of soccer. Think of it like a backwards punt, done when you've got your back facing the directions in which you want the ball to travel. To pull of a bicycle kick, lean your body backward and gently fall onto your back while you bring your kicking leg up for a kick. Strike the ball over your head as you fall, so it goes back behind you.


You need to be extremely careful not to flat-back and hurt yourself, and to tuck your chin so you don't hit the back of your head hard on the ground. Do this on soft grassy surfaces and be extremely careful.

