 This is probably one of, if not the most, important steps in the process. If you have had girls think you are stupid in the past, it may have been because you were picking the wrong girls. Chose a girl who is around or below your intelligence level. If you are a barely passing classing or understanding what is going on in the workplace, pick someone who is in the same boat. If you pick the genius in the class, it is very possible she could think you are stupid.;
, If you are at the club and you eye a fine-looking lady, go up to here and say, “Hello, my name is _____. I noticed you because of ______. What’s your name?” Say this in a confident voice while maintaining eye contact. Do not try to use a pick-up line, grab her, get too close to her, or stare at her assets.If she is rude to you, simply say, “Alright mam, I just wanted to introduce myself. Have a nice night.” Do not act rude towards her. If she is responds positively, you can ask her to dance or if you can buy her a drink.If you in a work school environment, you can walk up to her when she is not busy and say essentially the same thing as above. If you are in a school environment, talk to her at the very end or beginning of class, or in the hall. Do not try to talk to her in the middle of a meeting or class “Hello. My name is ______. I work over in ______. I’ve seen you around and was wondering if you wanted to grab lunch together sometime. ” If you are embarrassed about where you work, then you don’t have to tell her that. If she is rude or seems offended, it may be best to apologize. “Well that’s okay; I hope you have a great day anyway.” Do not act rude towards her. If she responds positively, have a place for lunch already in mind. It makes you seem prepared. If she says she has been to that place recently ask if she would like to go somewhere else.
 You can make a positive remark about her name or one of her features. Do not ramble about an ex-girlfriend, dog, sister you had with that name. Do not comment on any features covered by clothing. Then you can ask her about her day, her interests/hobbies, and other things. If she brings up a subject that you are absolutely clueless about, tell her that. It doesn’t make you look stupid. If you know nothing about a subject and try to lie your way through the conversation, you will look much more incompetent. Talk about things that you have a great interest in or a lot of knowledge about. Since these are things you are already confident in, that will shine through.
 Be kind to her. Don’t try to make fun of her unless you already know her very well. Have a good time. Relax and tell appropriate information about yourself. If she shares something silly, you can as well, but try to keep the same level of appropriateness of the girl you picked up.
 What happened that made you trip up on your words? What did you say that made her think you are not intelligent? What made you tell that embarrassing story about your Uncle John? Prepare for the next time you wish to pick up a girl by having “stock stories” to tell to fill the awkward silence. Make sure that these are appropriate and show off positive elements of yourself.

