 Your horse must learn that a treat is a reward for specific behavior. Your horse should be in a stall or in tied in a quiet area where there are no distractions. Place 8 treats in your pocket or in a small pouch.


The treats must be hidden from your horse. Your horse needs to associate the treat with whatever cue you give and not be able to see the treats.;
, Stand in front of your horse. Use a clicker, whistle, or say “yes” to get your horse’s attention. As soon as you make the sound, present the treat to your horse. Your horse will then associate a treat with whatever sound that you make.Timing is extremely important. The sound you make is a signal that a treat is coming. Never present the treat before you have made the sound.
 Horses love to get treats and will always want more than you give. Your horse may try to grab the food, lean into you, or bite your hand. This type of behavior is called mugging. If your horse misbehaves, do not give them the treat until they have calmed down.If you give your horse a treat when they mugs you, they will think that behavior is acceptable. They will then begin to misbehave just to get a treat.
Some people think that giving treats as a reward is a problem. However, the problem is reinforcing bad behavior with treats. As long as you teach your horse how to properly get treats, you should be fine.
 Use your horse’s name any time you are near them. This will help your horse learn what their name is. Only use their name when you are doing something pleasant. Your horse needs to associate their name with good experiences.For example, shots, deworming, or long workouts are not pleasant for your horse.
Scratching your horse in their favorite spot, brushing their mane, or going for a walk are pleasant experiences for your horse., Give your horse a treat each time you use their name. Again, adding a treat reinforces that hearing their name is a good thing.Your horse should already know that treats are a reward for expected behavior. Treats your horse may like include apples, carrots, horse raisins, grapes, bananas, strawberries, melons, celery, pumpkin, and snow peas.Call your horse by their name and give them the treat when they look at you or respond to their name. Try not to reward them, though, when they look at you without your prompting.
Cut treats such as apples and carrots into smaller pieces so your horse will not choke. Only give your horse one or two small pieces as a treat. You can also find safe horse treats at local supply stores, or make your own from recipes online.
Many horses are known to like peppermint, and may be responsive to the crinkling noise made by the wrappers.
Avoid giving your horse onions, potatoes, tomatoes, cabbage, and Brussels sprouts These foods will give your horse gas.
 Approach your horse, say their name, and give them a cue such as “cookie time.” Once you have their attention, you will give them a treat. You may say, “Cookie time, Max.” You can use whatever cue you like; just be consistent.Your horse will eventually learn that the cue plus their name means that they are getting a treat. They will start taking steps toward you when you say the cue and their name.
 Once the horse makes the connection between the cue and their name, they will begin to approach you. Gradually increase the distance that your horse has to walk. Each time the horse comes, take a few steps back.As you increase the distance, you should also change the order of the cue and name. You would say, “Max, cookie time.”

, When your horse begins to regularly come when their name is called, reward them by rubbing their face instead of giving them a treat. A face rub is an alternate treat that is very pleasurable for your horse.You do not want your horse to expect a treat every single time you call them. The treat is used as a training tool, not a permanent reward.


If your horse expects a treat but does not get one, they may become disobedient., Start by having your horse come close to you and rewarding them verbally and with a treat. Don't place their halter on them too frequently early on. This way, they will learn that coming to you doesn't always mean work. Alternate having your horse come to you and putting on their halter with having them come and then releasing them., Alternate giving treats with rewards like face rubs. This way, your horse learns not to expect a treat every time they are called. This can also keep horses healthy or help reward overweight horses who should not have excessive treats.

Other alternate rewards include scratches or rubs, soft words of encouragement, and spending quality non-working time with them.
 Developing a relationship with your horse requires time just like any other relationship. Go and sit with your horse while they are eating in their stall. Sit and watch them graze in a field.Go for a walk and allow them to explore.


Spending time with your horse outside of training and vet visits helps them associate you with relaxation and allows the two of you to bond.
If you go for a ride or train your horse, let them graze at the end of your session.
 Horses groom each other when they are in the wild and groom each other to show affection. When you groom your horse, you are doing the same thing. This will also help you know how your horse likes to be touched.Grooming your horse also helps you understand them and identify what normal behavior is. Through regular grooming, you can notice when something may be wrong with your horse.
 Your horse will thrive and trust you if you are consistent. Your horse will know what to expect from you and feel comfortable around you. Reward positive behaviors and do not reward negative behaviors. You do not want to send mixed signals.Consistency also includes having a regular feeding schedule, riding schedule, and training schedule. Be patient. learning these schedules will take time and require practice for both you and the horse.
Horses do not like surprises.They are designed to run and be fearful of anything that may be threatening.
The ultimate goal is to have your horse want to work with you. It's up to you to recognize their behaviors and personality and learn to work with rather than against that.

