 A good breeder will want to work with you to find the right dog for you. Explain the qualities you're looking for in a dog and ask the breeder to help you select the right puppy.


Oftentimes, breeders will not let you pick from the whole litter. They may narrow down your search to 2 or 3 puppies that meet your qualifications and have you choose from them.The breeder will ask you a lot of questions while you explain what you want. Once again, this is a good thing. A quality breeder wants to make sure his puppies are matched in good homes and won't end up in shelters down the road., You should also ask for the health records of the parents of any litter. Golden Retrievers are generally healthy, but there are a few concerns that are inheritable you should watch for.


Cancer is a major killer for Golden Retrievers, but seeing cancer in your puppy's lineage is not necessarily a red flag. It is unknown whether cancer in goldens is genetic and, as over half of all goldens eventually get cancer, it may unfortunately be an inevitable part of owning the breed.Hip dysplasia, however, is a genetic disease and can be very painful for your dog and costly to treat. Make sure your retrievers parents have been tested for hip dysplasia and get regular hip x-rays to make sure the disease is not developing.Heart disease is also common in goldens, and can lead to unexpected deaths when your puppy is still young. Heart disease is not always inherited however, but you should still watch for it in your puppy's pedigree. While you might still choose to adopt the puppy if he has a family history of heart disease, you should talk to your vet about periodic chest x-rays to monitor him for the condition., You should observe how puppies behave in a group to select the best puppy for you.


The puppy you select should be social. He should engage with his litter mates without behaving in an overly aggressive, overly alpha way.See how the puppy responds to moving objects. You want a puppy that's smart and active, so make sure he has at least some instinct to follow and chase any balls. You also want a puppy that shares toys, one that will now fight with other pets over a rope, ball, or chew toy., You can learn a lot about puppies based on how they behave during one-on-one interactions.


You want a puppy that's not shy when separated from its litter mates. Puppies should be curious about new surroundings at 7 to 8 weeks, and should explore the territory while occasionally interacting with you.Make sure the puppy is relatively well behaved. A puppy that's too bold and is constantly getting into things might be more commitment than you're ready for.A puppy that seems shy when separated from its litter may not be a good option. That puppy may develop behavioral issues down the road., Make sure the puppy you choose is in good health. You do not want to adopt a puppy with any signs of disease.


Healthy puppies should be energetic with glossy coats and clear eyes.Closely examine the puppy's eyelid and eyelashes, as certain hereditary disorders are marked by drainage from the eyes.Never adopt a Golden Retriever if the breeder does not offer a health clearance or health papers. A reputable breeder will want to keep you informed of any possible health conditions or genetic disorders your puppy may experience to assure that you're prepare for the commitment and the dog will not end up abandoned later in life.Pay attention to ear size. Some goldens have floppier ears than others. While this is not necessarily a red flag, be aware a floppy-eared dog may be prone to ear infections, especially if you allow him to swim.