 If you are ever at the beach and see a marine animal stranded on-shore, there are ways you can help. For safety reasons it's best to stay far away from the animal (at least 150 feet), but you can call your local marine animal hotline to report your sighting.Find your local marine animal hotline online by searching for emergency animal assistance in your area. For example, the New England Aquarium (based out of Boston) has a 24-hour Marine Animal Hotline at (617) 973-5247.Do not be alarmed if you see a seal on the beach. Seals will often swim onto shore to sleep, nurse, or warm up in the sun. If you see a seal, simply leave it be.Sea turtles, whales, dolphins, and porpoises do not belong on shore, and will only be out of the water if they are seriously injured or become beached after the tide washes out. If you see any of these animals, call to report the sighting immediately., Whether it's a neighbor whose yard you see everyday or a coworker who talks about the way he treats his animals, at some point you may encounter a case of animal abuse or neglect. It's best to proceed with caution in these cases to ensure your safety as well as the animal's safety. Do not try to confront someone who abuses animals yourself, as the individual may be dangerous.


If you encounter or know of an emergency situation in which an animal's life or health is in serious jeopardy, call 911 immediately.If you suspect neglect but there are no signs of abuse or violent tendencies, some experts recommend having a polite conversation with the individual. You can offer assistance, like asking if the individual needs help walking his dog, for example. Or you can mention that perhaps the animal would be better off in a more appropriate home where the animal could receive adequate care and attention. However, you should only approach the individual if you're certain that he will not react aggressively/violently or engage in any kind of harassment against you.If the individual is not approachable, or if you believe the animal is being abused, call your local law enforcement or your local Humane Society or SPCA to report the situation., If you're interested in making a real difference for animals, you may want to consider writing to your elected local, state, and federal officials in charge of policy making. You can sign petitions, or create your own petitions to be delivered to your chosen elected official(s)., There are many ways you can help your local shelter or animal rights agency. You can give monetary donations to help cover the costs of operation, or you can volunteer your time and energy to the agency. Many animal shelters are in need of dog walkers, feeders, and other volunteers to help around the shelter.


Look up your local shelter or animal rights agency online and call or email them to ask about volunteer opportunities.
 If you're interested in teaching others about humane practices and lifestyles, you may want to consider taking courses in humane education. For example, the Humane Society offers a number of courses leading to both the Certified Humane Education Specialist (CHES) and Certified Animal Welfare Administrator (CAWA) credentials.Humane Education Specialists work with teachers, school administrators, and outreach personnel, as well as shelter directors and community advocates and law enforcement officers, to teach community members about how to be humane citizens helping animals at home and in the community.