 Try to establish a good relationship with one of the bankers. Check for annual fees and processing fees – banks will usually waive these fees for college students. Make sure that you understand all of the required fees before you open an account with a bank. Aim for zero fees so that your bank account doesn't work against you.


Ask the banker which wealth growing strategies are available for college students. For instance, a popular choice is to periodically put money into a time-deposit and earn interest throughout the year. This also encourages a saving habit.If you get a credit card, make sure there is no annual fee. If there is, get it waived by your banker.
 Keep track of what you're spending money on, and make sure that there's always a bit of money in your account. Make sure that checks don't bounce, as invalid checks incur processing fees.Consider setting up a low-balance notification. Some banks will send you text or email alerts when your balance falls below a set point: for instance, $50. This way, you'll know when you're running low, and you can plan your spending accordingly.
 Many colleges work with banks to help you take out student loans; some colleges even offer financial aid to students that have trouble affording the price of admission. Visit your university's website and understand which choices are available to you. Understand that if you take out loans, you are putting yourself (often tens of thousands of dollars) into debt. Consider whether you want this money hanging over your head for years after you graduate – or whether you have any options.


Financial aid programs usually require that you prove a low-income background. You may need to keep up a minimum GPA requirement in order to keep the money flowing, and you may need to meet other requirements; say, living on campus, or participating in certain organizations. FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) is the most common place to start applying for financial aid.Apply for student loans through the Department of Education, or speak directly with a representative at your bank. Ask your parents, your teachers, and your counselors for advice before you take out loans. Always be aware of the consequences.
 Save it for emergencies, if you can afford to do so, and try to build a solid credit history. You can also use them for the needs and most guaranteed expenses on your budget. For instance, if you live alone and in a distant place from home, groceries might be an important part of the budget. With that in mind, you can set aside cash for groceries, then use your credit card to make those food purchases. At the end of the month, when the bill comes in, you'll have the money sitting in your account to pay off the entire bill., Clear your card charges monthly, and pay in full. Credit card charges are ridiculously high – often upwards of 30%. If you ever find yourself starting to incur credit card interest charges, you will quickly find yourself deep in debt. Avoid the mistake from the start, and clear your monthly credit card bills in a timely manner.


Save first, spend last. If you're tempted to incur credit card debt, do not get a credit card and spend cash only. Do not spend what you do not have.

