 While some chefs love cutting herbs with a knife, there is a risk of cutting yourself and it can also be messy. Cutting herbs with scissors or shears straight into the mixing bowl, pot or dish is easy and makes less mess than a knife.


Chives, basil and parsley are good fresh herbs for cutting with scissors or shears.
Fresh garlic cloves and ginger slices can be cut quickly using scissors or shears.
Keep your fingers well away from chilli peppers by snipping with the scissors or shears instead of a knife.
 Snipping with scissors and shears is often faster than using a knife for certain vegetables like scallions and baby carrot tops.


Woody ends of mushrooms and fungi can be cut off easily with scissors.
Cut the ends of spinach and Asian greens.
Cut the florets off broccoli or cauliflower.
 You'll get a really neat edge and may find you have greater control over cutting a straight line while holding the pastry than is the case with a knife.


In similar vein, sushi wrapping (nori) and other dried food sheets are easier to cut using shears or scissors.
 Scissors or shears are especially good for the precision cutting required for cutting between rows of ravioli. They're also great for shortening fresh spaghetti lengths.


Dried noodles can also be cut using kitchen scissors.
 This can be a quick way to add cheese for such dishes as omelets and scrambled eggs when you discover you don't have grated cheese and need to add cheese really quickly.
 A type of kitchen shears called poultry shears are made especially for cutting joints of whole cooked birds. Kitchen scissors and shears can also spare you from having to cut meat, seafood or fish on a cutting board, improving hygiene. Also:


Use the shears to cut off the wing tips of chicken and turkey.
Cut raw or cooked poultry into bite-sized pieces.
Cut scales or fins off fish when preparing the fish for cooking.
Cut rotisserie chicken.
Use to cut through the backbone when spatchcocking poultry.
Cut bacon pieces into lardons.
Use them to cut open crab legs.
Trim fat off meat.
 Removing external elements of fruit is easy with kitchen scissors or shears. For example, cut off pineapple leaves, strawberry tops or cut grapes into smaller bunches. They can be used to open banana skins for easier peeling.


If you hang bananas from a banana tree, use the scissors to snap off each banana as you want to eat it. This helps to stop any other peels from splitting on the remaining bananas.
 Some foods added to baking or used for decorating in baking is made simpler using kitchen scissors or shears. For example:


Cut dried fruits into halves or pieces with oiled scissors or shears.
Cut lengths of preserved angelica for decorating or baking with.
Make shredded coconut from larger dried coconut pieces.
Use to slash pie tops before baking.
Snip bread to make croutons.
 There are various baked goods that might benefit from using scissors or shears:


Cut pizza or focaccia into slices.
Cut flat breads into smaller sizes or slices.
Cut tortillas and quesadillas.

