 Read all the instructions in the packet before beginning to fill out the application. You will need to fill it out by printing with black ink or with a typewriter.;
, You can find these courses at examprep.org/arizona_contractors_license. People who live outside of Arizona but want to take the Arizona test may choose to take these classes in order to better understand the requirements in another state.


These classes are specialized, just as a contractor's license is. For example, you are required to take different tests if you want to be a residential remodeling contractor than if you want to be a large commercial contractor or a plumbing contractor.
 You can call 1-800-733-9267 or visit azroc.gov/l_Exam.html to find out what exams are required for your contractor application. They are specific to the type of contractor you would like to become.
 You will be asked to choose a state and the "Arizona Contractor" exam from the drop-down menu. Then you will need to find your exam listed among the many contractors examinations.
 Most of these exams are open book exams and can be taken on the computer. In the case that the exam is conducted on-site, you can also schedule it in this section.


You must create an account in order to take the test online. This will include your name, address, personal information and possibly the name of your business. You may also do a telephone registration at 1-800-733-926, or you may fill out the examination test form and send it into the address listed on the form in your packet.
If you take an exam on site in either the Phoenix, Tucson, Flagstaff or Yuma testing center, you will required to bring 2 forms of identification. You will also have to follow strict test-taking protocol.
 The bond protects the company and clients in case of bankruptcy or malpractice. The application lists how large the bond must be for your type of contracting and whether you would like to provide a cash bond, a certificate of deposit or a surety bond.
 The Contractor's Recovery Fund application fee is $450, or you can provide a larger bond. Go to azroc.gov/Recovery/answers.html for more information about the Recovery Fund.
 You may obtain a number in either Phoenix or Tucson at the Arizona Department of Revenue offices. Phone numbers and addresses are listed in the application packet.
 You will need to attach the insurance information to the application packet. This may be both business insurance and worker's compensation insurance.
 This will include the type of contractor's license you are seeking, the business organization, such as a sole proprietorship, partnership or corporation, the experience record and all business information, employees and financial details.
, Make sure you sign and date all necessary areas of the application. Incomplete applications will be returned to you, and they may require more processing fees.
 You will receive a license number if you have done all the required steps correctly. List your contractor's license number on all business forms, business cards and company information.

