 Once you're discharged from the hospital or clinic, you'll be told to rest your arm and apply ice to the injury while the arm sling or splint is on in order to help decrease the swelling and numb the pain. On the first day following your fracture, apply the ice or cold therapy for 20 minutes of every hour while you're awake.For the following two to four days, ice the inflamed and painful area every three to four hours for 20 minutes at a time. With applying cold therapy and taking NSAIDs, the inflammation should be gone after a week.


Depending on your job and if you injured your dominant arm, you may have to take a few weeks off work to recuperate. In general, healing takes four to six weeks in younger people and as long as 12 weeks in the elderly.Young athletes are often able to resume playing their sport within eight weeks of breaking their collarbones, but it depends on the severity of the break, type of sport and many other factors. Check with your physician when it is safe to resume full activity, including sports
If you don't have any ice handy, then you can use frozen gel packs or bags of vegetables from your freezer — corn or peas works bet. Never apply cold therapy directly to your skin, as it may cause ice burn or frostbite — wrap it in a thin towel first.
 After a few weeks when the inflammation appears gone and the pain has mostly faded away, remove your sling for short periods of time and lightly mobilize your arm and shoulder. Don't aggravate it so that it starts to throb again, but gently reintroduce a variety of movements to the involved joints, ligaments, tendons and muscles. Build up slowly, maybe starting with holding a coffee cup and progressing to a 5-pound weight, and start wearing your sling less.Your collarbone needs to move a little bit during the early stages of the injury to stimulate bone healing.


Lack of activity and complete immobilization of your shoulder/arm, in proportion with the time spent healing, will induce loss of bone mineral, which is counterproductive for fractured bone trying to regain its strength.Some movement and weight bearing seems to attract more minerals to the bones, which makes them stronger and less likely to break in the future.
There are three stages to bone healing: reactive stage (a blood clot forms between the two ends of the fracture), repair stage (specialized cells begin to form a callus, which spans the fracture), and remodeling phase (bone is created and the injury is slowly resculpted into its original shape)., Your bones, like any other tissue in your body, need all the essential nutrients in order to heal properly and quickly. Eating a balanced diet that includes ample minerals and vitamins is proven to help heal broken collarbones and other bones.As such, focus on eating fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, leans meats and drinking plenty of purified water and milk in order to give your body the building blocks it needs to repair your collarbone.


On the other hand, avoid consuming stuff that may impair your healing, such as alcohol, soda pop, fast food and foods made with lots of refined sugars.
Minerals and protein are important for strong and healthy bones. Excellent food sources include: dairy products, tofu, beans, broccoli, nuts and seeds, sardines and salmon.
 Although it's always a good idea to get essential nutrients from a well-balanced diet, supplementing with key bone-healing minerals and vitamins will ensure you meet your higher requirements without increasing your caloric intake. Eating more calories combined with less physical activity often triggers weight gain, which is not a desirable outcome after your collarbone or any injury heals. Remember to buy quality supplements with minimal or no binders and fillers in them, as you body absorbs them better.


Calcium, phosphorus and magnesium are the primary minerals found in bones, so find a supplement that contains all three. Adults need between 1,000 - 1,200 mg of calcium each day (depending on their age and gender), but you may require more for your healing collarbone — ask your doctor or nutritionist.Important trace minerals to consider include: zinc, iron, boron, copper and silicon. A good multi-mineral supplement should include all of these.
Important vitamins that aid in bone healing include: vitamins C, D and K. Vitamin C is needed to make collagen. Vitamin D is crucial for mineral absorption in the intestines, and as a bonus, your skin makes it in response to intense sunshine. Vitamin K binds calcium to bones and stimulates collagen formation.

