 Your friend is going through the ringer right now and is constantly reminded of their sadness. Pointing out any improvement you see in their condition, no matter how small, can give them the encouragement they need to continue on and keep their head up.


For example, you could say, “It’s great to see you dressed today,” or “There’s that beautiful smile. I’m so happy to see it today.” Giving them this sort of attention, instead of focusing on their grief, can inspire them to keep up the good work., Sometimes the best way to get negative feelings out is through exercise. When your friend is ready, suggest that they engage in physical activities that can make them feel better, both physically and emotionally. Offer to participate with them for encouragement.


Activities that your friend may benefit from include yoga, running, walking, joining a gym, or a team sport. Not only is your friend going to feel better, but it may strengthen your bond when you do it together.Invite your friend to go for a walk with you or offer to take them on a hike.
 Oftentimes, when a part of a couple, a person can lose touch with their own interests, style, and preferences. Inspire your friend to take advantage of singledom to rediscover their individuality.


You might suggest that they get a new haircut, test out a new wardrobe, or redecorate their apartment to reflect their own style. Making changes like this can distract your friend from the grief and help them fully commit to moving on., Close friends often serve as the spark to help a friend exit the moping stage and start re-experiencing life. Remind your friend to take time before entering a new relationship, but that shouldn't stop them from casually dating or filling up their social calendar.


Invite your friend to join you at gatherings or events. Introduce them to new friends or potential dates. Help them get re-acquainted with life as a single person.
Don't push them too hard. If they don't feel ready to start seeing someone new, then don't set up a surprise double-date. Let them set the pace and decide when they're ready.
 Experiencing a breakup is almost like going through a death. People who endure that experience suffer a deep loss and grieve as a result. A therapist may be able to help your friend get through this rough time and offer solutions to when times get really tough.


If you notice signs of depression, then it's important that you gently urge your friend to get help. Signs of depression include: isolating, decreased grooming and hygiene, difficulty completing normal tasks, increased irritability, mood swings, and significant change in appetite or sleep patterns.
To encourage your friend to seek therapy, you could say, “I know you are doing your best and trying to get through this rough time, but I think it may be helpful if you talk to a professional about this. They may be able to give you insight as to how to get through this situation better.”
They may be hesitant at first, but may see that it could actually be helpful, eventually.