 While both Epcot is educating the viewer with real-life situations and about a person's normal environment, both Disney's Hollywood Studios and Animal Kingdom both have standpoints much the same (though one is focused on the movies and the other on animals). The Magic Kingdom is focused on educational views, but in a fantasy-faire way.;
, While Magic Kingdom tends to be more fun than any of the other parks for those willing to stand the crowds, other parks can have just the same amount of fun if you know where (good clean) "fun" exists.
 While Early Magic Hours takes people away from certain parks when Disney expects to see massive hordes of people, it draws that out on other parks. Crowds will be focused more around the younger set at both Magic Kingdom and Animal Kingdom and the older crowds at Disney's Hollywood Studios and Epcot.
 While each park (except Epcot) has at least one, the park with the most thrill in their roller coaster is Space Mountain in the Magic Kingdom (though some people may beg to differ). Reports have been shown throughout websites and in many books including the Unofficial Guides books that Space Mountain trumps the others any day of the year (and in some can sometimes be too much excitement).
 While Epcot is set up in two moon-like circles around two famous circular shapes (World Showcase Lagoon and the Epcot(Spaceship Earth) ball), each of the other 3 theme parks have only one real central locale and has several lands traveling around the hub location.
 None of the others have this setup; once you're through the gates, the whole park is at your fingertips just by walking (no alternate forms are needed to get from the parking lot and entrance to the park itself.
, While the Magic Kingdom is by far the oldest(first opened in 1971), Animal Kingdom (opened in 1998) is by far the youngest of the 4 parks.
 Between the Haunted Mansion and Pirates of the Caribbean and it's a small world and the Enchanted Tiki Room, there's no way to resist not going to this park on any Disney World vacation.
 While at any given time and day parades could be yanked from the lineup, the two theme parks that don't have parades include Epcot and Animal Kingdom (one was the result of the parade being retired as of earlier 2014 and the other being the result of a retiring and non-replacement in the early 2000s). Most other parks contain at least 1 parade showing, if not 2 per day.
 Each theme park is different, but each theme park's lots are based on what the visitor is intending to see.
 No matter what park you use, you still have to pay the same admission fee. However, if you exit one parking lot and try to reenter another on the same day, keep your ticket and show it to the nice parking lot attendant and they'll gladly admit you to the parking lots with no additional charge (show your parking lot ticket and you'll be scott free to get in to two different parks on the same day).

