 Shelters may require different things of people when they volunteer. Even if you have volunteered at an animal shelter in the past, that doesn’t mean volunteering at a new place will be the same. Before you commit, ask the shelter what you will be expected to do and how many hours you will be required to volunteer.You may want to contact different shelters in your area to find one that fits better with your schedule and interests.
 Many shelters have different areas or duties you can volunteer for. Depending on the shelter, you may be able to choose where you volunteer, or the shelter may put you where you are needed most. You may be able to ask the shelter not to put you on a duty you really don’t want to do. Volunteer positions may include:Adoption support
Animal care
Dog walker
Education programs
Bather and groomer

, Many shelters have a volunteer schedule, so you will not be able to go in and volunteer whenever you want. The shelter will tell you when they need you. Many shelters also require volunteers to complete a certain number of hours per week or month. You may also be asked to commit to at minimum number of months.Before you agree to volunteer, make sure you can meet the scheduled hours. Dog shelters rely on volunteers to help take care of the dogs, so if you don’t show up, you are hurting the shelter.
Some shelters let you drop in when you have time or sign up for events you want to participate in.
 Some shelters require that you take a basic training class before you can volunteer. This training class may give you basics in working with dogs and performing basic tasks required of you as a volunteer.The classes may be given on an individual basis or once a month for all new volunteers.
 You can help out dog shelters in many ways. Volunteering your time is one way to help, but you may want to volunteer your resources, too. You can spread the word about the shelter and the dogs that need adopting.Many shelters need supplies to help take care of their dogs. You can donate items, like blankets, cleaning supplies, food, and puppy pads. You may also organize a drive for the community to donate needed items for the shelter.

