 This doesn't sound like a lot of time, but when you're busy and feel your life is out of control, you may not be able to find 10 minutes to spare. Take 10 minutes every day to clean something in your home. You can't clean everything in 10 minutes, but that's okay. You are taking small steps at improving your living space, which in turn will make you feel better.


Set an alarm for 10 minutes and turn on some music. Spend that time making your bed, putting away laundry, loading the dishwasher, vacuuming - whatever chore needs to be done.Assign a room for each day of the week. Mondays you clean your bedroom, while Tuesdays is your bathroom, and Wednesdays is your kitchen. This way you tidy up your entire home throughout the week.
 Our lives are chaotic. We have multiple commitments and only 24 hours in a day. Now with technology at our fingertips, we spend a lot of the day multitasking. While this can be effective, it also can be counterproductive and make us feel even more disorganized and spread thin. Try taking your tasks and focusing on them one at a time.Instead of working on 5 different incomplete projects and making a small amount of progress in each one, choose one project to devote your time to until you have finished it. That's one less thing on your to do list.
Don't try to clean your entire house at the same time. Focus on one room and refrain from moving to another room until that room is clean.
 Because things pile up and make us feel like failures, schedule "Get Things Done" days. During these days, focus on getting caught up on tasks that get pushed to the side during your normally hectic schedule.


Sort through your mail, do your laundry, or take the recycling to the nearest center.
These days can be used for things that aren't chores. Respond to e-mails, call your parents, or have lunch with a friend., Smartphones are convenient devices, and they can help you get your life together. There are apps for just about everything. This means you can set up reminders for yourself, plug everything into a calendar, and have everything in one place so it's convenient for you.


Try a list app. Use this to make to do lists of what you need to do every day, for that week, or just in general. Use the app to make a list of things you want to do, like what movies you want to see and activities you want to complete.
Use fitness apps. There are apps that will lead you through workouts and race training programs. Other apps will count your calories and give you recipe suggestions for weight loss. There are even apps that will remind you to drink water. These apps can help you stay on track, keep you motivated, and remind you to stay healthy.