 If you are not able to manage the blushing on your own, it may be time to find professional helpers who may be able to provide insight into your anxious reaction and give you coping mechanisms to better treat your anxiety.Cognitive behavioral therapy can be helpful in restructuring your negative or distorted thoughts about blushing. For example, you might think blushing is humiliating, but in cognitive behavioral therapy you might restructure this belief to instead think that blushing is just a normal reaction to stimulating situations for you, and everyone else probably also has a normal physical reaction to stress.Find help for your underlying anxiety concerns. Since blushing is typically a result of feeling socially anxious, working with a therapist to discuss your anxiety triggers and to build up applied relaxation and social skills training can be instrumental in reducing your anxiety.
 If other techniques are not working, cosmetic solutions can be an avenue to physically hide your blushing in social situations.


Meet with a consultant at a beauty shop to discuss different types of foundations and concealers. Explain your propensity for blushing and discuss your skin type to find foundations, concealers, primers, blush, and bronzers that will help better hide your blushing when it occurs in social situations.
Talk to a doctor about cosmetic medical treatments that can be used to treat blushing. Some examples of treatments that are sometimes used for blushing include botox injections and pulsed-dyed lasers. These treatments should be discussed with a doctor in order to review risks, side effects, and longevity of results., If you are finding that your blushing is severe and you are having trouble controlling it by other means, talk to your doctor about some of the following medications. As a reminder, these are just suggested medications and no decisions should be made about medical treatment without your physician’s consent.


Beta-blockers are used to treat anxiety symptoms, which can include blushing, by reducing heart rate, blood pressure, heart palpitations, and shaky voice. They are not recommended for daily use, but they may be a good option if you have an important social or professional event coming up.Clonidine is a medication used to treat facial blushing by stabilizing chemicals in the body that control dilation and restriction of blood vessels. Basically, it can help lower the amount of blood that rushes into your face when you are feeling stressed or embarrassed., Surgery is a last resort option for blushing, and should be discussed thoroughly with your doctor. Endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy is a procedure that destroys a portion of the sympathetic nerve trunk and can alleviate blushing. The main side effect that results from this surgery is sweaty palms, but other risks should be discussed with your physician. 