 As cool as it would be to have a paranormal experience, if you don't investigate the logical explanations you'll always have that edge of doubt in your mind. Look for the everyday explanations. For example, if doors are closing when no one is near, is there heavy or moderate air flow? Are the hinges loose? Is the door jam crooked? If there are "orbs" in pictures you took around the house, stop to think whether you recently dusted the room. The only real way to find evidence of the paranormal is to actively try to disprove your experience. That way if you really cannot find a logical explanation, it means it really must have been something unusual. The best paranormal investigators will always describe themselves as skeptics.;
, If logic can't explain your experience, it's time for some research. Search for things like deaths or other traumatic events on the property, other reports of paranormal activity at that location, and other locations with similar manifestations.
 Go back to the location under similar circumstances, perhaps with a friend to act as a witness. Take recording equipment, cameras and EMF detectors. See if the same event happens again and if you can record it in any way.
 If you heard voices, try to snap photos or run film in that location as well as recording the EVP (see the Wikipedia link at the bottom for information on EVP.) If you saw a figure, set up sound and temperature recording devices as well. The more ways you can document the haunting, the better.
 Keep your mind open to all possibilities. Neither dismiss your experiences as "just imagination", nor accept each bump and flash as proof of a haunting. Weird things happen all the time. The fun part is figuring out why!

, If you have significant evidence of a haunting (photos, recordings, multiple witnesses, etc) call in the paranormal professionals. Check with your local university's psychology department, the newspaper or even the Yellow pages. But be careful. The field of paranormal investigation is awash with frauds and con men, so check out your expert's credentials thoroughly!

