 Nothing can turn away a potential buyer like the knowledge that they will have to sink $2,000 into new plumbing when they move in. Address the basics of your house, (drafty windows, leaks, rusty rain gutters, etc.) or any expensive renovations you make will go unnoticed., The kitchen is the most important room in the house when it comes to home value. This is the room most buyers focus on, and you can expect to get up to 85% of your remodeling costs back when the house sells.


A fresh coat of paint that hides splash marks can cheaply update a kitchen.
Find or buy a place to tuck away your dishes and cookbooks to make your kitchen look clean and spacious

, This is a very high-value fix, especially if done with updated appliances. Begin in the kitchen before updating the bathroom or bedrooms. New cabinets can completely transform a room for the better, giving the appearance that the whole room had a makeover. For a cheaper fix, hire a resurfacing company to clean and stain your old cabinets, making them look like they just came from the hardware store.Marble or granite counters are expensive but tend to last longer, remaining beautiful with age.
 The number of square feet in your house is a major indicator of your home’s worth. But you can create the illusion of more space by eliminating clutter as well. Homeowners like big, wide-open floor plans because they can imagine how their own stuff will fill the house when they move in.Knock down inessential walls.
Remove the island in the middle of the kitchen to open up the house.
Install swinging French doors to allow airflow between rooms like the kitchen and dining room.
 Adding a screen-in porch is an expensive undertaking, but it might not actually help your house’s value in the long run because it cannot be counted as part of your square footage.Finishing the basement, however, can reap rewards when it is time for resale.


If you have the money, consider adding additional rooms to your house. Larger houses, without fail, sell for more money. Additions, however, are expensive to construct and may take several months to complete.
In general, improving your current house will lead to a greater return on your investment than adding new sections.