 Some phones offer an option to turn off your voicemail via the settings. The particular type of voicemail settings you'll have to access will depend on the type of phone and service you're using. Access your options list, and select the tab that relates to Voicemail. Virtually all phones will have some options tab relating to the voicemail utility; it's just a matter of finding out whether the phone offers an ability to deactivate the voicemail.


If you're unsure whether your phone has this capability, you can usually find answers by searching 'voicemail' in the index of the product manual, or looking up the specific product info online.
T-Mobile phones often have this capability, listed as Visual Voicemail.Many Verizon phones have it listed under "Account Services - Phone Extras".;
, If you're lucky, your phone will come with an option to deactivate your voicemail service. Checking the voicemail settings and looking for a 'Turn Off' or 'Deactivate' option is a good first step regardless of the type of phone you're using. If you find the right option, select it and the phone will turn off its voicemail function for you.You can always reactivate your voicemail through the same means if there comes a time you'd prefer to have it back.
 If your phone doesn't offer a voicemail settings tab, other options are available. Some providers, like Rogers, allow you to deactivate your phone via a number you can call through the phone in question. In the case of Rogers for instance, dial *93 and call it. Wait for two beeps; this will confirm that your request has been acknowledged and accepted. From there, hang up. Your voicemail should now be deactivated.If you want to reactivate your voicemail after having turned it off in this fashion, follow the same steps, this time dialing *92 instead.iPhone voicemail may be disabled in similar fashion. Input #404# into your call box and press "Call". This should deactivate your phone service for the meantime.
 Once you've gone through the motions of turning off voicemail one way or another, it is good form to check for yourself that it's done. Call the number in question from another phone, or get a friend to call you. Don't answer the phone, and see if the calling line is prompted to leave a message. If no voicemail option is offered, you'll know you have succeeded.

