 If toys are taking over your home, split up storage space by toy type. Split up your child's bedroom, or your living room, into different sections. Each section can house a different type of toy.In a child's bedroom, separate corners of each room for different toy types. You can, for example, keep stuffed animals in one corner. In the closet, one half can be dedicated to action figures while the other can store plastic animal toys.
You can use decorative storage baskets and bins in common areas of your home. For example, you could keep your kid's lego collection in an attractive basket that matches the color scheme of your living room.;
, One big toy box can present a problem. Toy boxes tend to get messy easily, as they don't have separate storage compartments. Your child will also easily make a mess digging through a toy box.Instead of a toy box, make a run to a local department store. Buy a variety of bins, boxes, and baskets in a variety of shapes and sizes.
You can store toys by type instead of storing multiple toys in one bin. For extra organization, look for bins divided into sections. If you're storing something like action figures, they can be divided by type in different sections of a single bin.
 When selecting furniture, look for items that come with storage features. Look for stools and bookshelves with drawers and bins built in. Many children's beds come with drawers built into the bottom. Every time you need a new piece of furniture, see this as an opportunity to further organize your child's toys., Once you've separated the toys into different sections and bins, label them. You don't want to be scrambling to find your child's G.I. Joes because you forgot whether you put them in the red or green bin. Labels can also help young children remember what goes where when cleaning up.If you have very young children, use visual labels. Print out a picture of the type of toy stored in that bin and tape it on.
You can also color coordinate the boxes if your child is very young.
 When arranging toys in your home, make a point of storing similar toys together. For example, put dolls near the tea set. Place train sets near an open floor space. Keep paint and other supplies in the kitchen, near the sink.

