 For this method you want to use A4 paper, which is standard printer paper.


For this method, it’s best to use a piece of paper that is the same color on both sides.;
, Make a vertical valley fold.Take the left side of your paper and fold it over to the right.


Crease the edge of your fold with your finger.
You will now have a rectangle that is taller than it is wide.
Unfold your paper.
 Flip your paper over so the crease is facing up in a mountain fold., Bring the top corners in so the inner edge aligns with the crease. The outer edge of the folded portion should make a right angle along the crease.


Do your best to make sure both folds are even.
You should have two triangle shapes which are folded on top of the rest of your paper. This is a similar fold to that of a paper airplane.
Press down on the creases to keep your folds in place.
 Flip your paper over so the original side is facing up.


The two triangle folds you just performed should now be facing the table.
The center crease should be a valley fold.
 Locate the corners in the middle of your paper and fold each in. Align your folds to the center crease. Flip the bottom flaps up.


Once you fold the sides in, find the two flaps on the bottom side of your paper and flip each up.
You should now have a diamond shape at the top of your paper.
 Take the points at the bottom of your paper and tuck each in to make a straight bottom edge.


Tuck each point so it’s even with the bottom edge of your paper.
Tuck the points under the top layer of paper, but above the bottom layer.
 Fold the top of your paper down in a valley fold, toward you.


Fold the diamond shape in half on a horizontal valley fold. Bing the point down so it’s even with the tip of the small triangle area, toward the bottom of your paper.
 Take the lower third of the portion you just folded down and make a valley fold.


Fold the paper up in a valley fold away from you so the tip extends past the horizontal edge at the top.
You will now have the shape of a five-pointed star.
Crease your fold with your finger to keep it in place.
 Take both bottom corners and fold each into the center crease.


Fold each side so the inner edge is even with the center. The tips of your folds will extend higher than the bottom edge from the fold in the previous step.
Lift the bottom edge up so the tips of your current fold lay flat.
 Take the two flaps you just folded up and fold a portion down toward you in a valley fold.


You want to fold about ⅔ of each flap down so a portion of paper on each side is extending beyond the rest of your paper.
These folds will make the back legs of your origami turtle.
 Flip your turtle over to see your finished product.


Fold your turtle along the center crease and then unfold. This will give your turtle a more three-dimensional look, with the shell more pronounced.
If you didn't use green paper, you can color in your paper green to make it look like a turtle.

