 Addiction is a complex physical and/or mental dependence on a chemical (in this case opiates), and becoming addicted is not caused by any lack of willpower; however, willpower does play a role in overcoming addiction. Having strong willpower and a commitment to quitting are key components of modern addiction recovery.The first step to recovery is to admit that you have a problem and make the choice to seek recovery.Consider joining a support group. Even if you have supportive friends and family members in your life, it may be helpful to surround yourself with other individuals who have gone through addiction or dependence and understand first-hand what you're going through.Narcotics Anonymous (NA) and SMART Recovery are popular support groups that can help you if you're struggling with opiate use.Sometimes, if people don't like NA, they join Alcoholics Anonymous groups if they agree to completely clean living. Some people find a more stable brotherhood in AA over NA.;
, People who have become dependent or addicted to opiates will most likely experience mild, moderate, or severe withdrawal symptoms.Symptoms may vary from one person to the next, but typically include:Depression
Anxiety
Irritability
Pain
Nausea/vomiting
Diarrhea
Hypertension
Tachycardia (abnormally rapid heart beat)
Seizures

, If you have been using opiates on an as-needed basis and have not been using opiates daily, you should be able to stop using opiates without having to taper down your usage.You may experience increased pain after discontinuing opiate use, but should not experience significant withdrawal symptoms; however, if you've been using opiates on a daily basis and have developed moderate to severe dependence or addiction, you may need to taper off your use.Dependence is marked by the continued use of a drug in order to avoid withdrawal symptoms. Even though dependent users may still experience some degree of euphoria from opiate use, the primary purpose of the dependent user's drug consumption is to alleviate pain, rather than explicitly trying to get high.Addiction operates within the reward pathway of the brain, leading to compulsive behavior in order to acquire and use the drug. Addiction is usually marked by drug use with the intent of getting high, rather than for pain relief.It is possible to be dependent on opiates without being addicted; however, most addicts are also physically and mentally dependent., The safest way to discontinue opiate use, especially at home without medical supervision, is to gradually decrease your usage on a daily or weekly scale. This will help minimize the withdrawal symptoms experienced after discontinuing use of the drug.There is some disagreement on how to scale back opiate use. Some medical experts recommend tapering down opiate use by 10 percent every one to two weeks.Others recommend tapering down opiate use by 20 to 50 percent every week.The percentage of tapering down drug use will vary, depending on the severity of addiction.The faster you cut down on drug use, the more likely you are to experience withdrawal symptoms. The overall duration of drug use is also a factor: the longer you've been using opiates, the slower your tapering off should be., Once you've tapered down to the minimum possible dose, you should be able to safely discontinue opiate use. Once you've stopped, it's important that you avoid future opiate use, unless recommended by your doctor.The duration of taper will vary, depending on your needs and the severity of your opiate use. Unfortunately, there is no cut-and-dry duration of taper. Consult your doctor about how long to continue tapering before you discontinue use completely.Switch to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and acetaminophen.If you've been acquiring opiates illegally, cut off all ties with dealers and other addicts you used to know. Removing the temptation to try opiates again will improve your chances of success.

