 You can lay them out on your table sticky-side-up, or you can tape them to the edge of your table. This will keep them out of the way while you work.;
, Try to align the side edges as much as possible, but don't worry if they aren't perfect. You will be trimming the wallet down later.
 Be sure to overlap the edges by ¼-inch (0.64 centimeter) again. To make your wallet smoother, lay the first strip ¼-inch (0.64 centimeter) down from the top. This will stagger your tape pieces, otherwise, your wallet will be four layers thick in some areas. This can make it hard to fold.If you staggered your tape pieces, fold the top and bottom edges down so that the sticky side doesn't show., Cut a 10-inch (25.4 centimeters) strip of duct tape, then cut it in half length-wise. Fold one of the strips over the top edge of the sheet, and the other strip over the bottom edge of the sheet. This will give you a cleaner edge.This border can match your duct tape sheet, or you can use a contrasting color.
You can also use two 10-inch (25.4 centimeters) strips of narrow or thin duct tape (also called "mini" duct tape). It is already the right width so you don't have to cut it in half.
 Be sure to trim both ends of the sheet. This will get rid of any unevenness.
 Try to fold it so that the back part is a little bit higher than the front. This way, your wallet will look neater when you close it., You will be using this to tape the edges of your wallet shut. You can make it the same color as your wallet, or you can use a contrasting color. If you added a border to your wallet earlier, consider using the same color.


You can also use narrow or thin duct tape for this instead. Simply cut two 4-inch (10.16 centimeters) strips of narrow duct tape.
 Align the 4-inch (10.16 centimeters) strip along one of the narrow edges of your wallet, then fold the excess over to the back. Repeat this step for the other side of the wallet with the other strip.
 You can also leave it unfolded, so that it is a bi-fold wallet. This way, you won't have to worry about your money getting a crease in the middle.

