 When it's finished, it should be somewhere in your Menu or in your Applications.
 Note that opening the game for the first time may take a while.
 You only can select Level 1 (Sunshine Glade) if you have recently downloaded the game. You have to reach a certain height or a certain amount of Mega Points to get to the other levels.


When you have pressed Play, the screen will turn darker. Do not worry because it is normal; it means that Mega Jump is loading. It should also show a "loading" bar; it may take a while.
 The character will only go up if you touch the coins. If you don't touch a coin, your character may jump down and you will lose the game. See the "Layout" section below for a brief description of what you may find on your screen.
 Different objects or power-ups have different effects. In Level 1, all of the objects are good but, once you're on level two, some of the objects may prove to be bad. To check if they are good or bad, you may go back to the start-up screen and press Help. In there, you can see a list of the good and bad things.
 You will see many buttons. If you want to select a different stage to play, click Pick Stage. If you want to buy something, click Store. If you want to the settings, click the Gear button.
 If you see that there are arrows to lead you to different places, check if you have enough Mega Points to buy your selected character.


You also can buy levels and power-ups by using your Mega Points. There are only 20 levels in this game, so if you pass level 20 hard (which is known as Galactic Core and is hard), you will go back to Level 1, but this time in hard mode.
In some cases, you aren't allowed to upgrade your power-ups any more, just like your levels. Mega is the maximum amount. Your characters cannot upgrade and they do not bring any benefit except for a different character playing your game. That is all you need to learn! Enjoy and have fun!

,


If you see a coin at the top-left and the number 76, that is how many coins you have collected. If you get 100 coins, you will get 10 Mega Points and you would get an extra boost.
If you see a blue wig with purple sparkles at the top-center, that is your power-up(remember that the power-up can be different so it may show a different power-up image). If it starts fading, that means it's running out.
If you see the number in red at the top-right, that is your height. The higher you are, the more likely you would be able to go to the next level. You also can buy levels by using your Mega Points.
If you see a golden circle, that is a coin.
If you see an object continuously moving, that is your character which it will collect the coins and power-ups for you.
If you see a star on the bottom-right, that is your Save Stars. You can purchase them for 500 Mega Points. When you are falling, you can click on one of them and you will be saved by a boost-up which has the colors blue and orange.
If you see a pause button (bottom-left), that is your Options.;
, The x2 button means that the height amount doubles.


Note: The number: 'x2' can change to 'x5' and other numbers; depending on the version of the Power Shield (eg. Turbo Power Shield).

