 A template or theme will dress up your presentation with pre-made layouts and color schemes. Choose one by clicking the Office orb in the upper-left corner, and selecting New. Then, on the left, select Installed Templates or Installed Themes.
 On the sidebar at left, you can click different template or theme slides to see what they look like. Here are a few things you can do with the different slides:


Duplicate slides. Right click on a slide, and select Duplicate Slide.
Delete slides. Right click on a slide and select Delete Slide, or click Home on the top bar, then Delete Slide.
Change the layout of your slides. You can select slides that have more or less text boxes, photo boxes, or any other template items you want. Select a slide, right click, and hover over Layout. Or, click Home on the top bar, and then the drop menu next to Layout.
Add slides. If you want your new slide to look exactly like the one before it, right click that slide and select New. Or, if you want a new slide with a completely different layout, click Home, then the drop menu under New Slide.
Organize your slides. You can drag and drop slides in the sidebar to the left to reorder them.
 Here are some tips for putting information into your PowerPoint presentation:


Use short, concise words to guide your audience, and let yourself do the detailed explaining. Keywords show that you know your subject when you go more in-depth during your powerpoint. For example, use "Fire Kiln" as a keyword in a PowerPoint, but explain the process during the actual presentation.
Think bullet points. Don't use full sentences in your PowerPoint presentations unless it's absolutely necessary.
Don't be afraid to spread information across multiple slides. It's better than overcrowding a PowerPoint!

, To insert anything (text, charts, etc), simply click on the designated box to activate it and start inserting away.


Inserting pictures and graphs is a good idea to make your presentation more visually engaging. Break up your text!
Use color effectively in your PowerPoint. Have a theme of colors and be consistent when using them to highlight key points. This makes your presentation look more professional.
 Click View, then Slide Show, or hit F5 to admire your handiwork.

