 If this is the kind of person who already owns a Swiss army knife or a Leatherman, they'll be delighted if you get them one of these nifty gadgets:


Lil Guppie Multi-Tool. It’s a handy pocket multi-tool that doubles as a money clip and includes a razor sharp blade, adjustable wrench, carabiner, flat and Phillips screwdrivers, and a bottle opener. Available for $20 USD.
Office Multi-Tool. This one has a calculator, stapler, paper clip holder, scissors and a 39-inch tape measure all wrapped up into one little device. Perfect for a cubicle warrior, or someone who travels for business a lot. Available for $20 USD.
'Micro Pliers. These micro pliers fit on a keychain, but they still include a blade, screwdriver, and bottle opener. That’s a lot of punch in a small space. Perfect for the mechanic or repairman in your life, and perfect for your budget: $10 USD.;
,


Original Sock Monkey. If someone on your Christmas gift list likes cuddly animals, this classic monkey might hit the spot. You can buy one for about $15 USD or make your own.
Mini Pet Cactus. Does anybody on your shopping list need a companion? Cactus gardens are great, but they can’t travel with you. There is a little pet cactus that fits right on your keychain or bag and can go everywhere, because it's enclosed in a glass case. Grow one for $9, or crochet one for less!
Wooden War Engine Kits. Catapult and Trebuchet kits are great for a little inter-office warfare, and they cost about $20 USD each, but this is another case in which you can make your own, if you're so inclined.
Singing Monkey Balls. Basically, you spin, rub, and clap them together to make different melodious sounds. Cool stocking stuffer! They are magnetic, though, so don't give this to a young child who might stick them in his or her mouth. It's pretty well priced, too, at about $5 USD.
Thumb-Size Radio Controlled Mini Cooper. The Mini Cooper is a bit old these days, but these tiny radio controlled Mini Coopers are still cool. They’re literally the size of your thumb! They run off a button-type battery, and they include full controls: forward, reverse, left, and right turning. Race away for $10 USD.
 If you’re looking for a unique Christmas gift for a minimalist, this bookshelf should fit the bill. It’s simply a metal bracket that you mount on the wall. A large book on the bottom conceals the bracket and provides a platform for your other books. Look mom, no shelf! You can by one for $12 USD, or sacrifice one of your own hardcover books and make one yourself.
 Do you know someone who's learning to sew, or scrapbook, or do anything that requires cutting in a straight line? A laser guide will make things a little easier for them. They're sold for about $18 USD.
 You never know when a fire might be needed. This handy fire starter would be a great present for the outdoor enthusiast on your list. Heck, anybody who lives in a hurricane-prone area could probably put this to good use. It was developed for the Swedish Department of Defense, and its spark is almost 3,000 °C (5,430 °F)! It works in any weather, even when wet.Using it is very simple; you just move a metal blade along the Firesteel and the sparks are right there. You can probably find one for $16 USD.
a survival kit water bottle. Everyone needs a survival kit. You can buy one that has your basic survival needs in a 32 ounce water bottle. It includes a carabiner, flashlight (with batteries), multifunction tool, whistle, compass, survival blanket, hand warmers, first aid kit, candle, waterproof matches, poncho, and zip-lock bag. That costs about $20; you might be able to assemble your own for cheaper, though!

, This slick little game was invented in Sweden. It’s deceptively simple to learn, but the strategy can be hard to master. You put down a marble, then rotate a quadrant. If you get five of your marbles in a row, you win. But it's harder than it looks! Available for about $25 USD.
3D pocket puzzles. These little pocket puzzles make great stocking stuffers. There are a variety of puzzles to choose from, and they’ll certainly provide some fun entertainment for the recipient. They're pretty reasonably priced, too. You can find Japanese pocket puzzles for about $10 USD each.
 Don’t you hate it when there’s not a clean bowl or cup at work? This bowl and cup is made out of squishy plastic that retains it shape to hold food or liquid, but they can be squished to fit into your pocket or bag. A perfect unique Christmas gift for a cubicle warrior for about $17 USD. It can also be given to a backpacker!
How about a staple-free stapler? Staples cause papers to catch on each other. They prick my fingers. And they’re just a general pain. There's a product that makes a tiny cut in the corner of your papers and folds the paper in on itself. Papers stay together with no staple! Plus, it's just $6 USD.
Cubicle doorbell. When people approach someone in a cubicle, how do they get that person's attention? Shuffle their feet? Clear their throat? Knock on the cubicle wall? This solution has 12 different sounds and 3 sound levels to make the "cubicle neighborhood" a little more fun. About $15 USD.
"Top Secret Password Notepad". This is the perfect gag gift for someone who writes their usernames and passwords on post-it notes and sticks them on their monitor. So much for secrecy! Why not give them a notepad designed specifically to keep track of passwords? About $6 USD.
 With the rising cost of everything these days, it doesn’t take an environmentalist to care about energy usage. Plug the Kill-A-Watt into your outlet, then plug your electrical device into it. You can monitor energy usage and see what’s hogging your juice. Check your wattage for $24.99.
Alternatively, you can get them a "Not a Paper Cup". Paper cups aren’t eco-friendly, but Starbucks cups are fashionable. The “Not a Paper Cup” is a double-walled ceramic cup that holds 12 ounces of your favorite beverage. And it’s dishwasher safe, since nobody likes hand washing things. So it's basically a thermos that looks like a paper cup. It's a little bit more of a gag gift, but someone you know might appreciate it, and it'll run you about $20 USD.
 Not just any pocket toothbrush - this is something James Bond would use. The handle holds toothpaste. Turn the knob to dispense the toothpaste. Then tilt the brush downward to move the toothpaste to the bristles. When you’re done, you can immediately place the ventilated cap back on the brush. This is too neat! Keep your teeth clean for $17.99.
Auto LED Flashlight. This cool LED flashlight charges in your car’s cigarette lighter. When you need a light, it’s at-the-ready. This can be handy for many situations. Great for late-night car repairs, reading a map, or even finding your way to the door. Illuminate things for $25 USD.
 These finger drums are perfect for the musician on your Christmas gift list. Tap away and make some music! The drums light up when you hit them, and you can even record your ditties. You can get them for about $25 USD.

