 In most states, it is illegal for retail liquor licensees to sell alcohol to people who are already intoxicated.If you sell alcohol to someone who is intoxicated, you may legally be liable for any damages or injuries they cause. For example, if an intoxicated person drinks beer at your pub and later wrecks into another car, the driver of the other car could sue you to recover her damages.
Anyone who provided alcohol to the person is considered equally liable, whether they served the person their first drink or their last., Understanding how alcohol affects the body can help you recognize signs of intoxication or know when a customer has had enough to drink.


Only the passage of time can sober a person up. The effect of alcohol on a person is largely influenced by the person's body weight, the amount of alcohol they consume, and how long they've been drinking.
Generally, a person weighing under 200 pounds who has no more than one beer, glass of wine, or single shot of liquor in an hour is presumed sober. Any more alcohol in that period of time and that person may be under the influence.Try to stop people who appear intoxicated from getting behind the wheel of a car. Offer to call them a cab or let them sit and drink water for awhile until they sober up.Signs of intoxication include glassy eyes, lack of ability to focus, slurred speech, stumbling or falling down when attempting to walk, slumping in a chair, or fumbling.Count the number of drinks you've served a customer and observe changes in their behavior as time wears on., Talk to customers and try to find out where they came from or how many drinks they had before they came. If the person appears intoxicated, refuse to sell them alcohol.If a customer appears intoxicated as they enter, try to refuse them entry. If they manage to enter anyway, make sure all employees are aware of the customer's condition and know not to serve them alcohol., A customer might become angry or threatening if you refuse him alcohol, especially if he's already drunk. Call security and have the person escorted from the premises.


If you are an employee, call your manager if a customer threatens you – don't try to handle a potentially violent situation on your own.If you don't have private security, call the police and have the person removed from your location., If a customer becomes intoxicated and you have to refuse service, or if two customers have an altercation, make sure you record an account of what happened.


Have forms available that employees can fill out any time an incident happens, and make sure all employees know where the forms are and how to fill them out.
Include details of what happened and what actions were taken by employees or management to end the situation. For example, if an employee refused service to an intoxicated customer and management called a cab to take the customer home, that should be mentioned in the report.