 One way to find an advertising lawyer is to watch the news or read the newspaper.Lawyers who specialize in consumer protection often advertise their services.


Write down the name and contact number for the lawyer.
You should not rush right out and hire any attorney who advertises. Instead, you should gather a list of potential lawyers and perform research on them. In this way, you can be sure to find a qualified attorney who fits your needs. This may or may not be someone who pays for a big television ad.;
, You can get a referral from your local or state bar association. Call or visit their website.For some states, the referral service will give you the name of one lawyer to call.
In other states, you can browse an online directory of lawyers. You can search by specialty. If “advertising law” is not listed as a specialty, then choose “consumer” law., You can also get referrals from people you know. Ask friends, family, and colleagues if they have ever used a consumer protection lawyer before. If so, write down the person’s name.Asking business associates is particularly effective if you are a business and need a lawyer to defend you from a false advertising claim. Reach out to competitors in your field and ask if they would recommend attorneys.
 If you are low-income but think you have been defrauded or misled by advertisements, then you can try to find a legal aid organization to represent you. Legal aid organizations provide free legal services to people in financial need.


Visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website at www.lsc.gov. You can search for a legal aid organization near you by clicking on “Find Legal Aid” at the top of the page and then entering your address.
If you live near a law school, then you might want to stop in and see if the law school runs a clinic. Many law schools now have clinics where students provide free legal services under the direction of a faculty member. You can stop by and discuss your situation. The clinic might be willing to represent you.
 Lawyers are a good source of referrals, also. For example, you might have used a lawyer to draft a will or help you buy a home. If so, you can ask this lawyer if he or she knows of a consumer protection lawyer that you could contact.Lawyers are a good source of referrals because they know the reputations of other lawyers in their area. Also, a lawyer will be careful to recommend only a good lawyer because a bad referral reflects poorly on them as well.
 NACA is a nationwide organization made up of 1,500 consumer protection lawyers.They have a “Find an Attorney” feature on their website.


You can search for member attorneys by state., There are many directories online that you can use to find lawyers. For example, FindLaw, Lawyers.com, and other organizations all run directories where you can look up consumer protection lawyers.You can search by state or city.


These websites provide convenient links to each law firm’s website, which you can browse.
 After you compile a list of potential advertising lawyers, you should try to winnow your list down by doing some preliminary research on each lawyer. You can begin by looking at the website for each lawyer. Pay attention to the following:



Experience. Lawyers should give you a general sense of what fields they practice. For example, the lawyer might focus exclusively on consumer protection. This should be obvious from the website. However, other attorneys have a more general practice. In this situation, look to see if they list recent consumer protection experience.

Expertise. Look to see if the website contains articles or essays addressing new consumer law issues. These show that a lawyer is keeping up-to-date on recent changes in the field.

Grammar and presentation. You should also check the overall presentation. Is the information on the website well-written or full of errors? Have the graphics been chosen with care? A website that is full of mistakes or is otherwise sloppy could suggest that the lawyer is careless when representing clients.
 Based on your preliminary research, you should narrow your list down to three or four attorneys. You probably won’t have time to meet with more than four lawyers for a consultation.


Call each lawyer and schedule a consultation. These typically last for a half hour or less.Be sure to ask how much the initial consultation will cost. Many lawyers now offer free consultations, however, some lawyers will charge a modest fee (less than $50). You should consider meeting with an attorney who charges a small fee. These lawyers are often more willing to share information and legal strategy during the consultation, which could be helpful if you decide to represent yourself.
 When you call to schedule your consultation, ask the lawyer what you need to bring to the meeting. Typically, the lawyer will want to see the following:


An example of the advertising at issue. If you think a newspaper ad is misleading, then you should bring a copy to the lawyer’s office. If a web ad is misleading, you can print it out.
Any communication with the company. If you wrote a corporation to complain about its misleading ad, then be sure to bring evidence of all communication, including copies of the letters you sent.
Receipts that show how much money you spent in reliance on the false or misleading advertisement.
 At the consultation, you should dig a little deeper into the lawyer’s experience handling advertising issues. In particular, ask the following questions:


Has the lawyer handled a case like yours before?Some consumer protection lawyers handle only consumer debt issues but not advertising ones. You should clarify this at the consultation.
How much of the lawyer’s practice is devoted to consumer issues, in particular advertising?You might want to hire a lawyer who devotes 50% of her practice to advertising law over someone who devotes 10% of her practice to the same area.
How do these cases usually get resolved? Do they settle or go to court? Get a sense of the breadth of the lawyer’s experience resolving cases.
 You should also ask the lawyer about his or her fees. Lawyers have historically charged clients using an “hourly billing” model. For example, the lawyer might charge $200 an hour but will bill in fifteen minute increments. You will then be sent a bill each month for the work the lawyer performed.


You can ask about alternate fee arrangements. For example, if you are trying to sue a company for deceptive advertising, then the lawyer might represent you on “contingency” if you are suing for enough money. Under a contingency fee agreement, the lawyer doesn’t charge fees. Instead, he or she takes a percentage of any amount you get from the jury or in a settlement.Ask the lawyer about possible contingency fee agreements and what percentage the lawyer would take.
Also ask about flat-fee billing. Some lawyers also do work for a flat fee. The lawyer might quote you a flat price—say $1,000—and that is all you pay regardless of how much time it takes the lawyer to do the work.
Be sure to get the billing rate for all employees who might work on the matter. Paralegals, document clerks, and junior associates also bill their time and might do work on your case. You should ask how your matter will be staffed and each employee’s billing rate.
 Be sure to write down the answers to the questions you have. Also, after you finish meeting with the lawyer, write down your impressions:


Did you feel comfortable talking to the attorney, or were you intimidated? You will want a lawyer you feel comfortable talking to.
Did the lawyer explain the case in a way you could understand? Or did the lawyer not seem worried if you didn’t understand the case? In order to participate fully, you should hire a lawyer who clearly explains legal issues.
Did the lawyer have a neat office? A messy office is a sign the lawyer is disorganized.
Was the staff friendly? If the staff was rude, then the lawyer probably does not care about her clients or does not supervise her staff properly.
Did the lawyer promise a result, or did she only promise to work diligently on your behalf? Lawyers cannot make promises about the resolution of your case since they do not control the outcome. You should avoid any lawyer who promises a result., Several websites, such as Avvo and Yelp, have customer reviews for lawyers.You can read what other clients have to say about the lawyer and check whether their comments jibe with your own experience.


You could read reviews before scheduling a consultation. However, doing so might prejudice you either against the lawyer or in his favor. You should go into the consultation with an open mind.
Read the reviews critically. In particular, look for patterns. Anyone can get online and leave a negative, anonymous review. For this reason, you shouldn’t assume a negative review accurately reflects a lawyer’s abilities.
However, if you see the same complaint showing up in more than one review, you might want to credit those complaints.
 You should also look at the disciplinary history for each lawyer you met with. Each state runs an attorney disciplinary commission which investigates complaints against lawyers. If the commission finds that the complaint has merit, it can sanction the lawyer.To find the relevant commission, search “attorney discipline” and “your state” in an Internet search engine. You can then search for attorneys by name.
Look at how long ago someone was sanctioned. If a lawyer made a mistake 35 years ago when he was just starting out, then you should not immediately cross the lawyer off your list—especially when he has not been sanctioned since then.
 As you review your candidates, go back over your notes. You will want a lawyer who meets all of the following criteria:The lawyer has the necessary experience to handle your case.
You feel comfortable talking to the lawyer and raising concerns.
The fee is reasonable.
The lawyer explained the case in a way that you can understand.
 If you didn’t like any of the lawyers you met with, then you might need to start over and get more referrals. You shouldn’t feel forced into hiring someone you have reservations about.
 Once you have selected a lawyer to hire, call him or her. The lawyer will tell you what next steps you need to take.


You should also contact the lawyers you met with but have chosen not to hire. Either call or send a short email. Thank them for their time but state that you have gone with another candidate. You do not need to explain why.
 Your lawyer will send you a letter to sign. This is the “engagement letter,” and it makes the attorney-client relationship formal. It should explain in detail what the lawyer will do and how he or she will bill.Read the letter closely and make sure you agree with the following:


The lawyer’s fees. This should be explained in detail. Also make sure that the fee schedule listed in the letter match what you were quoted during the consultation.
The scope of the lawyer’s duties. The engagement letter should spell out what work the lawyer will perform. For example, if you are hiring a lawyer to defend you from a false advertising case, you should see whether the lawyer has agreed to handle any appeal that might follow the trial. A lawyer does not need to do extra work not spelled out in the engagement letter, so read the letter closely.
Your duties as a client. The letter may also describe what you promise to do. For example, you might agree to always be honest with your lawyer, get requested documents in a timely manner, and pay your bill promptly.
 If you disagree with something in the engagement letter, then call the lawyer and discuss it. You shouldn’t sign the letter until you agree with everything.


Once you receive an engagement letter you agree with, sign it and return it to the lawyer.
Be sure to keep a copy for your records.

