 A smooth band with no embellishment, detail, or embedded stones is the most minimalist band you can choose. These bands generally have a setting of a solitaire, simple stone.Smooth bands may have different finishes, such as polished, satin, brush, or hammered.
Simple bands may be connected to elaborate and detailed stones. You may need to decide if you want a smooth, minimalist band with a stone setting that is not as minimal as the band.;
, Not all minimalist bands are completely smooth. Some have simple embellishments that add a bit of personality and uniqueness to the ring. You can choose from a split band or a few stones embedded into the band.For example, a minimalist band may have two lines of simple metal on the band. It may also have a few small stones embedded into the band beside the main setting, or have large simple stones embedded into the band. Some bands may have chevrons or lines etched into the band.
You may also choose a ring with small diamonds that go all the way around, but each diamond is set into the band in a circular, geometric, or teardrop shape all the way around.
 Any metal can be used in a minimalist engagement ring. Yellow gold, white gold, and platinum are the most popular choices. These metals are traditional and classic, which match the simple style of a minimalist engagement ring.Rose gold is another popular choice for engagement rings. However, due to the rosy “blush” hue of the gold, it may be the wrong choice for your minimalist engagement ring. However, you can buy or create a beautiful minimalist band and setting with rose gold.
 Engagement rings can be made out of any stone. Diamonds are the most classic and found in many minimalist engagement rings. However, you can choose any stone you’d like. Many engagement rings are made with rubies, emeralds, sapphires, and even opals or pearls.Although most engagement rings feature a stone, you do not have to buy one with a stone. You can choose to have no stone and only a simple smooth band or an embellished band for your engagement ring.
 Smaller stones are what make up the core of the look of a minimalist engagement ring. This emphasizes the simple, sleek look without flashy, over-sized stones. Minimalist stones can be any shape, but will not take up most of your finger.For example, if you choose a diamond, it will not have a multi-karat diamond. Instead, it will have something smaller and simpler.
The stones in a minimalist engagement ring are not to be showy. They are beautiful in their simplicity and match your understated lifestyle.
 Minimalist stones take on many different shapes. This is where you can show your own unique style or creative side. You may choose a simple square or circle stone, or go for a rectangle, triangle, diamond, teardrop, or other geometric shape. You can even get an unevenly shaped stone.Some minimalist engagement rings have three to five small round stones embedded into the band.
You can find unique minimalist engagement rings with a setting in the shape of an object, like a small flower, leaf, or even a mountain made out of metal.
 Before shopping for an engagement ring, decide how much you want to spend on the ring. Having a budget will help you know which stores to visit and which rings you can even consider.Set a price that you will not go over. Make sure you stick to this price and don’t even think about rings that are more expensive.
 Never purchase an engagement ring at the first jewelry store you visit. You should always visit multiple stores so you can compare prices and look at all of your options. There are many different kinds of minimalist engagement rings, so you should take your time finding the perfect one for you.You can also try browsing online to see what rings are offered.
 Because engagement rings are serious investments, you should do research before making your final selection. Start by finding reputable jewelers in your area and online. This will help you avoid visiting places where you will not get the best product. Ask friends, family members, and colleagues about suggestions for where to shop, and read reviews of the jewelers online before you shop.


Check the band and stones for quality. You should also ask the jeweler about the durability of the setting, stone, and band, and their policy on replacing or repairing damage and wear on the ring.
Ask the jeweler about return policies or if they will resize the ring.
 Depending on where you live, you may not have access to stores that sell minimalist engagement rings or rings that you like. There are many great online stores where you can purchase engagement rings or build your own ring. However, since you will not be able to see the ring in person, always use caution when shopping online.


Read reviews from other customers who have bought from the seller. Go beyond just the store's website. Instead, look for reviews on consumer websites that may state problems that the store's website may not address.
Research the store's stone quality and the durability of the bands.
Find out the store's return policy if the ring doesn't fit or you don't like it. You should also figure out the store's policy on stones coming loose or other problems with the ring.

