 If Minecraft is running, you'll need to exit it in order for your new skin to take effect.;
, There are countless Minecraft skins available for free download from a variety of Minecraft fan sites. Skins come in PNG format, which is a common image format. In fact, you can create your own custom skin by editing the character template in any image editor. Click here for instructions on creating your own skin. If you want to download one of the millions of fan-made skins instead of creating one, start with some of these popular sites:


MinecraftSkins.com
MinecraftSkins.net
PlanetMinecraft.com/resources/skins/
Seuscraft.com/skins

, Click the "Download" button for the skin you want, or right-click on the open skin image in your browser and select "Save image". The skin should download to your computer in PNG format, but packs with multiple skins will usually be bundled in a ZIP file.


Note whether the skin is for the Steve or the Alex model on its download page.
 Visit Minecraft.net and open the Profile page. You will need to log in with your Minecraft or Mojang account in order to change your skin.


You can download the template for editing your own skin by clicking the "Download template" link for the Steve and Alex skins.
 With the newest versions of Minecraft, you can play as either the Steve (classic) or Alex model. Both are very similar, but the Alex model has slimmer arms. The skin that you downloaded will technically work on either model, but the skins look best when you've selected the model that it was designed for. Select the model that you want to use before uploading your new skin file.
 Select the PNG file that you downloaded from the skin site.
 The new skin will be uploaded to the Minecraft skin servers, which should only take a few moments. You'll see the green Success message at the top of the page after it has uploaded.If you are playing version 1.8 or later, the skin change will happen immediately. If you are playing 1.7.9 and earlier, the skin change process may take about an hour. If you are playing 1.3 or earlier, you cannot change your skin.
 Once your skin has been updated, you can start Minecraft to see your changes. Since the skin has been uploaded to the Minecraft skin server, everyone will be able to see your new skin when you join a multiplayer game.

