 Even with good diet and lifestyle, it is possible for a gallstone to form. If this happens, you'll want to know what signs to look out for. Although not all gallstones show symptoms and some are harmless, there are a few signs to know. If you experience the following symptoms, you should visit the doctor for an evaluation.Sudden and rapidly intensifying pain in the upper right portion of your abdomen. This would usually be right under where the ribs end, which is where the gallbladder is located.
Pain may also be in the center of the abdomen, under the breastbone, or in the back between the shoulder blades.
Nausea and vomiting.
Intestinal discomfort like bloating, gas, and indigestion.
Some more serious symptoms include jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes), intense pain, and a high fever. If you experience these symptoms, seek medical attention right away.
 If you are showing symptoms of a gallstone, make an appointment with your doctor. If your doctor examines you and suspects you may have gallstones, there are a number of tests she may perform to confirm her suspicions. Most often these tests consist of a blood test, ultrasound, CAT scan, and/or an endoscopy.If these tests confirm that you have gallstones, she will recommend the most effective course of treatment for you.
 If your doctor finds that you have gallstones, there are three primary treatments she will suggest.Watchful waiting. It is estimated that between one third and one half of people who experience gallstones will never have another problem with them. Your doctor will probably initially take a "wait and see" approach and follow up with you in a few weeks. In all likelihood, the stone will dislodge itself and you won't need any further medical attention. If not, your doctor will take more active steps to treat your gallstone.
Non-surgical treatments. There are a variety of non-invasive treatments your doctor may recommend to remove your gallstones. They include dissolving the stones with bile salt or the drug Actigall, and using high-frequency sound waves to break up stones. Keep in mind that these treatments won't prevent future gallstones, and you may experience further problems in the future.
Gallbladder removal. If gallstones are a persistent problem, your doctor may suggest you undergo surgery to remove your gallbladder. This is a common surgery, and it is estimated that nearly 750,000 Americans have their gallbladders removed annually. You can live a healthy life without your gallbladder and the risk of complications is usually fairly small.If gallstones are causing you a lot of trouble, this may be your best option for relief, but you should always consult with your doctor before resorting to surgery.
In some cases, gallbladder removal may cause diarrhea, which is often temporary but may sometimes last for longer periods. Your doctor may have you treat this diarrhea by using anti-diarrheal medications or medications that block your body's absorption of bile acids.