 You may be stoking the fire of your anxiety by ingesting stress-inducing foods on a regular basis. Limiting your intake of harmful foods and drinks can go a long way toward calming your mind and keeping your heart rate steady.


Limit sugary and starchy foods. Most "comfort" food falls into the sugar or starch category, but these types of foods cause your blood sugar levels to spike and lead to greater anxiety.
Drink less caffeine. Caffeine stimulates the nervous system,so reaching for that cup of coffee in the morning could be making you feel more anxious. Either stop drinking it altogether or limit yourself to one cup of coffee a day.

Limit your alcohol intake. It's tempting to reach for alcohol when you just want to free your mind from stress. However, the temporary relief alcohol provides gives way to an increased state of anxiety.Alcohol is a depressant, so it can make your mood worse, and its effect on the body - dehydration, water retention, and negative long-term health effects - are anxiety-inducing on their own.
 In addition to eating plenty of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats to keep your body healthy, these foods give your mood an extra boost:


Acai berries, blueberries, and other foods high in antioxidants. Detoxifying your body can help reduce anxiety.
Foods high in magnesium and potassium, natural stress reducers. Eat nuts, dark chocolate, and bananas.
 Studies show that people who exercise regularly have reduced anxiety.Getting a physical workout improves your circulation and gets your mood-enhancing endorphins pumping. Rotate all of the following types of exercise:


Cardio exercises like biking, power walking, running, or swimming.
Weight training exercises that improve your muscle tone.
Strengthening exercises like yoga and Pilates.
 Sometimes anxiety is exacerbated by living or working in uncomfortable spaces. The places where you spend most of your time can have a big impact on your mood. Try making the following changes to reduce daily anxiety.


Get rid of clutter. Having piles of books and mail, recycling waiting to be taken out, or files that need to be put away sitting around your house can make anxiety so much worse. Organize your house and workplace so that everything has a place, ideally out of sight, and take the time to pick things up and put them away every single day.
Redecorate a room or two. Freshen things up to give yourself a new perspective. Paint your bedroom or living room a different color, buy new sheets or throw pillows, and rearrange the furniture.
Spend time in new places. Take a weekend trip, or simply a walk in a park on the other side of town, to change up your routine every once in a while. Stimulating your brain with new sights, sounds and smells can be a big mood booster.

