 To make a Monkey Braid (or Chain Sinnet) you only need a single strand. Monkey braids can add bulk, or shorten a rope. They are often used as a way to store rope without it getting tangled up.You can use synthetic or natural rope, but ensure that the material is flexible so that you can work with it. Plastic cords tend to be quite stiff, which can prevent you from getting a tight single-strand braid.


You can use a Monkey Braid to make a nice looking chain, which returns to a straight rope when pulled.
You often see these braids on dress uniforms.
 For this technique you need to start by making a loop in the rope by pushing the right-hand end of the rope towards the left-hand until a loop pops up. The point where this loop starts will be where the braid starts so ensure that the loops start near to the left-hand end of the rope., Once you have a loop you need to take the rope from the long end (the right-hand side) and push it through the loop. You are pushing the part of the rope that is closest to the loop on the right-hand side. Only use a small section of the rope.You should be pulling a small U-shaped portion of rope through your initial loop to create a second loop.
Pull it down, through the loop and out, tugging it toward the working side of the rope to tighten it slightly.
Note that it is easier to tighten each loop as you work when using this braiding method. Trying to tighten the loops once you finish the entire braid can cause the braid to be loose and uneven overall.
 Once you have pulled the u-shaped part of rope through the loop pull it to the right hand side so that is in line with the braid and the loop that you just pulled it through., Pinch another section of rope from the working end (the right-hand side), again making sure that it is directly next to the loop you just created. Push it under, through, and out of the loop on the end of the braid, tugging gently to secure it., The rest of the braid is completed simply by making new loops from the working side of the rope and pulling those loops the larger loops. Pinch another section of rope from the working end. Push this section under and through the previous loop made in the rope.


Repeat this as necessary down the length of the rope., When you have enough braids in the rope, create one special final loop to pass the finishing end through. To create a locking loop at the end pass the working end (right-hand end) of the rope over the top side of the last loop and through it.Pull snug on both loose ends of the rope to tighten the braid securely.

