 Your greyhound is a sprinting dog that does not need to walk for miles daily. However, your dog does need to get out a sprint or two every once in awhile. Your greyhound should exercise on a leash or in a fenced in area. Take your greyhound on a brisk walk at least twice a weekand a short walk on a daily basis.


Your greyhound can reach 45 miles per hour and you will not be able to catch him if he runs off.
Avoid exercise one hour before or two hours after a meal.Exercise within these time frames can cause your greyhound to become bloated.
If your dog is newly retired, he will have soft foot-pads because he is not used to walking on asphalt and concrete. Examine foot-pads for blisters after each walk and gradually increase the amount of time and/or frequency of your walks.
You can apply sunburn cream with lanolin, aloe, and vitamin E to help the blisters heal.
 A weekly grooming regimen will help keep your dog in good condition. Clean their ears and teeth, cut their nails, bathe, and brush their coat every week.The frequency of bathing may change depending on how dirty your dog gets and if you have any allergies.


Use a doggie dental kit to brush your dog's teeth. Greyhounds do not mind having their teeth brushed.
Use a shedding blade, hounds glove, or rubber comb to brush the coat. You can brush your dog more frequently if you like.
Your dog's nails should not touch the floor when your dog stands on a hard surface.
Use a cotton ball and a mild ear cleaning solution to clean your dog's ears. Your veterinarian can recommend an ear cleaning solution and show you how to clean your dog's ears.
 Greyhounds are indoor animals. They have a short coat, thin skin, and very little body fat. Do not leave your greyhound outside in hot or cold weather. Greyhounds can easily overheat in the summer and get chilled in the winter.


If the temperature is 32 degrees Fahrenheit or lower, your greyhound needs to wear a coat.Your greyhound should never stay in an outside kennel or doghouse.
If it's too hot for you to be outside, it's too hot for your greyhound as well. Take your greyhound out early in the morning or in the evening during the hotter months.
 Greyhounds have small heads and muscular necks.A Martingale collar is ideal for your greyhound. A regular collar will slide right off, but a choke collar will hurt your greyhound because of his thin skin. You should be able to squeeze your finger underneath the collar. If you are unable to do so, the collar is too tight.


Keep an identification tag and collar on your dog at all times.
If your dog's weight changes, you may need to adjust the collar.
 Greyhounds do not need a bath as often as other breeds of dogs. You only need to bathe your dog once or twice a year. Use lukewarm water and a mild dog shampoo. Dry your greyhound off as soon as the bath is over. Greyhounds have thin skin and get cold easily.Greyhounds stay clean and have a natural sweet smell.
If your greyhound gets muddy or has an odor, you can bathe more frequently.
Make sure the mild shampoo you use does not have flea or tick killers as an ingredient. Also avoid using human shampoo as it is too harsh for your greyhound's sensitive skin.
 Your greyhound should visit the veterinarian within the first 2 weeks you bring him home. Find a veterinarian that has a experience working with greyhounds because they are a unique breed. After the initial visit, your greyhound will need to see the veterinarian for yearly checkups.Your dog will also need annual rabies shots and a Distemper booster.
Most veterinarians will recommend that your dog takes preventative heartworm medication throughout the year.
 Bloat does not happen often, but it can be life threatening for your greyhound. Greyhounds have a large chest cavity. If the cavity becomes filled with gas, the stomach twists and your greyhound will not be able to get enough air.Your greyhound will lie down and gasp for air or pace excessively if he becomes bloated
If you notice that your dog is bloated, get him to the veterinarian in 30 minutes or less.
 Former racing greyhounds will have some signs of their past life such as scars, tattered ears, and bald thighs. You and your veterinarian should examine your dog for any of these signs. The presence of any of these does not mean that something is necessarily wrong with your dog.Bald thighs are also known as "kennel butt." The hair is often rubbed away from being in a crate all of the time or due to their racing diet. Hair should regrow in 8 to 12 weeks. If the hair has not grown back in 3 months, your dog may have a thyroid problem. However, some dogs will never have hair on their thighs again.
Your dogs ears may have been bitten by another dog at the track.

