 Cat colds are much like human colds. That is, you'll see things like a runny nose, runny eyes, and sneezing. Your cat may also be a bit more lethargic than normal. These symptoms in tandem may indicate your cat has a cold. However, a cold in a cat can be caused by a number of viruses or bacteria, so it's important for your cat to see the veterinarian. You shouldn't try to wait it out.Your cat can't pass a cold to you, and you can't pass a cold to a cat. However, they can pass cold viruses or bacteria to each other.
Just like with humans, you won't find a "cure" for a viral cold. Rather, your can give your cat some medications to help alleviate some of the effects of the virus. Other medications may keep the virus from recurring.Colds can also lead to conjunctivitis, particularly if the cold is caused by herpes, chlamydia, or mycoplasma. With conjunctivitis, your cat will squint more and have watery eyes, but the discharge from your cat's eyes may be green, yellow, gray, dark, or rusty looking rather than clear. The cornea and iris may turn colors, as well: the cornea may redden, while the iris may look dull. These symptoms may not show up in both eyes.;
, For the herpes virus, one of the main treatments is an amino acid l-lysine supplement. It works by replacing the amino acid the virus needs to replicate, making it so the virus cannot replicate. That gives your cat a chance to recover, pushing the virus into remission.Generally, you'd give a supplement of 250 milligrams to 500 milligrams a day. This is usually a powder you put on your cat's food.
 This medication, like an l-lysine supplement, only suppresses the virus, but it is effective. It can have side effects, such as stomach problems, but it is relatively safe. However, it can be an expensive treatment., Bacterial colds are slightly easier to treat than viral infections. That is, your cat can actually be given medications that will eradicate the bacteria, rather than just treat the symptoms.All three types of bacterial infections can be treated with the antibiotic doxycycline. However, your veterinarian may choose a different antibiotic depending on your cat's particular infection.
Feline calicivirus is also treated with antibiotics since no particular drug helps with the virus itself. You'll just be giving medications to alleviate the problems it causes. Antibiotics keep the cat from developing other infections. With this virus, your cat will also likely receive pain medications., Eye drops are needed when the eye is showing problems because of the virus. Betadine eye drops are a relatively gentle antiviral eye drop. For more severe infections, try trifluridine. Trifluridine is stronger, but it also causes discomfort for the cat. Nonetheless, sometimes it is needed to save the eye., Besides treating the underlying infection, eliminating stress in your cat's life can also help suppress the infection, particularly if it's caused by the herpes virus. The herpes virus can go into remission, but it will still be in your cat's system. It can be brought to the surface again if the cat is under stress.The main stresses in a cat's life are things like a new pet in your home, you being gone for extended periods (on vacation), the cat being boarded, and changes in the routine or environment (such as moving or remodeling). While you can't eliminate all of your cat's stressors, you can try to keep them to a minimum.

