 If an older friend or sibling is willing to buy you a ticket but the theater still won’t allow accompanied children into the movie, have your friend or sibling buy a ticket for themselves. Ask them to head inside to have their ticket torn by staff. After they sit in the theater for a few minutes, have them leave the theater and find you outside so they can give you the torn ticket stub, which you can then show the staff inside for “re-entry,” as if you had already gone in but then ran back out to take care of something outside.Scope out the staff ahead of time. See if they make a point of inspecting ticket stubs when people reenter, or if they just let people in when a ticket stub is shown at all. If they let people breeze by, you could possibly try using an old stub that you’ve saved from a previous movie.Use this trick at a multiplex with multiple ticket collectors. Avoid theaters that only assign one staff member for this job, since they may have a good memory for faces and thus know who has and hasn’t presented a ticket already.Wait for the line to back up, since staff will be more likely to wave stub-holders through while dealing with tickets that still need to be torn.
 Pick a movie that you’re allowed to see. Choose one that starts a little before the one you intend to see. Give yourself time to switch theaters without missing the beginning of the movie you want to see.


If your multiplex has ticket collectors at the door to the theater that you want to sneak into, go watch the movie that you just bought a ticket for. Wait for the movie that you want to see to start playing. Leave the first theater and, if the ticket collectors are gone, sneak into the second. If they’re still there, go the restroom or concession stand as if that’s all you meant to do, and then try again in a little bit later.
If your multiplex collects tickets at the front of the house and then lets you find your own way, just say thanks and sail right into the theater you want to go to once you find it.Use this trick at multiplexes rather than small, two-screen theaters, since you’re more likely to attract attention at the latter due to the lack of space.
 Wait for a movie to let out. Go to a large multiplex, since these often have extra exits located throughout the building. Since these doors are exit-only,wait for a movie to let out, when a crowd will most likely exit all at once through these doors. Join the crowd as it spills out and act like you’re part of it. Then pretend you’ve left something inside. Head inside as though you’re going back in to find what you’ve supposedly lost.


Get your timing right. Avoid loitering outside the doors, since there may be security cameras. Search online ahead of time to find out what movies in which theaters are letting out when. This way you’ll know exactly when to be in place.
Don’t go in as a group. Be believable; one kid running back inside to find something he’s lost is plausible, but a bunch of kids doing the same looks like a bunch of kids sneaking into a theater. If you’re going as a group, have only one person go inside while the others wait for him to come back, which adds credibility to your cover. Once the crowd disperses, have the inside man come back and reopen the door for the rest of the group.
Be aware that this is technically theft.If you’re caught, you may be in more serious trouble than you would be if you tried to buy a ticket for a movie that’s not meant for you.
 Have them purchase a ticket for any movie and enter through the front. Wait outside an exit-only door. Once the coast is clear inside, have them open the door for you.Know the layout. Keep an eye out for security cameras that may catch you loitering outside or opening the door from the inside. Be careful not to use a fire exit that triggers an alarm when opened.
Remember, this is technically theft, so you may get in trouble for this.
 Some theaters screen movies privately for staff after closing-time the night before a premiere. Since these screening are informal, ask anyone you know who works there if you can tag along.

