 Place your middle finger along the bottom seam of the baseball and your thumb along the back seam. Leave your index finger off the ball. Instead of using it to grip the ball, you'll be using it to point at where you want the ball to go.








Hold the baseball such that the curves of the seams are close to your palm, with one on top and one on the bottom of your palm.
For right-handed people, place your middle finger on the right seam on top, and your thumb on the left seam on bottom. Lefties should do the opposite.;
, If the hitter knows you're about to throw a curveball, they'll be prepared for the change in speed and drop. It's important to hide your pitch until you wind up to throw it. Make sure your glove is covering your hand gripping the ball, so no one on the other team will be able to see that you're gripping for a curveball.








The basic curveball grip is easy for experienced hitters to spot even during the windup. Practice hiding your grip so your curveballs are harder to read.
 Place your dominant foot on the rubber. Lift your opposite knee and rotate your hips forward as you throw the ball. Your elbow should be level with or above your arm, and bent at a 90-degree angle. Complete the first part of your curveball pitch as you would a fastball.








A basic, four seam fastball will have your middle and pointer fingers on top of the ball on the seam that runs left and right across the ball when the ball is facing you. Your thumb should be directly on the smooth leather of the bottom of the ball, in between the seams., Keep your palm facing inward towards your body, and release the ball as your arm extends and you step forward with the opposite foot. As your arm comes down from the throw, it should be headed toward the opposite hip.








Snap quickly from top to bottom, rather than moving your hand in an arc across your body.
When you release the ball, rotate your thumb up and your middle finger down, as though you were going to snap your thumb and middle finger together. The ball will move in the direction your middle finger is pointing.
You'll want to release the ball as close to your body as you can. This is called "short arming," and will create more resistance between your middle finger and seam, increasing spin and curve., Master a basic curveball before you move on to more complicated forms. Remember, the spinning action of the throw is achieved by gripping the ball without pressure from the index finger and snapping as the ball is released. Keep this movement in mind as you throw.







