 Choose the best possible mode of communication to reach anyone who might be interested. Try multiple channels if possible.

If you are organizing a work group, use company email.



 


If you are organizing a school group, ask for telephone numbers or emails. Also, research a school LISTSERV to encourage new membership.






If you are hosting a church group, make sure the meeting time is in the church bulletin.






If you are starting a support group, post the information at hospitals, online and in counselor/doctor offices.





;
, Look online and in books for ideas on what topics to choose. If you are leading a work group, get all the research and reports sent out a few days ahead of time so that everyone can be on the same page for the meeting.
 Starting and ending meetings require an outspoken person who will keep track of time and any remaining agenda items. Wear a watch and refer back to it occasionally to make sure you are on track.

Announce the start and end time in your communication with group members. Also, consider announcing topics and the time structure so that members can adequately prepare.






One important structure to announce is whether it is an open group and whether the group has “cross-talk.” This means that the group can discuss, rather than just sharing an opinion when it is their turn.
 It can be exhausting to lead a group, especially for professional and emotional topics. Get a good night sleep and do some deep breathing techniques before you start the group meeting., Sitting in a circle is a classic approach, because no one is left out. Move chairs into a circle before anyone else arrives.


Avoid a “classroom” approach. If everyone must see you, but can’t see each other, you will be more of an authority figure and have a harder time encouraging discussion between group members.
 It is your job to encourage participation without affecting the outcome. If you are an opinionated person, practice holding your tongue in political or opinionated discussions., Keep it brief, but announce your qualifications or interest in the success of the group. Aim to keep the introduction between one and two minutes long.
 Groups like Alcoholics Anonymous have steps and traditions that are to be read at the beginning of each meeting. Don’t go overboard with rules, as they might restrict expression in the group.
 If there are desired outcomes or agenda points, review them now. Set times if necessary.
 If you are leading a small group, you may be able to go around in a circle (Round Robin) so that everyone has a chance to speak. If you are leading a large group, you may need to encourage the raising of hands or free speaking.


Announce the structure of the group before you start, so that everyone has the same expectations.
 You are serving as a neutral party, not a teacher.
 Avoid asking questions to the group with yes or no answers. If they must be yes/no answers, ask group members to elaborate on why that is the answer., Good follow-up questions include “How does that change the way you feel about X,Y,Z?” and “How do you think that applies to other issues that we are discussing?”

, If you are afraid that the group is too large to encourage adequate participation, small group work is a good way to encourage everyone in a group to interact.
 Encourage positive interactions. Thank people for their contributions.


Don’t be critical. Even if your group is created for critiques, criticism should be only give in small doses. Start each comment with positive reinforcement.
 Between subjects, encourage people to play a game, watch a related YouTube clip or get up and move around.
 It is your job as the group leader to recognize potential arguments and try to move on in a productive way.


Say, “It sounds like we have a difference of opinion.”
“Different points of view are encouraged in our group.”
“It sounds like you both feel passionate about this.”
“It seems that we can agree on X,Y,Z.”

, This is a good way for people to feel joint ownership of a group and its goals.
 Ask people to take a questionnaire or discuss changes or issues wit you.

