 Keep a daily list of what you need to accomplish. This will help you prioritize, delegate, and reschedule your tasks to make things more manageable.;
, Adding yet another obligation to your schedule when you're already stressed won't help anyone. It'll add to your own anxiety and may well result in you letting someone down. Learn to say no when you can't handle more.
 Stress can rear its head even more than usual during exam times. To help with these periods of potential anxiety, make a schedule and stick to it. Factor in breaks for relaxation, exercise, and healthy meals, and make sure you spread your study time across your different subjects, focusing on ones where you need more help.
 It's easy to push off assignments until the last minute, but this can end up being a huge stressor when you're down to the wire on time. Try to tackle tasks as you're assigned them, rather than putting them off until later.
 A higher education can lead to the career that you've always dreamed of having. It will be worth it in the end, even if you feel overwhelmed at times now. To help you get through the extra stressful periods, mix in some fun activities and relaxation.
 Do something like relaxing on your bed with some popcorn and listening to music, drawing, reading a book or writing.
 Online games are helpful in getting rid of stress, partially because you're focused on a game.


Examples of online games include RuneScape, Animal Jam, Club Penguin and Minecraft.
 Sometimes, we need to relax or take a breather to help alleviate stress. Try power napping if you're working and need to stay productive.
 Spending time with people you like, such as your roommates, can alleviate stress, especially if you guys are having a great time together.


See if there's a party coming up. If there is, try making plans to go to it -- you'll have a lot of fun.
 Walking will make you feel better, thus making you forget about the problems that are causing you to stress out.


You can walk alone, or with a friend or roommate.
 Things you can write about include memories, what you're happy about, what you're looking forward to, and your feelings.


Try to avoid writing what you're stressed about, as doing that can make you more stressed.

