 You’ll save a lot of water by making sure you absolutely need to water your garden. If enough rain is forecast in the coming days, you can avoid the task altogether and conserve water at the same time., By putting a moisture meter in your garden, you can take some of the guesswork out of watering efficiently. Available at most hardware stores, a moisture meter is one of the most cost effective tools for conserving water in your garden. Take a look at the reading to determine whether you should water the garden:If the meter reads 10-30% moisture, you’ll need to water your garden.
If the meter reads 40-70% moisture, you don’t need to water.
If the meter reads 80-100% moisture, you should avoid watering, since your soil is likely too moist for most plants.
 Grab your watering can or turn on your drip irrigation system before it gets too hot and windy, which will give your plants the necessary supply of water to make it through the rest of the day.Avoid watering your garden in the evening because it is more likely for water to stay on leaves, which could lead to fungal growth.
If you do container gardening with a pine bark potting mix, you’ll want to water your plants in the afternoon. Although this goes against the normal rule of watering your plants in the morning, container plants watered at this time seem to grow stronger and healthier., A smart irrigation controller is a tool that uses local and national weather data to automatically adjust the irrigation of your garden. You can save a lot of water by using these systems, which allow you to monitor irrigation from an app on your smart phone.Some of the systems, such as the Rachio Iro Smart Sprinkler Controller, can be programmed to adjust to local weather changes, such as skipping a scheduled watering if rain pops up in the forecast.Systems cost in the range of $200 and $1,250.
In some regions, you can get a rebate for using a smart irrigation controller.You may be able to save 9% of your water use per year by using a smart irrigation controller.

