 Salmon only needs to be marinated for about 15–30 minutes. Start preparing the marinade an hour before you plan to eat, or even less, depending on your cooking method.


Cooking methods are described at the end of this section.;
, Place the lemon on a cutting board and slice it in half. Squeeze both lemon halves over a bowl.
 Pour 2 tbsp (30 mL) olive oil into the bowl of lemon juice. Add 1/2 tsp (2.5 mL) dried thyme, and stir the ingredients together with a spoon until well mixed.


Another popular version of this marinade uses dill instead of thyme.
 Select a dish large enough that all your salmon fillets can fit into it side by side. You may need to use several dishes if you are doubling or tripling the recipe.


Alternatively, use a large zip locked bag.
 Lay the salmon fillets in the dish containing the marinade. Turn them a couple times to make sure each side is covered.


Food safety experts recommend that you do not wash raw salmon or other raw meat before preparing. Cooking the meat is more effective at killing bacteria, and rinsing the meat is likely to spread the bacteria onto your sink or other places in your kitchen.Wash your hands with soap and warm water for twenty seconds after handling raw meat.
 Unlike red meat and poultry, fish can develop an unpleasant texture during a lengthy marination process. For an acidic marinade such as this one, based on lemon juice, keep the salmon in the marinade for no longer than 30 minutes.Flip the salmon over once during this time to ensure that both sides of the fish are marinated.
 Transfer the fish to another container. Discard the remaining liquid. If you wish to use the marinade as a sauce, first bring it to a boil in order to kill harmful bacteria from the raw meat., After the salmon has been marinated, it can be prepared in a number of ways. Two popular options are grilling the salmon wrapped in foil, or baking it on a foil-lined baking sheet. In either case, cook the fillets at 400ºF (200ºC) for about fifteen minutes. The salmon is ready when a fork can easily remove flakes from the surface.


Flip the salmon halfway through the cooking process if you are grilling it.

