 Your Twitter profile is effectively an extension of your brand. When setting up your profile, you must ensure it’s consistent with your company branding and brand guidelines. Make sure that the branding across all social media platforms is consistent. Your branding should be instantly recognisable to new visitors.


Choose a a Twitter handle that reflects your company name
Choose a relevant and representative image
Make your profile as informative as possible

, Make sure you follow relevant people and businesses. Consider starting by following - Trade bodies/organisations, Business partners, Your own clients, Future customers, Your direct competition and Your email address book (you can grant Twitter access to your email address book)

, That’s what Twitter is all about. Generally speaking you can break down Tweet content/Tweet types into the following:


Tweet – Something you write (in a 140 characters or less) and which you post to all your followers
Hashtag – Hashtags are searchable on Twitter (and now Facebook), if you use the #marketing within your Tweet somewhere, everyone who performs a search for #marketing on Twitter will likely come across your Tweet.
Retweet (RT) – Someone else’s Tweet that is of interest and you choose to share with your followers.
Reply – Start of a conversation – you reply to a specific Tweet and the string of the conversation is then visible on your timeline
Mention – A post containing the Twitter handle of another user: eg, @caburnhope_mktg great new website by the way!
Direct Message (DM) – A message you send to a specific user (they must follow you to receive the message) which is private and only seen by them.
 Twitter is a useful way of driving traffic to specific pages on your company website, creating appealing content is essential. Content can be in the form of news items, new product announcements, offers, blogs, brochures, opinion pieces, photos, videos etc.
 Maximise the opportunities that other users have of finding your Twitter account.


Use ‘Twitter follow’ badges on your website
Include your live Twitter feed on your website
Some other social media sites will offer the opportunity to include a link to your Twitter stream (Facebook for example)
Link posts from other social media platforms to your Twitter account
Use share buttons on your website making it easy for them to share your content
Add social media icons to your company email signature

, You can use Hashtags # or Search other user’s lists can to find other users/potential customers who may be useful to your business.
 Most importantly every social media platform has an etiquette that you should follow. Be mindful that everything you post on Twitter is in the public domain; each Tweet needs to be professional.

