 If the timer has no power it might be circuit board failure (go ahead and replace the timer) or it might simply be a transformer failure (just replace the transformer). However, it might be a blown fuse due to a short in a field wire or solenoid, and your timer might be fine for a few more years.;
, Include in your notes what days to water, what time to start watering, and how long for each station (zone). You can change the program later if you would like.
 Do not go any further until you are absolutely certain that there is no electrical power to the controller. If unsure, check the power input wires with a voltmeter, or call a licensed electrician. Electrical power can seriously injure or kill you. Once you are certain you have disconnected the power, go to step #3. The wires that control the sprinkler valves are inside the controller. Now you must remove the face of the timer to manage the valve wires.
 As you remove each one, label each piece of tape

,
The common terminal in the controller is usually marked by the letter “C”.
The pump start terminal will be labeled either “PS” (for pump start) or “MV” (for Master Valve). NOTE: if you have a mechanical controller that you change zones by toggling the ON/OFF switch, you will have only two wires going out of the timer


, Even if you do not run your system with a pump, you may still have a master valve; therefore, label it.
 This makes things easier. Simply write down which color wire relates to which terminal, (example: white is common. Red is Zone 1. Green is Zone 2, etc.).
 Take care to mount it in a position that will accommodate the existing wire. If the existing wires are too short to reach the connections for the new controller, you can extend the wires and place the splices in a junction box. NOTE: If you are using a junction box outside your house, use a waterproof junction box.
 Next, connect your zone field wires and test that every zone comes on. If you have a rain sensor (you should get one if you don’t have one on your sprinkler system already), the connection for the common and PS/MV will be different. The rain sensor will have two wires. It acts as a switch between the common and the PS/MV wires and the valve/field wires.


If you do not have PS/MV wire: Connect one of the two rain sensor wires to the common wire. Connect the other rain sensor wire to the common terminal. If your controller came with pre-installed rain sensor terminals, use those instead.
If you do have a PS/MV wire: Instead of connecting the rain sensor between the common wire and the common terminal, connect it between the PS/MV wire and the PS/MV terminal instead. This will prevent either the pump or the master valve from coming on after it rains. This is especially important in regards to pumps operated by a pump start. You do not want a pump running against as “dead head”. This means that a running pump needs to be able to discharge water or damage to the pump can occur.
 Referring to your program notes you wrote down from Step #1 (information from the old controller), program your new controller.