 Some vegetables, when cooked without any spices or additional flavorings, can be a little bland or even bitter in flavor. Spice up the flavor potential of vegetables you're preparing with marinades or other seasonings to make them more enjoyable.


A marinade is a seasoned sauce that vegetables, meat or even tofu can be put in to add a lot of flavor to a meal. Marinades need to have a little salt, fat and acid to help the vegetables soak up the sauce.However, several hours will most likely result in a mushy, water-logged veggie.A marinade is typically a ratio of one part acid, one part oil, and two parts aromatics (like herbs or garlic).
Vegetables work well with a little olive or canola oil, vinegar or citrus juice and salt. Outside of that you can add whatever herbs or spices you'd like. Marinate vegetables for at least 30 minutes to an hour.
Try a marinade made for 2 cups of vegetables with 2 tablespoons of olive oil, 2 tablespoons of lemon juice, 1 minced garlic clove, 1 teaspoon of dried rosemary, 1 teaspoon of salt and a 1/2 teaspoon of pepper.;
, A good way to cook vegetables that imparts a lot of great flavor is by grilling them. Whether you're using an outdoor grill or indoor grill pan, this high heat cooking method makes may vegetables much tastier.


Grilling uses a very hot surface to cook vegetables. When vegetables touch the hot grill, it sears and chars that side of the vegetable. This caramelization is what gives grilled foods a smoky, charred flavor.
In addition to giving veggies that wonderful charred flavor, grilling also is a healthy way to cook. It requires little added fat, the vegetables retain more of their vitamins and minerals and it keeps vegetables from getting overly water-logged.To grill vegetables, spray vegetables or grill with a little cooking spray or olive oil. Place vegetables on preheated grill and cook until there are char or grill marks on one side of the vegetable. Flip and cook just a few moments more or until you're desired level of doneness.
 Another great cooking method for vegetables is roasting. Like grilling, this cooking method adds a lot of flavor to vegetables without having to add lot of added fat or other seasonings.


Roasting is a high heat cooking method. The hot air of the oven heats and cooks the vegetables thoroughly. It also helps promote the browning and caramelization of vegetables which results in a crispy outer crust.Roasting vegetables is great way to improve the flavor profile of many different vegetables - especially more bitter tasting vegetables. The caramelization makes vegetables more sweet in flavor and brings out the natural sweetness of already sweet vegetables (like carrots or beets).To roast vegetables, preheat your oven to 425 degrees. Chop your vegetables into equal-sized pieces and toss with olive oil, salt, pepper and any other desired seasonings. Roast until vegetables are golden brown and tender.
 Blanching is a great technique to use if you're sensitive to the textures of many vegetables. Sometimes, mushy or overly steamed vegetables are not appealing and have little flavor.Blanching is a great cooking technique to preserve texture - however it doesn't add any flavor to vegetables. Blanched vegetables are great to use in a variety of recipes and can result in a less bitter vegetable.
Blanching is similar to boiling in the sense that you cook vegetables in a large pot of boiling water. However, with blanching, the vegetables are only cooked for about 30 seconds to 1 minute and then submerged in iced water to preserve color and texture.
Once you've blanched your veggies, you can toss them into salads, eat them cold with a dip or add them to stir-fries.
 Although not the healthiest cooking method, frying does impart a lot of great flavor and texture to many, many foods. Occasionally frying vegetables is a great way to make them tastier.


Frying requires you to cook vegetables in oil at a very high temperature. You can either completely submerge the vegetables in the oil (deep-frying) or in a little bit of oil (pan-frying). Either way causes vegetables to get a crunchy, crispy crust on the outside.Dipping vegetables in a light batter or breading can intensify the crispiness on the outside. You can do beer-battered or a tempura batter if you'd like.
After frying vegetables, it's important to allow them to drain well on a wire rack or paper towels to avoid excess oil. This can make them soggy and oily which is not very tasty., They're cute, they're little and more people are likely to eat vegetables that are considered "baby vegetables."If you're not a fan of veggies, try to find mini versions of these nutrient-packed foods.


Many grocery stores and markets now sell smaller, baby vegetables. These are great for those people who don't the like a bitter or strong taste to their vegetables. Baby vegetables are naturally a little sweeter.
As a plant grows and matures, the flavor of the vegetables also grows and can intensify (especially with more bitter vegetables). This can make mature vegetables a little bit harder to stomach.
In addition, baby vegetables are a little easier and quicker to cook due to their small size and thinner skins.
Common baby vegetables you can find include: carrots, zucchini, artichokes, green beans, turnips and brussels sprouts.
 Every vegetable has its own unique flavor profile. Some are naturally sweet, some have spicy note to them and some are a little more bitter in flavor. Many times, these bitter or strong flavored vegetables can be off-putting. Stick with more mild flavors so you can enjoy more vegetables.


Many vegetables have a natural bitter flavor to them. Items like kale, radicchio, brussels sprouts and broccoli have a slight bitter and off-putting flavor. This is a natural compound in plants that many scientist believe is a form of protection.If you are particularly sensitive to bitter flavors, which some people are, try to avoid eating those vegetables that have a more intense bitter flavor.
These vegetables can include: broccoli, dark greens, eggplant, green bell peppers, brussels sprouts and cabbage. Many times, specific cooking techniques (like roasting) can make these vegetables less bitter.
 Unlike naturally bitter tasting vegetables, some are actually quite sweet in flavor. In addition, others lack a lot of flavor in general. Both are great if you want to enjoy vegetables.


If you're overly sensitive you may want to choose sweeter, less intensely flavored vegetables. These won't offend your palate as much and you may enjoy them more.
Try vegetables like: red and yellow bell peppers, carrots, sweet potatoes, pumpkin, butternut squash, green beans, zucchini or yellow squash, peas, beets and lettuces like iceberg or romaine.
 It's important to store each vegetable appropriately so you can maintain it's freshness and flavor. Some vegetables will become more bitter or get mushy the longer they're stored or if they're stored next to other items.


For starters, do not store vegetables near fruit. Some fruit, like apples, produce ethylene gas which causes rapid ripening of vegetables (and other fruits).Keep your fruits and vegetables stored in different drawers in your refrigerator.
The flavors of your vegetables can become more bitter and intense if they are stored next to fruits that cause rapid ripening.
In addition, cruciferous vegetables like broccoli or cauliflower ripen very quickly in the presence of ethylene gas and can become limp, mushy and yellow in color.Tomatoes are a vegetable that you should never store in the refrigerator. They will become mushy, mealy and have little flavor. Store on the counter and out of the sun.
 An easy and fun way to eat your veggies is by serving them alongside a great dressing or dip - like ranch or blue cheese dressing. Using blanched veggies takes away that raw, bitter flavor associated with raw vegetables and makes this classic taste much better.


Bring a large point of water to a boil. While you're waiting, set out another large bowl and fill it with cold water and a lot of ice cubes.
Once water is boiling, toss in your vegetables. Make sure they're evenly cut so they're all about the same size. If you're doing multiple types of vegetables, blanch each vegetable separately as different veggies cook at different rates.
Cook vegetables for only 30 seconds to a minute. Remove with a slotted spoon and immediately plunge into the ice water until they are completely cool.
Drain from the ice water and pat try. Serve along side your favorite dip or toss them into a salad.
 Roasted vegetables are such a tasty way to get in a serving or two of vegetables. Take advantage of cold weather produce, by roasting up potatoes, rutabagas, turnips, carrots or onions.


Preheat your oven to 425 degrees. While you're oven is preheating, slice your root vegetables into equal sized pieces.
Toss your root vegetables with a little bit of canola oil (enough to lightly coat every piece), salt, pepper and an Italian herb blend. Mix together until each piece of vegetable has oil and seasonings.
Roast at 425 degrees for 30-45 minutes or until vegetables are golden brown and fork tender. These are great on their own, but also great to throw into a salad or alongside scrambled eggs in the morning.
 Many people really enjoy eating traditional or even sweet potato fries. But another vegetable you can make into a crispy and tasty treat is a zucchini.


To pan fry your zucchini fries, heat a heavy bottom skillet or pot over high heat. Fill with a little bit of canola or peanut oil. The oil should come up about halfway on the sides of the zucchini fries.
As the oil heats, slice up your zucchini. You can make little zucchini "coins" or cut the zucchini into a more traditional french fry size.
Dip zucchini into your favorite frying batter or coat it in a little egg wash and bread crumbs.
Gently place your coated zucchini fries into the hot oil. Cook for a minute or so on each side or until the zucchini is golden brown all over. Drain your zucchini fries on some paper towels or a wire rack to keep them from getting too soggy from the excess oil.
Serve your zucchini fries with marinara sauce or any other favorite sauce. You can also use this recipe to make yellow squash or avocado fries as well.
 Pizza is a favorite among many people. In addition, it's a great place to add (and hide) vegetables. When veggies are paired with cheese and slightly sweet marinara sauce, their flavor improves and you may find them more enjoyable.


To make a pizza at home, start by buying a pre-made pizza crust. Follow the directions on the package for what temperature to bake the pizza on and for how long.
Top the pizza crust with your favorite marinara sauce and cheese. Then add the veggies. Make sure to slice vegetables very, very thinly so they cook through in the short amount of time the pizza is baking.
Great vegetables to add to pizza include: onions, mushrooms, peppers, olives, broccoli and drained frozen spinach.
Bake your pizza until the crust is fully cooked and golden brown and the cheese is melted on top.
 It's a classic and a favorite to many, but steamed vegetables drizzled with cheese sauce is a great way to get some extra flavor into your steamed vegetables.Broccoli and cauliflower are great vegetables to lightly steam or blanch. Cook them until they're soft enough for your likeness. Blanching is better if you like your veggies a little more crisp.
When the vegetables are still warm, toss with your favorite cheese sauce. You may choose to purchase a pre-made sauce or make your own from scratch. Tossing them while they're still warm helps distribute the sauce more evenly over every piece.
You can also saute dark greens like spinach over the stove and toss with a little feta cheese or cream cheese for a rich and cheesy cream of spinach side dish.

