 You can meditate anywhere, but it will be easier to focus if you can find a quiet place where you will be left alone. You can meditate in your bedroom or even outside if you want to.Try to minimize distractions. Turn off the television, the computer, the stereo, and close the door to the room you are in to keep any pets from wandering in.
 This is not a requirement, but it can be helpful for allowing you to completely focus without wondering how long you’ve been meditating. Nearly all smartphones come with a timer, so you can just set it for however long you want to meditate, and start it once you’re ready to begin. Try choosing an alarm sound that isn't too jarring — try setting it to the sound of chimes or something melodic so you won't be shocked out of meditation when it goes off.


If you’re brand new to meditating, try to aim for a short time, maybe five minutes.
If you are very upset by something, meditating for a bit longer (say 10 minutes) may be very helpful in allowing you to center yourself.
 You can sit on the floor on a meditation cushion, you can sit in a chair with your feet flat on the floor. The important part is that you find a stable position to sit in.You will want to sit up straight while you meditate, so make sure that you will be able to comfortably do so in your chosen sitting position.
 This is not totally necessary, but it may be helpful if you want to calm down through meditation. Give yourself a few minutes to think about what is upsetting you without trying to solve the problem. Think about the emotions you are feeling. Then, think about what you hope to accomplish through meditation. For example, “I want to calm down so I can deal with this problem better.”


Your intention can even be a single word or phrase. For example, the intention of your meditation might be to calm down, so you could simply say to yourself, “Calm.” It can be helpful to say the word or phrase that is your intention aloud, but if you don’t want to, then just say it silently to yourself., You should try to rest your arms so that your upper arms are parallel with your body. You can rest your forearms on your lap with each arm resting gently on the legs.You don’t have to sit with your hands in any particular position (e.g. with palms facing upwards and index finger and thumb touching), just sit however feels most comfortable for you.
 You should allow your chin to gently drop just a little bit, and allow your gaze to rest on a point in front of you.You don’t need to stare at a fixed point, just let your gaze land wherever feels comfortable.
You can also close your eyes if that is most comfortable for you.
 Focusing on the breath is the biggest part of mindfulness meditation. All you have to do is focus on your breath going in and out. Is it cool going into your nostrils? Is one nostril more open than the other?You can focus more on the in-breath for awhile and then switch your focus to noticing the out-breath more for awhile. You can also focus on the whole pattern of breathing from start to finish if you like.
If you find that you absolutely cannot clear your mind, then incorporate your anger/worry/stress into your meditation. For example, imagine your anger leaving your body through each out-breath. Think of each in-breath entering your body and “cleaning up” all the anger, and carrying it away as it leaves your body.
 If your mind starts to wander (and it probably will), just simply take notice that you are now thinking about something else. Now that you have become aware, return to focusing on your breathing.The key is not to get angry with yourself. — if you start to get angry or frustrated, remind yourself that it's normal for your thoughts to wander. Make a conscious decision to stop your line of thinking and go back to focusing on the breaths as often as it occurs.
Keep going if you notice that you’ve been thinking about something that upset you for the last two minutes, simply go back to the breath.
You can also try visualizing your problems floating away as you become more calm or you can visualize yourself in a more positive state of mind. The point here is to find a way to make your meditation helpful to you. If you find that you are getting more frustrated because you can’t keep your mind clear, then switch your focus to something that feels helpful, such as visualizing your problems leaving your mind, for example.

