 You should give your kitten treats no more than two or three times a week. Feeding it treats more frequently may cause your kitten to avoid eating its food in the hopes of receiving a treat that it finds tastier. Overfeeding cats can contribute to obesity issues and result in health problems.Treats should make up no more than five percent of your kitten’s diet., The best time to provide treats to your kitten is when you’re giving it as a reward for positive behavior, like using the litter box or coming to you when you call its name. When you begin this type of training, you’ll be giving your kitten far more than the recommended amount of treats. Once your cat starts consistently demonstrating the behaviors you’ve trained it to do, cut back on the amount of treats you give it. Instead, reward it with a treat only occasionally, replacing treats with other types of rewards like throwing its ball or showing it affection.

When you’re training your kitten, reward its positive behavior immediately. Cats have short attention spans and will not know what to associate the treat with if you wait too long after they perform the behavior you want.
If you’re feeding your cat more than the recommended amount of treats, cut down on the amount of food you give it at meals. Think about your kitten’s overall food intake, factoring in treats, and keep it consistent., Kittens and cats have a natural instinct to hunt prey. You can turn giving your kitten treats into a fun skill-building game by hiding its treat and encouraging your cat to hunt it down. To do this, try some of the following methods:

Hide a treat out of sight (under a chair, for example), and then encourage your kitten to go find it. Let your kitten smell the treat first so it knows what to look for. You may need to help your kitten by giving it hints as to where the treat is hidden. For example, drag your finger along the ground toward the treat or shine a laser pointer or light in the direction of the treat.
Get a food puzzle for your cat to play with throughout the day. Put a treat in this puzzle and let your cat figure out how to get the treat out.
Attach the treat to the end of a string and let your kitten try to catch the treat as you move the string around.