 If your brand new hamster is biting, it may mean that the hamster has not adapted to their new settings. Give the hamster a week or two to become used to their new cage, smells, and surroundings. This adjustment period will make the hamster feel more secure and less threatened.


You can try sitting next to the cage and talking to your hamster so that it becomes used to your presence.
Do not touch the hamster or put your hand in their cage during this time.;
, Hamsters are more likely to bite you if they smell food on your hands. Try to use a soap that has no perfume or scent. Hand-washing is also a good habit to prevent the spread of disease.


If it makes you feel safer, you can wear gloves while training your hamster. That said, gloves will do little to stop the biting. They only protect you., Grabbing a hamster around their back or body may startle them. Instead, lower your hand into the cage, and scoop under the hamster. Gently raise the hamster out of the cage, using your other hand to catch the hamster if it falls.If your hamster does not like to be lifted, you can place a bowl with sunflower seeds inside the cage. Wait for your hamster to crawl into the bowl before lifting the bowl out of the cage., Block off an area where your hamster can safely play. Exercising outside of their cage will improve the hamster's mood, and it will teach them that you are not a threat. You can use books, wire pet fences, or pillows. Make sure that all doors are closed in the room, just in case the hamster does slip out of their play area. Allow the hamster to wander over the floor and around your hands.


Supervise your hamster carefully, and remember that hamsters like to climb.
 This will show them that you are friendly, and it will reward them for being around you. The hamster may realize that you will not hurt them. Good treats include:


A small piece of cauliflower
An apple slice
Raisins
Green, leafy vegetables, Daily handling sessions will quickly familiarize your hamster with your scent and presence. Hamsters do not have good sight, so allowing them to sniff around you will help them become comfortable with you. Biting should end after a few weeks of such sessions., Hamsters are nocturnal creatures, and it may be tempting to wake them up in middle of the day when you want to play with them. If you do this, however, they may bite you. It is best to only handle hamsters when they are already awake.