 Factors like how often you wash your hair and what water temperature you use can affect the length of your hair. That's because washing your hair too often (think every day) and using super hot water will cause it to dry out and become brittle. That leads to hair breakage, preventing your hair from growing long and thick. The solution? Wash your hair no more than 3 times a week, and use the coldest water you can handle.


At first, washing your hair less often might make it look a little greasy. Wear a hat for a few days until your scalp gets used to producing less oil and things balance out. It shouldn't take long!
If you hate showering in cold water, try washing your hair in the sink with cold water separately from your regular showers. When you shower, keep your hair wrapped up in a shower cap.;
, Do you towel dry your hair roughly, brush it out, and blow it dry? You're breaking your hair! It won't get the chance to grow long and strong, because you're handling it too roughly while it's wet. Think of your hair like a garment made of good fabric; you wouldn't just throw it in the dryer, you'd carefully lay it out to gently air dry. Treat your hair with the same gentle care. After washing, gently pat it dry with a towel and let it finish air drying.


Don't brush your hair while it's wet. Wet hair tends to stretch and break more easily than dry hair. If you need to detangle it, use your fingers and a wide-toothed comb to gently work through the tangles.
Don't blow dry your hair except for special occasions. Blow drying often really does cause damage in the form of breakage, frizz and split ends, and it's not easy to repair; you just have to wait for fresh hair to grow out.
 The shampoo and conditioner you use may be contributing to poor hair growth. Most commercial shampoos contain sulfates, which strip your hair of its natural oils and leave it susceptible to damage. Conditioners contain silicones that coat the hair with chemicals and need to be washed out with more strong shampoo. This cycle is really damaging to hair! Here's what you can do instead:


Give your hair one last wash with a strong shampoo, to get rid of any remaining silicones. Don't condition it this time; just gently detangle it and let it air dry.
Give your hair a break for a few days. Don't do anything to it - don't wash it, straighten it, or use any products.
Next time you wash your hair, use an all-natural shampoo. Read the label and use a shampoo that contains only natural oils and other cleansers, no chemicals. You could even try going shampoo free!
Condition with diluted apple cider vinegar. This really works, and when it dries you won't smell like vinegar at all. For a deep-conditioning treatment, try using coconut oil. You'll never want to go back to the chemical-laden stuff you used before.
 In a similar vein, start using gentler methods when it comes to styling your hair. Use heating tools like curling irons, straighteners, and of course hair dryers only sparingly. Switch out chemical-filled hairsprays and gels for natural versions. This gives your hair the chance to grow long and strong, taking on its own unique, beautiful texture.


You can make your own hair gel from non-harmful ingredients.
To smooth flyaways and frizz, apply a little argan oil or another cosmetic oil to your hair, rather than using an over-the-counter product.
Try natural methods to curl your hair without heat or to straighten it without heat.
 This will help repair any damage that's been done to it by replenishing your hair's moisture. Afterward your hair will feel soft, silky and healthy, and it'll stay healthy long enough to keep growing out.


Try a hot oil mask using coconut and almond oil, as coconut oil has high penetration and deep conditioning power while almond oil adds extra shine to the weak dry hair. Massage the oil into your hair and put on a shower cap. Run a warm blow dryer over the cap for about 10 minutes, then remove the cap and wash your hair. Alternatively, apply the hair mask and braid your hair then put it in a bun and put a shower cap on. Keep your hair braided for at least day and night for three months and you hair will grow 1-3 inches more than normal hair growth.
You could also try using warm olive oil, cinnamon and honey - this lightens your hair as it conditions it.
 Cover it up when you spend long hours in the sun, swim in a chlorinated pool, or hang out where there's a high level of air pollution. Your hair can get damaged by repeated exposure to these elements, so tie it up in a scarf, wear a hat or swim cap, and make sure to use gentle washing and drying methods afterward to keep it healthy.

