 Cosmetology courses teach sectioning techniques including four-section, five-section and seven-section parting. This may vary from state to state. To do seven-section parting, divide the scalp into seven sections: top, right side, left side, right crown, left crown, right nape and left nape. Leave a one-half inch band of hair to hang loose around the perimeter of the hairline.Start by making a clean parting line from the point just behind the ears on one side to the matching point on the opposite side. Next, make parting lines on each side of the head just along the parietal ridge to isolate the hair at the top of the head.
Comb the hair smooth toward the center of the section at the top of the head and twist it up into a knot and clip with a butterfly clip to secure it. Do the same on the right and left sides of the head.
Now, create a parting line down the center of the back of the head. Isolate the right and left crown sections by parting the hair in a line from behind the ears to the center parting just created.

These horizontal partings should meet to form a straight horizontal line across the back of the head.
Comb to smooth these sections and twist and secure them as with the previous sections.


The remaining two sections – the left and right nape – are easily secured into separate twists.
After the sections are secured, go back over the head, section by section, and let down a one-half inch strip along the outer edge (aka perimeter or hairline) and re-twist and secure the hair sections.
 In some cases, you will work from the back of the hair to the front; in others you'll start at the front; in still others you'll cut around the perimeter and proceed from there. Each style is different and requires a different plan of attack.
 Keep in mind that a typical salon appointment can be anywhere from a half-hour to an hour-and-a half in length. You're not a professional stylist, so it's going to take you longer to complete your cut. Don't rush it. An uneven style may have to be fixed by a professional and only time can fix a too-short "do."








, Take segments of hair from matching positions on each side of the head and bring them up to a central point. They should be even in length with one other. If not, your cut is uneven and you need to fix it.








