 This may seem obvious, but you can't beat it if you don't even have the game!
, (This is automatic), Fairly straightforward. To get the sapphire, take the steps up, and jump onto the somewhat hidden platform at the top of the screen. You won't be able to see yourself, but make a blind jump and try to land into the gap between the spike and block. From here it's a mad rush to the exit to get the 7 second sapphire., To get the sapphire on this one, simply wait for the row of spikes to pass by, and go off-screen to the right. From there, try to land near the exit., Just avoid all the drugs, and keep going right. Don't press the left key. This may take a few tries because drugs are spawned randomly from the right side of the screen., This is more puzzle than it is action. To get the sapphire, you'll need to make it all the way to the platform directly under the finish line before the first line of spikes passes by. There, hit the bottom of the finish line, in order to get a time boost to reach the 6 second sapphire.
 This is very hard, it will take a few hundred tries at least. You'll need to make it to the bottom and time your drop before the first row of continuous spikes pass by (five spikes in a row with no gap), from there, rush your way up to the exit. There's no need to jump up to the single platform on the top-left, as it will waste your time. Find the best way and be efficient here for the sapphire., At the start of the level, drop left and hold right. This will save you two jumps, which is needed for the sapphire. There's no need to rush on this level, because the achievement is not for time but for the number of jumps. If you do everything right you should have exactly five jumps., Don't rush to the right at the beginning. You won't make it. Instead, wait for the blocks to switch into spikes, and jump to the right before the very moment that the spikes turn back into blocks. This should give you a "boost" or a few blocks advantage. Getting the star here is relatively easy., There are no shortcuts to this level. Make a route to the star, and to the exit. It IS possible, trust me on this one. There are hidden platforms under the star., The timing for the sapphire is much more forgiving on this one. Otherwise, it's pretty straightforward., Keep running right. In a few tries you should understand how it goes. In order to get the sapphire, which requires you to never let go of the right arrow key, just hold the left arrow key when you want to stop. Basically, instead of releasing the right arrow key to stop moving right, hold BOTH the left and right arrow keys to stop., Again, pretty straightforward. It all goes down to the timing here to see if you are fast enough to get the star (and the sapphire), The weak point of the boss is the flashing thing on its head. To get all 5 stars, collect the first 4 before you trigger the lava (it is triggered by attacking the boss for the first time). Using the platform that falls down when you attack him for the first time, the fifth star should be accessible. Attack him again, then again, and the goal should finally appear. (With some really fast rising lava!)
