 Managing your office space and making it work for you will require you to properly store your items. It's easy to let your office get cluttered or messy, forgetting to put items away after you're done using them or by simply having too many of them. You'll want to practice good storage techniques to help keep your space organized, clean and orderly.Don't let stacks of papers accumulate. Try to file things away as soon as you are done using them.
Using containers can be a big help when trying to store away or organize the things in your office.
Items that you don't use often can be good candidates for storage.
It can be helpful to have smaller containers for the items or papers you do use often.
 Although many pieces of technology are wireless today, there are still a few that may need to be plugged in. These devices can create a mess, leaving you to deal with loose wires or cords. To help keep your workspace clean and clutter free, you'll want to properly manage any wires or cables in your office.You can use cable ties to bundle wires together.
Try to tuck cables behind devices or behind your desk.
Whenever possible, opt for wireless devices to help keep your desktop and office in order.
 Because you'll be busy with work, giving your office a cleaning might be overlooked. Every so often, you may want to take a few minutes to pick up around your office, throwing out any garbage, removing clutter or otherwise tidying up. Keeping your office clean can help make it a welcoming and comfortable space.Throw out any old documents or papers you no longer need.
If your desk is cluttered with decorations, remove ones that you no longer want.
Make sure any trash is thrown out at the end of each day.
Put things that you aren't using away.
A clean space can make a great first impression.
 The furniture you choose will bring a certain style to your office and can also help you stay comfortable during your work day. You'll want to take some time and choose furniture that sets the style you're after and keeps you comfortable while you work.It's usually a good idea to buy furniture one piece at a time, instead of buying enough for your whole office.
Make sure you select an ergonomic chair that is a good fit for your body type.
Select a desk that is a good height for you.
Consider the size of any furniture you plan on including in your office.
It can be helpful to make a floor plan before shopping for office furniture.

