 To make a fabric slipcover that's tailored to the shape of your chair, you’ll need to begin by taking and writing down precise readings of the dimensions of the chair. Here's a checklist of the measurements you'll want to take:


Height of the back of the chair
Width of the back of the chair at its widest point
Thickness of the back of the chair
Distance from the top of the back to the seat
Length of the arms
Distance from the arms to the floor
Distance from the arms to the seat
Length of the seat
Width of the seat
Depth of the seat cushion
Distance from the floor to the lowest fabric edge (if you plan to include a skirt on your slipcover)
Distance around the bottom circumference of the chair (if you plan to include a skirt);
, Be sure to purchase enough fabric to fit your chair's measurements (plus a little extra for hemming and mistakes).


For maximum durability, choose a fairly sturdy fabric, like denim, thicker cotton/hemp blends, canvas, or twill.Fabric is sold in a wide variety of widths: 36 inches, 42 inches, 60 inches, and all the way up to widths over 100 inches. For slipcovers, it's best to buy one of the wider widths (60 inches or more) because the wider the fabric is, the less need you'll have to sew separate pieces of fabric together.
Some chairs are bigger than others, but as a very general rule, about four to six yards of a 60-inch-wide fabric should be enough for a standard armchair.
 You’ll need tracing paper in order to make the initial pattern for your slipcover. The most common types of paper used for pattern tracing are freezer paper, Swedish tracing paper, and medical exam table paper.


Freezer paper is relatively inexpensive and thick enough not to accidentally tear, though it’s also harder to see through.
Swedish tracing paper is easy to see through and doesn’t tend to tear accidentally, but it’s also relatively expensive.
Medical exam table paper is easy to see through and very inexpensive, but it’s also thinner and tends to wrinkle easily.
 It’s important to trace the pattern for each section of the chair onto tracing paper before attempting to assemble the slipcover. Without a clearly traced pattern, you’ll end up with an imprecise and ill-fitting cover.


Start by carefully drawing the back, front, seat, and arms of your chair on your tracing paper. Compare your tracings with the measurements initially you took for guidance.
If you plan to put a skirt on the chair, you can also draw a pattern for the skirt onto the tracing paper. You'll need a strip of fabric as long as the distance around the base of the chair and wide enough to hang from the bottom of the chair to the floor.
 Though the slipcover will eventually cover the chair completely, it's still important to clean the chair beforehand to remove any excess dirt and dust.


If you don't clean the chair before covering it, the chair can get musty after you’ve added the slipcover.
 After you’ve traced each section of the chair onto your tracing paper, begin cutting out each pattern. Leave a 1-inch margin around seams and a 2-inch margin around hems.This provides a seam allowance when sewing the pieces together.


Use a pair of scissors and/or an X-acto knife to cut out the paper patterns for your chair.
Be careful and take your time with this step--mistakes here can lead to imperfections in your slipcover.
 Begin by laying out your fabric with the wrong side facing upwards. Lay your paper shapes down so that they all fit on the fabric.


Carefully trace the edge of each piece, then cut the shapes with a pair of fabric scissors. There are many, many ways to mark your fabric without leaving a permanent mark; the most common include:Disappearing ink fabric pens/markers
Tailor's wax (essentially a crayon)
Washable colored pencils
Tailor's chalk
Tracing wheel
Sharpies, markers, etc. (use only lightly on the back side of reasonably thick fabrics)

, Once you have cut out each piece of fabric match them up and pin along the shared seams and sew the seams in place.


Pin and sew the cut-out for the front of the chair onto each of the arm cut-outs where they would naturally meet.
 Match up the back piece to the piece from the previous step (comprised of the front panel and arms) and pin in place. Then sew the pieces together along the seams you’ve marked.


When you're done, you should have a piece of baggy fabric that fits over the back and arms of your chair.
 Match the seat piece to what you’ve already assembled and pin along the seams. Sew the seams in place.


The rear edge of the seat should meet the "back" of the cutout, while the sides should meet the "arm" sleeves.
 Pin the strip of skirt material to the seat of the chair and sew it in place.


It should hang so that it is near the floor, but not pooled on it.
If possible, try to position the spot where the skirt material crosses over itself in the back of the slipcover where it won't be easily seen.
 Tuck the corners of the slipcover into the cushions and arms of the chair.


Gently sit down; your slipcover should feel comfortable and should conform easily to the weight of your body. If it doesn’t you may need to rip out and re-sew any seams that fit irregularly.

