 It is not a good idea to be a "10 hp mage" these mages train by casting splashes. They will die quickly in most situations. First make your money, then get lots of mind runes, air runes, water runes, earth runes, and fire runes. This is good training. Later you can use curse. This part of the guide was very brief and almost useless, lol.(as a side note, don't train defense!);
, If you're a member do desert treasure, will take forever by the way.
 Trout for levels 20-25, salmon for levels 25-30, tuna for 30-40, lobsters for 40-. Bring whatever runes you need, and it will be a good idea to risk at least 26000 wealth. This ensures you will get good drops if your opponent is risking this amount too.

P2p: Do desert treasure, and this is tedious, but get 82 magic. The way to pk is continuously casting ice blitz from afar, then use burst to combo the blitz. the hits can stack and do large damage, up to 26-22. This happens because blitz delays from a distance. Suggested: Full ghostly robes, or mage robes if you can't get that. Ancient staff is an almost must, or staff of light if you're super rich for added pwnage. Bring food and don't forget magic pots.






How to pk with an f2p mage: Your main prey will be melee pures, and a good way to pwn them is by bringing around 50-200 binds(yes it's a lot, get 60 wc for yews)Water blasts and anything you have. However, it's always a good idea to bring water blasts because you can almost combo. First send a water blast then a different spell. The hits will almost stack up.
 Try to get as far away from a bank as possible to kill meleers because they will try to run from loss of food while you're barely being hit.
 Past around level 60, f2p mages are useless! combine your magic with something else, like magic or ranged. F2p mages may still be effective if you can bind properly.
 since magic has the range of a longbow, you can still technically fight rangers without them touching you that much. The problem with fighting the meleers is that if you get pawned by a ranger far from the bank you'll have to run a long way, like the meleers. That's why you bring teleports, most often lumby tele. That concludes my guide, hope you enjoyed, too k24 min. -_-