 Use a good razor and shaving cream or gel to shave the scrotum and surrounding area. Don't use a cheap or dull razor; it'll take longer, do a poor job of hair removal and tend to "drag" as you shave, painfully pulling at the hair. Likewise, be sure to use shaving cream or gel rather than just soap so the razor glides smoothly.;
, What you're doing in this step is tucking your testes up into what's called the inguinal canal. The testes ascend back into the inguinal canal naturally when you're very cold or having intense sexual intercourse. Lie on your back. Push your testes up with one hand.

Alternately, you can do this while sitting on a toilet. Put your legs firmly together. The penis and testicles should be "squished" between your legs with very little visible at this point. Stand up. Keeping everything tucked between your legs, simply wiggle around a little bit and try to push your testicles up with your legs or thighs. This might hurt the first couple of times, but once you get the technique down, it doesn't hurt anymore.

If you're doing this correctly, it shouldn't be overly uncomfortable. If you feel faint, nauseated or in extreme pain--stop. You're doing something wrong. Regroup and try again.
Getting in a tub of cold water before tucking can help.
 Wrap the now empty scrotum around the penis and wrap several times with tape. Tape the penis (now wrapped in several layers of tape) backward towards the buttocks using a piece of 1" tape or two pieces--one on each side. This is to keep the penis in the center and pulled back.


There are two recommended types of tape--medical tape and duct tape. Medical tape will be less painful to remove, but be careful. If it gets even slightly wet, it will not stick. Duct tape is said to be the favorite of drag queens everywhere. It has a fairly strong adhesive, so security should not be a concern. It can be tough to remove, though. Soak in a warm bath and remove carefully. Avoid using duct tape if you’re freshly shaven as it can cause irritation and/or a rash.
 Pull on a gaff, a pair of panties specially designed to hold a "tuck" in place. Or choose an undergarment made with Spandex and/or Lycra to give it extra hold.

