 Chances are, you are good at something. You must have been good enough at what you do to land this job and to hold onto it. Don’t allow negative self-perceptions to rule you. Instead, build up the positive aspects of your work performance. Start by creating a list of everything you are good at doing, ranging from very simple to extremely complex. Anytime you start to feel like you are not clever enough, return to this list and remember that you are., Your physical environment at work can have a huge effect on your mood, contributing to either a positive or negative self-image. Give yourself a boost by creating an upbeat environment. Decorate your desk with bright colors, positive statements, and images that make you happy. If it is allowed, you may also want to invest in an essential oil diffuser and freshen your air with lavender or citrus oils (both proven to reduce stress and improve your mood)., Confidence is governed by hormones in your brain. When you feel confident, your brain releases a series of hormones. But researchers have concluded that even when you fake feeling confident, the same hormones are released. In other words, if you fake being self-confident at work, you will quickly become it!Envision your most confident self. How do you comport yourself? How do you move through the office? How do you dress?
Put that vision into action! Even if you don't feel confident on the inside, perform confidence outwardly.
 Having a optimistic and upbeat attitude toward life is a conscious choice that requires practice. When you are faced with a challenge or a stressful situation, you can choose how you will handle it. If you can manage to cultivate a positive outlook during stressful times, not only will you begin to feel more clever, but others will be drawn to you.Anytime you are faced with a challenging or stressful situation, stop and take a moment to breathe. Check in with your emotional response. Are you angry. frustrated, nervous, or anxious?
Remember that those emotions do not serve you. Is there a way for you to approach this problem calmly, with compassion, understanding, and grace?
In time, your natural responses will become more positive.
 In general, when we are a caught dwelling on our lack of cleverness or poor intellect, it means that, perhaps, we are spending a bit too much time focusing on ourselves. Get out of the rut by shifting your focus onto doing something useful. What needs to be done at your work? How can you be of service? Completing such a task (even a small one) is sure to give your mood a boost, and as an added benefit, it will certify that you are a vital and necessary component of your workplace.If an opportunity to volunteer presents itself (such as becoming the safety coordinator for your office), go for it.
You may even consider asking for more responsibility at work.

