 A hamster's environment can cause your hamster to develop a cold or breathing problem. Therefore, to make sure the temperature is appropriate, you should check your hamster's nose weekly to gauge his health.


Does your hamster's nose seem abnormally wet? Is there any discharge coming from his nose? If not, your hamster is probably in good health.If your hamster's nose is runny and wet, he may have a cold. Hamsters catch colds fairly easily and they usually go away on their own. Just give you hamster space to rest until symptoms clear up. If his nose is running for more than a week, he may be allergic to something in his cage. Try removing any new toys or bedding and see if symptoms clear up.;
, Hamsters are prone to eye troubles. Eye infections and chronic conditions like glaucoma can cause cloudy eyes, discharge, and difficulty seeing. Check your hamster's eyes daily. As eye infections and chronic conditions require specific medications, you should have any unusual changes evaluated by your veterinarian. He or she can help you form a health plan for your hamster.


Hamster eyes should be clean and clear. They should be free of discharge and any tears in the corners of the eyes.In the event of an infection, a hamster's eyelids may swell and become droopy., A hamster's rear end should be clean and clear of any fecal matter or unusual discharge. Conditions like chronic constipation, issues with the stomach, and reproductive problems can often be detected by examining a hamster's rear end. You should check you hamster's rear on a daily basis to watch for warning signs.


Staining or loose droppings may indicate a hamster has diarrhea or is having difficult passing stools. This could be a minor issue, like the food you're feeding your hamster, or it could be a sign of an underlying medical condition. Take your hamster to your vet if you notice staining or droppings on a hamster's bottom.A wet tail may also be a sign of diarrhea. As stress can be a cause of diarrhea, any recent changes to a hamster's environment may trigger such health problems. If you moved to a new apartment, for example, your hamster may have an upset stomach for a few days. Give your hamster a few days to adjust and see if symptoms clear up. If they do not, contact your vet.An infection of the womb in female hamsters, known as Pyometra, can be detected by examining a hamster's bottom. If you notice discharge from the opening above your hamster's anus, it may be a sign of infection. The discharge may produce a pungent odor. As Pyometra can be serious if untreated, get your hamster to the vet immediately if you notice these symptoms.