 Simply telling your parents, "you are being mean to me," will accomplish very little. You need to have specifics on hand in order to make real change possible. Spend some time asking yourself -- what exactly makes my parents mean? What can we do to change things for the better?


Do not think about this as a list of demands. You don't want your parents to feel like hostages.
Think of a reason for each request. Let them know that a nickname they use hurts your feelings, or that you don't have time to clean your room because of homework and sports.
 Once you have calmed down, you should let your parents know that you need to talk to them about something important. Find a quiet place in your house where you can be alone and a time that works for your schedules, giving yourself at least an hour to talk.


"I was wondering if we could have a talk in the living room alone after dinner."
"I have something that I really need to get off my chest."

, They may not be aware that they are coming off as mean. Telling them how you feel may be enough to make them reflect on their own behavior and find ways to fix it. Be honest, open, and specific, using stories from the past to show them that this isn't just in your imagination.


If you want them to listen, you need to be willing to listen as well. You may be surprised -- your parents may have similar feelings about you.
Don't be accusatory or mean to them -- this will put them on the defensive and make them even meaner or angrier.
 Nod along while they are talking, keep your arms and legs uncrossed, and make eye contact with your parents while they are talking. Using your body language to let them know you are listening will encourage them to talk and make you seem cooperative and calm. Looking engaged will help you seem mature and reasonable.


Don’t sigh or use gestures that show that you are frustrated.
Don’t fold your arms or legs-- this makes you appear closed off.
Don’t doodle, look down at your hands, or fidget with something while they talk. Give them your full attention.
 Once you've let your parents know how you feel, hit them with your requests. Let them know that you want to develop these together and that you appreciate their input. If you have solid, real goals to work on it will be much easier to see real progress -- and point out if your parents are not following through on their promises.If you want more free time with friends, offer to only go out once your homework/chores are done.
If think you do too much work around the house, show them your schedule and offer to carve out specific hours to do their yard work.
 One conversation will not change your entire relationship. This will be an ongoing process, so be sure to keep checking in with your parents. Remind them of your promises, and hold up your end of the bargain to ensure that they hold up theirs.


Revisit the conversation 1-2 months down the line. If things are going well, thank your parents for their support and respect-- positive reinforcement will work wonders.