 When you're ready to begin, click "Sign in". This will take you to the login screen, where you'll be able to register a new account.;
, Clicking on the "Sign in" link should take you to a screen where you'll have the option to log into an existing account or create a new one. Click "Create New Account" to proceed.


You'll also see the option to login with a Facebook or Google account on this page. These are slightly misleading — you must have an existing Yahoo account associated with your social media profile to log in this way, so, if you're creating an account for the first time, you'll want to ignore these.
 You'll be asked to provide some basic personal information, including your name, sex, phone number, and birthday. Pick a Yahoo username (which, followed by "@yahoo.com," will serve as your email address) and a password. Your password must be between 8 and 32 characters, contain upper and lowercase letters, and have at least one number.


You also have the option of providing a recovery phone number, though this isn't required. Providing a number allows you to use your phone to recover your login credentials (password, etc.) with your phone if you forget them. Other methods for recovering your login information are also available.
 When you're sure that all of the information you've entered is correct, complete the account creation process by clicking the purple button at the bottom of the form. You will be taken to your account home page, from where you can access your email account, update your public profile, and browse a personalized collection of headlines and information from the web.


Note that, by creating an account, you consent to Yahoo's terms of service and privacy policy. To read either of these in detail, click the small corresponding links above the "Create Account" button.
 Click the "Mail" link next to the picture of an envelope in the top right corner of the main Yahoo.com page.
, Click the "Inbox" button on the left side of the screen to browse a list of the emails you have been sent. Note that, by default, your Yahoo email account displays your inbox as soon as you log in.
 Click on an email you've been sent in your inbox. Pick a reply option with the buttons at the top left of the email. You can reply normally (curving arrow pointing left), reply to all (multiple curving arrows; used when you are one of multiple recipients), or forward the message (straight arrow pointing right).
 In your email inbox, click the icon that looks like an address book in the top left. This will bring you to a list of your online contacts. To add a new contact to the list (which will be blank if you've just created an account), click "New Contact" in the top left. You can also choose to import contacts from a social media profile by clicking one of the buttons in the center of the screen and following the prompts.


Having someone in your list of contacts gives you several benefits. For instance, you don't have to remember this person's email address — you can just start typing his or her name in the "To:" field of your email and it will display automatically. This is especially useful when you need to send a single email to many recipients.
 One of the handy features of creating a Yahoo account is that it allows you to access your own personalized homepage via its My Yahoo feature. On the Yahoo.com page, click the "My Yahoo" link in the top right. You'll be taken to a page containing a variety of information custom-tailored to you, including top national and local headlines, local weather, movie showtimes, and more.
 Do so by using the "Add Content", "Choose Themes", and "Edit Layout" options in the top right of the window.


You can also access your My Yahoo page when you're not logged in, but the content displayed on it will be more general and less specifically tailored to you. For instance, the My Yahoo page won't have content you specifically selected and won't have the layout you chose if you don't log in.
 Another feature of having a Yahoo account is the Yahoo profile. Similar to the type of profile you might have on a social media site like Facebook, your Yahoo profile allows you to identify yourself to others as you use your Yahoo account. It also gives you an easy way to choose which information about yourself you want publicly available (as well as which information you don't). To access your profile, click the "Hi, (your name)" link in the top right of the window. You'll be taken to a profile activation screen — if you'd like to begin creating your profile, click "Next: your public profile..." Otherwise, click "No, thanks."

, Here, you can add a profile picture by clicking on the silhouette icon at the top of the screen, change the background by clicking "Change Cover Image", change your profile title by clicking on your name, and change your location by clicking "Add a location".
 You can also update your personal information by clicking the icon that looks like a person being drawn with a pencil in the top right. Here, you can add a personal bio, list your hobbies and interests, and more.

