 While seated on the flight, you should move your feet and ankles frequently to improve circulation in your legs and feet. This also will ease swelling in your feet and ankles, which is common on long flights.To stretch your ankles, sit upright in your seat with both of your feet flat on the floor. Flex your ankles and raise your toes toward your shins, then bring them back down. Then lift your heels, keeping your toes on the floor. You should do this several times during your flight. You also can do this exercise in the airport while resting between flights.
Ankle circles are another way to get blood flowing to your feet. Lift one foot off the floor slightly, then roll your foot around as though you were drawing a circle with your toes. Do this a couple of times, then switch directions and do it a few more times. Repeat the same movement with your other foot.
 If you're lucky enough to have an aisle seat, you have an opportunity to stretch out your stiff legs mid-flight to improve circulation into your legs and feet. From another seat, you may be able to move into the aisle or the rear of the plane and do a similar exercise.To do leg extensions, all you have to do is lift your foot up and extend your leg straight out. In a seated position, maintain good posture and raise up slightly so that the back of your thigh isn't touching the seat.
If you're doing this while standing in the aisle or the back of the plane, make sure you have something to hold to keep your balance, and that you have enough room to extend your leg without tripping or kicking anyone.
 This exercise stretches your calves and gets the blood flowing to your lower legs and down to your feet. Since you must be standing to do this exercise, it may be best to wait until after the plane lands and you're in an airport.Stand with your feet about hip-width apart. Inhale and rise to your tiptoes, maintaining good posture.
Hold that position for a few seconds, then slowly lower down to your flat feet. Make sure you lower in a controlled movement – don't simply drop your heels.
For an added stretch, you can do this exercise off the edge of a stair. Put the balls of your feet on the stair and your heels off the edge. Lower your heels below the level of the stair, then raise them up. Make sure you have something to hold onto for balance.
 After a long flight, you may find that your feet, ankles, and calves are swollen. This inverted yoga pose gets the blood flowing in your lower legs again, as well as gently stretching your legs and lower back.It is very important to do this after a long flight.


Lay on your back on the floor with your hips close to the wall. Press your feet up on the wall and slowly walk them up until your legs are extended straight and your calves are leaning against the wall.
You may have to adjust your body so that this is comfortable, or put a pillow or rolled blanket under your hips to cushion them. You don't want your buttocks to be pressed up against the wall.
Relax your upper body and let your arms fall out to your sides. You can stay in this pose as long as you like, breathing deeply.
When you're ready to get back up, bend your knees and press the soles of your feet flat against the wall for a breath before getting out of the pose.
 Lifting your knees and feet every few minutes during a long flight is key to keep the blood flowing in your legs and help prevent deep vein thrombosis, as well as swollen ankles and calves.To lift your knees, sit up straight in your seat with your feet flat on the floor in front of you. Tense your quadriceps muscles in your thighs to raise your legs an inch or two off the seat. Hold that position for a few seconds, breathing deeply, then slowly release.
Also with your feet flat on the floor in front of you, do alternating toe raises and heel raises. This not only helps relieve tension and stress, but also gets the blood flowing down to your feet and keeps it from pooling in your legs.
 The knee-to-chest stretch is one recommended by airline crews to best get blood flowing to your legs and help prevent deep vein thrombosis. This is a simple exercise that you can do in your seat throughout the flight.Sit up straight in your seat with both feet flat on the floor. Lean forward slightly, hinging at the hips, and fold your hands together behind your left knee.
Pull your left knee up to your chest as far as it will comfortably go, and hold it there for 15 seconds, then slowly release. Be careful not to force your knee further – this stretch should not hurt. Don't bounce or pulse during this stretch.
Once you've released the left knee, come back up to center and clasp your hands behind your right knee to repeat the same motion.

