 Before your surgery, talk to a fitness professional who has experience working with people recovering from the same type of surgery. They can help you come up with an exercise plan that will best suit your body and your needs.For example, if you've been diagnosed with breast cancer and are having a mastectomy, speak to a physical therapist or certified personal trainer who has worked with breast cancer survivors.
Your doctor should be able to provide a recommendation of experienced and reputable professionals who can help you get your exercise program on the right track after your surgery.
If you already have an exercise routine that you enjoy, feel free to continue it up to the day of your surgery — provided you have the energy to do so.
Have the physical therapist or personal trainer evaluate your existing exercise routine. They can give you advice and show you modifications that will allow you to work the exercises you enjoy into your post-surgery routine.
 The length of time your body will need to heal after surgery will vary depending on the type of surgery you've had. Any average healing time also varies according to your age, overall health, and other personal factors.Maintaining good circulation is essential to preventing blood clots after surgery; however, you typically need at least three or four weeks to recover from any major surgery before you can begin a whole body exercise program.
If your surgery is local to a particular part of your body, you may be able to start exercises that work out other parts of your body while healing.
For example, if you had surgery on one of your legs, you may be able to do upper body strength training exercises.
 After surgery, talk to your doctor or surgeon before you start any exercise program. Even light or moderate exercise can result in complications that interrupt your healing process or put you at even greater risk for blood clots.Describe in detail the exercises you want to do and make sure they won't impede your healing after surgery.
Your doctor also will give you a list of any limitations on your movement following surgery. Some limitations, such as limitations on the amount of weight you can lift, would affect your ability to do strength-training exercises.
Tell your doctor that your goal is to do exercises that will prevent blood clots. They may have additional exercises they can recommend that will help you.
 Stretching exercises often can begin within days after surgery. These exercises are designed to improve circulation, particularly in the area around the surgery, and decrease scar tissue.These stretching exercises typically are centered around the area of your surgery. For example, if you had a mastectomy for breast cancer, you can begin exercising by raising the arm on the same side as your surgery above your head. Open and close your hand 15 to 20 times with your hand over your head. Then bend and straighten your elbow for the same number of repetitions.
This and other exercises are designed to drain lymph fluid, reduce swelling, and increase circulation to the areas of your body affected by the surgery.
Your physical therapist may have a list of daily stretching exercises you're expected to do.
Often physical therapy exercises are boring and repetitive. If you have the ok from your physical therapist, feel free to augment the prescribed stretches with other activities that exercise the same range of motion and you enjoy doing.
 Within a few weeks following your surgery, you should be able to take short, brisk walks. This allows you to return to physical activity gradually and get some cardiovascular exercise that can improve circulation and prevent blood clots.Don't expect to be able to quickly return to the same level of activity you could do before surgery. You're in recovery, and your body is using its energy to heal.
Start with the lowest intensity possible, and gradually work your way up. For example, on your first day walking, you may want to walk for five minutes.
Stay at five minutes until you feel comfortable increasing the duration to six minutes. Increase duration slowly and stay at the same level for several days before increasing the duration or intensity again.
If you have difficulty breathing or feel pain or tightness in your chest, stop immediately.

