 If you find that you cannot overcome your sadness on your own, talk with a mental health professional. A trained therapist or psychologist can work with you to learn new ways of thinking and coping. Cognitive-behavioral therapy is an approach that has been shown to give people to the tools to handle depression.


This practice focuses on using techniques to help people focus on the present, rather than getting carried away with negative thoughts.
It can be used in conjunction with medication as well.
 In some cases, people suffering from sadness or depression begin to feel better by taking medication.Antidepressants can help alleviate chronic feelings of sadness or depression.Your doctor may prescribe a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRIs), such as fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, citalopram, and escitalopram. SSRIs generally cause fewer side effects than other antidepressant drugs.Your doctor may prescribe serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as duloxetine, venlafaxine , desvenlafaxine, and levomilnacipran.Norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitors (NDRIs), such as bupropion, are not generally associated with the sexual side effects of other anti-depressants.Tricyclic antidepressants are generally prescribed when other anti-depressants haven’t worked. These drugs-- including imipramine, nortriptyline, amitriptyline, doxepin, trimipramine, desipramine, and protriptyline—can have significant side effects.Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are a last resort antidepressant. MAOIs, such tranylcypromine, phenelzine, and isocarboxazid, are also generally prescribed when nothing else works. Be aware these drugs can have serious side effects., You and your care providers may want to consider other treatment options if medications and lifestyle remedies are not working. From hospital stays to transcranial magnetic stimulation, these alternative treatment options may help you stop feeling sad.If you are not able to properly care for yourself, you and your doctor may want to consider a hospital stay or outpatient day treatment to help you deal with your depression.Electroconvulsive therapy, or ECT, is a surgical procedure in which electrical currents are passed to the brain to improve brain function.ECT comes with minimal side effects and can relieve severe depression immediately.Transcranial magnetic stimulation, or TMS, is an option for those who haven’t responded to antidepressants.For this procedure, a treatment coil is placed against your scalp and sends magnetic pulses to stimulate your nerve cells that are involved in mood regulation.