 Part of being creative is gaining expertise in one area or medium and learning as much as you can about it. Begin by reading articles and watching videos on the subject to gather more information about it. If possible, sign up for an introductory course at a local college or community centre (e.g. a beginner painting class).Inspire yourself by experiencing the creative works of others in a medium that interests you. For instance, if you are learning how to paint, visit a museum or art gallery.
 The most creative people are willing to engage with multiple ideas, broaden their horizons, and be surprised. Avoid resisting and dismissing things that are unfamiliar to you, and accept opportunities to try new creative endeavors. For instance, attempt a medium like clay sculpting even if you believe that you will dislike it or be bad at it., Being more childlike can help your creative side by freeing you from adult hang ups for a while and opening your mind. Use toys and art supplies to stimulate your imagination and make new connections. If you're short on creative ideas, take the time to draw a whimsical picture or play with building blocks or legos., Explaining your newfound knowledge to yourself and others can help to cement it in your own mind. While you are learning something new, make a point of explaining it to yourself in your head. Picture yourself giving a TED talk or tutoring someone on the topic. If you feel particularly confident, make a video about the topic to post online, or explain your knowledge to a friend or colleague.
 Engage in activities that actively force you to think of new ideas. For instance, play word association games by writing down one word and then any words that connect to it. Use analogy to find similarities between two seemingly dissimilar things to break down and examine your associations with each.For instance, look for similarities between a textbook and an iPod.
 Creativity takes practice, so set aside time each day to retreat to a quiet or inspiring place to generate new ideas. For instance, visit a quiet park or sit in a library and let your mind flow freely. Write all of your ideas (good or bad) in a notebook, on a whiteboard, or on your computer without stopping to edit or rethink them.Find a time that will work for you regularly. If you always have time after dinner, for example, take an hour after dinnertime to turn off distractions and engage with new ideas.

