 Remember that one bad class will not ruin your career, your college prospects, or your life. You will not have to deal with this teacher forever, and sometimes these difficulties can help make you stronger. Focus on the positive aspects of your life. When you’re down about the class or the teacher’s remarks, think about your friends, favorite hobbies, and upcoming holidays.If you’re worried about this class affecting your college application, consider ways you can make up for the bad class. Take on extracurricular activities, volunteer, or work harder on other classes.
 Criticism can drain you and lower your self-esteem. Remind yourself about what you are good at. Tell yourself that you still have value and that you are still smart. Focus on talents outside of school like sports or music. You can get through this.


For example, just because you are not doing well in math class does not mean that you are stupid. In fact, you might be better with words and communication than numbers. That’s ok! People have different strengths.
Criticism is not about making you feel bad or less than. It's a way to help you grow, learn, and improve. Your essays won't improve if you don't get feedback on where they need work. Try not to look at the criticism as an attack, but instead as another learning tool.
 Even if you don’t think that you need to do more work, stepping up your productivity may solve the issue. Study every night, even if you do not have homework or a test. Memorize facts on notecards. Quiz yourself everyday. If you start performing better on tests, your teacher may back off. You may also be able to improve your overall grade before the end of the semester.Consider spending extra time with the teacher if they are willing to tutor you. Though it may be hard to spend more time with this teacher when you feel picked on, this can help you in a few ways. You will become more familiar with this particular teacher's way of phrasing questions for tests and which types of questions will be asked. In addition, your teacher will see how dedicated you are and might offer ways to bring up a grade with extra credit.
 Do not give your teacher any opening to discipline you. If you are truly having issues with them, the best route may simply be to avoid their negative attention. What this means is that you have to be on your best behavior.


Do not talk to friends during class.
Make sure your phone is turned off and put away.
Pay attention to what the teacher is saying.
Volunteer to answer questions.
Take notes. Do not doodle or draw while your teacher is talking.
Hand in your work on time., It is a teacher’s job to give you feedback and help you improve. While sometimes this can feel like a personal attack, you should learn how to cope with criticism. Teachers sometimes don't realize that they are being so hard on you or that you are so upset by it. It's just their way of teaching.


Take a deep breath. Meditate for a few minutes until you feel your anger or frustration leaving you.
Try to separate your self-worth from the grades you receive. What your teacher is commenting on is a specific task. They do not look down on you as a person.
Instead of considering how you failed, focus on how you can improve next time., If your situation is causing you to feel hopeless, isolated, reckless, or suicidal, you may be developing depression. You should not be ashamed or afraid to tell someone. Talk to your parents, and consider counseling.