 Disposable earplugs are made from a foam like substance and are meant for one-size-fits-all single-use applications. Compress the earplug, insert it into your ear, and let it expand until it has formed to your inner ear.Use disposable earplugs when your exposure to sound will limited and you plan on discarding them after one use.
 Pre-molded earplugs are often made from plastic, rubber, or silicone and come in custom sizes or “one size fits most.” The advantages of pre-molded earplugs are that they are cheap, reusable, convenient to carry, and more comfortable to use on hot days or compact spaces.Pre-molded earplugs come in small, medium, and large sizes.
Be aware that your ears are not identical and that you might need a different size plug for each ear.
 Canal caps or hearing bands can either be pre-molded or formable earplugs connected by a flexible metal or plastic band. The main advantage of canal plugs is their convenience: they provide the seal of an earplug while also retaining the convenience of earmuffs. You can hang canal caps or hearing bands around your neck when not in use.Some find the pressure of the band to be uncomfortable. Keep a pair of earplugs on hand when using canal caps for the first time in case you experience discomfort.
 Earmuffs come in many models that are designed to fit most individuals. Earmuffs come in a variety of sizes, from small caps to larger shells, and fit around your ear. Earmuffs also come in three main designs: over the head, cap mounted, and behind the neck.


A general rule for earmuffs is the higher the NRR the larger the earmuff will be.
You may find earmuffs to be uncomfortable if you have a large beard, sideburns, or wear glasses. If you experience discomfort switch to earplugs., If you are in a particularly loud environment, try using both plugs and earmuffs for extra hearing protection. To determine the NRR of earplugs and earmuffs together, simply add 5 dB to the protective device with a higher NRR. For example, if you are wearing earmuffs rated to 35 dB and earplugs rated 30 dB your overall NRR would be 40 dB.