 Everything about a Rolex watch should be elegant, dignified, and perfect. This even includes the packaging. Real Rolexes come in fine jewelry boxes which usually include a mount to hold and display the watch as well as a small cloth to clean and polish it. All packaging should bear the official Rolex name and logo. The watch should also come with a manual and warranty paperwork.If your watch is missing any of these things, it may not be genuine.


Buying a watch by itself off the street is a complete crap shoot — since there's no packaging, there's no way to tell it's authentic.
 When shopping for Rolexes, use common sense. A reputable jeweler or a fine watch dealer is much, much more likely to be selling genuine Rolexes than a street vendor. Rolexes can cost thousands of dollars, so it's safe to assume that anyone who sells them will have the resources to own a legitimate business. If you're unsure whether a certain retailer is a reputable Rolex seller, consult Rolex's online listing of certified retailers here.


Pawn shops can be a mixed bag — they may have genuine Rolexes, but they may not, depending on the individuals who sold the shop the watches. Some pawn shops take efforts to ensure that they only sell genuine watches, while others may turn a blind eye to counterfeits. If you don't know whether a certain pawn shop can be trusted, try to find online reviews and testimonials for the store before making your purchase.
 When it comes to buying Rolexes, if a deal seems too good to be true, it probably is. Rolex watches are fine-made luxury goods crafted to perfection — they're never cheap. The most expensive Rolex watches in the world sell for over a million dollars, while even some of the cheapest models can sell for over $4000.If you're being offered a Rolex for $100 dollars, it doesn't matter what the seller's explanation is — there's either something wrong with the watch or it's not the real thing.


Don't accept an unscrupulous seller's excuses. If you're being told that a Rolex watch is being sold for cheap because the seller found it or because it was given as a gift, walk away. Assume that there are no lucky coincidences when spending the kind of money that it takes to purchase a Rolex.
 Sometimes, even when you know what to look for, it's almost impossible to tell whether a watch is the real deal or a fake. In these cases, a knowledgeable, trustworthy jeweler or watch salesman can help you by examining the watch for qualities that the ordinary person can't catch. If you have a great relationship with this expert, you may be able to have your watch's genuineness judged for free. Otherwise, jewelry appraisal services, while not cheap, are fairly affordable when compared to the price of a Rolex.


For instance, some jewelry appraisal services can run at a cost of up to $180 per hour.Because of this, you may want to have multiple items appraised at once to get the greatest possible value.
Only use jewelry appraisal services that charge by the hour, on a per-piece basis, or for a contracted amount based on the estimated time needed. Never use appraisers that charge a percentage of the jewelry's value — this is a scamming technique.,