 Ultimately, the quality of a soup is determined by the quality of ingredients you use to make it. Thus, you should use fresh ingredients whenever you can. By using fresh ingredients, you’ll make sure that your soup tastes good and is free of additives that could harm your health.


If you can’t find fresh vegetables or other ingredients, use frozen ingredients.
While canned products may be okay, they often contain added sodium and preservatives. In addition, some canned food may be contaminated with the carcinogen, BPA.Beans and lentils are a great way to make a more filling soup. Used dried beans instead of canned. Soak them overnight before adding them to your soup.;
, By making ingredients from scratch, you’ll make sure that you know what will be in your soup and that it is healthy. Avoid store-bought broth. Store-bought broth is often high in sodium, has preservatives, and other additives that could be harmful to your health.To make your own vegetable broth, simply cook a mixture of vegetables for 5 minutes, add water and simmer them for 45 minutes. Strain your broth at the end.
To make a basic beef broth, cover four pounds of beef marrow and knuckle bones with twelve cups of water. Add onions, celery, and herbs if desired. Bring to a boil before reducing the heat. Simmer for up to twenty four hours. Strain at the end.To make chicken broth, put four pounds of chicken in a large pot with about four quarts of water. Simmer it for up to two hours before straining.
 While it may be tempting to buy the most common and cheapest products to use in your soup, you should instead buy the healthiest products possible. Focus on natural, healthy, or green product lines for anything you use in your soup.


You may have to visit specialty health stores, or grocery stores like Whole Foods, Earth Fare, or Fresh Market for a larger diversity of healthy products.
Review the ingredient list of any product your purchase. For example, if you’re buying vegetable broth to put in your soup, look at the ingredients to see what sort of preservatives and additives are present. The more names you don’t recognize or can’t understand, the more you should stay away from the item.
Look at the nutritional information of a product. Buy products that are low in saturated fat, trans fat, and sodium.