 Most of the medicinal benefits of dandelions come from their insoluble fibers. Expect these to be highest during the fall. However, one exception to this rule is:


Dandelions can be used to increase bile production in your liver. Their taraxacin levels are responsible for this, rather than their insoluble fibers. Taraxacin levels are highest in spring, which means you should harvest them then for this exclusive purpose.;
, First, if you’re interested in eating the dandelion flowers, you’ll obviously need to wait for them to blossom before you can harvest. But even if you’re more interested in using their roots to flavor your dishes, hold off until spring. Wait for winter’s cold weather to turn the fibers into fructose, which will make them chewier and less bitter than a fall harvest would taste., Whether you’re harvesting from your own yard or elsewhere, only do so if the area hasn’t been treated with herbicides or other harmful chemicals. Also avoid areas that are prone to runoff from chemically-treated grounds. Additionally, steer clear of areas close to roadways or anywhere else that experiences high levels of air pollution, since dandelions can retain chemicals from car exhaust and other fumes., If you are foraging anywhere other than your own property, make sure you aren’t breaking any rules by doing so. Don’t harvest on private property. With public land, double-check with your local, state, or federal government to find out if there are any rules prohibiting you from removing vegetation or otherwise disturbing the environment., If possible, hold off until after heavy rains, especially if you want the roots. Expect dandelions’ roots to extend deeper into the earth than most other flowers of similar size. Wait for rains to loosen the earth to make extraction of these deeper roots much easier., Again, this is particularly important if you’re after the roots. Keep in mind that the largest flowers will have the longest roots. Additionally, leave the smallest be in order to preserve the environment and leave food sources for insects and birds.This is especially important for future harvests. Leaving food sources for pollinating insects like bees will help keep the area full of more dandelions.
 Use a garden fork to dig around the base and work the earth loose. Avoid making direct contact with the stem and roots. Keep them intact so none of the sap spills out., Once the soil is loose enough, gently lift the flower by its stem to extract the roots. Then give it a light shake to get rid of some of the soil clinging to the roots. Use your fingers to gently work the rest loose and/or rinse it under softly running water.
 If you weren’t able to get rid of all the excess soil when you first harvested the dandelions, do so now. Use your fingers to rub it off. Rinse the roots under a gentle stream of water to wash the soil away., To preserve roots, you need to dry them, which will take longer for thicker roots. To speed the process up, slice the thickest ones in half. If necessary, quarter them so they’re approximately the same thickness as your thinnest roots., If you have a food dehydrator, set the temperature to 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35 degrees Celsius). Place the roots inside and let them dry until they turn brittle. If you don’t have a dehydrator:Lay them out on a screen or hang them individually with strings or clothespins in an area with strong air circulation. Let them air-dry until they turn brittle. This may take anywhere between 3 to 14 days, or even longer, depending on your climate.
 Once they’ve completely dried, place your roots in a jar or some other airtight container. Seal them tightly and store them in a dry, cool environment. If sealed and stored properly, roots should last up to one year.