 Making your own guitar pick necklace requires only a few basic materials depending on how you want to create and customize your necklace:


Guitar pick
Work surface protectorPliers
6 mm jump ringsNecklace or necklace material (ball chain, leather cord, string, etc.)Lobster claw clasp (optional)Drill with 2mm drill bit (optional)Hand drill with 2mm drill bit (optional)Sharp pin, needle or awl (optional)Lighter (optional)Necklace closures (optional)
Wire cutters (optional);
, Lay your guitar pick on a protective surface on top of your workspace. Consider using an old phone book, or a large foam cushion.Get your lighter and sharp pin, needle, or awl. Hold the pin over the lighter flame for about 5 seconds. When the pin is hot, press and poke the pin about 2 mm from the top of the pick.In most guitar pick necklaces, the wide portion of the pick is considered the top, with the pointed tip considered as the bottom. However, you can designate the top and bottom to make you guitar pick necklace any way you want.
Keep heating the pin and pressing it onto the pick until you are able to poke all the way through the pick. The size of the hole should also be about 2 mm in size, so the jump ring can fit though.If you don’t have a lighter, you can heat the pin up with a stove flame or a candle., Place your guitar pick on your protective surface. For drilling, a thick phone book works very well as a protective surface.Position the drill vertically over the pick, and press the 2 mm drill bit straight onto the pick.Place the drill bit about 2 mm down from the top of the pick. Slowly pull the drill trigger to begin drilling through the pick. Once the drill pops through the pick, the pick will wind up the drill treads.When the guitar pick winds up the treads, reverse the direction of the drill, so you can remove the pick from the drill bit.Use your fingers to wipe off any drilled plastic residue from the pick.
If you don’t have a power drill, you can use a hand drill with a 2 mm bit to create the hole in the pick.Simply place the hand drill approximately 2 mm down from the top of the pick, and start twisting the drill with steady pressure. Once the drill is through, twist the hand drill in the opposite direction to remove the pick.If you use the hand drill, you can clean up the hole by drilling from the other side of the pick once you make that first hole., Position the opening of the jump ring to face upward. Hold one side of the jump ring opening with your thumb and pointer fingers.Use needle nose pliers to clamp onto the side of the jump ring. Twist one end of the opening of the ring away from the other end to slightly open the ring.Feed the open just ring through the hole in the pick and use your pliers to twist and pinch the two open ends back together.If you fingers aren’t strong enough to hold to jump ring steady as you bend the end of the ring with the pliers, you can use another pair of pliers to hold the ring in place as you bend it open.
Don’t pull the jump ring apart. Twist the sides of the ring to open it. Pulling the ends away from each other will weaken the jump ring., If you already have a chain or necklace material you want to put the guitar pick onto, simply thread the pendant through one side of the chain and connect the ends of the necklace.If your necklace material is a leather cord or string, simply knot the ends of the cord together, and slip the necklace over your head.However, if you don’t have a spare chain or want to make your own necklace for the pick, you can easily do so with some materials from your local craft store.
 Lay your chosen necklace material out on your work surface. Use your ruler to measure how long you want the necklace to lie around your neck. Some common necklace measurements are 20”, 18” and 16” long.Wrap the necklace material around your neck to experiment.


If you want your necklace shorter and your necklace material is metal, use wire cutters to cut through the necklace material.Otherwise, use scissors to cut through leather cord, or string material.
To avoid sharp metal edges, use a metal nail file to file down pointy edges., If your necklace is a leather or string material, you can simply knot the ends of the necklace together. Thread the pick pendant through the necklace. From here, you can make two variations of knots:



One knot: To knot your necklace with one knot, simply tie a normal over hand knot at the ends of the necklace.If your necklace is longer and cat fit over your head, tie the knot first, then put on the necklace. If you necklace is smaller, wrap the necklace around your neck and stand in a mirror so you can see yourself making the knot.

Two knots: To knot your necklace with two, adjustable knots, take each end of the necklace and make a knot around the other end of the necklace approximately 4” from each end.Pull and tighten each knot, and trim off the excess necklace material from the knot. Leave about ¼” of space on the trimmed end.This method works better with longer necklaces.
Hold and pull the two knots away from each other to tighten the necklace, and pull the knots closer together to loosen the necklace., If your necklace is a metal chain from a craft store, you need to add on your own closures. Just how you opened and added a jump ring through the guitar pick, you now have to open and add a jump ring through the small ring at the end of the metal chain.Use your pliers to open the jump ring, and slide it through the small hole. Close the jump ring by pinching the two sides of the jump ring together.


Use your pliers to open up and add another jump ring to the smaller ring on the end of your lobster claw clasp.Once the jump ring is added to the clasp, the jump ring can be added to the other of the necklace. Again, use pliers to open up and close the jump ring onto the end of the necklace.
When all the rings are closed and secure, you can attach the two end closures and your homemade guitar pick necklace is ready to wear.If your necklace is a ball-linked chain, your chain most likely came with a closure at one end of the chain. Simply slip and snap one of the balls on the end of the chain into the closure on the other end of the chain, and your necklace is ready to wear.

