 The stronger the alcohol content the better this will work. Of course, your first move should be to us isopropyl alcohol, also known as rubbing alcohol, but there are other products that contain alcohol (or ethyl glycol) in them.If you see this listed as an ingredient on a product in your home, that product may be effective in removing nail polish:


Perfume
Hair-spray
Hand Sanitizer
Spray-on deodorant
Rubbing alcoholWhile alcoholic spirits shouldn't be your first option, clear, high-alcohol drinks like vodka, grappa, or gin will all battle nail polish. You may have to soak your nails for 10-20 minutes in the liquor for the best effects.;
, Vinegar is an acid and all-purpose, all-natural cleaner around the house. So it makes sense that it could be used to strip away nail polish. For added effect, squeeze in half a lemon, or even some orange juice, to get powerful citrus cleaning power as well.









Soak your fingers for 10-15 minutes before trying to remove. however, do not pick away the polish with your other nails as it can weaken them., A dollop of toothpaste is all you need. Then start scrubbing with an old toothbrush or a paper towel. In general, white toothpastes work best as they lift and pull the color off your nail.









Furthermore, toothpaste with baking soda, a well-known natural cleaning solution, often has the best results., This means that, if you use roughly one cup of hot water, you use two cups of hydrogen peroxide. Soak in the hottest water you can find, lightly working the nails with your free fingers, then file the polish off with a nail file.
 This is not a solution for every day, as these chemicals can be dangerous. That said, they will work to remove nail polish, often just as fast as nail polish remover would. The following products should be a last resort, and should be applied in a well-ventilated area:









Acetone
Paint thinner
Fluid Thinner, Once you've found a product that can act as nail polish remover, soak a cotton ball or paper towel in that product. Then, gently dab onto your nails on each hand. Add more product to the cotton ball or paper towel as needed. If the cotton ball of paper towel becomes saturated with color, replace it.
 As you're not using conventional nail polish remover, you'll need to let the product sink in. Leave the product resting on your nails for about a minute.The longer you let the product sit, the better.
If you've tried this already, or need stronger remover, soak your nails directly in the solution for 4-5 minutes beforehand, then continue from this step., After the product has been sitting for a minute, wipe your nails dry. Once again, use a cotton pad or paper towel. It may take a bit more effort than would be needed with regular nail polish. Thicker or glittery nail polishes may take longer to remove. You may have to repeat the process if not all the polish is removed the first time.








An old toothbrush can aid in scrubbing.
Paper towels are generally sturdier than cotton balls, and may help get rid of some tougher polishes., Hot water will loosen the polish, allowing you to get another nail under it and remove chunks of polish. This is great for finishing up any last bits or weakening the polish for another round of DIY remover.








Get the water as hot as you can tolerate without burning yourself for best results.
You may need to soak for 20-25 minutes, so put it in while watching some TV and then wipe when the show is over. Reheat water when necessary.