 You'll need some sort of container to provide a home for your starter. Use a small mixing bowl that will hold between 2 to 4 cups (500 to 1000 ml). You can use almost any type of container made for food; however, it is recommended to use a non-reactive container such as glass or plastic. Plan to cover your container with plastic wrap or a clean cloth.;
, Mix 1/4 cup (50 ml) of water with 1/2 cup (50 g) of whole grain flour. If you're weighing your ingredients, use 50 grams each of flour and water. Mix the ingredients until thoroughly-combined and cover with plastic wrap.


Once you've stirred the starter, scrape down the sides of the container. You want to make sure you don't leave "food" on the side of the container to feed mold growth.
 You want a place where the starter isn't likely to be disturbed (dogs, children, curious husbands) and where you can maintain the temperature within the 65째 to 85째F (18째 to 30째C) range.


If you need a warmer area, turning on the light in an oven (but not turning the oven on) will often get you the temperature you need. Similarly, the top of many refrigerators is also a literal hot spot.
 Sourdough is all about patience. What are you waiting for exactly? You want the starter to become active and start bubbling. In time it'll rise and grow like it's alive.


How long are you waiting? 12 hours is usually enough for the starter to become active, so definitely make other plans. Bubbling can begin a few hours into the wait, or it can take as long as 24 hours -- it all depends on the ingredients you used and the environment it's in. If the starter is not active in 12 hours, give it another 12 hours for good measure. If it still isn't active, give it another 12 hours.

And if it's not active after 36 hours, check the steps above to make sure you did them right. If everything was right, throw it out and try again -- it's probably not going to happen. If you've tried twice with no results, try a different brand of flour or type of water.
 When the starter is active, you have to feed it. Add another 1/4 cup (50 ml) of water and stir the starter. Then add 1/2 cup (50 grams) of whole grain flour and stir again until well-combined.


Wait again. You are (once more) waiting for the starter to rise. Usually, the starter will double in size in 12 hours or less. Sometimes it takes 24 hours though, so don't freak out after 12 if it's not looking big enough. If you get good bubbling and the starter doesn't double, that's okay, too.
 However, this time discard half the starter first. Add 1/4 cup (50 ml) of water and stir the starter. What's next? You guessed it: Add 1/2 cup (50 grams) of whole grain flour and stir again. Getting the routine down yet? And yes, it is very important to discard 1/2 the starter at each feeding at this stage. You don't want a flour monster taking over your kitchen counter.


Feeding the starter should double its size. If you don't discard the starter you'll have far too much starter than what you actually need. Later in the process you can save the starter, but at this stage the starter isn't stable enough to warrant saving.
 Again, you want to see the starter bubble and (like clockwork) double in size between feedings at this point. When the starter is established, regular feedings are very important, but don't get over-eager: Feeding the starter too soon could keep the culture from reaching the critical threshold it needs to stay alive. Each feeding dilutes the culture; if you dilute it too much, it'll die.


If at any feeding it doesn't double, give it some more time. When a starter is starting, it is unstable.
Repeat the two steps above until the starter reliably doubles in size between feedings.
 The point of this step is to get rid of unwanted micro-organisms; the whole grain flour keeps adding more of them. Once the sourdough starter is stable, you can switch back to whole grain flour if you'd like.


If you see the starter slow down when you make the switch, don't worry; that's normal. Wait until the starter is active (this may take up to 36 hours) to let it recover from the shock of switching to white flour.

You can ease the transition by not going cold turkey. Make the transition to white flour in 3 rounds, decreasing the amount of whole grain flour a bit more each time. Start by using about 1 part white flour and 3 parts whole grain. For the next feeding, use half white flour and half whole grain. For the feeding after that, use 3 parts white flour and 1 part whole grain. And the next feeding, and subsequent feedings, can be all white flour.
 This is the exact same protocol as last time -- discard half the starter, add 1/4 cup (50 ml) water and stir. Then add 1/2 cup (50 grams) all-purpose flour and stir again. Now that the starter is stable you can start saving the discarded part in another container for other projects (it makes a great gift). If you do decide to keep it, put it in the fridge to prolong its life.
 As mentioned previously, the starter may slow down for a feeding or so as it grows. Don't jump to any conclusions; it just needs time. When it seems to be active and stable, you should be feeding it every 12 hours or so. A starter (at room temperature) should be fed no less than twice a day.


Repeat the two steps above. At this time, the starter is reaching its full potential and growing in strength and maturity. Though it may be tempting, don't try it out until it's about a week old and doubles with each feeding. Most sourdough experts think a starter can continue growing between 30 and 90 days, though ultimately it's unclear.
After about a week, your starter is ready to use!

