 If you started your period unexpectedly, chances are you've made somewhat of a mess. If you are at home, shower and change your underwear. If you are in public and can't get home immediately (for example at school), try cleaning yourself as best as possible with wet wipes and/or toilet paper.


As you are getting used to your period, it might be a good idea to carry extra supplies (underwear, pads, wet wipes) in your backpack or purse.
 Your flow refers to how light or heavy your blood flow is during your cycle. The number of pads and tampons used per day is in direct correlation to your flow. Over time, you should begin to recognize how light or heavy your flow is in order to be prepared for your cycle.


Light flow usually occurs at the beginning and end of your period.
Heavy flow is identified as bleeding which requires you to change your pad or tampon hourly.
Blood clotting is also common during a heavy flow. This is when you see "blobs" of blood that are darker in color.Knowing your flow will help you in purchasing the correct sanitary products.
 A sanitary pad is a thin pad that consists of absorbent material. It is placed in the lining of your underwear to absorb the blood flow, and has an adhesive side to keep it in place.Pads come in various lengths to account for the direction of blood flow while doing different activities (working out, sleeping, etc.).
Pads also come in various thicknesses to account for light through heavy flow.
Pads also come with "wings" to secure the pad in place and to stop accidental leaks.
 Tampons are made of cylindrical shaped absorbent material that is inserted into your vagina to absorb blood flow.Most come with an "applicator" that assists in inserting the tampon into the vagina. They come in various forms that allow for different levels of comfort and absorption.


If you're new to tampons, try a slender fit until you get the hang of it. They're not as effective against heavy flows but they may be more comfortable.
Applicators come in both plastic and cardboard form. Some have rounded tips and some don't. As a beginner, a plastic applicator with a rounded tip may work best.
It's best to try using a tampon for the first time when your flow is medium to heavy. This will allow the tampon to slide in more easily, and to be pulled out more easily later.Some people prefer to use tampons for activities such as playing sports or swimming.
You can be a virgin and still use a tampon. Using tampons has nothing to do with being sexually active.
 Once the period blood leaves the body, it is more likely to become contaminated. In addition, when these organisms remain in a warm, damp, place it's more likely to lead to infection or an unpleasant odor.Be sure to pay especially close attention to your hygiene during your cycle by changing your pad/tampon often and showering daily.


Even if your pad isn't "full," try to avoid going the entire day without changing it. The standard for pads is once every 6 hours, and once every 2 hours for tampons.Blood can often enter small spaces like the skin around your vagina or legs. Be sure to wash off excessive blood when possible to avoid build up and odor.Discard your sanitary products properly. Wrap your pads in the pad wrapper or tissue paper before discarding in the trash. Check your tampon applicator to see if it is flushable or if you should wrap it and discard it in the trash.

