 Try to be honest and realistic with each other about how you want to live your lives. If you’re just starting out with each other, talk about whether or not you want kids, if you see yourself buying a home, and how you envision your career taking shape in the future.Getting to know each other’s priorities as early as possible will help you decide if your goals and career ambitions are compatible with those of your partner. For instance, if your career path will always involve spending 75% of your time traveling, it might not be best to settle down with someone who doesn’t believe long distance relationships work under any circumstances.
Do your best to make sure you and your partner are able to make compromises. If you both are unwilling to compromise about your differing career paths and incompatible goals, it’s better to end a relationship sooner rather than later.;
, Remember that your relationship with yourself should come first, and then your relationship with your partner. Decide what’s negotiable and what’s non-negotiable. Try to prioritize your career and family goals and decide which compromises you’re willing to make.Ask yourself, “Am I willing to put my partner’s career goals ahead of my own? Which compromises can I make without disappointing myself or creating internal conflicts? Is having a long-term relationship and a family more important to me than professional advancement?”

, You and your partner won’t see eye to eye on everything. If you have different visions for your career paths, try not to be dismissive or to devalue your partner’s values. Embrace your differences and decide if you share enough priorities to make a life together.For example, suppose you have a well-paying office job with a set 9 to 5 schedule and always envisioned settling down with someone similar. However, you fell for an artist who prioritizes creative expression over financial success and consistent work hours. If you want to maintain a healthy relationship, you’ll have to work together to keep your individual priorities on equal footing by balancing your need for financial stability with their creative needs.
 Work together to address specific events that call for one partner to make sacrifices in order to allow the other to shine. Do your best to take turns making compromises that benefit each other’s careers. Try to evaluate opportunities based on practical considerations, but avoid letting practicality completely outweigh happiness.For example, suppose your partner has a once in a lifetime professional opportunity that will require you to relocate to another country. You’d need to move far away from your family and friends, quit your own job, and learn a new language and culture. Work with your partner to weigh the pros and cons. There are no universal solutions, but it’s essential that you discuss how the decision will affect both of your personal and professional lives.
Evaluate the situation by asking each other, “Will their income be enough to support you both if you’re unable to work due to language and cultural barriers? Are there possibilities for you to pursue your own interests? Will putting your career on hold create lasting professional disadvantages from which you’ll never recover? How can your partner make future sacrifices that will prioritize your career?”

