 Verbalize the goal of your event up front so you can plan properly. Goals can include raising a certain amount of money to support a local charity, raising awareness of motorcycle safety, or simply allowing your local chapter to take a motorcycle ride together.


Decide how non-riders can be involved with your event. Some people who do not ride motorcycles will still want to support your cause. Find a way for them to volunteer or help out.
Estimate the number of riders and other participants you would like to attend. The size of the motorcycle ride will affect how long the ride is, the stops you make along the way, the price you charge, and more.;
, Give yourself plenty of time to plan, get appropriate permissions, and promote your motorcycle cruise-in. You can then delegate some of these tasks to other committee members who are helping you plan.


Start with the potential date of the event and plan backward. Check for conflicts. There may be other motorcycle rides, fundraisers, or other major events happening in your community that might compete with your event.
Decide when to start promoting your cruise-in and when to start recruiting for volunteers.
Make sure that you leave time to get sponsors and for things to be approved by local businesses or government officials. It is important to do these things before you start promoting your event.
 This includes where the motorcycle cruise-in will start, where it will end, and the stops you will take during the ride.


Parks and local businesses are prime locations to begin or end your motorcycle ride. Again, be sure to get permission from the appropriate business owners or local government officials. This includes any city or county event permits you may need. File for these in ample time to secure them prior to your event.
Stop at locations where riders can get drinks, snacks, and gas, as well as to use the bathrooms. It may be helpful to place volunteers at each stop, especially if you are doing a poker run or bingo.
 Companies who sponsor your motorcycle cruise-in can help cover the costs. Ask them to donate specific things, like food, napkins, or drinks. Get your sponsors in advance so you can be sure to advertise them on all of your promotional materials. Be clear about what each of the sponsors will provide as part of this sponsorship such as financial donations and advertising.
 Determine how you will best reach your target audience and design materials that will be effective for that group. Options include posters, radio ads, websites, banners, t-shirts, and more. You can provide these materials at local organizations and motorcycle chapters. Have a graphic designer help you so your materials look professional.
 Raffles, lunch, music, and other entertainment are all optional activities for a motorcycle cruise-in and may help you raise more money if you are supporting a local charity. Delegate these activities to your event committee members or sponsoring organizations.
 This is especially important during a group motorcycle ride. Have access to a first aid kit. At least one rider should carry a cell phone. Require all riders to wear helmets and follow motorcycle safety guidelines and state and local laws.


Use hand signals. Hand signals are passed back from one rider to another. Make sure everyone understands and uses signals during the ride, as it is hard to hear one another over the sound of your motorcycles.
Keep a safe distance. Stagger riders from left to right and stay at least two bike lengths back from the rider in front of you.
Delegate captains if your group is large. These riders can lead smaller groups of motorcyclists in a much safer way.

