 It's a brown app with a green tuft of grass.
 This button is near the top of the screen., It's near the top of the screen., This option is on the right side of the screen, and will likely display "Survival"., This will set your world mode to "Creative" where you'll have unlimited resources and be able to fly., It's on the left side of the screen. Doing so will create a new game in Creative mode, wherein you can begin to create your hotel.

You may first want to review the rest of the options below the "Default Game Mode" section, such as the game's difficulty or the world type.
 It's on the far-right side of the toolbar that's at the bottom of the screen. In Creative mode, this button opens the item selection menu., This will select it. Keep in mind that you'll be replacing the selected item, so only select something with which you don't want to build., This will add it to your hotbar in place of the currently selected item.

For example, you might equip a type of stone instead of a sapling.
Repeat this process for as many building materials as you need.
 It's on the right side of the screen, just above the tab you're currently on (which is in the bottom-right corner of the screen). This is where you'll find decorative building materials (e.g., glass) as well as non-building items like pictures.

Don't forget to first select an item in your hotbar that needs replacing.
 It will replace a currently selected item in your hotbar.

Repeat this process until you have everything you need in your hotbar. You may need to switch items out as you build.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen. This will close the menu, allowing you to proceed with creating your hotel., You should start at around twenty blocks by twenty blocks, since this size will allow for several spacious rooms and a hall for each floor of your hotel., To do so, double-tap the button on the right side of the screen.

You can use the up and down arrows that appear here to raise or lower your character's altitude.
To exit flight mode, double-tap the footprint between the two arrows.
 Ideally, you'll find a flat, open, twenty-by-twenty (or larger) space, but if you want to build in the middle of a forest or right by a lake, you'll likely have to clear out some items before you begin building., This process will definitely vary based on your chosen biome; however, there are a few things you'll likely need to do for most locations:

Add or remove blocks to make sure your building area is level. You can remove blocks here by tapping and holding them briefly; unlike in Survival, blocks will require only one hit to remove them.
Remove trees, brush, and/or existing structures.
Fill in water areas with stone or dirt.
 You'll later fill in this area with your hotel's ground floor building material (e.g., cobblestone or wood).

For example, using a twenty-by-twenty area means you'll mine out 400 blocks.
 Do so by tapping it in your hotbar., This is a relatively simple, if tedious, task: to do so, fill in the entire foundation area with your hotel's floor's building material.

For example, if your cleared area is the aforementioned twenty-by-twenty space, you'll place 400 blocks of your selected building material here.
It's best to first fill in the perimeter so that you don't accidentally stray outside of the boundaries of your hotel's foundation.
 The ideal number of blocks between the floor and the ceiling is at least four., Each column should be as tall as you're hoping to make the hotel. To calculate this number:

Take the height in blocks you want each room to be, plus one block for the ceiling/floor of the subsequent room.
Multiply the height in blocks by the number of stories you want.
Discount the layer of blocks that comprises your hotel's foundation.
 The easiest way to do this is by creating horizontal beams that connect all of your hotel's columns, then filling in the horizontal space for each beam. You're essentially re-creating the foundation on each story.

Be sure to leave several spaces for your hotel's stairs to connect each floor.
 While optional, doing this will complete the building's skeleton.

Make sure you leave the walls facing out of the hotel open, since you won't have enough light with which to work if you don't.
 It's best to start with the second floor or up, since the first floor will likely differ in appearance from the subsequent floors., The hallway should be a minimum of two blocks wide. To get a feel for how spacious the rooms will be with the hallways in place, add two parallel rows of blocks where the hallway walls will be, then review the space between the inside of a row of blocks and the hotel's outer wall.

If you have less than four blocks of depth in a room, you may want to either narrow your hall or expand your hotel.
If your hotel is an odd number of blocks wide, your hallways will need to be at least three blocks wide.
 These walls should run perpendicular to both the hall walls and the walls opposite of them. As with the hall walls, feel free to lay down a one-block-high wall to see what the walls will look like in practice before committing to building an entire wall.

This is a process you'll complete for each floor.
Consider varying room size, since a real hotel would do the same.
 The way to do this will vary based on your hotel design thus far. You have a couple of options:

Place a staircase in a hallway that branches off from the main hallways.
Alternate staircases between each end of the hallways for subsequent floors.
You can select stairs from the building materials tab in the ... menu.
 You'll need two blocks' worth of vertical space for one door, though you'll need a four-by-four space if you're planning on adding double-doors., You can add the bed to your hotbar from the items tab. To add a bed to an area, simply look at the ground and tap it while the bed is selected.

Beds require two free spaces to place.
In some cases, you may want to add multiple beds.
 Again, you'll find the door item inside of the items tab of the ... menu., To create a sign, you'll add it to your hotbar, place it in front of the room in question, and then tap it to edit the text that appears on it., This is a stylistic choice, but adding things like paintings, plants, bookcases, and chests will lend a homey touch to each individual room.

If you do decorate your rooms, try to vary the style a bit between rooms so that each room is unique.
 This process will vary based on your own preferences; for example, you may want to create a row of rooms at the back of the lobby and have a simple desk up front, or you could replace all of the walls in the lobby with glass and place a pool in the middle of the room., As you build, you'll likely have new or better ideas about room placement, decoration, or any one of innumerable aspects of your hotel. Feel free to change or add onto your hotel as you go.