 If your unit is over seven years old, replacing it now with a more energy efficient option will almost certainly save you money in the long run.Hot water units are generally expected to last 10-15 years, but will be less cost-efficient than newer models well before they stop working.
 If you’re looking to replace a conventional storage tank model with a newer, more efficient model, you may have to go with the same type of power supply. For instance, if the old model was electric or gas, the corresponding hookup may determine the type of model you’ll need to get.If the old heater was electric but your home is already equipped with gas (natural or propane), you may be able to run a gas line to the location of your water heater and go with a more efficient, gas-powered option for your new hot water heater.
 Tankless water heaters greatly reduce heat loss and can cut your water heating costs by 10-20%. These units usually sit near the fixture that supplies you with hot water, though large centralized units can't sometimes supply multiple fixtures. They are only usable in certain situations, however.If you live in a multi-person household that requires several uses of hot water simultaneously, even a large, centralized tankless unit will likely be insufficient.
You can use small tankless models on fixtures far from your water heater to reduce the main heater’s overall efficiency.
Tankless water heaters last about 20 years, and cost anywhere from $200-$1000.
While any type of tankless unit will be much less expensive to operate that a conventional unit, gas-powered tankless units will be more efficient than electric units.
Unfortunately, temperature variability will likely increase with a tankless water heater.
 New technologies, such as units that move hot water around with pumps or heat water with the sun, are also increasingly available. While installation costs are generally high, the newest water heating options allow you to reduce your water-heating costs substantially., Conventional hot water heaters are labeled with their expected annual operating cost, or an EnergyGuide rating. Energy Factor labels, on the other hand, refer to the actual energy efficiency of the unit. The higher the Energy Factor number, the more efficient the unit. These labels will make comparison shopping much easier.Meanwhile, one of the other important factors to be aware of is the unit’s capacity - which will indicate how many gallons of hot water the unit will provide for an hour, starting with a full tank. Don’t rely on the units physical size to indicate its capacity - look for this “first hour” rating instead.
In general, newer units of comparable abilities to older models will cost nearly 20% less to run per year, mostly on account of less heat loss.
When in doubt, go with the option that has a higher Energy Factor rating. Though the initial cost may be higher, you’ll save more money in the long run.

