 If you belong to a particular religion, you may wish to keep your altar decorated with figurines and holy objects related to it. Some make altars dedicated with a particular purpose, such as healing or meditation, and decorate it with objects that represent those from many cultures.As a simple, nondenominational example, you could build an altar representing the four classical elements: fire, air, water, and earth.
For other specific examples, see Make a Taoist Altar, Create a Simple Buddhist Shrine, or Set up a Wiccan Samhain Altar.
 Many altars begin with a cloth to keep the altar surface clean and communicate the intent of the altar. For example, a simple white cloth can help you stay focused and contemplative. A bright, decorated cloth can help raise your spirits, while an outdoor altar could have a cloth with muted autumn colors that don't distract from nature.


To continue the example of an altar dedicated to the four classical elements, you could choose four small cloths and lay them next to each other: red (fire), white or light blue (air), dark blue (water), and brown (earth).
 If you belong to a religion with sacred texts, include a copy on the altar to read for inspiration. Otherwise, consider adding a different book, poem, or other text that is important to you, and will help you reach the mental, emotional, or spiritual state the altar is intended to provide.
 Orthodox shrines commonly have icons of the saints or other religious figures. Hindu shrines may include figurines of the gods that are being honored. Even if you're not religious, think of artwork you could include that is related to your altar's purpose.


Continuing the example of an elemental altar, you could include a charcoal drawing of flames (fire), calligraphy drawn with a bird's quill (air), a watercolor painting of a seascape (water), and a clay statuette (earth).
 These vary widely depending on the spiritual tradition and personal preference of the altar's builder. You may have many herbs, crystals, and specialized containers if you conduct many rituals. On the other hand, it's completely acceptable to simply include a candle which you light before you pray, or a journal in which you write your thoughts.


An elemental altar might include a candle (fire), a fan (air), a glass of water (water), and a handful of soil (earth). You can hold each of these items in turn as you contemplate the element and what it represents, or invent a more elaborate ritual.
 Add to your altar however you like. You may wish to add flowers, decorative figurines, or other decorations. You may decide to put photographs of happy memories around the altar. You may prefer to keep the altar relatively bare. It's all up to you.


Other related objects that could go on your elemental altar include seashells, rocks, feathers, partially burned wood, or anything else you think represents or complements the elements.

