 Throwing gently will warm up your throwing arm, and throwing too fast too quickly greatly increases the risk of injury. Always warm up for 5-10 minutes of light catch, easy throwing and gentle stretching before trying to throw fast or lift weights.


Warming up loosens your muscles, and this flexibility is key to unlocking your most powerful possible throws.;
, Many people have heard that "your power comes from your legs," and while this is partially true, it doesn't tell the whole story, Your legs generate a lot of power, but it only helps your throw if you can transmit that power through the bottom up. Accordingly, powerful throwers know that they must focus on their entire body to throw well. For a righty, it looks like:


Plant your left foot in front of your body.
Point your shoulders in line with the target
Bring the ball behind you.
Push off the back foot as you start to throw
Rotate your hips and shoulders towards the target.
Release as the ball passes your head.
Follow through with your shoulders and back foot as you release the ball.
 The basics of throwing are likely obvious, as outlined above.. But the little things, when you get the right, will add up to something much more powerful. The natural starting point is your stance. The stance is very similar to a tennis player getting ready to serve, or a basketball player guarding someone. To get maximum power, make sure your:


Hands are in the middle of your body, ready to move.
Knees are slightly bent as if you're ready to spring into action.
Feet are light so that you are balancing near the balls of your feet.
Spine and back are straight., This is for right-handed throwers. If you're a pitcher, this is your step off the mound, but all fielders do this for longer or more powerful throws. As your knee comes up, your throwing arm remains bent at the elbow and the ball near your chest. As your leg kicks forward, you start bringing your arm back.


As you land your foot, you want your arm moving forward. Your goal, as you read the next few steps, is for you arm to be cocked right behind your head, elbow at 90 degrees, as this front foot lands stiff not flexed.
Studies show that the stride is more important for power than the actual throwing motion.This is equally true for an outfielder running up to make a big throw to the infield., This is where you really start getting power. As you are stepping forward with that front foot, your back foot is pushing you forward. As the ball is coming towards your head, your hips are turning towards your target at the same time your throwing arm is rotating your body around., Timing this up is key for powerful throws. As you land on the foot, your elbow should be cocked behind you. It is at 90 degrees, with the ball above your head. Practice getting into this position right as your foot lands.
 As your arm comes over your head and you release the ball, let your back leg and throwing arm keep moving. Because you've been rotating, they'll both come across your body after you let the ball go.
 This puts back spin on the ball, stabilizing it as it flies through the air. Your fingers will pull down on the laces so that the ball spins back towards you as it flies. As the ball leaves your hand, snap your wrist and fingers down.If you haven't already started, make sure you're gripping the ball over the laces. Every time you catch the ball, focus on finding the laces quickly before throwing it back., Ultimately, strength has very little to do with throwing speed. Mechanics are far more important. But most people consciously try to throw fast: they jerk their arms, increase the speed, and mechanics suffer. Loose arms and a relaxed body transmits energy far more effectively.


Imagine your body as a slingshot. A rigid, taut sling would be very difficult to shoot effectively, but a loose, flexible band is quicker to release, prep, and fire., When you push off the ground, you put your body in motion. It is almost like a waterfall -- the power of the water doesn't come from the top of the waterfall, but from the entire distance the water falls. Similarly, the power starts in your feet, but you must rotate your whole body, specifically the hips and torso, to transmit that power into your throwing motion. Focus on the tips above, then do the following to help improve your throws:


Videotape your throwing motion. At what points do you look jerky or weak?
Check your follow through. Your body should naturally follow the pitch, spinning you slightly so that your back leg comes around the front of your planted leg.
Keep your muscles loose. If you feel like you're trying to hard, you are. It won't help.

