 If someone continually ogles you but you don’t want to engage him directly, you might try sending him an email letting him know how you feel about it. Let him know that you don’t want to bring up his behavior around people but you will if he doesn't stop it. This can be particularly effective if the person is a co-worker.


You can give him a chance to stop their behavior without retaliating against him.
If he sends back a disrespectful email, you can always forward it to your boss as proof of the way he treats you., If the offender is in a committed relationship, you can always tell his significant other about his activities. If his behavior causes a rift to form in his relationship, he'll definitely think twice before ogling women in the future.


Sometimes the threat that you might tell a person’s wife how he's acting might be enough to get him to stop.
She might not believe you if you’re by yourself. If he treats other girls the same way, try to get them to tell his wife how he acts with you.
 If the offender is your co-worker, you can try telling your boss about the situation. Make sure to tell your boss that you can’t be productive in an environment where you feel uncomfortable and that you think your co-worker’s behavior is completely unacceptable.


If your boss refuses to take action you might have to go to his supervisor. Move up the ladder as far as you have to to get results.
You can even threaten to take legal action if the issue is not dealt with.
 If all else fails and you can’t get a person to stop staring at your chest, then try to stay as far away from him as you can. If the person is someone in your circle of friends, simply refuse to hang out at events where he’ll be present. If the offender is someone at your job, quit.If your company allows people to treat you like an object instead of a person, you won’t be happy working there anyway.
 If the offender is someone in your school, talk to the proper authorities there. Tell a principal, trusted teacher, or school counselor about what has been going on. They will likely talk to the boy about appropriate behavior and decide on a proper punishment.


If you don't feel comfortable speaking up on your own, ask a parent for help. You may feel more comfortable having your mom or dad call the school on your behalf.
If you know other girls who have a similar problem with this boy, you can ask them to speak up as well.

