 You can save yourself the trouble of being denied a disability tag from New York State by talking to your doctor. If they say you do, find the application on the New York DMV’s website. Start getting information together, and tell your doctor you will need him to fill out a "permanent disability" or a “temporary disability” Medical Certification. The doctor must be licensed as a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) or a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.). Temporary disabled permits are available for 6 month time frames.You may qualify for a temporary handicapped permit if you are required to use crutches, a walker or a cane to walk for a short period of time.
Examples of permanent disabilities are using portable oxygen; severely impaired use of one or both legs; blindness; a limiting neuromuscular disorder; certain cardiac conditions; being unable to walk 200 feet (61 meters) without stopping; severe arthritis, neurological or orthopedic condition that affects walking; severe lung disease; or any other condition that makes it difficult to take public transportation and move around town without hardship.
Any doctor may attest to the first 8 conditions but only a doctor that has been licensed in New York State can certify the 9th condition if you have a disability falling under the "other condition" category.
A podiatrist (DPM) may only attest to disabilities involving the foot and this podiatrist must be licensed in New York State.;
, Print out the application for a NYS disabled parking permit, the Application for License Plates and Parking Permits for People with Severe Disabilities (MV-664.1). Complete your sections of the form. Fax or email the “permanent disability” Medical Certification to your doctor’s office for them to fill out. They should be able to forward the form directly to the nearest government agent who issues permits. The NY State DMV does not issue disability permits., You can obtain a statement of disability in lieu of having your doctor complete the Medical Certification section. This statement must be printed on your doctor's letterhead, dated within the last year and have a detailed explanation about how your disability will entitle you to a disabled permit. It must also include your doctor's license number and signature.
 Turn in the application to any county or state motor vehicle office to submit it if you are applying for a permanent disabled license plate. If you already have a valid registration and regular plates, you will have to swap your plates for a new set of handicapped plates, fill out the Vehicle Registration/Title Application (MV-82) and pay the regular registration fee. This is not required for a hanging permit.


You may also need to show identification, proof of residence, your birth certificate, etc., depending on the validity of the forms you provide.
If you are only applying for the hanging NYS disabled parking permit, you must contact your local clerk to find out where to submit your application. There is no fee for this permit.

