 Dogs need a lot of positive reinforcement to behave. Once your dog is comfortable in your bed, provide positive reinforcement. Each night, when your dog gets in bed with you, give him praise or a treat to show him he's behaving properly.
 If your dog is a slow learner, it can help to create positive associations with the bed. Your dog will be more eager to join you in bed each night if he thinks of the bed as a place where happy, fun things happen.Try feeding your dog on or near the bed. You can lay down a towel over the bed to prevent a mess.
Put some things your dog likes in the bed with you. Allow him to have some of his toys and blankets in the bed.Spend some time just sitting in the bed with your dog. Watch TV or read a book and allow your dog to hop up on the bed with you. Periodically pet him or praise him.
Be careful, however, not to teach him to associate anything too disruptive with the bed. You want him to sleep through the night and not disturb you. Therefore, playing with your dog in the bed may be a bad idea.
 Dogs respond well to negative reinforcement as well. Some behaviors can be disruptive to sleep.


Dogs may not respond well to punishment or scolding. It's sometimes easier simply to ignore bad behaviors. If your dog sees he's not getting a response, he may stop. For example, if your dog is whining or barking at night, just ignore it. Yelling at him might make him feel like you're barking back, encouraging him to keep it up.If your dog is continuing to behave poorly, taking something away is also an effective means to discourage the behavior. Sometimes dogs act out to get your attention, good or bad, and yelling may only encourage bad behavior. Instead of scolding your dog when he's being disruptive at night, consider putting him on the floor. Do not let him back into the bed until he's calmed down. Eventually, your dog will realize certain behaviors result in him being removed from the bed. He'll stop engaging in those behaviors., It's great to have your dog sleep in the bed with you. However, it should be a positive experience for you and your dog. Many owners enjoy snuggling with their pets, but some dogs may dislike being handled, especially if they're trying to sleep. If your dog growls or fidgets in response to cuddling, refrain from the behavior. Allow your dog to sleep in his own space.

