 If you plan on baking the meatballs under the broiler, turn it on to high so that it preheats while you make the meatballs. You'll also need to line a rimmed baking sheet with foil. Ensure that the sheet can be used under the broiler.If you'd rather fry the meatballs, you'll need a large nonstick skillet and 2 tablespoons of oil.;
, Place all of the flavorful vegetables, seasonings, and bacon into a food processor. Blitz the ingredients until they're finely chopped. You'll want to pulse the ingredients about 10 to 15 times. You'll need these ingredients:1 small onion, very coarsely chopped
3 slices of bacon, very coarsely chopped
2 cloves of garlic, peeled
1/4 cup (5 g) of fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves

, Crack one large egg into a medium mixing bowl and whisk it. Add the finely chopped vegetables, bacon, and seasoning mixture to the bowl. Combine the meatball mixture along with 1 pound (.45 kg) of ground beef chuck, 1/2 cup of grated Parmesan (2 ounces), 1/2 teaspoon of salt, 1/4 teaspoon of pepper and 3 tablespoons of bread crumbs.Avoid overworking the bacon meatball mixture which would make the meatballs tough. Instead, just stir the mixture enough to distribute the ingredients throughout the meat.
 Run your hands under warm water so they're damp. Gather about 2 tablespoons of the bacon meatball mixture and roll it slightly between your palms to make a ball. Place it on the foil-lined baking sheet. You should be able to make about 16 meatballs.Avoid overworking the meatballs or they'll become dense and tough.
 Place the sheet of bacon meatballs on the oven rack closest to the broiler. Broil the meatballs for 6 minutes. Remove the sheet from the oven and use tongs to turn the meatballs over. Return the pan to the broiler and broil the meatballs for another 5 or 6 minutes.The meatballs should be cooked through. Use a thermometer to ensure that the meatballs are at least at 165 degrees F (74 C).
 If you'd rather fry the meatballs on the stove instead of broil them, heat 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil in a large nonstick skillet. Turn the heat on to medium and add enough meatballs to the skillet to cover the bottom in a single layer. Fry the meatballs and turn them occasionally for 5 to 7 minutes. They should be golden brown and cooked through.Avoid crowding the pan which will make it hard to turn the meatballs. If you need to, fry the meatballs in batches.

