 Time to get icky, eh? Hopefully it'll be worth it. The protein in egg whites is purported to be super good for your skin and stretch marks in particular. Rub on the stuff three times a day for maximum fading., If you've been laying off the carbs, there's a new reason to add potatoes to your grocery list. The juices are full of vitamins and minerals that help restore skin cells. So while you're preparing some rosemary potatoes for your family, steal one and literally rub it over your stretch marks. Just  hope no one catches you or you'll have some 'plain ' to do. To get specific, cut your potato into thick slices. Rub the pieces over your stretch marks, making sure your slice is juicy. Allow it to dry and then wash the residue off with warm water.
 It's high in Vitamin E, which is great for your skin. If you'd like to keep it for tonight's stir-fry, you can also use straight up vitamin E oil -- even the stuff infused with lavender, jasmine, and rosemary if you'd like. As long as it has a high concentration of Vitamin E, you're good to go.The idea here is that your skin will soften, and when it softens, it expands, and, in general, goes with the punches more easily. Future ones will be less likely, too!Rumor has it that castor oil is also as effective as any home remedy can be.
 You've read wikiHow's How to Make a Sugar Scrub, right? A little sugar, oil, and lemon juice is a great exfoliant for shaving and what else? Yep, stretch marks, too. And you'll smell great, too!White sugar works best and almond oil is good, too. When you rub it in, take a minute -- or ten -- to bask in your sugary goodness. Consider it an excuse for a long shower!

, This cream works wonders on your body's collagen-rebuilding skills when the stretch marks are brand new. The only caveat? Do not use it when you're pregnant. There could be harmful effects on the fetus -- the jury is still undecided., It's just not true. While some people may get good results, it's only with utter diligence, the fact that the skin is hydrated, and quite frankly, sheer luck and lucky genetics. So before you go shoveling out your pocketbook, think again.If it has retin-A or glycolic acid, you may want to consult your physician. They could be harmful; it's best to check with your doctor before you use any over-the-counter solution. You definitely don't want to deal with a skin allergy or skin discoloration!

, Surely you've heard of lemon juice lessening freckles, and it's the same principle: lemon juice is a natural bleaching agent. Because of that, it can help stretch marks fade more quickly. Rub in the juices to the affected area and let it dry for about 10 minutes before rinsing off. Be sure to do this several times a day for a noticeable effect., These two items are super hydrating and can bolster skin regeneration and smoothness. If used a couple times a day, stretch marks may start fading. And it may be able to prevent new ones from forming!Really, any lotion is good for your skin and your stretch marks. The more hydrated your skin is, the better it'll feel and look.
 You already knew this stuff was great for sunburn and your skin in general, but it's also good for stretch marks. It's nature's super healer -- for results, use it daily. It's super safe during and after pregnancy, too!


You can also make a mixture of aloe vera gel, vitamin E and vitamin A oil (from capsules) and rub it on the area until your skin absorbs it.
The raw aloe vera will leave a residue. After a few minutes, just wipe it off with lukewarm water.

