 A cat tree will provide your cat a safe haven from the attentions of your dog. Cats often attack dogs to get the dog to leave them alone, so providing a spot where your cat can nap in peace is essential for maintaing good pet relations.Place the cat tree in an area that is often frequented by both pets so that the cat can choose to climb to its hiding spot instead of attacking the dog.
Make sure that the dog can’t get to the cat when it’s in the cat tree.;
, Cats can easily leap over a baby gate, but most dogs can’t. Use a baby gate to allow your cat to separate itself from your dog. If the dog is bothering the cat, then the cat can leap over the gate and ignore the dog rather than scratching or hissing at the dog to get it to go away.You can also find baby gates with small holes in the bottom that would allow your cat to crawl through, but don’t choose this option if your dog is small enough to follow.
 If you have a high windowsill or a piece of furniture that your cat likes, encourage your cat to use it by rubbing it with catnip. Alternatively, if it’s large enough, put a cat bed on it. You can also install a sturdy corner shelf for your cat to use as a perch., Both cats and dogs can be territorial over food bowls, toys, and the litterbox. Make sure that each pet has its own special area so that the two don’t get into scuffles over whose food bowl is whose. Additionally, keep your dog away from your cat’s litterbox.Keep your cat’s food and water out of your dog’s reach as well to avoid conflict.
 As long as the attacks are an issue, don’t leave your cat and dog alone unattended. Your cat can seriously injure your dog by scratching its eye or causing an infection. Cat bites are especially prone to infection. You’re also risking your cat’s safety since the dog has every reason to fight back in defense.Consider locking your pets in different rooms, particularly if you are going to be away from home.
Make sure that each pet has the supplies it needs, something to stimulate it, and a comfortable place to lay.

