 Also, consider hazardous materials spills, plane crashes, train derailments, i.e. those hazards that may not be "natural". Local emergency managers and the American Red Cross can help you determine the risks in your area.;
, http://www.ready.gov is a place to start with a plan template in the "Are You Ready" book. Make your plan based on the hazards, ex. tsunami is not likely in Oklahoma while localized flash flood may occur.
 Sirens are out-of-door warnings only. Get text alerts on your cell phone and email on your computer. Many local governments are offering these for free. Have a battery powered AM/FM radio with extra batteries.
 This is the concept behind Safe and Well from the American Red Cross <https: safeandwell.communityos.org="" cms="" index.php="">

,,, Go to the local home supply store and get 5 gallon (18.9 L) buckets with the snap-on lids.
, Be sure to pack long and short sleeve shirts, a pair of shorts, a pair of jeans, good walking shoes and socks, and a wind-breaker rain jacket. Additional items can be added/removed according to the season and type of potential disaster in your area, such as thermal underwear, sleeveless shirts, or water/canoeing shoes (shoes that make it easier to walk in water).
 Be sure to pack enough water.
, Consider purchasing solar or crank rechargeable lights and radios, and maybe some glow sticks. Candles should never be used. Stationary flashlights of the highway safety type should be used for temporary lighting.
 Flashlights with multiple LEDs have proven to be the most reliable lamps by comparison to conventional lamps. LED lights last a long time on batteries, and a headlamp leaves both of your hands free to cook, do dishes, read, or many other things.
 Keep a carbon filter water pitcher in the refrigerator, and several fresh filter inserts standing by. This does not replace boiling water, as it is intended to be an after boil filter. Also, in the house kit, make sure you have "shelter in place" items, ex. duct tape, plastic sheeting material for windows and the knowledge of how and when to use them.
 Water can be contaminated, so you need to store enough water for drinking, and additional water for cooking (if you have a camp stove), flushing a commode, and washing. A reflector oven would be a good investment. They are available at any good camping store.
 In case of emergency, you can grab the box and go, or it can be recovered intact later.
 Keep the list with your other disaster kit items.
, If you're in a tornado-threatened area, and on a higher level if you are concerned about flooding or earthquakes, and you can reasonably plan on surviving on site, put your kit in an upper level closet.
 You can prepare kits for your pets too! Be sure to include, a package of food, water, and anything else your pet would need in a safe, accessible place. Keep them all in a suitable pet-carrier so that you can grab on the fly.
 Looters often take advantage of overtaxed emergency services.
 Make sure to have cash in small bills such as ones, fives and tens. This is crucial in case ATM machines are disabled and banks are closed. Also, many convenience stores do not accept large bills.
 Do you have a way to call your out of State contact to let them know you are OK? Did it work? Did you practice evacuating? What were some hiccups? Did you practice a fire evacuation at three in the morning? Did everyone get out OK? Did you meet at the right spot?

