 One way you can cope with guilt you may feel over having an only child is to set up playdates for your child. Talk to the other parents at your child’s school and arrange playdates with your kids after school or on a weekend. Be social with other parents and children at your child’s school so you can all support each other and spend time together.You may arrange for weekly playdates with children that your child seems to like and get along with. You and other parents may take turns hosting the playdate at your homes. Or you may plan a fun activity for your child and other children from school once a week, like going on a hike, going bowling or going to see a movie.;
, You can also reach out to any children who live in your neighborhood and invite them over to play with your child. Allow your child to go over to a neighbor’s house to hang out and play, with adult supervision, of course. Try to create a community of children for your only child so they are never without a playmate close by.To encourage children in your neighborhood to come over and play with your child, you may host a get together with neighborhood families at your home. Or you may arrange a block wide get together where all the children can play together.
 You can create a community of playmates for your only child by encouraging them to play with their family members. Cousins, uncles, aunts, and other extended family can often become as meaningful to an only child as a sibling might be. Younger family members like first cousins and second cousins can be great playmates for your child.You may host family dinners once a week so your child can grow up close to their younger family members. Or you may suggest going on family outings with younger family members so your child can spend time with them.
 To help your child meet other kids, encourage them to sign up for sports teams and other recreational activities like clubs, groups, or leagues. Note your child’s strengths and encourage them to sign up for activities that will play to their strengths.For example, you may notice that your child is very good at math. You may then encourage them to join a math league after school where they can meet other kids that share their interest.
Or you may notice that your child is interested in social justice. You may then encourage them to join the school paper so they can write about social justice issues or encourage them to join a social justice club at school.

