 Advocates of the more outdated pack theory believe that an owner should assert dominance over a dog using physical force and reprimands to communicate that the owner is the pack leader. However, what the dog really needs is discipline through effective training., Clicker training is a reward-based training method that teaches a dog to associate the “click-clack” of a clicker with getting a reward.The “click-clack” marks the exact moment of the good behavior, so the dog understands exactly what he has done right, and is rewarded with a treat.Begin with basic commands such as “sit,” “stay,” and “here,” then move on to commands like “fetch” and “give.”
Eventually, your dog will become habituated to looking to you for commands and guidance even without the clicker., A dog often shows signs associated with dominance in public situations. This is often because the dog is under greater pressure, is being challenged by other dogs, or feels the need to protect himself or you. Maintaining control of your dog by reminding him of his obedience training can help you avoid unwanted situations.
 If your dog exhibits aggressive or inappropriate behavior when meeting another dog in public, you should neither reward nor punish his behavior. Petting your dog to comfort him rewards the behavior, while punishing him may increase his anxiety or confusion. Instead, you should retrain the habit by using a friend with an amiable dog.Have your friend stand with her dog at the end of your street, and gradually begin to walk towards them.
When your dog sees the other dog in the distance, have him sit and reward him for sitting nicely.
Signal for your friend to bring her dog a bit closer. Reward your dog for continuing to sit nicely. Repeat the signal and allow your friend’s dog to come closer and closer while your dog continues to sit. Work for 5-10 minutes, and then give your dog a rest for the day.
The next day, begin the 5-10 minute session at the distance that the previous day left off. Eventually, your dog should become desensitized to the closeness of other dogs.If your dog reacts to your friend’s dog inappropriately (by leaving the sit command and beginning to bark or growl, for instance), walk him the other direction and resume the training a little further apart.

