 Your students will be more inclined to act in positive ways if they feel like their teacher cares about them as individuals. To build relationships with your students, interact with them in informal situations such as before and after class, and use instructional methods that encourage them to share their personal views and experiences with the class.For example, before class, stand by the door and greet each of your students by name as they arrive. On Monday mornings, ask them to share something fun they did over the weekend.
 Building relationships is a two-way street. In addition to showing an interest in your students’ lives, you should share aspects of your life with your students as well. This will help your students feel like they know you as a person and not just as an authority figure.You should share details of your life but avoid over sharing. For example, if you return from a vacation with friends you might talk about the places you visited, but avoid talking about drinking or partying.
 Humor is essential for building a positive classroom atmosphere. Humor helps your students feel comfortable and at-ease in your classroom. Incorporate humor into your lesson-plans and use it everyday.One good way to include humor in your lessons is to preface each lesson with a cartoon. If you look through comics like the Far Side or Calvin & Hobbes you can find scenarios that match almost any lesson plan!
Make sure to keep your humor positive and avoid sarcasm.
 Class meetings give students a sense of ownership over their situation. Make time for a weekly class meeting where students can freely discuss what it means to have a positive classroom atmosphere.Begin the meeting with a discussion question like “Why is it important to respect other people’s cultures?”
Use your authority as a teacher to moderate discussions. Encourage positive, constructive discussion.
 Your students will feel more secure, positive, and trusting if they know what is expected of them in your classroom.Make the rules easy to understand. For example, instead of having a rule that says “maintain an orderly atmosphere,” have a rule that says “stay in your seat when the teacher is talking.”
Allowing your students to help craft the rules is a good way to give them a sense of ownership and responsibility for the classroom.
 When your students have responsibilities in the classroom they will feel more personally invested in maintaining a positive atmosphere. Make sure every student has responsibility for some aspect of the classroom.


For example, if you have a class pet, you could have one student responsible for feeding it and another students responsible for keeping the cage clean.Be careful not to give a few students a lot of responsibility and other students very little responsibility. If there aren’t enough tasks to go around, rotate what students are responsible for what tasks on a weekly basis.
 Students tend to feel more positive, productive, and trusting in clean, organized environments. Taking a few minutes every day to straighten up can go a long way to maintaining a positive environment in your classroom.Store supplies in easy-to-find bins with labels. For example, you might keep all of the coloring supplies in a purple bin and all of the construction toys in a yellow box.
Let your students help organize the classroom. This will give them an extra sense of ownership over their environment and they’ll feel invested in keeping it in order.

