 Allah is inclined to forgive all sins for He is All-Understanding and All-Forgiving. Even if you feel that you are already too deep to become the good Muslim that you truly can be, He will help.;
, Maybe you can trace back the cause to either family situations or friends that are leading you on the wrong path. Leave the friends. They will not be there on the Day of Judgement when you have to face Allah on your own. If it is because of family, it is a little more difficult. This is where the next steps will come in handy.
 You need to let go of past mistakes and work on improving the future. Whatever has happened is done. It is in the past and there is nothing you can do to change it or better it. The only thing you can do is sincerely repent to Allah (SWT) and ask Him for forgiveness and leniency in punishment. Use those negative experiences as motivation to get better and do good.
 This is not to say that you should run every time a guy comes near, but learn to lower the gaze and interact with unrelated men in a way that is formal and business-like. Remember that Muslim women in the past also interacted with men in their society as business women, teachers, and scholars, and they were all well respected and admired; they did not have to flaunt their beauty to gain this respect or to feel confident or even to contribute to their societies. Remember that Allah (SWT) is severe in punishment, but also the most forgiving and the most merciful. They are not people that you need in your life anyway.
 If you are truly devoted to turning over a new leaf and becoming the best Muslim girl that you can be, wear the hijab. The hijab is not just a piece of cloth that covers hair, it covers and protects your whole self, including your mannerisms, speech, your gaze, and your heart. It changes you mentally and spiritually. Think of it as a way for Allah azza wajjal to protect the women. As soon as you wear the hijab, your whole perspective on self-respect and values will automatically change. In fact, women are not allowed to pray without the hijab since the hadith of the prophet Muhammad sallalahu alaihi wasalam reads "the prayer of a woman will not be accepted without the headcover". Hijab is mandatory, as explained in the Quran 33:59-60 women should cover to be recognized as part of the Muslim group, while in 24:30-31 women are told to pull down their head covers and make them long enough to cover their breasts with a "khumur" which means "something which covers the head". The word is from the same root word for alcohol, since it is a substance when consumed covers and clouds the head and the mind.
 This means that you have to cover your whole body. You have to wear loose clothes. Hijab is not supposed to be fashionable. Rather, it is a command from Allah (SWT). Avoid clothes that are too tight such as skinny jeans. Remember that it is obligatory to cover the whole body except the face and hands, which are highly recommended, although some scholars held the view that it is obligatory especially in the Hanbali school of thought. If you truly believe according to the evidence it is obligatory, then go ahead and make an effort to cover your face with the niqaab and your hands with gloves as no harm can come from it. This also helps you to change your whole outlook on what is acceptable and what is not.
 Before you get on the prayer rug, learn what the prayer words mean to enhance your contemplation within prayer. If you do not speak Arabic, try to find some translated versions of the prayer words and take some time to read and understand what the words mean. Start making prayer a normal part of your day, the way eating is a need of ours, our spiritual food is prayers.
 Read the Quran and also try to read the translation of the Quran and truly try to understand its meaning. You can read the translation in English or your language as well. Reading the Quran will help you establish a useful relationship with Allah and will also allow you to understand how beautiful the religion is. Listening to it (you can find videos online) also makes you feel closer to Allah.
 Know what you have to do (which is called 'wajib' things) and what you can't do (haraam things). The Internet is a valuable source to search for Islamic rules and regulations and the punishments that apply if they are broken. Make sure to go on correct websites for authentic sources of information. Islamic punishments may sometimes seem severe, but Muslims consider the Shariah to be a gift from Allah (SWT) that protects society and guides the believers to follow His way.
 Dhikr of Allah is one of the most excellent act to praise Allah. Dhikr has been stressed over a hundred times in the Holy Qur'an. Allah says in His Holy book : "O believers, make abundant mention of Allah!" (33:41) The Prophet said, "If your hearts were always in the state that they are in during dhikr, the angels would come to see you to the point that they would greet you in the middle of the road." Dhikr is, therefore, something of tremendous importance.
 For example, four hours for salah, Quran and Islamic studies will enable you to build up your relationship with Allah (SWT) and make good progress towards acquiring the necessary knowledge to become a good Muslimah. Remember that the five daily fardh salah are your top priority and you should form your daily routine around these. Allow time for self-reflection, especially to think about your sins and to pray to Allah for forgiveness.
 You should want to make friends who share your mission of being a good Muslim and influence you to do better, or friends who accept your religion. Try to make friends with other Muslims to encourage you to practice Islam.


Avoid friends that bring out bad influences, or friends that harm or hurt your feelings even being told to stop.
 Realize that there are many excellent female Islamic lecturers who are passionate about spreading the peaceful message of Islam. Try to listen to their lectures and make it your mission too to tell other women about how Islam can help them bring meaning and order to their lives.
 Marrying is considered Sunnah in Islam. If you do consider marrying, try to search for a person who is loyal and treats you fairly.
 Attending Muslim groups or group circles is a great way to learn more about Islam and is a way to socialize with other Muslims. Many Muslim groups are most likely provided at your local mosque., If you make it a priority in your mind that you want to strive to be the best Muslim girl possible, you will achieve this goal without even realizing it! Every time you are about to do something, think: "Is this something good or religious?" If it isn't, don't do it! Simply remind yourself and be ready to stop yourself, just in case. Every single moment of every day must be devoted to pleasing Allah (SWT).

