 Irritant contact dermatitis is an inflammatory reaction that occurs in response to various physical and chemical stimuli.Allergic dermatitis is an immune-mediated reaction to foreign objects. Although the symptoms of each kind of reaction can be similar, understanding what kind of reaction you have will help you to deal with your sensitive skin.Irritant contact dermatitis is often caused by exposure to the following irritants:water (prolonged exposure, like dishwashing)detergents, like soap
solvents, such as acetone (found in nail polish remover)
oxidizing agents, like bleach
acids
alkalis, like ammonia or sodium hydroxide
metal tools
wood
fiberglass
plant parts, like thorns and spines
paper
dust or soil


Allergic contact dermatitis is often caused by exposure to the following allergens:perfumes
latex
plant products, including leaves (example: poison ivy)
glues and cements
plastics
nickel
hair dyes
soaps and detergents
cosmetics



, Understanding how long it takes for a reaction to develop will help you to distinguish between irritant and contact dermatitis. Some reactions can take minutes to hours to develop, while other symptoms may appear days after exposure.


Irritant contact dermatitis causes symptoms within minutes to hours of contact with the inciting agent.Allergic dermatitis is a delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction that is T cell mediated. This means that the onset of symptoms is often later compared to irritant contact dermatitis. Symptoms typically appear several hours after exposure to an allergen., A break in your skin could include a cut, burn, or removal of a layer of skin, for example by ripping off an adhesive bandage.


Irritant contact dermatitis often involves disruption in the endothelial layer that protects your body from the outside world.Allergic contact dermatitis does not require a break in the skin to elicit a response; however, a break may still be present.
 Although some areas of skin may be more or less sensitive than others, some symptoms of sensitive skin can be directly localized to the area of contact, while others can spread.


Irritant contact dermatitis is most often localized predominantly to the site of contact or injury. For example, if you have a reaction to adhesive in a band-aid, you may might see a band-aid-shaped rash if you have irritant contact dermatitis.
Because allergic dermatitis involves influx of immune cells, the localization of the reaction can extend beyond the borders of the initial injury. This is not always the case, but transfer of the allergen to adjacent sites can cause patchiness. For example, in the case of a reaction to a band-aid, you may notice that a rash spreads past the borders of the band-aid site. This could indicate an allergic reaction.
 A dermatologist is a medical professional who specializes in skin conditions. There are many medical conditions that affect the skin and a dermatologist can help you rule out any serious problems.The following is a list of other possible causes of what appears to be sensitive skin:


Bedbugs
Basal cell carcinoma
Chemical peel
Acne
Atopic dermatitis
Dry skin
Psoriasis
Eczema
Scabies
Infection

