 This will boost your confidence and shows the interviewers that you did your homework and care enough to learn more.


Read the company website and press releases, and use Google to find news articles.
Prepare answers to predictable questions, such as the introductory 'Tell me about yourself', and questions about your abilities, career history, personality and goals. These should not be stumbling blocks; rehearse well beforehand.;
, This will help you counter all the possible questions that will be hurled at you during the interview. Usually for the graduates who have come out of their college, the questions will be based on the learning in college and also related to the course. Dwelling too much into the subjects before attending the interview will cause last minute jitters. So it is better to know stuff beforehand.


Use the college's own verbiage that sold the degree courses to you in the first place as ready-made answers when your employer asks what use your learning is to your employer. Many colleges now tell you what useful skills you'll have to take out into the work world after learning. All you need do is memorize those alluring lines.
 It is advisable to be mentally prepared to attend the interview. Being mentally prepared will give you the leverage to think quickly and astutely. Not only does this involved the information finding mission from the prior step but it is also thinking through why you want to work for this organization, being ready for awkward or difficult questions and having a good idea about your fit in the place.


Think about your own resume. Anything odd about it, like chunks of missing time, an abrupt job end or a failure to launch? Address these in your mind so that you have good answers if the issue is raised.
Have answers to awkward questions about plans for your future. While it is illegal in many jurisdictions to ask questions about your birthing intentions and family arrangements, employers find ways of wheedling this out of you with clever but sneaky questions. Be alert and have pulp answers to reassure their probing.
Do some sleuthing about the corporate culture before arriving, so that you have a good idea of how conservative, liberal, dull, exciting or quirky the place is. Do your best to fit in, especially if it's not really your thing but you need the income badly.
 Write out a ton of questions and have your mom, your fiancé, your grandpa, your best friend or your dog ask you the questions. Practice them over and over until you feel confident with them and have good answers prepared. You don't have long to impress but you can prepare yourself to give pithy, clever and spot-on answers. Nothing should be a surprise, not even left-field questions, provided you've done the research ahead of time and have sought to cover every possibility.
 People make first impressions not only by what you say, but by what you wear. It is often said that interviewers gauge their candidates very early and hence dressing up will help in your cause. Make sure you look exceptionally nice. Pressed pants, (not jeans!) and a nice shirt will make your interviewer realize that you take this seriously.


Loud and obnoxious hair colors are not considered "professional". Unless you already know the person interviewing you, don't get judged by your hair dye choices. While all your friends may adore your bright blue hair streak, it's not appreciated in most work areas. Pop a wig on, if needs must.
Dressing aptly reflect that you are interested in taking up the job.
 Have it ready in a neat, small folder. Have it all in order.
 Plan in advance so that you reach the destination on time.
 Don't be so early that the interviewer keeps eyeing you each time he or she looks for the next candidate––that says "I don't have anything better to do". And just don't be late, ever. That says "Couldn't be bothered, not really keen". Be about ten to five minutes early, even if this means hiding outside or in the foyer first.


If transport is iffy, go in early and sit in a cafe or public library. Spend the time revising and self-composing.
 When you first meet the interviewer, shake his or her hand firmly. A firm handshake is highly impressive and always leaves a lasting impression.


A firm handshake with the interviewer will indicate confidence and will create a good first impression.
 Good posture is a sign of composure and poise. A proper posture indicates confidence. Be loud and clear with your points and make yourself heard and understood whenever you speak. Eye contact should be dominant, as it portrays that you are aware of your audience.


Talk with a smile; it, along with good posture, are natural indicators of enthusiasm.
Don't do the superman or supergirl laser stare and fail to look away. That indicates an inability to know where boundaries begin and end, the sign of a scary employee who will either be needy or way too bossy.
 Those are filler words, and they basically tell the interviewer straight up that you're nervous.
 If it is a casual interview, throw the interviewer a compliment. Whether it be a simple "cute shirt", or "this place is so clean!", it will still be flattering. Really, who doesn't love a good compliment?

, If you have done any previous work or courses in that field, let them know. It shows that you have experience, and that's always good.
 Show that you know what you are talking about. Deliver because you are competent and capable. At the same time, accept if you don't know something and say "but I'm a fast learner and I'll get that down in a week with a little training". Be a ray of positive vibes about your utility to the place of employment.
 When you're leaving the interview, remind the interviewer once again to keep you in mind. Flash a smile and walk out with confidence, and you are sure to be remembered.
 Cameras and microphones are everywhere these days, as are other employees. Punching the air and yelling "I aced that", or frowning and saying "What a dinosaur that interviewer was!" will be noticed by someone somewhere, so refrain from these actions until well out of sight of the building. Decorum and professionalism come first; nobody should try to "be yourself" in an interview situation.

