 If you do daily maintenance of your chinchilla cage, weekly cleaning shouldn’t require much additional time. Have a broom, dustpan, and some moistened paper towels handy to clean up any messes.


Weekly cleaning of your chinchilla’s cage takes approximately fifteen to twenty minutes., Since your weekly maintenance won't take very long and doesn't require you to remove much from the cage, you can either clean with your chinchilla in the cage or put it in a safe space.


If you want to put your chinchilla in a different space, consider putting it in a room like the bathroom where you can close the door. You might want to put some food pellets in the room to keep your chinchilla busy and make it feel safe.
 It’s important to completely wash the food dish once a week so that your chinchilla won’t get sick from old food, mold, or any other bacteria that may be present.Throw away remaining food and wash the dish either in hot, soapy water or in your dishwasher. Allow it to dry thoroughly so bacteria doesn’t grow., Sterilizing your chinchilla’s water bottle is essential to kill any bacteria that might be present. This helps keep him healthy- and hydrated.You can either wash the bottle in hot, soapy water or your dishwasher. You can also boil it in a separate pan.Refill the bottle with clean water, and then test to make sure it’s flowing properly.
 Completely empty and refill the litter pan once a week to promote the health and happiness of your chinchilla. This will also help control odor., Your chinchilla may spray or defecate outside the litter pan, and it’s important to remove any dirty hay or shavings. This will keep your chinchilla happy and healthy, and will also prevent odor.
 After you’ve completed the other cleaning tasks, spot clean the cage and area around it if needed.


If your chinchilla has sprayed the walls of the cage, wipe them down with a paper towel and a mild disinfectant.Remove any loose fur that is in the cage.
Sweep away any food pellets or hay that may be outside of the cage with a vacuum. This will also help inhibit the growth of bacteria.

