 Your body needs exercise to stay healthy, but that doesn't mean you have to spend hours in the gym. Just 20 minutes of moderate exercise each day can keep you healthy and strong.You don't even have to dedicate a single block of your day to exercise. Taking a 10-minute brisk walk in the morning and another in the evening would suffice.
Joining a gym or fitness center may help you stay motivated, as well as giving you access to other resources such as certified trainers and classes for variety.
You also might consider exercising with a friend. That way you can get some social time in as well as your daily exercise.;
, Strength training is important not only for losing weight but also developing a more fit and toned physique. As you start to build stronger muscles, you will feel a lot better about how your body looks and how your clothes fit.Many people are worried about strength training if they've been struggling with weight loss because they believe they will add bulk and get bigger. However, this typically isn't the case.
Muscles burn more calories even at rest than fat does, making strength training all the more important if you've decided to ditch the scales.
Try bringing along a set of wrist or ankle weights when you go on a walk. You can do a few sets of exercises during your walk. Just make sure that you do not wear the wrist or ankle weights during the entire walk because this will put too much strain on your joints. Carry them in a small backpack and remove them after you finish each set.
If you want to start lifting weights, consider starting with a certified trainer. Explain your goals and they can help you develop a workout routine that will maximize your results and help you slim down without adding any bulk.
 If there's a sport you enjoy playing, find out if there's a league or club in your community that you can join. Many towns and cities have community leagues through the local recreation department.If you're playing a sport you enjoy, you'll be getting exercise without it really feeling like work because you'll be having fun.
You also gain the opportunity to become more involved in your community and meet like-minded people who share your interests.
Volunteering to assist with youth sports also can give you some exercise while helping children stay active and develop their skills.
 Going to the gym isn't the only way to exercise. You can fit little things into your daily routine that will keep you active without disrupting your life too much.For example, instead of stalking out the closest possible parking spot when you go shopping, park at the end of the lot and enjoy the brief walk.
You also can fit a little exercise into your daily life by taking the stairs rather than the elevator whenever possible – especially if you're only going up or down two or three floors.
Keep dumbbells by your couch so you can do some quick curls or lifts while you're watching television. Keeping an exercise bike or treadmill in front of your television is also good for this, and enables you to get some exercise in while you're watching your favorite show. However, keep in mind that watching more than an hour of television per day contributes to a sedentary lifestyle, which can be harmful to your health.
 When you were focused on the scale, your exercise goals likely were weight-oriented. Now that you're no longer weighing yourself, you are free to create more meaningful goals than simply to "lose five pounds in a week" or something like that.Set your goals in terms of doing more and performing better, rather than focusing on weight loss.
For example, if you've just started running and you currently run one mile in 12 minutes, you might set a goal to drop a minute off that time each week until you reach your goal of a six-minute mile. When you reach that goal, you'll know that you've succeeded regardless of any number on any scale.
 What you eat is an important part of whether you gain or lose weight. Whole foods, including plenty of fruits and vegetables at every meal, provide the nutrition you need without a lot of the chemicals and additives that you don't.Try to buy as many fresh foods as possible when you go to the grocery store, including fresh vegetables and fruits. Keep in mind how long they'll keep, and plan your grocery trips accordingly.
You also want to include a source of lean protein, such as skinless chicken or turkey, fish, trimmed lean beef or pork, in every meal. Seeds and nuts, soy, legumes, lentils, chick peas, all beans, and yogurt also are good sources of protein whenever you want to switch it up.
Check the labels carefully on packaged foods you buy, such as cereals or snack bars. Organic products are good options, but regardless you want to make sure most, if not all, of the ingredients in the food you're buying are whole foods that you recognize.
 Frozen meals and junk food may be convenient, but if you're trying to lose weight they won't do you any favors. Even many frozen foods that are labeled as diet foods still include a lot of sugar and chemicals that promote weight gain.Don't get the idea that all processed foods are necessarily bad for you. For example, frozen vegetables are technically "processed," but may be just as good as buying fresh vegetables.
Just look at the label and stay away from those that have a lot of chemicals or other things that aren't food listed as ingredients.
If you're accustomed to eating frozen meals for the sake of convenience, you may have to rearrange your life a little to make time to cook better meals. For example, you could set aside a couple of hours one day a week to create larger quantities of meals that you could freeze yourself and eat throughout the week.
 If you want to lose weight, you have to kick mindless snacking and emotional eating to the curb. Learn to listen to your body and understand what cravings mean, what hunger feels like, and when you're full.Switching your schedule so that you're having a small meal once every two or three hours instead of three bigger meals a day can help control your eating, especially if you have the habit of snacking.
Get rid of sugary and salty snacks and junk food, and keep plenty of healthy snacks such as almonds or carrot sticks around for when you get the munchies.
If you crave something, ask yourself why. If your craving has an emotional reason, focus on the source of that emotion rather than satisfying your craving.
For example, if you have the urge to eat because you're stressed out about a work assignment, you may be able to combat that stress more productively by calling or emailing a coworker, or mapping out a schedule to get the assignment done in time.
 Generally, you want to try to drink at least six glasses of water a day to keep your body adequately hydrated. If you're exercising and sweating a lot, you may need to drink more water to replace the fluids you're losing.Keep in mind that many times when you think you're hungry, you're actually dehydrated. Drinking water regularly will make you feel fuller and can keep the urge to snack at bay.
If you're not a fan of plain water, try flavored or carbonated water.
Gradually replace any soft drinks that you normally drink with water. You may notice a big difference right away in the way you look and feel.
 When you're trying to lose weight, sugar is your enemy. Read the ingredient labels carefully on all food that you buy, watching for added sugar that can thwart even the best-made diet plans.Look at the foods you normally eat, especially packaged foods, condiments, and frozen meals. Many of them contain corn syrup or high-fructose corn syrup, a type of added sugar that can ruin your weight loss goals.
Remove soft drinks, candy, and sugary snacks from your house so you won't be tempted.
If you have a sweet tooth, try replacing the sweets you normally eat with fruit and fruit juices that don't have added sugar. You'll still get the sweet taste, but without all the added sugar, calories, and fat.
 Visit your doctor regularly to get your blood pressure checked. If it's high, your doctor can tell you what a good target blood pressure would be for you and recommend changes in your diet and lifestyle that will help bring your blood pressure down.Having good blood pressure is a better indication of your overall health than the readout on the scale, and many people who are technically overweight still manage to maintain a blood pressure safely in the healthy range.
If your blood pressure is high, try to get an extra 10 or 15 minutes of exercise a day (in addition to the 20 to 30 minutes you're already doing). Don't smoke and limit your alcohol intake.
Once you've visited your doctor, keep checking your blood pressure at home, especially if you were diagnosed with high blood pressure. This way you can personally track how any changes you make are affecting your blood pressure.
 If you're over the age of 20, you should visit your doctor for a cholesterol screening at least once every five years. Your cholesterol levels naturally will rise as you get older, but getting screened regularly can help you keep yourself out of the danger zone.Generally, you want to keep your LDL or "bad" cholesterol below 130. Any number above that means you are at an increased risk for heart or blood vessel diseases.
In contrast, you want your HDL or "good" cholesterol to be higher. This type of cholesterol actually protects you against heart disease. Ideally, it should be 60 or more.
There are some factors that affect your cholesterol levels, such as age and heredity, that you cannot control. However, with a healthy diet and an active lifestyle you typically can keep your cholesterol levels in the optimal zone.
 How you live and what you get out of life are more important than how much you weigh. Focus on the things that really matter to you, and make time in each day to do something you enjoy.One way to enhance the quality of your life is to find a cause that you're passionate about and do some volunteer work. Search in your area for nonprofit organizations that support or advocate a cause you like. Call them up and offer your time.
For example, if you love animals, you might consider volunteering to walk the dogs at a local animal shelter.
Invest in your hobbies if you enjoy them, regardless of whether others scoff at them. If you enjoy playing guitar, set aside time each day to play your favorite song or learn something new.
 If you feel strong and healthy and you like the way you look in your clothes, you'll worry a lot less about the particular number that shows up when you weigh yourself.When you aren't weighing yourself, you no longer have the comfort of knowing you've lost weight because the number has gone down. You also don't have the stress of feeling like you've failed because the number happens to go up.
What's more important isn't the number on the scale, though. It's whether you can look in the mirror and be comfortable and confident with the way you look and how your clothes fit.
Beyond that, feeling healthy and having energy throughout the day to do the things you need and want to do should be your ultimate goal – not being able to fit into a particular size of clothing.
 As with your exercise goals, you'll get a lot further towards losing weight if you try to do more things rather than worrying about whether you're thin enough or whether you look attractive.As you continue to make healthy eating choices and maintain an active lifestyle, you'll get excited to keep pushing yourself to make progress and improve your performance.
Keep in mind that bodies are made to be active and do things, not to look a certain way. If you focus on your body's ability to function and use it for that purpose, you'll ultimately be a lot healthier – and maybe even a lot happier too.
 If you can’t seem to lose weight despite your best efforts, then it might be a good idea for you to talk with your doctor. Your doctor may be able help you by:

Checking for underlying health conditions that may be interfering with weight loss.
Referring you to a dietician for help crafting a meal plan that works for you.
Referring you to a therapist for help with emotional eating.

