 When two atoms are bonded together, the difference between their electronegativities can tell you about the qualities of their bond. Subtract the smaller electronegativity from the larger one to find the difference.


For example, if we're looking at the molecule HF, we would subtract the electronegativity of hydrogen (2.1) from fluorine (4.0). 4.0 - 2.1 = 1.9


, Here, the electrons are shared almost equally. These bonds don't form molecules that have large charge differences on either end. Nonpolar bonds tend to be very difficult to break.For example, the molecule O2 has this type of bond. Since the two oxygen's  have the same electronegativity, the difference between them is 0.
 These bonds have more of the electrons at one end than the other. This makes the molecule a little more negative at the end with the electrons and a little more positive at the end without them. The charge imbalance in these bonds can allow the molecule to participate in certain special reactions.A good example of this is the molecule H2O (water). The O is more electronegative than the two Hs, so it holds the electrons more tightly and makes the entire molecule partially negative at the O end and partially positive at the H ends.
 In these bonds, the electrons are completely at one end of the bond. The more electronegative atom gains a negative charge and the less electronegative atom gains a positive charge. These sorts of bonds allow their atoms to react well with other atoms and even be pulled apart by polar atoms.


An example of this is NaCl (sodium chloride). The chlorine is so electronegative that it pulls both electrons in the bond all the way towards itself, leaving sodium with a positive charge.
 If there is a metal in the bond, the bond is ionic. If there are only non-metals, the bond is polar covalent


Metals include most of the atoms on the left side and the middle of the periodic table. This page has a table that shows which elements are metals.Our HF example from above falls in this range. Since H and F aren't metals, they have a polar covalent bond.

