 Be aware that obesity, arthritis, and sore teeth can cause dandruff. Keeping the skin and fur conditioned requires the cat to groom regularly and spread the conditioning oils over the coat. If the cat is overweight or has mobility issues, such as those associated with arthritis, it physically won't be able to reach all parts of its body, which means those places are liable to have flaky skin.


If this is the case then you should groom the cat daily until the cat is able to do it itself.
If your cat is not grooming itself because it can't reach areas due to its weight, consider putting it on a diet. A leaner cat should be able to more effectively clean itself.
A sore mouth can also stop the cat from grooming, and can also impact on its ability to eat. In these circumstances veterinary attention is essential, to extract loose teeth, clean away tartar, and give antibiotics against gum infection.
 It may not seem like a risk that's worth worrying about, but cats can have their skin damaged by the weather. This is especially true for cats with thin coats or no coats at all. Hot, dry conditions can lead to dried-out skin and even sunburn, so let your cat stay indoors when it's scorching out.


Drier winter months can also be a source of flaky skin, even if there's less of a risk of sunburn.
 An occasional brushing can remove dead skin flakes, reducing dandruff. Use a gentle cat brush and stroke in the direction of the hair. Don't use too much pressure. You want to stroke and not scrub. Regular brushing is a great way to reduce dandruff. It improves the blood circulation to the skin, which carries oxygen and nutrients to the skin and helps condition it.


However, expect the dandruff to initially get worse in the first 3 - 4 weeks. You will loosen up sloughed skin cells that are then shed into the coat.
Always brush gently and stop right away if you notice irritated skin or signs of pain.
 Cats aren't like people in terms of bathing needs. They're quite good at keeping themselves clean, so they only need to be bathed very infrequently. Unless your cat's coat is visibly dirty, oily, or matted, you won't usually need to bathe it more than a few times per year.


Bathing the cat more often can strip the essential oils from its skin, leaving it dried-out and flaky. Bathing the cat is mainly of benefit to you (rather than the cat) if you are allergic to cat dander, as it will temporarily wash it away.
If you decide to bathe the cat then use a moisturizing shampoo, such as one containing oatmeal, and avoid human shampoos, which are too harsh and will strip out natural oils.
 Believe it or not, there are moisturizing lotions and topical ointments designed for cats with dry skin. Your best chance for finding these will be your local pet store, but if you can't find any there, your vet may be able to recommend some. You can also easily find these products available online.

