 Potato guns aren't legal everywhere, and legality may change significantly from county to county, so check with your local authorities to make sure you aren't breaking any laws. You don’t want your neighbor calling the police on you because you’re firing potatoes around in your back yard. , Parts for a potato gun will cost somewhere between $20 and $40, depending on where you shop. Check the bargain areas of your local hardware supply store for great deals, or use the internet to find deals all over the world. It doesn't need to cost and arm and a leg in order to make a potato gun, but you’ll need some extra cash.
 It’s nice to have all your materials set out for you when you begin building. Your shopping list for a potato gun will include the following items.


1 grill ignition kit (The small red button on the grill that clicks)
1 4-inch diameter PVC 90 degree elbow (or just a section of four inch pipe)
1 fitting adapter for the Tee (or pipe) with threads for a cap
1 screw on cap
1 4-inch to 2-inch PVC adapter
1 4 foot long section of 2-inch PVC pipe.
2-3 few cans of aerosol deodorant (for the butane)
Some form of glue or other adhesive (optional, but recommended)
1 bag of potatoes

, Now screw the cap on it. This is a simple step – you’re basically just combining two component parts. The threaded fit adapter is the part of the pipe that has those little ridges inside of it. These are called threads. Refer to the video above for visual instructions.


You can also use glue if you worry that the pieces might stay connected. Spread some glue around the edges before connecting the two pieces. Don’t use too much.
 Move to the other side of the potato gun and fit the 4-inch to 2-inch adapter in the other end of the elbow.

Once again, you can use glue for this step if you feel more comfortable with the structural integrity of the gun.
 If it doesn't go in, lightly tap it with a hammer. Make sure it is flush when you are done. Don’t tap so hard that you break the pvc pipe.

This is one step where using glue is recommended. The barrel undergoes a lot of force when a shot is fired and it isn’t as snug of a connection as the other parts. , From here on out, the elbow will be referred to as the chamber. This is where you’ll hold your potato projectile eventually.

Make sure your chamber is neither too long nor too short. Too long of a chamber and your spud will sputter out of the chamber too slowly; too short of a chamber and the spud will disintegrate before you know it. , The spark generator is the piece of equipment you bought that will generate a spark. Try to wrap it in such a way that there is a gap between the end of the wire and the end of sparkle generator. The video will offer a visual aid if that doesn’t make sense to you. , Grab your spark generator and stick it into that hole that you drilled earlier. If the hole isn’t wide enough do some more drilling before you try to stick the spark plug in there. You don't want to damage the spark generator or the wire.
 If you're using a threaded pipe, still use the cement but you can also use pipe ribbon for extra sealant. You need to glue it so that it is airtight. This step can’t be skipped or your gun won’t fire.
 You want to the screw to be sitting in such a way so that it is 1⁄16 inch (0.2 cm) away from meeting the prong on the inside. Try to be as exact as you can. , The grill igniter is the piece of equipment with a red dot on top of it in your grill ignition kit. Grab the wire that hangs from the grill igniter and fasten it to this screw on the outside of the chamber. When you click the grill igniter, you should see a tiny spark jump across the prong to the screw. IF you don’t see a spark, check your connections. Don't let your body touch any of the metal parts, your body will take the shock and you won't get a spark. It helps to cover up all of the wiring with electrical tape.
 It should be a tight fit: ideally, the barrel should trim off the edges of the potato when you put it in.
 If you don't have any potatoes, you can load the gun with anything smaller than the bore. All you need to do is stuff a wet rag down the barrel before loading your ammo. This step is crucial, as it forms a tight seal and prevents pressure from escaping around the object. If desired, you can put another wet rag in after the ammo to keep it from falling out of the end of the barrel. , Never load a potato gun before you have identified a target and are sure that the firing of the potato gun will not result in bodily injury to anyone in front of or behind the intended target. , Spud guns are fun, but safety is paramount. Absolutely do not load the gun until you have a safe, intended target far away from anyone.
 Be prepared to do the next step in 10 seconds or less. If you don’t fire the gun quickly it won’t work. Don’t worry if it takes you a couple tries.
 Remember that after you do this you should hurry, because half of your time is already up. Screw the cap back on, but absolutely do not cross thread it. This means screwing it on without the threads connecting correctly. Prepare for a kick and push the button on the grill igniter.


Try to hold the end of the potato gun low so that it doesn’t kick back against your face accidentally.
 Congratulations, you've successfully and safely fired a potato gun. Clean your gun with a wet rag before you shoot the next potato from your cannon.
 The spark may not be traveling though all of the wires. Check all of the connections.
 Your body might have been touching something metal when you pulled the trigger, which would neutralize the electrical charge. Stand in an open field.
 If the potato gun didn’t work you probably waited too long to fire. This mistake is the most common. If you wait more that a few seconds after spraying the hairspray in the chamber, the fumes will condense, and you will be left with a sticky deodorant glob in the chamber. , You absolutely have to clean your gun after every shot. It won’t shoot twice in a row. There will be a puddle of hairspray in the chamber after you fire (only the fumes catch fire). You don't want the leftover glob of hairspray to stay in the chamber, or it will harden around the prong, and your gun will not make a spark. Also, clean it immediately after firing; otherwise the cap will get stuck. , You could have a weak seal around the projectile. Make sure it fits tightly in the barrel.

