 Make sure it's professional and clean, and for your own satisfaction, with a friendly piercer. Tell the professional that you want a septum piercing. They'll discuss making an appointment. A true professional will set up an appointment, or if you want it done upon arrival they may or may not take you right away...remember if they're busy wait to be helped.
 When you go for your appointment, you will have to fill out a consent form. Then they will get you to the area where they will pierce you. Then they'll start to get their equipment. The needle and clamps should be in a white paper and clear plastic bag with an indicator strip that it has been properly sterilized. Piercers don't usually show that strip but if you are concerned please ask to see that strip. Make sure to check they are single use needles and that everything is clean.



They will clean your nose with antiseptic. That's a bit uncomfortable, smells, but nothing too bad. Make sure you breathe through your mouth at this time.
They will pull your nose back for a good look inside and to find the sweet spot to pierce and place the clamps onto the sweet spot. And they can put a curved barbell ring in to show you the rough position of it.
They will then get you to lay back, or to sit up, different piercers, different tricks. Sometimes they'll have another person to assist in the process. They will clamp the septum. This actually hurts more than you'd think.
When the needle goes through, you'll feel it go through the tissue. Then he/she will take the clamps off and push the jewelry through...it may feel uncomfortable but it'll be over in a quick second. After the piercing is cleaned of any or all blood he/she will thread the ball on the jewelry.
 You will need a needle, clamps, the jewelry, cotton bud, antiseptic wipes, and a clean tissue.;
, Do not continue until you are positive that everything is clean.' sterilize the needle and the clamps and of course the jewelry. Putting it through a flame will not cut it! Instead, leave it in boiling water for ten minutes, and to be extra safe i put it in an alcoholic solution for a few minutes.
 and get antiseptic wipes to clean your nose, or just wash your nose with soap and water. Clean your hands. If possible, wear clean latex gloves.
 -explained more in tips below)

, You know if it's clamped right if it feels like a hard pinch. This will take away some pain. Then, breathe in. As you breath out, press the needle into the thin pierce of skin between the chunky cartilage towards the tip or your nose to the bony part at the back of your nose. this will sting and cause your eyes to water a lot! Take a slow and deep breath whilst piercing to decrease pain. Put your finger on the other side of your septum to the needle and to make sure it's going through as straight as possible.


If you are not using a piercing needle, remove the needle, and as quick as possible put in the jewelry. This will be quite difficult and try not to get to frustrated.
