 Many people create bucket lists to help them navigate the last years of their lives. These lists include things that they have always wanted to do, but never got the chance or didn’t get to do as often as they wanted to. Try to think of some things that your dog might enjoy doing and add them to his bucket list.For example, you might include things like:


Taking a long car ride with the windows rolled down partway.
Playing fetch on the beach.
Visiting a pet store and picking out a special toy.
Frolicking with friends at a dog park.;
, Most pet parents restrict their dog’s food and limit human foods, which is in the dog’s best interest. To make your dog’s final days really special, try easing up on these restrictions a bit.For example, if your dog licks the bowl clean every time you feed him, then give him a little extra food a few times per week. Or, if your dog drools whenever you cook bacon on the weekend, set aside a few strips just for him. However, be careful not to give your dog too many rich, fatty foods, as this could upset his stomach.
You might even consider cooking some special meals for your dog. For example, you could make him a dish of cooked ground hamburger and brown rice with a few carrots tossed in.
If you are not a fan of cooking, then look for a dog bakery or a pet store that carries gourmet dog treats and buy something special for your dog., Even if your dog is nearing the end of his life, he will probably still find joy in some of his favorite games, like playing fetch or keep away in your backyard. If your dog seems like he wants to play, don’t refuse him. Play with him whenever he seems up to it.


Watch your dog for cues that he is becoming tired. Some dogs will keep playing even if they are exhausted. For example, if your dog starts to pant, move more slowly, or lay down, then that is a sign that he is getting tired.Stop the game or at least give him a break before continuing.
 To make his last days special, try to arrange some visits with these special people.


For example, you could arrange a special play date for your dog and some of his best friends, or invite some of your dog’s favorite people over for a visit.
You might even plan a birthday party for your dog and invite all of his canine and human friends.
 Your dog may be experiencing some anxiety during his final days, so it might be worthwhile to do something extra special to help him relax. There are massage therapists who specialize in dog massage, which might be a nice treat for your dog.Look for a dog masseuse in your area and treat your dog to a relaxing massage.


Try asking your vet or a local groomer about any pet masseuses in your area.
 An animal behaviorist will be able to interpret your dog’s behavior to better understand how he is feeling. They can give you insight into things your dog enjoys and factors that are causing him stress. It might be worthwhile to visit an animal behaviorist if you are looking for different ways to improve your dog’s quality of life during his final days.


Try asking your veterinarian for a recommendation.

