 You will be baking your vegan paleo gingerbread cookies in an oven. Before mixing the cookie dough, preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit or 177 degrees Celsius., Locate a large baking sheet and a roll of parchment paper. Tear off a piece of parchment paper that is about the same size as the baking sheet. Place the parchment paper on top of the baking sheet. Set aside., Add the baking soda, almond meal, ginger, starch, cinnamon, and salt to a large mixing bowl. Use a wooden spoon to gently combine the ingredients until completely combined. Then add the molasses, maple syrup, and coconut oil to the dry ingredients. Stir the ingredients together until they form a sticky dough., Take your hands and roll one tablespoon of the dough into a ball. Place the ball on the prepared cookie sheet. Repeat with the rest of the dough, placing the dough ball about 1 inch or 2.5 centimeters apart on the baking sheet. Use your hand to flatten each ball into a round cookie., Place the cookies in the preheated oven. Bake the cookies at 350 degrees Fahrenheit or 177 degrees Celsius for 10 minutes if you want cookies with a soft center, or for 14-15 minutes if you desire a crisper cookie. Crispy cookies will have brown edges when they are done, with softer cookies exhibiting a rich brown hue., Once your cookies have baked to your desired level of crispiness, remove the cookie sheet from the oven. Use a spatula to remove the cookies from the cookie sheet. Place them on a cooling rack and allow them to cool completely before icing., You will need to make your own powdered coconut sugar for the icing. Place ¼ cup or 50 grams (1.8 oz) of coconut sugar in a coffee grinder or high speed blender. Blend or grind the sugar for several minutes until it reaches a consistency similar to powdered sugar. Remove the sugar from the grinder or blender and re-measure ¼ cup or 50 grams (1.8 oz)., Add the red palm oil shortening, solid coconut oil, powdered coconut sugar, and tapioca starch to the bowl. Use a rubber spatula to combine the ingredients. Make sure you mash the ingredients on the sides of the bowl as you stir. This will help break up the solid coconut oil and allow it to combine more easily with the other ingredients., Once the cookies have cooled, use a butter knife to gently spread the coconut sugar icing over the surface of each cookie. Enjoy!

The icing will not harden, so the cookies will not harden, so you will need to store them in a container where the lid will not touch the top of the cookies.

