 Show responsibility and enthusiasm for your job by striving to go the extra mile. Finish your work without having to be reminded by your supervisor. When you have spare time, offer to help colleagues.


Be polite when offering to help a colleague. Some might not want help. You might casually mention, "Hey Alice, I finished my work early and though I could lend you a hand.", Be aware of your surroundings. When you see something that needs to be done, do it. Even small things, like emptying a full garbage can or cleaning the break room when you've got some spare time on your hands can earn you points with your colleagues and supervisors.


At team or departmental meetings, pay attention to the assignment of responsibilities. You may notice that one of your colleagues has a big project, which would be a great opportunity to offer your help with smaller tasks so they can focus on what's important., Strive to develop your technical skills. Learn more about your organization. Ask coworkers about their departments. Take a class, read a pertinent blog, or subscribe to a magazine in your field of work.


There are many professional associations that put out magazines and newsletters. Search for these online and join them to broaden your professional awareness.
There may be a certification or professional accreditation that is associated with your job. These can add a lot to your professional credibility, and can make you a more viable candidate for promotions., When approaching any problem, it's important to be focused on the solution. Keep an open mind so that even unlikely solutions aren't written off. Use open language, like "what if" or "imagine if" to encourage your brain in finding creative solutions. Games that challenge problem solving can help here too. Some you might try include:ChessVideo and computer gamesCard games (like Uno and Hearts)Scrabble, You might be surprised at the activities that can build your creativity. Walking, for example, will improve your creativity during the walk and for a short time afterwards.Collaborate with colleagues to generate ideas. Find inspiration in other places, like museums or industries other than your own.


Although this might seem counter intuitive, by allowing your mind to wander and daydream, you'll receive a creative increase. When a problem is giving you difficulty, allow your mind to wander for 15 minutes or so, then return to it.