 To help increase your grip strength, try incorporating exercises like hand extensions into your regular exercise routine. This exercise is not really a grip exercise, but it will strengthen the muscles that help to give you a strong grip.You can either use a thick rubber band (or multiple rubber bands) or get a professional tool that helps you perform this exercise.
To use the rubber bands, pull the rubber band down over your hand so that it's resting near the base of your fingers.
In a slow and controlled way, spread your fingers and thumbs out away from your palm. They should be pushing against the rubber band.
Hold your fingers and thumbs as long as you can against the pressure of the rubber band. Repeat a few times on each hand.
 Another great exercise to try is by squeezing a hand gripper. You will need to get a gripper, which is a handheld grip exerciser that you squeeze with one hand at a time. Squeezing a gripper will help strengthen your grip by working the muscles in your hand.Hold on to a gripper in each hand or work one hand at a time. Wrap your entire hand around the handles. Make sure the grippers have a plastic coating to help make this exercise comfortable.
Squeeze the handles so they are close together (this would typically open the gripper so it could be placed around a barbell).
Hold this squeeze for as long as you can. Repeat a few reps with each hand.
 Another great exercise to strengthen the muscles in your palms are plate pinches. Grab a few conventional weighted plates to get started on this exercise.Place one or more 10 pound plates together with the smoother side facing out.
Pinch or squeeze them together with your hands (thumb on one side and 4 fingers on the other side) and hold them as long as you can in the air.
Keep the plates closer to the floor in case you drop one. Also, do not hold them over your feet.
Try to work up to being able to hold four 10 pound plates in each hand for at least one minute. Repeat two to three times if you can.
 If you have barbells that have a wider circumference than the standard barbells, these are a great tool to use to help improve your grip strength as well.Improving your grip strength with a fat or wide barbell is easy and simple to do. Grab one of these barbells with both hands and squeeze as tight as you can.
Your fingers and thumbs should not be able to touch when your fist is clasped around the bar.
To make this exercise more difficult, add plates to either side of the bar. Your goal should be to hold this bar for at least one minute and repeat for one to two more sets.

