 Book readings and signings are a great way to advertise your book. This is often an affordable option because having the event brings business to the location where it’s held. Think outside the box and contact coffee shops and cozy restaurants in addition to local libraries and bookstores. Prioritize readings over signings because they have a better ability to attract people’s attention quickly.Capture people’s interest by giving a little back story before you give the actual reading. Share how you were inspired to write on the topic at hand and talk a little about your writing process.
If you struggle to set up readings and signings at local businesses, consider having a friend host a book party in their home. This is a free option that is also smaller and more intimate, which may work in your favor.
 Getting shelf space can be tough, so be open to different locations. Head into book stores, public libraries, school libraries, and even retail stores that carry products where your book might fit in. Politely ask to talk to the person in charge of inventory to see if the store would have an interest in selling your book.


Look into consigning your book if stores aren’t buying it up front. Consigning allows you to get reimbursed by the retailer as people buy your book. If your book hasn’t sold after a few months, you can just go to the store and get back whatever copies are left., Use a websites like Vistaprint.com and pick from different types of cardstock and add text or even upload your own business card layout.After you’re done designing, select a quantity to order. Then, type in your payment information and address to have the cards delivered to your home for a reasonable price. By doing this, you’ll always have a professional-looking marketing material to give out to friends, relatives, bookstores, libraries, and anyone else who shows interest in your book., Posters and fliers are a great way to spread the word about readings that you’re having, or to just display your book’s title for all to see. Think about who your target audience is and sketch out some drafts to decide between different text and graphics options. Get permission from the desired location’s owner or representative to pass out or display your fliers or posters there.


If your book is a children’s book, you might consider trying to hang posters on walls of elementary and middle school libraries.
Once it’s time to print or photocopy a finished product, get quotes from multiple printing shops to ensure that you pay the least amount possible for their services., Call, email, or fax the producers of radio shows with a helpful and informative interview pitch. When trying to get your foot in the door, impress the producer with your expertise by giving a quick summary of the book and explaining why it contains information that’s useful and interesting to listeners.Beforehand, find out how long the interview will be and prepare what you’d like to say during the interview.


When you’re on the air, remember to have an open or smiling face while you talk, keep it conversational, and thank the host at the end., Find book clubs online through websites like meetup.com and at local libraries and community centers. Book clubs are full of reading enthusiasts who are more likely to want to interact with you as an author.