 Although a bachelor’s degree isn’t necessary to begin a career as an event promoter, the knowledge gained from studying these fields may prove to be beneficial.If you plan on attending college in the future or have already enrolled, consider majoring in these subjects to give your resume some impressive credentials, especially if you aspire to handle large-scale events for prominent clients.If you haven’t the means or desire to pursue a four-year program, sign up for individual courses or seminars at your local university, community college, or online.


Such well known institutions as Stanford University, the University of Chicago, and MIT offer free online resources, including podcasts, lectures, videos, assignments, and more.;
, A bachelor’s degree may look impressive on your resume, but gaining hands-on experience outside of the classroom will better prepare you for the demands and logistics of events and promotion. First, settle on a particular area of entertainment that appeals to your interests. Then apply for a job at any level of appropriate events. Don’t worry about fancy titles just yet. Whether it is entry-level or higher, use your position as an inside-view of the inner workings of events.For instance, if you are interested in promoting Dating Nights, seek out employment with caterers, bartenders, DJs, venues, or any other company that is frequently hired by one or more promoters for such events.
 Once hired, focus on your specific job to the extent of performing it successfully and earning a reputation as a reliable worker. But keep your eyes and ears open to every other aspect of the event, regardless of how far removed it is from your personal duties. Before you branch out and become personally responsible for promoting events, use this opportunity to witness how events succeed, how they fail, and how they overcome snafus.For example, say that a catering company has hired you to wait tables at a Dating Night. On the day of the event, the various people hired (the DJ, the bartenders, the decorators, and your boss, the caterer) realize that the promoter has booked a venue that is too old to adequately provide enough electricity for everyone’s equipment. Even though you are only a waiter at the moment, note what solutions you and others may come up with to resolve this on the spot, as well as what could have been done beforehand to prevent this crisis.
 Whether you started out as an entry-level position for a caterer, music hall, or promotion company, start moving upwards. Seek managerial positions or any others that require leadership and competent handling of multiple responsibilities. Since an event promoter may be responsible for hiring and overseeing multiple people for any one event, gain the experience and confidence required to do just that within your current company. Apply for positions that will help you develop the following skills:Strong communication, both written and verbal, plus negotiation skills.
The ability to effectively organize resources, finances, and time.
Creative problem-solving.
 Seize every opportunity to meet others who work in the same industry in some capacity. Make contacts now to carry with you once you branch out on your own.Ask for phone numbers, emails, or social media info of people who have proven themselves to be reliable so you can reach out to them when you are ready to hire people yourself.


Remember that your own job performance will be remembered by these same people. Whether you are a bottom-rung employee with less than glamorous duties or a team leader juggling multiple responsibilities, be sure to excel at them to cement your reputation as someone who gets things done.

