 This can help you plan or organize your collection and allow you to focus on certain stamps, which may range in their time period and country of origin.


Consult stamp catalogs or books from a library to find information on stamps and their sale values. The website for the American Philatelic Research Library also has a card catalog you can use to search for books.;
, A yearly set of stamps may be available from your post office at the end of every year. The United States Postal Service also has an online store you can buy stamps from.
 Your local library may carry issues of these magazines. Look for listings to buy or sell stamps in the magazines.
 Members may be able to buy and sell stamps through the organization's website, as they can with the American Philatelic Society.


Philatelic organizations may also hold auctions on a regular basis for their members to purchase or sell stamps.
 These events allow stamp collectors and others interested in stamps to gather together. Buying and selling postage stamps may be done at these events.
 Visit 1 or more shops to buy and sell stamps.
 This can be an informal organization or affiliated with an official group. Club members may be able to appraise your stamps before you sell them or can buy stamps from you.
 Your dealer can also value stamps you want to sell.


Consider checking whether your stamp dealer is a member of the American Stamp Dealers Association or the American Philatelic Society. These organizations have codes of ethics that help ensure their dealers are trustworthy and fair.
 eBay is a popular website used to buy and sell things through online auctions, including stamps.



Search for stamps you want to purchase on the website.
Check a potential seller's feedback ratings and previous customer reviews. See if you feel comfortable doing business with that particular seller or move on to another one.
Bid on stamps until you are the highest or winning bidder at the auction's end. You may also be able to buy stamps instantly, depending on what options are available to you.
Send your payment in an acceptable format to the seller within a reasonable timeframe. Buyers get 3 days to send their payments for items bought on eBay.



List your specific stamps for sale using the website's category listings. Take time to find the best categories to list your stamps in.
Write titles for your stamp listings using words people would type in for searches. Describe your stamps' features and the benefits of buying them. Include shipping costs after your description.
Scan your stamps with a flatbed scanner to save digital images of them to your computer. Alternatively, take pictures of your stamps with a digital camera and upload them to your computer.
Install software to edit your digital images. Experiment with your software program's settings to create clear, accurate pictures of your stamps.
Post pictures of your stamps for sale for potential customers to see.
Determine your accepted payment methods. This may be credit card, electronic payment such as PayPal, mailed personal check, etc.
Acknowledge receipt of a buyer's payment after a transaction. This can be done by email. Confirm the buyer's purchase information and give the buyer an estimate for when the stamp(s) will be mailed or explain any waiting period, such as for making sure a check does not bounce.

