 As well as regular exercise, eating a healthy balanced diet can make a significant contribution to a less stressful lifestyle. By making healthy positive choices with your diet you can make yourself both physically and emotionally stronger. Taking active care of yourself will boost your self-esteem as well as giving you more energy and more control over your body. Having a good diet will help your body function more efficiently.Have a balanced diet that includes the food groups from the FDA food plate.Taking the time to cook a delicious healthy meal in the evening can be a good way to de-stress at the end of a tough day.
 The average adult requires between 7 and 9 hours of sleep per night.Not only can a lack of sleep lead to increased stress, but chronic sleep deprivation can impair your judgment, reasoning ability, appearance, libido, and your performance at work or school. Increase the amount of sleep you get by doing the following:Establishing and sticking to a daily sleep schedule.
Doing something relaxing before bed, such as reading or breathing exercises.
Turning off your electronic devices.
Sleeping in a comfortable environment.
Avoiding alcohol and caffeine, which can disrupt sleep.
 Avoiding drinking above the recommended amounts of alcohol can help you to be more emotionally healthy. Men are recommended not to regularly drink more than three or four units a day. For a woman the equivalent is two or three units a day. Drinking can be attractive when you are particularly stressed, but it can exaggerate those feelings, making you angry and aggressive.


One unit of alcohol equals approximately a 25 milliliters (0.85  fl oz) measure of spirits (ABV 40%), a third of a pint of beer (ABV 5 to 6%), or half a standard (175ml) glass of wine (ABV 12%).
You can download digital tools to help you keep track of how many units you consume.
If you feel like alcohol is becoming a problem you should speak to your doctor.
 If you are a smoker, cutting down or quitting helps to relieve your stress and anxiety, as well as giving you a more positive outlook on life. Together with the well-known benefits to your physical health being smoke free brings, there are proven benefits for your mental health too. Despite the myth that smoking relaxes you, in fact it increases anxiety and tension.


Smokers are more likely to develop depression or anxiety disorder over time. Cutting down will improve your mood in the long-term.It will also save you a lot of money which can help lower financial stresses. If you stop smoking ten cigarettes a day you will save around £1000 a year.