 Sometimes insecurities come from within, but they are often brought on by other people. Take some time to reflect on your current relationships. Is there someone who is constantly bringing you down?For instance, think about your relationship with your parents. Do you feel insecure because they constantly put you down?
Or maybe your issues stem from work. Do you have a coworker who refuses to recognize your contributions to the team?

, If you find that there are negative people in your life, look for ways to limit your contact with them. If you are around positive people, you are more likely to feel secure. If your brother is part of the problem, try to limit contact with him and focus on the family members who are supportive. You can tell your Mom, “I’m sorry I can’t make the family picnic next Saturday. But I’d love to spend some one on one time with you. Can I take you to dinner next week?”

, Relationships that are positive will make you feel good about yourself. In order to strengthen your relationships, communicate your needs to others. These can be emotional or logistical needs.For example, you might say to your sister, "I need you to support me in my efforts to get in shape. Can you be a positive workout buddy for me?"
Maybe it makes you feel bad when your husband is always late for date night. Try saying, "Sam, can you try to be on time for dinner Thursday? I want to feel like date night is a priority for you."

, It can be really helpful to create a barrier between yourself and the people or situations that make you feel insecure. Defining boundaries is a great way to make sure you have the emotional space that you need. Make a list of lines that you would like to draw.For example, if your dad causes you some anxiety you could set this boundary: "Instead of meeting Dad for dinner, I will meet him for a brief coffee break. That way, I can set a clear time limit."
Maybe you are insecure about your dancing skills. Make a deal with yourself: attend your friend's wedding, but come up with a gracious way to decline invitations to hit the dance floor.

