 Sliding scale fee programs charge clients an amount that varies based on that person’s ability to pay as determined by income and family size.Under sliding scale programs those at the top of the set scale pay more in order to subsidize the services received by those at the bottom of the scale. Each state has a set of programs designed to help people with moderate income handle legal issues without having to pay thousands of dollars.


If your income is too high to qualify for free legal services, sliding-fee programs are a great way to access affordable attorney fees.
To find a program in your state, contact the state bar association or look online.
 Some lawyers are willing to work out a payment plan so that you don't have to pay all of the fees at once. You may be able to work out a plan to pay a certain amount every month until everything you owe has been paid. However, it is important to remember that it is completely up to the individual lawyer to decide whether to make this option available.


When you first contact you should ask whether the lawyer may be willing to accept a payment plan before scheduling an initial meeting. Explain your situation to the lawyer, give him or her your financial statement, and the legal services/assistance that you require.
 Under a contingency fee plan the amount you are required to pay your attorney is a percentage of the total amount awarded by the court at the end of your case. This means that you only pay if you recover money in your case.If the case is lost, you won't owe any legal fees, though you could still be responsible for expenses. It is important to note that in some cases, lawyers are not permitted to charge contingency fees.


Most lawyers will take personal injury cases (injuries caused by careless drivers, property owners, or health-care providers) on contingency fee basis.
Contingency fee arrangement percentages vary, but 30% to 40% of the total award is a common arrangement.
 Younger lawyers are up-to-date on the most recent legal developments, but they may have fewer clients and have more time to devote to your case. A younger lawyer may even decide to charge less than the market average because they are not as experienced as other lawyers, and may have fewer resources to handle big cases.


Ask your young lawyer how much experience he or she has with handling cases like yours.
Also, ask if he or she participated in a clinic, internship, or a volunteer lawyer project while in law school.
 A lawyer may accept payment in the form of property, as long as the property is not in the form of an interest in the cause of action or property underlying your legal suit.


Therefore, if you have physical property, such as land, that you would be willing to trade for a legal service, a lawyer may accept the land as payment so long as the land is not a part of the underlying litigation.
Additionally, you can offer the attorney free services from a business that you own, or even a stake in the business, so long as the business does not have anything to do with the litigation that you need help with.

