 Every science class you take will have an associated textbook. And your science teacher will probably tell you which chapters you need to read in advance of every class. Take the time and actually read that material - before class.Knowing what to expect during the lecture will help you absorb the lecture material more effectively.


Highlight important terms and concepts in your textbook.Write down any questions you have. If they aren’t answered in the lecture, make sure to ask.;
, Some science teachers simply go through the textbook in class. Others expand on what the textbook says. If you teacher simply regurgitates the textbook in class, it’s probably more important to pay attention to what is being said, rather then writing everything down. However, if your teacher is expanding on the subject matter, and outlining new concepts in class, make sure you take lots of good notes.Some teachers will provide students with copies of their presentation slides - this is extremely helpful. In this case you only need to make notes in addition to anything already written on the slide, rather than needing to copy the whole slide.
Some teachers may covertly (or overtly) tell you if the topic their discussing will be on the final exam. Make note of this. They’re giving you a freebie - take it!Consider sharing notes with other students. You might have made a note about something they missed, and vice versa. At the very least, make sure you have another student whom you can borrow notes from if you miss a class.
 And re-read your notes. Make corrections or updates to your notes where required. And highlight areas of the textbook where the teacher spent more time.Make a list of any outstanding questions and email or talk to your teacher about them.Rewrite your lecture notes. Condense them this second time around.Create flashcards from key terms and concepts.Re-draw important diagrams by hand. Science includes a lot of diagrams, visualizations and charts, and memorizing them all isn’t an option. Actually drawing them on your own, by hand, will help you remember more of what the diagram means than simply what it looks like.