 If you do nothing else, remember this--you should shower regularly and brush your teeth. No girl is going to want to cozy up to a guy who has stuff in his teeth and smells like B.O. Bust out that great-smelling body wash (and deodorant) and start thinking of your toothbrush as your best friend. Of course, there are plenty of other things you can do to get her attention with your well-groomed looks.


Going beyond the basics: Find a cologne that will make girls swoon, wash your face so that your skin is blemish free, add a little bit of styling gel to your hair to get that ‘I just got out of bed but I’m so manly that I just look this good all the time’ look--the possibilities are endless. If its going to make you smell good, look good, and feel good, it’s probably something you should try.
Considering body hair: Clip that nose hair and pluck that unibrow! If you’re rocking some facial hair, props to you. Just make sure to keep it in check--its generally better to have no beard than a flowing, ‘I’ve just been asleep for 100 years’ Rip Van Winkle look.
Clipping your nails: Do it. You don’t want to be thinking about holding her hand, only to cut her with your talons when you make a move. While you’re at it, scrape that dirt out from under there.
 This doesn’t mean going out and buying a whole new wardrobe, but you should definitely give your wardrobe some consideration. Ditch any articles of clothing that are stained or torn. Everyone has their own style--but ‘slob’ style is definitely the least attractive. Don’t wear the same shirt every day of the week, and try to put a bit more effort into your outfit instead of just throwing on a sweatshirt and sweatpants.


Play up your style. Whether you are a hipster, jock, or have some style all your own, put a little effort into what you wear in the morning.
 Believe it or not, your posture actually plays a big part in how girls perceive you. If you have a tendency to hunch, avoid eye contact and play with your hands, a girl is going to be less inclined to come over and strike up a conversation. Stand up straight, keep your eyes up, and get a smile going--you will look much more approachable.


Keep in mind that while you really should have good posture, you should also carry yourself with ease. Standing up straight does not mean walking around like a robot or holding yourself so rigidly that you look like Frankenstein. If you don’t know how to carry yourself with ease, draw inspiration from movies or TV. Watch how the lead guy holds himself (and eventually charms his way into the lead girl’s heart).
 While this does not mean that you have to lift for your life, you should keep in mind that if you want to get that drop dead gorgeous girl to notice you, you’re going to have to keep your physique in mind. She puts effort into her looks, so you should too. Start an exercise routine that combines both cardio and weight-training for an all around toned look.


Keep in mind that most girls like a guy who looks fit, but not one that has muscles that are about to rip through his t-shirt every time he raises his arm in class. If your goal is to look like Arnold Schwarzenegger when he was Mr. Universe, you may want to tone it back a bit.

