 One of the major causes of morning back pain is a poor sleeping position during the night. Like sitting with poor posture in a chair all day, sleeping in a poor position all night will cause your back to become stiff and tense, leading to back pain in the morning (think about it: that's eight hours in a position that strains your back). Though it may be difficult to train your body to embrace a different sleep position than customary, it is worth doing as a way to prevent morning back pain.Try to sleep on one side with your legs bent and tucked towards your chest. You can also place your hands by your head or under your pillow. This fetal sleeping position will put very little stress on your back and help to prevent stiffness and discomfort in the morning.
You may also want to place a pillow between your legs while you lay on your side to help release tension in your lower back. Tuck the pillow between your knees and let your legs relax.;
, If you tend to get the best sleep when sleep on your back, slide a pillow or a rolled towel under your knees before going to bed. This will help to relieve any stress or tension on your back as you sleep., If you are a light sleeper and tend to wake up throughout the night, make an effort to shift your sleep position so your back is better supported.This could mean moving from sleeping on your back to sleeping on one side in the fetal position. Or, you may place a pillow on either end of the bed to prevent you from rolling around onto your stomach or your back during the night. Over time, your body may adapt on its own to a sleep position that is better for your back.
 You should make sure you are sleeping on a good quality mattress that is not sagging in certain areas or lumpy. A good mattress can help to provide good support for your back as you sleep, especially if you tend to sleep on your back.You may want to invest in a mattress pad that you can place over your mattress to make it more comfortable and smooth, or consider getting a new mattress if your mattress is getting old and starting to sag.
 Sometimes, the wrong temperature can have effects on back pain and tightness. For example, workers in cold environments are at greater risk of developing low back pain.Pay attention to room temperature and make sure you sleep in a comfortable setting. If your room is cold, try to increase the size of the comforter or blanket. Cold temperature at night can tighten up the muscles and lead to muscle aches in the morning.


You may also want to see if your room is damp or too hot also.
Not everyone will react to the same temperature the same way.
 This simple stretch can help to release tension in your lower back and ease any aches or pains in your lower back.To do this stretch, bend your knees to your chest and wrap your hands around your shins. Grasp both knees and gently pull them towards your chest. Try to keep your lower back on the bed as you pull your knees towards your chest. Hold this stretch for eight to 10 deep breaths.
You can also try a modification of this stretch by squeezing one knee at a time to your chest. Lie on your back with both legs extended on the bed. Slowly bring one knee to your chest, making sure your lower back is pressed firmly on the bed. Use your hands to pull your knee towards your chest. You can also try to bring your forehead to touch your knee. Hold this stretch for eight to 10 breaths and then repeat it with the other leg.
 Your glute muscles run through your buttock and can lead to back and leg pain if they are tense or stiff.Begin by lying on your back on the bed. Bend both legs so your feet are planted on the ground a few feet from your hips. Lift your right leg and cross it over your left thigh, resting your right ankle over your thigh. Your right leg should make a 90 degree angle or close to a 90 degree angle.
Loop your hands through your bent leg and try to wrap your hands around your left shin. If you cannot reach your left shin, you can wrap your hands around your knee or your foot. Breathe in as you gently use your hands to pull your left shin towards you. Keep your lower back on the floor. You should feel a stretch in your right piriformis muscles and your right hip flexor.
Hold this stretch for eight to ten breaths and then repeat with the other leg.
 This stretch will help to strengthen your abdominal muscles without putting too much strain on your back. Strong abdominal muscles will help to keep your back strong, making it less prone to aches and pains.To do a pelvic tilt, lie down on your back with your knees bent a few feet away from you and your feet flat on the bed. Your lower back should be hovering slightly above the bed in this position.
Breathe in and tighten your abdominal muscles so your lower back is pressed flat against the bed or the ground. Hold this for five seconds, or one breath, and then relax your abdominal muscles. Do this three more times, holding for five seconds each. Try to build up to ten repetitions a day.
 A gentle twist can help to reduce back pain by stretching out your spine and releasing any knots in your spine or lower back.To do a gentle twist, lie on your back with your legs bent a few feet from you. Breathe in as you gently let your legs lower to the right side. Keep them bent and relaxed, with your hips dipping towards the right side. Spread your arms on either side of you so they form a T-shape and slowly turn your head so you are looking to your left. Hold this stretch for eight to ten breaths.
Bring your legs back to the center and then let your legs fall to your left side. Hold the twist on your left side for eight to ten breaths.
 The hamstring muscles can often be tight, in turn tightening up the low back. Stretching the hamstrings can reduce stretch on the low back.Lie on your back with both legs straight. Bring one leg up and bend it 90 degrees.
Reach behind your thigh and pull your leg towards you as you straighten out the knee.
The goal is to bring the leg up 90 degrees. Hold this position for 20 to 30 seconds. Repeat three to five times on each side.
To get a better stretch in the hamstrings, try pointing your toes towards your head. This allows you to stretch the hamstrings and calves together.
 If your back aches badly enough that you feel you cannot move, you should stay in bed or contact your doctor. But if you can move around, even with the back pain, you should try to stay mobile and get out of bed. Bedrest can actually make your back pain worse and prolong your back issues. Focus on small movements like walking around your bedroom or going down a flight of stairs slowly and carefully. Staying mobile will help your back to recover.Be careful not to lift any heavy objects or strain your back by trying to pull or push anything that is heavy or weighty. You want to give your back time to recover by making gentle light movements rather than forceful or stressful movements. Most back pain injuries occur in the morning, when the body has not had enough time to warm up. To avoid this, never lift right away without warming up the back through movement.
 If you are really suffering from morning backaches and are looking for fast pain relief, take OTC pain medication, such as ibuprofen or paracetamol. Always take the recommended dosage specified on the label.If available, you may also try rubbing ibuprofen gel on your back to relieve aches and pains. Look for ibuprofen gel at your local drugstore., Ice can help to reduce any inflammation and soreness on your back. Use an ice pack or a bag of frozen peas wrapped in a towel. Place the ice pack at the base of your spine for five minutes. You can do this while sitting or lying in bed.You should follow up the ice pack with twenty minutes of heat. This could be a heat pack that you warm up in the microwave or a hot water bottle wrapped in a towel. Place the heat pack at the base of your spine to help reduce inflammation.
 You can get topical treatments over-the-counter at your local drugstore or through a prescription from your doctor. Popular topical treatments for back pain include products like Tiger Balm, BenGay, and Icy Hot. You should not use topical treatments if you are pregnant, nursing, younger than 10 years of age, or have sensitive skin. Senior citizens should also use caution when applying topical treatments to their skin.You should also never use topical treatments on open wounds or broken skin as you can develop mild to serious chemical burns due to the ingredients in some topical treatments.
Topical treatments can come in several forms, from gels and foams to creams and roll on sticks. Talk to your doctor if you have any concerns before using topical treatments on your back aches.
 Most back pain will go away after within a week, though you may experience bouts of back pain if you do not make lifestyle changes (such as doing exercise) or sleep position changes.If your back aches do not subside in the mornings despite the use of stretching and home remedies, you should see your doctor. Your doctor may recommend that you try physical therapy or massage therapy for your back pain. She may also run tests to determine if your back pain is a symptom of a more serious medical issue.Your doctor may also be able to recommend a chiropractor. You can then make an appointment with a chiropractor to help release the stress and tension in your back.
Back pain that occurs after a night of sleep may also be due to trigger points or muscle knots. You may want to see a health professional who is trained in trigger point therapy. The health professional will poke and prod your back muscles to see if any of those knots are contributing to your pain.