 A comprehensive patient profile includes information on medical conditions, hospitalizations, or surgeries you have had. It also contains any medications you have taken or currently take. This ensures that your doctor has a complete picture of your health and minimizes the risk that you forget to tell them something important. The profile can also help prevent a misdiagnosis.Compile copies of medical records or write your own patient profile by summarizing your medical history on a piece of paper.
Show the doctor any current medication bottles. These should list the name of the medication and dosing information. Make sure to include any herbal supplements you take as well.
 Most people have questions about symptoms or conditions when they see their doctor. Writing down a list of questions before you go to your doctor can prevent you from forgetting them. It can also maximize your visit and help your doctor diagnose you correctly.Mention any concerns or worries you have as a part of your questions. For example, “I’ve had ovarian cysts in the past. Do you think this could be one?”

, Many doctors start an appointment with questions such as, "What brings you here today?" Writing a one or two sentence summary of your symptoms can give your doctor an initial idea of your concerns, help maximize your visit, and prevent a possible misdiagnosis.Use common symptoms in your summary. This might include dealing with pain, weakness, vomiting, bowel issues, fever, breathing problems, or headache. For example, say, “I’ve had stomach pain and constipation for a week.”

, People often like to research their symptoms before seeing a doctor. This can easily lead to a misdiagnosis by yourself, but also by your doctor because you may “experience” symptoms you found in your research. Make sure to describe only symptoms you have to your doctor. Avoid saying what condition you think you have.Describing potential diagnoses you’ve made takes away important time from your doctor’s ability to properly diagnose you.

