 Before you start a green business you need to determine what your strengths and weaknesses are. Do this by sitting down with a pen and paper and jotting down notes. Record your skills, experience, personal interests, and other green knowledge you can bring to the table.For example, if you have worked in manufacturing all your life, write this down. This might lead you to think of green business opportunities in the manufacturing sector (e.g., non-toxic cleaning supplies, energy efficient home appliances).
In addition, maybe your last job required you to sell and market a specific set of products. If this was the case, maybe you will try to start a green business where you can sell and market environmentally friendly products that your company will manufacture.
Make sure that you have the skills and experience required to run your business and product the product or provide the service that your green business plans to offer.
Finally, consider your financial capacity. You might be limited to certain types of business based on how much money you have to invest. For example, going into manufacturing might require more capital than is feasible for most individuals to have or raise.
 Apart from your own strengths, consider your professional network and the strengths they may have with green business.For example, if you have a friend who is a business lawyer, tax professional, or accountant, ask them to help you with your endeavor.


In addition, maybe you have friends that share the same passion for the environment as you. If you have these friends, ask for their input. They may be able to help you come up with business ideas.
 Use resources like the Small Business Administration (SBA) website and SCORE.org to research requirements for starting each business you are considering. Look at licensing, permits, corporate structures, insurance, and other important regulations surrounding the industry. Then, try to estimate startup costs including buying equipment, obtaining inventory, hiring employees, and getting licensed operate. You may find that some ideas are too expensive to pursue and that others can be started cheaply.
 Creating a green business is not as easy as doing what you love. You must also be able to make money doing it. Therefore, once you have created a list of your strengths and where possible gaps in the business market might be, you need to consider the possibility of turning a profit. To do this, take your green business idea and create an outline of a business plan. Your business plan outline will force you to take your general ideas and think about them in a business context.


Your outline might simply start turning your general ideas into business ideas. You can do this by looking at business plan templates to get an idea of what is expected.
For example, most business plans will include a description of your market, your business strategies, your marketing strategies, and your finances., Use your outline to Write a Business Plan for a Small Business. This business plan will be used throughout the first few years in order to run your business and get financing. In fact, most banks, venture capitalists, and other funding sources will require that you show them a quality business plan. If you have never put together a business plan before, look online for templates. The Small Business Administration (SBA) even has a tool on their website that will help you build your business plan.Your business plan should include the following information:Your vision (i.e., where you see yourself - the end goal)
Your mission (i.e., your plan to provide a solution)
The need (i.e., what problem you are going to solve)
The market (i.e., who will be using your product)
Your objectives (i.e., small goals you intend to achieve in the short term)
Your strategies (i.e., how you plan to achieve your objectives)
Your marketing (i.e., how you are going to get your product to your market)
Finally, your business plan should lay out how much startup money you need and a three to five year financial plan. Some examples of expenses you might run into include buying supplies and inventory, paying payroll and rent, buying equipment and fixtures, and buying computers.

