 Because you will be working two jobs, you will need to budget your time wisely and set aside free time for managing your business. This will likely mean working on the weekends and at night when you get home from your job. In order to meet this demand, try designating a specific amount of time each day to your business.Avoid working on your business while at your day job. Employers tend to frown on this and it may get you fired. Even working on your business during your lunch break may be considered a conflict of interest. Consider hiring someone to handle the workload while you are at your other job.
 Detailed financial records are important for gauging the health of your business. Although it can be easy to let these slide while working two jobs, you need to stay on top of your finances. Without proper money management, you may find yourself deeply in debt.Keep all receipts and financial statements related to your business.
Use a money management program like QuickBooks, Xero, or one of the many free alternatives to manage your money. If you have the resources, you can also consider hiring an accountant to help you stay on top of your finances.
 Consider utilizing the connections that you have made in your day job to forward the interests of your business. You may have professional connections that will help grow your small business. If you think that there is the potential for a business connection, contact these people during your free time and meet with them about your side business. These people may become valuable partners to your growing business.Use social media to network with potential clients, customers and partners.
If you are at a networking function for your day job, avoid pitching your side business. Your employer will likely frown on that.
Be aware that there may be conflicts if your employer's connections would also benefit your side business, especially if the extended relationship negatively affects your employer's business.
 If you intend to quit your day job, you may be able to turn your current employer into a client. Depending on the type of business you run, your employer may be interested in hiring you as a consultant or independent contractor for their business. Your employer may also be interested in purchasing your product or your business outright.Try to find places in which you can create a symbiotic relationship between your employer and your business. Utilize connections with your colleagues and your knowledge of the company to promote your interests.

