 These could be for a flower garden, herb garden, veggie patch, or a special ornamental garden. It would be good to match making the markers with the child's interest in a particular part of the garden.
 These are easy to make and can be very colorful additions to the garden., It needs to be able to withstand what the elements will throw at it. Also find suitable markers that can withstand outdoor use., The main feature is that they are smooth and there is enough surface space for writing on the name of the plant and adding a little decorative flair.

Craft stores and garden stores will often sell bags of river stones or large pebbles; these are perfect. Otherwise, hunt around in the garden; with your kids, of course!

, If the pebbles were sourced from the garden, wash them in warm, soapy water, to remove dirt. Allow them to dry fully before painting., Arrange the paints and the pebbles in readiness for painting., It can be a good idea to write down a list of the plants, so that none of the plants are forgotten. If the kids are too young to do the writing, you'll need to do this part., Paint the top and sides of each of the pebbles. There is no need to paint the bottom, as this will be resting in the soil.

Be sure to choose a variety of colors for the painting; this is a lot more interesting for the kids than a single color.
 Then paint another layer for good measure. Allow that layer to dry before decorating the pebbles., Allow to sit for at least one hour, so that the writing dries and will not smudge off., Use different colors of paint to paint on patterns, such as dots, circles, hearts, leaves, etc. It could be as simple as making a straight line border or as complicated as drawing a picture of the plant itself; this will depend on the age, talent and interest of the kids. Allow to fully dry., This provides the final layer of protection. Allow to dry overnight., Place the painted pebble markers in a carrying container and ask the kids to place them in the soil next to or in front of the plant that the marker was made for., All done!, This could be anything from an ice cream container to a yogurt pot.
, A picket fence shape is best, with a flat end for the top and a pointed end to pierce into the soil.
 Fit in as many as you can so that you can make the most of the container.
,, Be sure it is in far enough so as not to blow away.
 Since each plant may take up a different amount of space, you'll want to customize the marker for each plant’s size.
 Make sure it's written clearly so that you can read the name.


Consider using a stencil to create uniformity. This takes more effort but might be best for a showpiece area of your garden, such as a herb garden or a special vegetable plot.
Allow time for the writing on the pot piece to dry before adding it to the plant area.
 Try a few positions before deciding where it sits best (don’t embed the pot deeply into the soil until you are sure you like the location). Done!

