 You’re likely not feeling your best as you try to get over this significant person in your life, so this is a good time to lean on- or even reconnect with- your family and friends. From talking about your feelings to distracting you with fun activities, your support system can help you to get over your crush more quickly.Friends and family will keep you from wallowing in your sadness.They can provide an excellent distraction by doing fun activities with you that don’t involve your crush.
 Concentrate on yourself while you try to get over your crush. This may make realize that you don’t have feelings for them.For example, start exercising or try a new fitness activity like yoga, which will also help you focus your mind on something other than your crush. You might also want to take a class that will help you with your job.Whatever you do, always make sure that it makes you feel good about yourself., This is also a good time to try out new activities, which will distract you from your feelings. The more often you can do something that distances you from your crush, the easier it will be to get over them.


For example, maybe you’ve always wanted to learn how to rock climb. This new activity will require a lot of practice, leaving less time to think about your crush.
 Getting out and meeting new people who don’t have any relationship to your contact is a good distraction from your feelings and your crush. You may find you have a much better time with new friends and acquaintances than you ever did with them.There are many different ways to meet new people, including joining a running group or going to happy hours at new places. Group activities are an excellent way to meet new people and distract yourself from your crush.
 You might not be ready to fully commit to another person, but casually flirting with or dating another person can also help you to more quickly get over your crush. This will boost your self-confidence and distract you from your feelings for your crush.A little harmless flirting may be good to help you gain self-confidence and remember that there are other people with whom you might have a connection. Just remember to keep it light and fun.