 Melt the butter in a large frying pan over medium-high heat. Add the sliced shallot and let it cook until it starts to turn golden. Stir it occasionally with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula. This will take about 2 to 3 minutes.If you are vegan, use vegan butter or dairy-free butter instead.;
, Stir the mixture from time to time. After about 5 minutes, the mushrooms will turn soft and release most of their juices.You can use just one type of mushroom or a combination of different ones. Cremini, oyster, and shiitake are all great choices., Add the flour into the pan. Stir it briskly with a fork or whisk. Make sure that you break up any clumps. This will help thicken the sauce.


Use gluten-free flour for a gluten-free option.
 Pour in the two liquids first, then stir everything together with a whisk. Allow the sauce to continue cooking for 2 minutes. During this time, the alcohol will cook off, leaving behind a rich flavor.For a quick and easy option, use store-bought, liquid vegetable stock.
Make your own vegetable stock by mixing 1 small bouillon cube (or half of a large one) with 1 cup (240 milliliters) of boiling water., Place it on a separate burner. You will need to heat it up again after you add the pasta. Keeping it on the stove will make this more convenient.
 Stir everything together with a rubber spatula or wooden spoon. Give the sauce a taste, then season it further with salt and pepper, if needed.


If you can't find fresh parsley, use 2 teaspoons of dried parsley instead. You are using less because it is more potent.If you are vegan, use dairy-free or vegan sour cream instead.You can also try an almond or coconut milk-based creamer instead., Fill a large pot with water and place it on the stove. Turn the heat up to high, and let the water come to a boil.


If you are vegan, consider preparing some rice, gluten-free pasta, or rice noodles instead.Follow the directions on the package instead.
 Stroganoff is usually served with egg noodles. If you really don't like egg noodles, however, you can use regular pasta instead.
 Cooking times vary from pasta to pasta, so read the directions on the package. In general, regular egg noodles will cook in about 8 to 10 minutes. Extra-wide egg noodles will cook in about 10 to 12 minutes., Pour the pasta through a strainer or colander. Save about ½ cup (120 milliliters) of the cooking water. If the sauce ends up being too thick, you can stir this water into it. The extra salt will help make the sauce more flavorful.


You might not end up using the water at all, but it still would be a good idea to reserve some.
 Pour the pasta into the sauce. Stir everything together with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula. Keep stirring until the pasta is evenly coated.
 Turn the burner back on and set it to low heat. Let the stroganoff cook for 1 to 2 minutes, stirring it occasionally. This will help blend the flavors further.If the sauce turns too thick, add some of your reserved pasta water to thin it out. You may not need to use all of it. The more water you add, the thinner the sauce will be.
 Place the stroganoff into a large platter or divide it up into four serving bowls. For extra flavor, garnish it with a sprinkle of parsley. If you have any leftovers, store them in the fridge, and eat them within 2 to 3 days.

