 Zynga Poker follows standard no-limit Texas Hold'Em rules. Each player is dealt two cards face down, and the goal is to make the best five-card hand using the community cards that are dealt in the center of the table.


Betting occurs after the first two cards are dealt, after the first three community cards are shown, after the fourth card is shown, and after the fifth card is shown.
Each player takes turns as the dealer, with betting occurring to the dealer's left.
The first two players to the dealer's left must bet automatically to start the round, called "blinds".
For detailed instructions on how to play Texas Hold'Em, see this guide.
 When you choose a table, you "sit down" at an empty seat. If there is a hand in progress, you will need to wait until the next hand is dealt in order to play. When you sit at a table, you will see your opponents and the amount of chips that they have.
 As play continues around the table, you will see each player's bet for the round in front of them. When action reaches you, you can decide to Call (match any bets), Check (pass if there are no bets to match), Bet/Raise (increase the bet), or Fold (discard your cards and withdraw from the hand).


You can set your action before play reaches you if you know what you want to do beforehand. If the action is no longer viable when play reaches you (for example, you set to Check but someone Raises), you can change it.
Each player has a time limit to perform an action. The time limit is represented by a yellow bar around the active player's picture that depletes as the time limit counts down.
If you are playing on mobile, you will need to use the bet slider to increase or decrease your bet.
 There are some major differences when playing online, mainly stemming from the fact that no one is playing with real money. This will lead to a lot of raises that you probably wouldn't see at an actual poker.


It can be very difficult to bluff in online poker, as you can't see anyone's faces or physical reactions. Opponents are much more likely to call raises in online poker as well, since the money isn't real.
 If you run out of chips from your initial buy-in, you can choose to "rebuy", which will give you more chips and allow you to keep playing. You must have chips available in your bank in order to rebuy.
 If you don't want to keep playing, click the "Stand Up" button in the upper-left corner. You will leave your seat, though you can continue to watch the table. If you want to return to the lobby, click the "To Lobby" button.


You cannot leave the table when you have an active hand.
 While the main way to get chips is to win them from other players, there are a variety of way that you can earn more chips. On the left side of the lobby screen, you can participate in a slot machine that can award you chips if you win. You get a free pull after a certain amount of time has passed, but you can pull whenever you'd like if you pay with Casino Gold. Casino Gold costs real money.


You can also purchase more chips directly from Zynga by clicking on your chip total in the corner of the lobby screen. You can choose which package you'd like to purchase with real money.
You can win a small amount of chips and test your poker knowledge by clicking the Poker Genius button. This is located in the upper-right corner of the screen , in the Dice menu. Poker Genius will quiz you on which hands are most likely to win, and correct answers are awarded a small amount of chips. Poker Genius is only available for a few rounds per day.

