 It’s the blue icon with a white “f.” You’ll usually find it on your home screen or in the app drawer.;
, It’s near the top-left corner of the screen, along with a blue camera icon.


If it’s your first time using the Facebook camera, you may have to grant the app permission to take pictures and record videos.
If you want to take a photo using the front (selfie) camera, tap the camera icon with two curved arrows to flip the lens.
 It’s at the bottom-left corner of the screen. Now you’ll see several stickers and masks that you can apply to your image.
 Masks are animated effects you can add to your photo or video before you snap it.


For example, if you’re taking a photo of a person (such as yourself, with the selfie camera), tap one of the face mask options to add it to that person’s face.
If you decide you don’t want to use a mask, scroll to the top of the list and tap the circle with a line through it.
 Tap each option to see a live preview. If you decide you don’t want to use one of these filters, scroll back to the top of the list and tap the circle with a line through it.
 It’s the last icon at the bottom of the screen. Here you’ll find fun frames and stickers to outline or apply to your photo. Unlike masks, frames are not animated.
 Any effects you selected are still visible in the preview.
 Or, if you prefer, tap and hold the button to record a video. As soon as you take the photo or video, you’ll see a preview that includes the effects you added.
 This is optional, but if you’d like to add or remove a frame or filter, you can do so here. It’s not possible to edit or add masks after recording, though.


You can also flip the photo in this screen. Tap the wrench and screwdriver icon at the bottom-right corner of the screen, then tap the two arrows pointing at a line.
 This (optional) tool allows you to select a color and then type a message right on your photo or video. When you’re done typing, tap Done at the top-right corner of the screen.
 If you want to draw on your photo or video, tap this icon, select a color, and start drawing. When you’re finished, tap Done to save your work.
 Now that you’ve created a photo or video with Facebook Camera’s effects, you can post it to your timeline, share it to your story, or send it directly to a friend.

