 If you have certain expectations of your partner or relationship, make sure you express them clearly. You can’t hold your partner accountable for failing to meet your expectations if you don’t communicate your needs with each other.Expectations can involve things like daily routines, like spending time or having meals together. For example, perhaps your partner works with lots of people, but you work alone in your home office. They need time to decompress after constantly communicating all day, but you need to someone to talk to after being home alone all day.
Have a conversation about your respective needs and ask your partner, “About how much personal time do you need after your busy day? I know you spend all day talking to people, and I respect that, but I spend most of my time home alone. Does it make sense for you to take an hour for yourself, then for us to have dinner together so we can talk?”

, Making compromises and developing a team mentality often involves giving up something valued or important. Do your best to understand what you have both sacrificed in order to make a compromise. Be sensitive, empathetic, and offer each other emotional support in order to avoid latent conflicts or resentment.Emotional support can involve more than just being empathetic about your individual professional compromises. If you’re both career driven and have challenging occupations, try to come up with emotional strategies that will work best for your relationship.
For example, some partners offer each other emotional support in the form of advice, validation, and critical feedback about difficult decisions at work. Other relationships work best when partners leave work at the office and rely on each other to compartmentalize work and home life. Talk to your partner about what’s best for your particular relationship.
 Try to sync up some vacation time or take a long weekend together. If you have children, consider hiring a sitter or ask a friend or family member to watch them for an overnight period, at the very least. Take some time to enjoy each other’s company away from your responsibilities, whether you take a road trip or just stay home doing nothing.Try to devote a regular block of time to spend together and try to use that time to see each other as more than just a professional being. Stress-free quality time will help you focus on each other as complete human beings instead of letting your diverging careers steal the spotlight.
 Talking to a couple’s counselor can help you gain an objective perspective and develop solutions for your particular difficulties. When choosing a counselor, look for someone who will remain objective and avoids taking sides. If you or your partner feel ganged up on, find another therapist.Go for a counselor or therapist who is future-oriented, suggests practical and fair ways of compromising, and helps you set clear goals in the first session.
Word of mouth is often the best way to find the best counselor, but it might be an uncomfortable subject to bring up with family and friends. If you’re hesitant to ask someone who know personally, you can ask your primary care doctor for a referral. Try calling your insurer and asking for a list of nearby in-network therapists covered by your plan. You can also search online by running a general search for “couples counseling near” your location, or by consulting Psychology Today’s find a therapist tool: https://therapists.psychologytoday.com/.

