 Perhaps you hear a small, critical voice attacking you or your partner. “She/He is a loser. You can do better,” or “This relationship will not work out. Being honest with her/him will only lead to disappointment” are examples of the kinds of lies we’ve internalized due to bad experiences in the past or critical parents or family members. Letting go of this baggage can help you become more loving.


Don’t listen to internal negative advice, even when it seems convincing. When you find you’re doubting yourself, counter these thoughts with positive, constructive thoughts like, “I have value and am not afraid to love my partner more.”
Voice therapy -- the process of saying these negative beliefs and criticisms out loud, then answering them with your real opinion -- can help give you more hope.
By taking a chance with someone and opening up to them, you might end up getting hurt emotionally, but you might also inspire them to be more honest and open with you, thus deepening your relationship.
Take comfort in the fact that anyone who uses your honesty and vulnerability to criticize or disparage you does not love you, and you should feel good about leaving them out of your life.
 Many people spend their lives trying to find the right partner and wondering why they cannot find someone they really love.

Their problem is simply that they do not feel good about themselves, and therefore

Get an education. Learning more can deepen your understanding of yourself and your place in the world. While you could go to college, a good place to start is the public library. Check out books on a variety of topics, splitting your time equally between fiction and nonfiction.
Gain fulfilling employment. When you are engaged in work you feel proud of, you’ll have many opportunities to build your own sense of self-worth as you rack up accomplishments at work.
 Don’t pretend to like football, for instance, just to impress your family or friends. Know who you are and be honest about it with yourself, then share who you really are with others. If you have flaws, be conscious of them and try to improve yourself. Do not compare yourself with others. Instead, compare yourself only with your past self, and aim always for progress, rather than perfection.
 Don’t put up a front in order to pretend that something hurtful your partner said didn’t hurt you.

]]

At the same time, be honest about feeling positive emotions like love, admiration, or affection.
No matter what you’re feeling, find positive ways to express it. If you’re feeling hurt, for instance, don’t call your partner names or throw their belongings out the sixth-story window. Instead, confront them directly and say, “I’m really upset by what you said. I think you were being unfair and I deserve an apology.”

