 Go online and request credit reports from each of the three credit bureaus (TransUnion, Equifax and Experian). Learning your credit score and seeing what positive and negative items are listed on your credit report will help you to see where you stand.
 If you have a credit score of 680 or higher, you will most likely get the best interest rate loans available. Scores between 550 and 680 are considered sub-prime. If you have a sub-prime score, you may pay higher interest rates. If you have a credit score of 550 and below, it may be difficult to obtain a car loan. If your score is below 550, you may want to work on improving this score before trying to purchase a car., Double-check your credit report for accuracy. It is not unusual for these agencies to make mistakes. Sometimes improving your credit is as painless as disputing inaccuracies on your credit report.
 If there are any small, unpaid balances on your credit report, pay these off. Paying off small amounts so that they are no longer listed as “unpaid” on your credit report can work to improve your credit rating, and display good faith to potential car lenders.Often, collection agencies will take a smaller settlement than what is owed, so try to negotiate.
 About 30% of your credit score is determined by your "debt utilization," that is, how much of your available credit has been used. For example, if you have a credit card with a $15,000 limit, and you have only used $3000 of it, this will help your credit score. You can optimize your debt utilization by either paying down some of your balances, or increasing your credit limits.If you have recently gotten a raise or paid off some debts, you may by eligible for an increase in your credit limits. Contact your credit card company for details.
 Being approved for a major credit card (like a Visa or Mastercard) can help your credit score improve. This may be difficult if you have bad credit, but you can work toward it by opening a less prestigious credit account and making all your payments on time. After a while, you can apply for that Visa or Mastercard again.