 Eating at restaurants instead of cooking at home can cost a lot of money. Instead of purchasing a quick meal at a restaurant, consider buying ingredients at a grocery store and cooking at home. For lunch you can make sandwiches at home the night before.


The average American spends $232 a month eating at restaurants. Divide that by the typical 30-day month, and you save $7.73 per day.;
, Impulsive buying can ruin your $10-a-day savings plan. Instead of buying a product on the spot just because it catches your eye, give yourself a day to think before purchasing it. When you think about buying something, determine how necessary it is and how much it would actually benefit you.


If you see a magazine or some candy placed temptingly near the check-out register, remind yourself what your long-term goals are, and simply pass such items by.
The average candy bar costs $1.14. , Keep good records on the things that you're spending money on, even if they're small transactions. You can create a spreadsheet and update it when you get home, or you can download an app that helps you track your purchases throughout the month. Diligence and accuracy are important so that you can look over your expenses in a realistic and objective way.


The most useful spending-tracker apps include BillGuard, Dollarbird, and Fudget. Purchases you should track include food, gas, clothing, entertainment, cleaning supplies, coffee, and snacks. , Once you've tracked all your purchases throughout a given month, you'll be better able to focus on necessary costs like housing, food, and transportation. Give yourself a baseline for how much you should be spending on these things.


Try to maintain a cushion for emergencies. Inevitable repairs or medical problems will come along to disrupt your budget. Gradually build up some savings to set aside for those events. That makes it harder, of course, to save for retirement, but ultimately you'll come out ahead if you have money set aside for emergencies instead of having to borrow to meet them.
 Any habitual vice costs money. It can really add up over time. If you are a smoker, every pack costs you more than $5. The average smoker spends more than $2,000 a year on the habit. In some locations the cost is considerably higher than that. Vices like drinking and smoking take a toll on your health, too, which could cost you dearly in future medical bills.

