 Since vectors have magnitude and direction, they are likened to arrows with a tail and a head and a length. Vectors can be said to have a "beginning point" and an "end point". The "sharp point" of the arrow is the vector's head and the "base" of the arrow is the tail.


When making a scale drawing of a vector, you must take care to measure and draw all angles accurately. Mis-drawn angles will lead to poor answers.
 This is referred to as joining your vectors "head to tail". If you are only adding two vectors, this is all you'll need to do before finding your resultant vector A+B. Vector B may need to be slid into position without altering its orientation , called parallel transport., Vector A + Vector B = Vector B + Vector A

, Subtracting vectors visually is fairly simple. Simply reverse the vector's direction but keep its magnitude the same and add it to your vector head to tail as you would normally. In other words, to subtract a vector, turn the vector 180o around and add it.
 Actually the order in which you join the vectors does not matter. This method can be used for any number of vectors.
 Whether you are adding/subtracting two vectors or a hundred, the vector stretching from the original starting point (the tail of your first vector) to end point of your final added vector (the head of your last vector) is the resultant vector, or the sum of all your vectors. Note that this vector is identical to the vector obtained by adding the x,y, and perhaps z components of all the vectors separately.


If you drew all of your vectors to scale, measuring all angles exactly, you can find the magnitude of the resultant vector by measuring its length. You can also measure the angle that the resultant makes with either a specified vector or the horizontal/vertical etc. to find its direction.
If you didn't draw all vectors to scale, you probably need to calculate the magnitude of the resultant using trigonometry. You may find the Sine Rule and the Cosine Rule helpful here. If you are adding more than two vectors together, it is helpful to first add two, then add their resultant with the third vector, and so on. See the following section for more information.
 Vectors are defined by their length and direction. As noted above, assuming you drew your vectors accurately, your new vector's magnitude is its length and its direction is its angle relative to the vertical, horizontal, etc. Use the units of your added or subtracted vectors to choose the units for your resultant vector's magnitude.


For example, if the vectors we added represented velocities in ms-1, we might define our resultant vector as "a velocity of x ms-1 at yo to the horizontal".

