 Your pillow might offer a small comfort of home, even by just carrying its familiar scent. You can’t bring your whole bed, so having your pillow at the very least will help aid in feeling more comfortable, no matter where you are.


If you could not bring your own pillow along, creating a makeshift cervical pillow can help you position yourself more comfortably. Fold a small towel so it matches the pillow, and then roll the towel into a small tube. Slide this roll into the near edge of the pillow as a makeshift support for your neck.;
, Make even your hotel rooms feel as much like home as possible by carrying a photo of your family or loved ones in your bag, bringing your own pillow, and wearing comfortable clothing., When you try to sleep in unfamiliar places, one hemisphere of your brain will stay more awake than the other as a means of being more alert to any potential danger.

But, the longer you stay in one place—especially when you have the comforts of home, like your own pillow—you will likely become more relaxed. Good news for those who might be staying in one hotel room for a few nights!, This helps not just in hotel rooms but also if you are trying to sleep on mass transit. Try listening to soft music or white noise.


Earplugs are a particular must if you're sleeping in hostels, where you could end sharing a dorm room with 10 or more people, depending on the size of the dorm.
There are even headphones designed to be worn comfortably while sleeping, as they lie flat against your head in a soft headband.If you travel often, these might be a good idea to invest in.
 These are small machines that fill a room with a noise cancelling sound to help you fall asleep.


If you don't want to invest in a white noise machine or noise-canceling headphones, create your own white noise to drown out disturbing racket. Leave your iPod playing softly, turn on the bedside radio, or use the television, if there is one, on a sleep setting. Be careful, though, because of the negative effect that the light from the TV could have on your ability to fall asleep. If using the TV just for noise, make sure to wear an eye mask to block the light.

