 Many times the first source of a food recall is provided by the news or newspaper.


If you hear about a food recall in the news or newspaper, listen to the entire broadcast or read the entire article to get as much information as you can. They will generally provide a lot of information for consumers.
Often times the media provides the products numbers and sell-by dates of the affected foods.
They may also provide a website or phone number for you to contact if you have questions about the food, do not know whether or not your food has been contaminated or if you have gotten sick from consuming the contaminated food.;
, After you come across a potential food recall, you'll need to verify the information you heard with the appropriate government authority.


Scroll through the list of recall products or search for a particular food here. They are generally organized by date of recall.
Once you find your specific food recall, click on the food item for more information. The USDA will provide the press release written by the USDA or food manufacturer, why the product was recalled, what the potential adverse side effects are, the food name, product number and sell-by date and contact information if you need to speak to someone directly.Write down all pertinent product information so you can use this to compare to foods that you have at home.
 After you've verified there has been a food recall of an item you think you may have bought or currently have in your home, you'll need to double check your product to see if it has been affected by the contamination.


Double check the brand name and product name. Not all products by a certain brand may be affected.
Look at the sell-by date. This is generally found on the side, bottom or back of packages. This is the date that stores follow and should sell the product by.This information is a key part on how food manufacturers help you identify a contaminated product.Look at the product's label and package code. The last part of identifying potentially recalled food items is the product label and package code. This may be near the barcode, but could be in a variety of other places on the package. Take the time to find this code as this is a very specific number given to certain batches. This will confirm if your product is the one that has been recalled., Many times food recalls will include "fresh produce" or those items that are not coming from a specific brand and do not have a package to help identify them. This can make verifying these recalls slightly more difficult.


Again, all food recalls including fresh produce will be listed on the USDA's or FDA's website. They will provide you the produce name and which retailers received shipments of the contaminated produce.
If you think you've purchased recalled fresh produce, call your grocery store immediately to verify this information. Ask to speak to the store manager or produce department manager.
If you're unable to completely verify if you've purchased recalled fresh produce, the USDA recommends throwing out the possibly recalled product regardless to keep you and your family safe., There are a variety of smartphone apps that can help you keep abreast of any food recalls. Some of the apps may also offer additional information on foods. They may tell you what types of additives or preservatives are also contained in some foods.


The USDA and FDA both have mobile apps that you can check regularly for food recalls. These apps will alert you to specific food recalls, provide contact information and provide other food safety information.
AlertMe is another app that specifically will provide alerts to food recalls pertaining to allergens. Many times foods say they do not contain any allergens, but actually do and are being recalled. This is a good app for those will serious food allergies.AskKaren is another app that deals with food safety. This one does not provide information specifically on product recalls, but provides a host of information on food safety., Another method of keeping up-to-date with possible food recalls is by signing up for the USDA or FDA alert systems.The USDA will send you an email newsletter that provides the most recent food recall information. You can sign up for this email service here: Food Safety Email Alert System

Foodsafety.gov also has a blog and RSS feed that provides up-to-date information on the latest food recalls. The blog not only contains information about specific recalls, but provides consumers with information how to deal with recalls, how to stay up to date with recalls and how to handle foods safely.You can sign up here: Food Safety Blog.
 Outside of the government, there are some other sources to find out if there has been a food recall.


Consider talking to your local grocery store staff. They will know of any food recalls as they will be responsible for pulling products off the shelf.
When you go in to do your weekly shopping, stop the manager's or customer service desk and ask for an updated list of any recalled products.
 Log-on to the the USDA website or www.foodsafety.gov. These websites are tasked with providing information on every food, medication or pet food recall.Not only will this website provide information about the specific foods that have been recalled, they will also provide instructions on what to do with or how to dispose of recalled food.
You may also want to call the USDA’s Meat and Poultry Hotline at 1-888-674-6854. They have food safety specialists that can help guide you via phone if you're dealing with a meat or poultry recall.They may also provide the information for the local health department as well which you can call for more specific information.
 If you find that you have a product in your home that has been recalled, you may be able to bring it back to the store for a refund.


The USDA or FDA may be providing refund money to stores that sold contaminated products. Call your local grocery store where you purchased the product to see if they are issuing refunds.
If you plan on bringing the food back to the store, make sure you have your receipt and the actual product. However, if it is a specific brand that has been recalled, you don't necessarily need the receipt, but you do need the actual food product to show you purchased it.
Also ask the store staff if they have replacement products or a different product that you can purchase instead.
 If you've purchased a recalled food products, its important to ensure that the product has not contaminated other parts of your kitchen or other foods.Spend some time cleaning to ensure everything is OK.


The USDA recommends washing all dishes, utensils and cookware in hot soapy water or in the dishwasher. This will sterilize all your flatware appropriately.Also wash all counter tops or cutting boards as well. Use hot soapy water or a bleach to completely sterilize the surfaces.If you stored the product in your refrigerator or freezer, the same cleaning techniques apply. In addition, the food was stored in a drawer or shelf with other foods and they were touching, it may be a good idea to toss these items out as well.

