 Search your home for something you can use to reduce the friction between the slide and teeth of the zipper. This could be a bar of soap, a tube of chapstick or even a bottle of Windex—almost any type of smooth, slick substance will do the trick.Some other options include wax candles, petroleum jelly, crayons and lip balm.
Since so many different improvised lubricants can be effective, you should have a solution close at hand whether you’re at home, work or on the road., Start with the section of teeth that are still connected and use a generous amount of lubricant. Gradually try easing the slide up and down after a few minutes. As the lubricant seeps deeper into the teeth, you should find it easier to get the zipper moving.








Do your best to keep the lubricant away from the fabric itself in order to prevent staining and discoloration.
Use a separate tool, such as a cotton swab, to smear on messier substances like Vaseline or olive oil.If you’re using Windex, spray it over the entire zipper area, then wait a few minutes before testing the zipper., Take hold of the zipper tab and pull on it lightly to see if it moves. Chances are, the lubricant will have worked and your zipper will now be as good as new. Otherwise, you may need to use a second application to get it zipping and unzipping consistently.








Lubricants help clear the teeth of built-up dust and dirt, which is the leading cause of stuck zippers on older items.If the zipper is still uncooperative at this point, take it to an alterations shop to have it repaired or replaced.
 If the item is washing machine-safe, throw it in with your next load of laundry. Otherwise, you can scrub the zipper and the area around it with a cloth dampened with a mild soap solution. This is a good habit to get into when it comes to keeping your zippers functional, as well.








Not only will a good cleaning remove lubricant residue from the item, it will also clean any remaining debris out of the zipper, renewing it and improving its performance for many more wears.

