 You should fill it with basic necessities, such as bottled water and snacks in case you feel hungry. You could also bring along entertainment, such as your favorite magazines (provided that they're appropriate), a notebook and pencil if you like to draw, portable video games (if they're permitted), small games you can play with others, and anything else that might help you pass the time. However, be sure that you aren't bringing banned items on the bus; otherwise, they may be confiscated and you might receive a detention.;
, Getting in trouble will make the bus ride much less fun, and the consequences can extend into your school day. Make sure you know all the rules, including what items aren't allowed on the bus, what activities are banned, and whether seats are assigned. If you aren't sure, check with your bus driver or a school authority.
 If seats aren't assigned, take advantage of that and remain with your friends, as they can help make the bus ride less boring. Before boarding the bus, stick close to them so that you won't get separated during the rush to claim seats. If you're in a large group, it may be best to decide who will sit together so that you decrease the chances of being isolated.
 If you have assigned seats or aren't familiar with anyone on the bus, try befriending the people around you. By being friendly and initiating a conversation, you'll encourage them to talk to you and you might have a new bus buddy to pass the time with. However, understand that not everyone may be interested in speaking with you. If that appears to be the case, politely detach yourself and move onto someone else.
 You can take the time to watch the landscape sweep by, as well as amuse yourself with unusual sights. Search for animals, strange cars or license plates, or anything else that might alleviate your boredom. You could even play "I Spy" with people sitting near you. If you stare at the scenery long enough, you may end up zoning out, which can help the time pass by quicker.
 If you have assignments, completing some of them on the bus can help ease the burden off your shoulders. You'll also be able to pass the time productively. However, if you become easily carsick, it may not be wise to do your homework, as reading words on a moving vehicle may make you feel nauseous.
 Interesting books and magazines always help pass the time. You can even share them with people sitting next to you, as that will help you make friends and perhaps alleviate their boredom. Be careful not to lose library books on the bus; otherwise, you may have to pay a fine.
 If your school permits it, take advantage of the opportunity and bring portable devices, such as a music player, handheld video game, or a phone. Make sure that you charge them the night before so that you don't start out with a low battery. Be sure that they're small enough so that you don't have trouble carrying them around. You should also keep them in a safe place during your trip so that you don't accidentally lose them.
 A long bus ride is the perfect time to catch up on much needed sleep, especially if you had to wake up early in the morning. Bundle up a jacket or a sweater to use it as a pillow. If your bus mates are loud, you may need to consider bringing earplugs or drowning them out with music.
 If you're separated from your friends or everyone is too noisy for you to properly speak, writing notes to one another can be fun. You could include little doodles on the side or start playing a small game together. If you're sitting far away from one another, avoid asking people to deliver your messages too frequently; otherwise, they may become annoyed with you. Make sure that no one else can read them, especially if they're personal.
 Sketching is a fun way to pass the time, although it may be difficult in a moving vehicle. Bring a sketchbook or a folder full of paper so that you have something sturdy to draw on. Draw pictures and comic strips, allowing your creativity to overflow and keep you from being bored. If you like, you can let other people contribute to your art so that you can all participate in a great activity together.
 Popular examples are Hangman, Tic Tack Toe, and Mash. You can either play with one person or have other people join in as well. Paper RPGs work too, as you can draw characters and make them go on adventures.
 Allow your imagination to take control and create an entirely new world. You can draw maps of different places and include important landmarks. Draw the creatures and people who inhabit your world. You can assign them homes and different jobs, as well as write about their lives and the adventures or challenges they face.
 If you're bored, writing can be a fun activity to participate in. Whether you're interested in creating stories, poetry, or jokes, work your brain and release your creative side. You can share your work with others or allow people to contribute to it.
 Planning out the rest of your day or week is a productive way to pass the time. By creating a to-do list, you can organize your life for a short while and see what tasks that you need to complete.
 This can help you become more familiar with yourself, and you might even discover new preferences.
, This will help expand your knowledge and perhaps boost your grades, especially if you're learning about the place that your field trip is taking place. Being excited about learning is a great attitude to have, so don't hesitate to take advantage of the bus ride to help your mind grow.

