 Vitamin C deficiency in guinea pigs can lead to excessive shedding and hair loss. Although guinea pig pellets are fortified with vitamin C, the vitamin C in these can degrade over time. The best way to ensure that your pet isn’t losing fur due to a vitamin deficiency is to feed them fresh fruits and vegetables that are high in vitamin C.Some good options for your guinea pig include oranges, tomato, broccoli, and cabbage.You can also find vitamin C powders and drops at your local health food store, and you can mix these supplements into your pet’s water., Although your guinea pig is a herbivore, they still require protein in their diet. Too little protein can cause excessive hair loss. Aim to make 15% of their daily diet come from a protein source.Vegetarian sources of protein suitable for guinea pigs include oatmeal, peas, beans, and artichokes.
 Itchy bald spots on your guinea pig are tell-tale signs of a fungal infection. These infections almost always cause some degree of excess shedding. Treatments for fungal infections include topical creams and oils. However, you will want to see your vet so they can properly diagnose your pet.Try to keep your guinea pig’s environment cool and dry. Warm, humid environments can lead to fungal infections.
 Mites, lice, and other parasites can take up residence with your guinea pig, causing them to itch and excessively shed. If you check under their fur and see small black bugs, your pet likely has a parasite infestation. Take them to the vet so he or she can prescribe medicines that will kill the parasites and help stop your pet’s itching and hair loss.
 Some owners think cedar chips are good for their pet’s cage because cedar will keep it smelling fresh. While this is true, cedar chips should never be used in guinea pig cages because they can exacerbate skin problems and shedding, and the oils in cedar chips can cause liver and respiratory problems in guinea pigs.Opt instead for bedding made of paper, which won’t cause health problems for your pet., Guinea pigs can shed excessively if they feel stressed out. They are sensitive animals and nervous by nature. Their stress can often manifest as hair loss if the stressor isn’t resolved.For example, if you have two guinea pigs and one is being the “alpha” and bullying the other one, this can be a source of stress for the quieter pig. Try giving them some time apart or putting a physical barrier up in their cage so they can still see one another, but the “alpha” pig cannot harass the other one.

