 Proofreading takes time, so do not put it off to the last minute. Give yourself plenty of time.Try to set aside at least 20 minutes to proofread your paper a day or two before it is due. You will also need to give yourself time to correct any errors you find.
 You may notice passive voice if you take the time to read your writing out loud to yourself or to a sympathetic audience. You should pay close attention to any sentences where the subject comes after the verb and where it is unclear who or what is doing the action in a sentence. These are indicators of passive voice.Though your computer’s spell check function can be useful for catching grammatical errors, it may not catch all of the passive sentences in your writing so do not depend on it to do this for you.
You should also keep in mind that some sentences actually benefit from passive voice, based on the content of the sentence. Reading your writing out loud and to others can help you be a better editor of your work and notice when a sentence should be in passive or active voice.
 You can use the search or find and replace function in MS Word to help you find instances of passive voice.Try searching for common passive voice words and phrases, such as “is,” “was,” “were,” “had been,” and “have been.” Then, check the sentences with highlighted words and phrases to see if they use passive voice.


Correct instances of passive voice as needed.
 Reading a paper backwards can also make it easier for you to identify problems such as passive voice. Read the last sentence of your paper, and then read the sentence before that one.Continue to work backwards until you have read every sentence in your paper. Correct any instances of passive voice that you find as you go.
 If your university has a writing center, then make an appointment to get help finding instances of passive voice.


Keep in mind that a writing tutor will not fix your work for you. He or she will help you develop the skills you need to identify instances of passive voice on your own.

