 The repetitive chewing motion will help strengthen your jaw. The best part is, you won't even feel like you're doing an exercise. You can set a goal of chewing gum for just a few minutes after every meal.


Just make sure not to chew gum so much that it starts hurting your jaw.
 Profoundly pronounce "X-O" at least fifteen times. Take a break and repeat the exercise three times. This is an easy maneuver that will help you move your jaw in two different ways, which will strengthen your jaw. You can do this exercise any time -- even when you're at your desk at work.
 Open your mouth round and wide and hold this pose for a few seconds. Then, relax your jaw and repeat this motion nine more times, for a series of ten repetitions. You can repeat this move three times a day. If you do too many of these exercises at once, your jaw may get sore.
 Lift up your cheeks toward your eyes as high as you can. Use the corners of your mouth to help lift your cheeks. You should feel like you're trying to form a strained, awkward smile. You can even shut your eyes tightly to help lift your cheeks.


Hold each cheek lift for ten seconds and repeat this exercise several times.
 Draw in your cheeks until you're making fish lips by puckering out your top and bottom lip. Hold this position as you try to smile. Hold the smile for ten seconds and repeat the position for ten counts., Close your mouth and fill your cheeks and mouth with air. Then, move the air from one cheek to the other as slowly as you can. Move the air from one cheek to the other at least ten times, and take the time to fill your cheeks with air again if necessary. Repeat this exercise three times daily., To do this exercise, just purse your lips and suck in your cheeks. Hold this pose for a few seconds and then puff out your cheeks as far as they will go. Hold the puffy cheeks for a few seconds and then puff them back in. Repeat this exercise ten times per series and three times daily., Smiling also exercises your facial muscles, and it may draw attention away from your cheeks. You can just smile on your own, holding each smile for ten seconds and repeating this action ten times, or you can make a goal of smiling more in your daily life. It can help you feel more positive and confident throughout the day., After completing a series of facial exercises, gently rub your fingers over your cheeks and jaw in a circular motion. This will help relieve tension and soreness after exercising.

