 Many people do not realize that they are contributing to a monoculture in a major way; by having a grass lawn.Many people like having a large grassy area that is fairly easy to maintain and offers a nice place for children and pets to play. However, by maintaining a grassy lawn, you are choosing to exclude other types of plants.Consider converting a portion of your grassy lawn into a more diverse area by planting a flower or vegetable garden, trees, or a variety of bushes.;
, The more diversity you have in your garden and your yard, the more resistant they are to pests and disease.Plant flowering trees, shrubs and other plants and flowers to attract bees, butterflies and other pollinators. Choose flowering plants native to your region, or plant clover, alfalfa, and other flowering cover crops that will attract bees, replenish nutrients, and prevent erosion.You can selectively choose which pests and weeds you want to get rid of, keeping as many beneficial ones as possible to enhance soil health and to provide a habitat for needed insects and other animals., Some weeds are actually edible, and can be a great (free!) addition to your diet!Even if you choose not to eat your weeds, plenty of insects may choose to snack on your weeds instead of your garden!


Some weeds can actually deter pests from entering an area as well.You can certainly “pick and choose” which weeds you allow to stay on your property; you can decide, for example, to get rid of poison ivy, but keep dandelions or thistle. Encouraging biodiversity does not insist on allowing every plant or animal species free range of your land.
 In addition to promoting biodiversity in your own yard, you can encourage regional biodiversity by buying a variety of local fruits and vegetables.Most areas (even urban settings) have farmers’ markets, gatherings of local farmers selling their produce, baked goods, meat, eggs, and dairy products in one place.


Buying as much of your food as possible from a local farmers’ market promotes your local economy, enables you to find out details about how your food was grown, and gives you the opportunity to learn about fruits and vegetables you may never have tried before.Developing a relationship with the person who cultivates your food also enables you to make requests for different practices, such as minimal or no pesticides, no hormones in meat animals, and a wider diversity of products.
 Diversifying the bioculture in farmland, lawns, and gardens is critical in protecting biodiversity, but there are also many places within urban areas that also need attention.Making efforts to plant flowers, flowering plants, alfalfa, and clover in urban areas can make a big difference in urban biodiversity. A variety of plants can be cultivated along roadsides, in power line corridors, in community gardens, between the street and sidewalk, etc. Encouraging a variety of flowering plants will attract pollinators and can reduce invasive and harmful species without using pesticides.


Urban areas need ample trees as well. To attract birds, you need caterpillars. And to attract caterpillars, you need to plant the right trees. Oak trees are particularly helpful in doing this, as are trees native to an area.