 If you have fine, shoulder length hair, consider using pins to secure your tresses into a faux bob.


Divide your hair into two sections by parting your hair horizontally from ear to ear.
Use a duck bill clip to secure the hair above the part.
Divide the bottom layer of your hair into two inch sections.
Fold or roll each two inch section up towards your scalp. Secure the section in place with one to three bobby pins.
Unclip the top layer of hair.
If your hair has layers, leave the short layers unpinned and allow them to cover the bottom layer.
If your hair is all one length or has longer layers, roll the ends under the bottom section and pin them securely to your scalp.
Mist your faux bob with hairspray., If you have thicker, heavier hair, you may need to use more than pins to secure your bottom layer in place.


Divide your hair into three equal layers and pull the bottom layer into a low, loose ponytail.
Fold all of your hair underneath itself to create the faux bob.
Pin the hair close to your head. For additional hold, use two pins per section and criss cross (form an “X”) them.
For a more relaxed faux bob, pull out a few pieces of hair around your face.
Spritz your tresses with hairspray., If your hair constantly falls out of up-dos, consider using a bun-base. The bun serves as a central location, or nest, that each section of your hair will be secured to with pins.


Use a comb to create a triangular section of hair at the nape of your neck. The apex of the triangle should reach the middle of your ears.
Lightly tease and twist the triangular section of hair into a low messy bun. Secure the bun with several pins.
Separate the top layer of your hair and clip it to the top of your head. Leave out the middle layer of your hair.
Take the section of hair directly above the bun and lightly tease the roots.
Tuck the ends of the section under the bun and secure it in place with pins.
Repeat this process on the remaining sections.
Unclip the top layer of hair.
Section by section, tuck the ends of the top layer under the bun and pin them in place.
Intentionally leave out a few long strands of hair near your face. Touch up the curls if needed.
Mist your tresses with hairspray., If you have exceptionally long hair, consider braiding the bottom layer of your hair.


Divide your hair into two sections by parting your hair horizontally from ear to ear.
Secure the top layer of hair to your head.
Braid the bottom layer of your hair. Secure the ends with a rubber band.
Fold and place the braid flat against your head and pin it in place.
Unclip the top layer of your hair.
Divide the top layer into two sections and pin the top layer to your head.
Tease the loose section.
Unclip the top layer and comb it smoothly over the teased sections of your hair.
Secure all of your hair in a low, loose ponytail. Allow the hair on the sides of your head to cover your ears.
Fold and tuck the ponytail underneath itself. Pin the ponytail to your head.
Insert a pin through the rubber band and into the braid.
Spray your tresses with hairspray.