 Wooden boxes are usually a good choice. Make sure that the box is large enough to fit the entire musical mechanism, if not a little larger.


For most standard sized mechanisms, you'll need a box that is at least 2 inches (5 cm) deep, 3 inches (7.6 cm) long, and 2 inches (5 cm) wide.Larger boxes may work better since they can hold more than just the mechanism.
Wood is sturdy and relatively easy to work with, but you can experiment by choosing a box made from different materials. For instance, you could recycle an old tin or use a sturdy paper mache box.;
, Paint both the inside and outside of the box using a sponge brush and acrylic paint in any color. Allow the paint to dry completely before continuing.


This step is only necessary if the box isn't already finished and decorated. If you choose to recycle a box and like the way it already looks, you don't need to paint over it.
Apply as many coats as needed to achieve the desired look. You can technically use any type of paint that is approved for use with wood (or whichever material your box is made of). For wooden boxes, you can even use wood stain.
 Use a hot glue gun to attach square beads to each outside corner of the box base. Position each bead roughly 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) in from the surrounding edges.


The beads should be large enough to support the weight of the box. For a standard sized music box, 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) wide cubes would work well.
Make sure that the beads are already painted in a manner that coordinates with the color scheme of the box.
You can use other elements for feet if you don't like the look of square beads. Rounded beads, decorative moldings, and brass feet are a few other options.
 You can leave the outside lid plain or opt to embellish it. Since the musical mechanism won't touch the lid of the box, such decorations should not interfere with how well it works.Use stencils to paint a pretty design onto the lid.
Personalize the music box by using spray adhesive and Mod Podge to attach a laser-printed photograph to the lid.
Consider gluing a flat-backed cameo or cabochon to the center of the lid for something simple and classy.
 Place the musical mechanism onto a sheet of paper and trace around its perimeter. Use scissors to cut around this outline.


Once you cut out the template, flip over the mechanism to reveal the bottom and rest the template on top. Lightly mark the screw holes and keyhole onto the paper template using a pencil.
If you cannot see the holes through the paper template, use a small ruler to measure where they lie on the mechanism in comparison to each side. Mark dots on the template using those same measurements.
Note that some mechanisms do not have screw holes. In this instance, the key will usually be enough to hold the mechanism in place; do not attempt to create holes for screws in the mechanism since doing so could prevent the movement from working.
 Place the paper template inside the box, positioning it where you want the mechanism to sit. Use clear tape to hold the template down in its final position.


Choose an area along the base of the box, rather than using the sides or lid.
Typically, the mechanism should lie to one side of the box or in one of the back corners. If you use a small box just barely big enough to fit the mechanism itself, though, it might be better to center the mechanism inside its base.
When determining the best placement, make sure that the screw holes and keyhole will be clear of the feet you previously attached.
 Carefully drill two screw holes and one keyhole through the paper template and through the bottom of the box. Follow the markings previously made on your template to ensure correct placement.


The screw holes should each be 1/8 inch (3.175 mm), and the keyhole should be 1/4 inch (6.35 mm).
Use a hand drill to create holes in a wooden box. If you opted for a paper mache box or recycled tin, create the holes using an awl, rubber block, and hammer.
 Remove the paper template and clear away any shavings or other debris before continuing.


Small particles of debris can easily work their way into the inner workings of the musical mechanism, and if that happens, the mechanism may stop playing.
Both the box and work area must be clean before you continue. If necessary, vacuum the area before working with the mechanism.
 Use a small screwdriver to remove the screws holding the plastic casing onto the mechanism, then snap away the casing itself.


You can technically keep the casing over the mechanism, if desired, but removing it will allow you to view the movement as it plays and may create a more aesthetically pleasing result., Position the musical mechanism inside the box, directly where the template previously rested.


Carefully turn the box over to reveal its bottom. Make sure that the screw holes in the box match the screw holes in the mechanism. Likewise, the keyhole in the box should match the key hold of the mechanism, too.
 Place an 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) screw through each screw hole, then secure both screws in place. They should go through the bottom of the box and into the screw holes of the mechanism.


After you fix these screws in place, the mechanism should lie flush and secure at the base of the box without being held in place.
 Wind the key clockwise through the keyhole at the bottom of the box and into the keyhole of the mechanism.


You may feel the key "click" into place inside the mechanism. If not, simply continue winding it until the mechanism produces sound.
 Trim a thin piece of wood, making it as long as the width of the box. Sand down any rough edges.


You'll use this piece of wood to separate the mechanism from the rest of the box, thereby allowing you to use the empty portion of the box to hold trinkets.
Note that you do not need to create a divider if the box is only large enough for the mechanism and nothing else.
The wood divider should be roughly 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) thick. The width of the wood should match or exceed the height of the mechanism, but it must also be at least 1/8 to 1/4 inch (3.175 to 6.35 mm) shorter than the side of the box.
 Use hot glue or wood glue to adhere the divider to the back and front sides of the box.


Position the divider so that it lies just next to the mechanism without actually touching the movement.
Let the glue dry completely before continuing to the next step.
 Measure the compartment holding the mechanism, then score a thin piece of plexiglass to match those measurements. Snap or cut along these score marks to trim down the plexiglass.


Sand down any rough edges before installing the plexiglass cover.
The plexiglass will protect the movement from dust and debris while still allowing you to watch it as it plays. If you kept the plastic casing on the movement, however, you do not need to install a plexiglass cover.
 Use hot glue or super glue to adhere the plexiglass to the sides of the box and the divider.


Keep the plexiglass level while installing it, and make sure that it does not touch the movement or otherwise interfere with it.
Allow the glue to completely dry before handling the box further.
 Your music box should be finished at this point. To enjoy its music, simply wind the key and let it play.

