 Let your child know that patience isn’t easy and that what they are doing is difficult. You can even help them learn how to verbalize this difficulty and their frustrated emotions. This can help them understand that waiting is hard for everyone, not just them.For example, you might say, “I understand that it is difficult to wait. I know you feel frustrated. You are doing a good job being patient.”
Remember that children often struggle with delayed gratification. Helping a child express their emotions can help reduce this sense of frustration. Teach your child that while they may need to wait, their feelings are always valid.;
, Your child may be impatient because they don’t understand there are things that go on outside of what they want right that moment. Telling them to “stop” or “be quiet” when you are in the middle of something may not teach them patience. However, explaining why they need to be patient for a few minutes can help teach them that sometimes they have to wait.You can tell your child, “I cannot get you a juice box right now. I am in the middle of a conversation. Sometimes, people have to finish what they are doing before they can help you. Wait until I am finished, and I will help you.”

, When your child is patient, let them know that they have done something good. This is just as important when your child is being patient without having to be told told. Praising them for waiting calmly helps reinforce the behavior.For example, if your child draws calmly while waiting for food at a restaurant or while sitting in a waiting room, let them know you are proud of their patient behavior.
 Children are not going to naturally be good at patience. They have to practice it and get used to not getting what they want when they want it. You can help teach them patience by letting them practice the skill every day.Every day, try saying “Wait” to your child when they ask for something. You can make them wait a few minutes at first, but then make them wait longer or for more things throughout the day as they learn patience.
Older children may benefit from daily meditation. You can teach your child meditation techniques using videos, apps, or soothing music., A timer may be a good way to teach your young child about patience. You can use a sand or number timer, which gives your child something to watch as they wait. It helps them learn that there is an end to their waiting, which helps them understand that it doesn’t last forever.Timers can also help them feel in control of their patience and waiting. It helps them understand that when the timer is finished, they will have their request addressed.
 Sometimes, it is not the right time to make your child wait. Hungry, tired, and cranky toddlers may not be able to be distracted or practice their waiting skills. Try not to practice patience skills around nap or meal times., The amount of time your child can wait may vary based on their age. Older children will probably have an easier time waiting than younger ones. Don’t expect your child to sit through long movies patiently. However, you can expect them to wait a few minutes for you to finish a conversation or task.Most children can reasonably wait for a few seconds or minutes. The more they practice this and get used to waiting, the longer they will be able to wait.

