 His costume is very Edwardian and easy on the eye. It also gets the ladies. Take notes, gentlemen.
 His coat was a beige colored frock coat with red piping on the edges of his lapel, the outside of his pockets and around the cuffs.
 Davison also wore a white cricket jumper. Make sure you get it with red/navy trim near the opening, the cuffs and around the bottom of the jumper. The pattern was different in season 21 to seasons 19 and 20. However, in some stories he would wear a white waistcoat with a paisley pattern, however the jumper is more recognisable. If you plan on wearing this in hot weather, it would be advisable to get a vest instead (sleeveless jumper).
 They are a pretty unique beige and red pinstripe design, so you may need to get creative and make them from scratch. However, if you are pressed for time or money, you could get away with a pair of khakis or chinos with red pinstripes (you could easily apply these with fabric paint).
 You'll need to put question marks on the collar (one on each side). Depending upon the season or episode, the question marks look different. Again, these can be painted on with fabric paint (or take the shirt to a tailor). Look at the different serials and choose which style you like the best. He also had the piece of fabric behind the buttons coloured red, as well as the inside of his collar and the underside of his collar, although in season 21 the underside of the collar and the button placket changed to a medium green colour.
 Remember to colour the fasteners brown and put question marks on the straps and look at "Planet of Fire" for the correct pattern. However, should you be wearing the jumper the whole time, these won't be necessary.
 Davison wore white cricket trainers. If you can't find an exact match, try white Chuck Taylors/converse.
 It could be rolled up and put inside his pocket, and it was sexy enough to get the ladies.
 An important part of his costume is the signature celery in the lapel. You'll need to get a stick of fake celery and pin it to your lapel. You could use real celery, but you'll need to take it out to water it every now and then (also, it could stain your coat a little bit).


Really the only other accessory you'll need the Sonic screwdriver (even though he didn't use it very often, as it was destroyed very early in his run and wasn't seen again until the 1996 movie).
 Go off and be adventurous, and remember "Dreams are important. Never underestimate them." - The Fifth Doctor (Terminus, 1982)

