 Determine the quality of a clinic’s services by answering these questions:Were you greeted with a warm welcome?
Does the clinic see patients seven days a week?
Do they enforce positive and frequent communication with their patients?
How accessible are the doctors and nurses after hours?
How do they define success?
Is the doctor available full-time and does the doctor work in-house?
If the answers to these questions are positive and “yes,” then this might be the clinic for you.
 You can be your best advocate by becoming knowledgeable about all the treatments that are available, as well as each treatment’s pros and cons. During every appointment, take notes on what the doctor says. Afterwards, research the things you did not fully understand. Then, write up a list of questions that you would like your doctor and nurses to answer for you.If there comes a time when you seriously question your doctor’s advice after you have raised valid points and concerns, try getting a second opinion. You may need to switch doctors or clinics if you find that your doctor cannot provide adequate care and treatment.
 See if the clinic offers group support, counseling, or psychological services. Fertility treatments can be extremely stressful. Therefore, it is very helpful if a clinic has onsite psychological counseling to help you cope with the stresses of uncertainty during this difficult time.
 If you’re having second thoughts about a fertility clinic, do not feel as if you have an obligation to stick with that clinic. Remember that you always have options when it comes to choosing a fertility clinic. If you’re unsure about one fertility clinic, schedule a consultation appointment with another clinic. The doctors and the nurses at fertility clinics should make you feel comfortable, hopeful, and safe.


If you’re having second thoughts about a clinic, always communicate with your partner how you are feeling. Communication is very important during this time; perhaps your partner is having second thoughts about the clinic, as well. When choosing a clinic, make sure that you and your partner both agree that the clinic is the right one.

