 Public housing is administered by various housing agencies (HA) around the nation. You can find your nearest HA by visiting the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development’s website. Click on your state.From the list, look at the “type” column. You may see listed “Both,” “low-rent,” or “Section 8.”You should look for housing agencies that are listed as “both” or “low-rent.”
You should select an HA located in the county or metropolitan area where you want to live. This might not be the same area where you are currently living.
 You will probably have to prove how much you have made in the past. Gather copies of your most recent tax return so that the housing agency can verify your income., You will probably also need birth certificates of everyone who is living in your home. Accordingly, you should get birth certificates for yourself and all children who will live with you in the housing.


For tips on getting a birth certificate, see Get a New Birth Certificate.
 Public housing is limited to individuals and families with low incomes. The housing authority will look at your annual gross income, the size of your family, whether someone is disabled, and the citizenship or immigration status of family members when deciding whether your income is sufficiently low.Income limits vary from area to area. Generally, your income must be at 80% of the median income for the county or metropolitan area in which you choose to live. If your income is at 50% or lower of the median, then you qualify as “very low” income.
Contact your HA for information on income limits.
 The staff at the HA will help you complete an application form. To make the process go as smooth as possible, be sure to gather the following information ahead of time:your current address and telephone number
names of all people who will live in the public housing unit, including their date of birth, sex, and relationship to you as the head of the family
an estimate of your anticipated income for the next year as a family
the names and addresses of your employers
the names and addresses of your current and previous landlords
the names and addresses of any banks or financial institutions HA may need to contact
whether you are a veteran or currently living in substandard housing

, The HA might send someone out to your house to interview you and also check out how neat you keep your current home.You should prepare by cleaning your home thoroughly.


Be sure to throw out accumulated trash, piled up magazines or newspapers, and old food.
Also make sure to clean up after your pets. There should be no droppings, excessive hair, or mites/fleas in your home.
For more information, see Clean a House.
 You will receive written notification if you qualify for public housing. Depending on the need for public housing in your area, you may have to go onto a waiting list. You will be contacted when your name is reached on the waiting list.If you are denied, then you can request an informal hearing with the HA.
 You will meet with an HA representative to go over the lease and sign it. You are allowed to stay in public housing as long as you comply with your lease. A representative may also re-examine your income in the future and decide whether or not you can continue to stay in public housing.