 If you let him know how you feel by telling him that you're not ready, he should respect you and follow in your lead. This simple word may not seem like much, but believe it or not, it can have a very big impact.;
, Sometimes how you feel can be displayed with facial expressions. If he starts to do something you're uncomfortable with, look at him with a slight scowl that shows your disappointment. This will not only encourage him to respect your wishes but it also shows how your roles in the relationship are equal.
 Before you can even be put in this awkward situation, casually mention how you find it socially unacceptable to sleep with a man before marriage. Hopefully he will get the hint, and if he doesn't, keep trying. If he does get the hint he should respect your wishes.
 If he has started to go farther than you are comfortable with, tell him "If you go any further, you will ruin this relationship." Be frank and clear, and make sure that he understands you. If you look him in the eyes while you say it, there is a better chance he will listen.
 Sometimes it is hard for someone to ignore their sexual urges. Try "turning him off" by telling him your parents called and you need to call them back or they will think that something bad has happened. Do not let him persuade you into calling them later, just pick up the phone and do it without hesitation. If you don't want to call your parents but still need an excuse, just say you are on the phone with your parents and then call a friend who knows of this plan and will pretend to be your parents. Another way to "turn him off" is to eat food in a non-attractive way, also known as "stuffing your face." Turning a man off can also be done by laughing really obnoxiously so it confuses him, and distracts him from other activities. If this does not seem to work, try adding some snorts in your obnoxious laugh, as this does not seem sexy at all to him.
 If things don't seem to be getting better, simply leave or shut him out. If you're at his home, pick up your purse and just walk out of the door. If you're at your own home, demand that he leaves, or you will call the cops.
 If you really need help, tell him that it's your "time of the month". This will usually turn a man off, and he won't want to do anything. If for some strange reason it does not, tell him you need to change your tampon. You could say pad, but the word "tampon" freaks guys out more.

