;
,, Make a habit of laying them out in the same order every time. Eventually, you will instinctively know where each color is.This is especially handy if you're painting on location.
 For example: use 1/8 cup of poppy seed oil and 1/4 cup of sunflower oil.
, Mixing it with turpentine, rather than the oil, will allow it to dry faster. For the first sketch, you will need the thinned paint to dry quickly.


Raw Sienna is a great neutral color to start with and will cover easily.
Don't mix it too thin, but thin enough so that the paint flows smoothly and is transparent.
 Make sure your horizon line is correctly indicated at 1/3 or 2/3 of the way down on the canvas, depending on how much sky is in your photo.
 Use the oil mixture to mix your paints with.


To begin with, your paints are going to be fairly thin and transparent. With each subsequent layer, the paint should be thicker and the oil mixture less. In this way you will be painting fat over lean. This is very important as the first layers of paint will absorb the oil from the layers on top of them. If the top layers dry faster than the lower layers, the painting will crack.,


If there is a lot of color in your sky, just block in the main color.
, When taking a break, make sure youclean your brushes properly and take care of your paints by covering your palette and capping the oil tightly.



When anything recedes into the distance, there is atmosphere between you and that object. Therefore, there will be less detail and less color saturation in your distant objects (such as mountain and trees).
The darkest shadows will be in the foreground. Many people tend to think that the darkest shadows are in the distance. However, if you gaze carefully at any landscape you will see that because of the atmosphere, the shadows are muted compared to the shadows in the foreground.
Remember the rule of thirds. It is a compositional rule that not only helps you place your scene correctly on the canvas, but it also helps you develop a nicely balanced painting.Common among photographers, but also an essential for artists.
 Continue each time with thicker paint and more detail until your painting is finished.

