 If you don't plan on wearing any of these, you can skip this step. It might be a good idea to apply some eyeshadow primer, however; this will make the colors of your eye-shadow really stand out.


If you do decide to use eyeshadow primer, be sure to set it with some powder.
 Use a soft, fluffy eyeshadow brush to apply the shade, and a blender brush to blend it in. This is your transition shade, so it doesn't have to be heavy-handed., Choose a color that's a shade or two darker than your transition shade, and apply it using a crease brush. Blend the shade down onto your lid using a blending brush.
 You want to end up with something that looks like a < or > (depending on which eye you are working on). This will help give your eyes that smoky look, as well as give your eyeshadow more depth.
 Blend it out towards the inner and outer corners of your eye. You can also choose a light, metallic orange. This is the eye-catching part of your eyeshadow, so try to find something that screams "pumpkin spice" at you.
 You do not have to blend this shade out at much. You are using it to help brighten and open up your eyes. You could even use a metallic ivory color instead; this will help give your eyeshadow that creamy look lattes have.
 Many pumpkin spice lattes come with a swirl of whipped cream and a sprinkle of pumpkin spice. This will mimic that sprinkle of delicious pumpkin spice.
 Use a thin, angled brush to sweep it outward towards the outer corner of your eye. If your eyeshadow palette is limited, you can use the same terracotta color you used for your transition shades.
 You want to drag this line out at the corner, sort of like a cat eye or wingtip. If you were to angle a brush between the end of your eyebrow and the corner of your lip, the white eyeliner should touch the brush. This will create that frothy latte look.
 Apply some white eyeliner to your lower lash line (not the waterline). Next, extend it outwards, until it is just a little bit short than the upper white line. Don't let these two lines touch; you want some space between them., If you'd like to really make your eyes stand out, apply some false eyelashes.

