 Almonds are one of the healthiest nuts. They are not only rich in unsaturated fats and calcium, they also have plenty of vitamin E and magnesium. Simply by eating 2 ounces — or about ¼ cup — of almonds per day, you will get significant health benefits such as reducing your risk of heart disease.A handful of raw almonds and an apple is one of the most nutritional snacks you can eat.
Favor whole nuts over flaked almonds, as the almond’s skin contains compounds called flavonoids, which can help protect your heart., These highly antioxidant nuts are particularly good sources of healthy fats. Namely, walnuts are the only nut that contain a significant amount of one of the healthiest omega-3 fatty acids, alpha-linolenic acid, which has a protective effect on bone metabolism. Just an ounce will provide your daily recommended intake.Keep the skin (the waxy, flaky material on the outer surface of walnut pieces), to make sure you’re getting the healthy phenols these nuts offer.Simply chopping and adding walnuts to veggies, fruit, or any other dish is often the way to go.
You can also puree walnuts with cooked lentils, olive or flax oil, and any herbs or spices you favor to make a dip for fresh veggies.
Especially if you don’t regularly eat fish, start eating more walnuts to increase your consumption of omega-3 fatty acids and decrease your risk for cardiovascular disease., Pecans are another especially healthy nut, containing no trans fat and providing plenty of vitamins and minerals like vitamin A, vitamin E, folic acid, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, several B vitamins and zinc. They’re great for your heart, as they are known to lower cholesterol levels and prevent plaque buildup in your arteries. They also supply good amounts of the vitamins you need to access the energy provided by the food you eat.


You’ll reduce your chances of coronary heart disease by eating just one handful of pecans per day., Pistachios, for instance, are rich in vitamin B6, which is important for hormonal balance. They also contain antioxidants that help protect your eye health. Further, they are rich in potassium and fiber.Eat just three or four Brazil nuts per day to get your daily recommended amount of selenium. This mineral supports your thyroid function and immune system, among other health benefits.
Get more B vitamins, fiber, and vitamin C from chestnuts. Though lower in protein than most other nuts, chestnuts have the least amount of fat and carbs.
Macadamias are perfect for adding great flavor and texture to sweet dishes. Though they have an especially high amount of fat, they also include good amounts of magnesium, calcium and potassium.

