 Most hair products contain chemicals that are effective at cleaning your hair but may cause much damage. Some people aren't affected by these chemicals, but if you're worried about thinning hair, it's best to avoid them.


Sodium laurel and laureth sulfates are cleaning agents found in most shampoos. They strip the hair of natural oils and cause hair to weaken and fall out over time.
Choose organic products or products made with natural oils and soap agents. Check www.thegoodguide.com for detailed information about different hair products and which ones are better to use for those concerned about hair loss.;
, Our scalps produce natural oils that coat the hair and protect it from outside damage. When these oils are washed away every day, the hair becomes weaker over time.


Everyone's body is different, but most people should be able to comfortably wash their hair two to three times a week without it getting too oily. If your hair is naturally quite oily, you might want to wash it three to four times a week instead.
Washing too infrequently can also be harmful. People with thinning hair often find themselves more susceptible to dandruff and scalp conditions which can be avoided by regular (though not daily) washing.
Use a "dry shampoo" to treat your hair in between washes. It keeps it looking fresh and has the added benefit of making hair look thicker. Dry shampoo is a powder you can comb through your hair, especially around the roots, between washings.
 Chamomile, lavender, rosemary, thyme, geranium, cedarwood, almond oil, coconut oil, Indian gooseberry oil and many more, help thicken hair follicles.


Apply 10 to 20 drops of your chosen oil to your scalp, and massage the oil in with your fingers. Use you fingers to rub the oil down to the tips of your hair.
You could also mix 3 to 5 drops of essential oil into your shampoo or conditioner when washing your hair.
Deep condition your hair by adding five to 10 drops of essential oil to 3 to 4 ounces of castor oil, olive oil, jojoba oil or sunflower oil. Apply the oil to your hair, taking care to cover each strand. Wrap your hair in a towel and let the oil sit for 30 minutes, then shampoo and condition as normal.
Not just any oil will do. Research into hair thickening oils published in the Journal of Cosmetic Science shows some, like coconut oil, penetrate better than others.
 Use a wide-toothed comb instead of a brush, and work out the tangles with care, rather than pulling them through.


Be especially gentle when your hair is wet. Don't towel it dry roughly or wring it out, since this may cause some hairs to break. Use a towel to gently squeeze and pat your hair dry instead.
Avoid ponytails and other hair styles like weaves and braids that pull and stretch the strands of your hair, these can cause breakage or worse, Traction Alopecia, Use blow dryers, straight irons, and curling irons sparingly. Overusing heated hair appliances causes your hair to become dry and brittle, making it fall out much more easily.
 Avoid dyes, highlights and chemical treatments. Any type of chemical applied to your hair will damage it and dry it out. Even natural hair lightening techniques, like using lemon juice, can cause your hair to fray.
 There are many volume-boosting products on the market. Go for the ones with natural ingredients.


Wash your hair with a volumizing shampoo to add waves and volume to the crown of your head, making your hair appear fuller.
Apply a volumizing conditioner to the strands and roots of your hair every time you shampoo. Avoid putting the conditioner on the top of your head near the roots of the hair, which can make hair appear thinner by weighing it down.
Try using root lifters and volumizing sprays when styling your hair to get the fullness you are looking for.
 Cutting off dry, dead ends adds new life to hair, making it appear thicker. Short blunt cuts, such as bobs, make hair look fuller.

