 Spend some time figuring out how your final grade will be calculated. This will help you to know what you should spend the most time on.


For example, if 60 percent of your grade comes from exams, you should spend the majority of your work time studying for exams. On the other hand, if 60 percent of your grade comes from papers or other assignments, you should focus a large portion of your energy there.
In most college courses, this information should be spelled out in the syllabus.If your teacher hasn't provided this information for you in printed form or on a course website, don't hesitate to ask.
 Keep track of how well you are doing in each aspect of the class. This will give you a sense of whether or not you are passing, and again, where to focus your energies. Further, research shows that students who track their progress in class score better than those who do not.For example, if you do very well on all written assignments, but are struggling with exams, you want to consider spending less time on the homework and more time preparing for tests.
 Taking into account both the aspects of the class carry the most weight and how you are doing in different areas, focus your attention where it is most needed to ensure you will pass.


In an ideal world, every student would have time to come to every class, regularly review their notes, and do every assignment. For a variety of reasons, many students cannot. It may feel wrong to neglect certain aspects of a class in favor of others, but sometimes it's better to skip (or not dedicate much time to) one assignment in favor of another. Likewise, sometimes studying for a major exam is more important than doing a less important homework assignment.For example, imagine written assignments make 30 percent of your final grade, and you currently have an 90 percent average on your written assignments. Imagine exams make up 40 percent of your grade, and you only have a 52 percent in this area. If there's both a major exam and a written assignment due next Friday, it probably makes sense to spend the bulk of your time studying for the exam, even if that might mean skipping the written assignment entirely.

