 This is the easiest way to get rid of fresh blood, and it works well if you can catch it right away.If your stain is in a carpet, mattress, or heavy furniture that cannot be soaked, use a clean cloth or sponge to blot the stain. Don't use hot water - this could cause the blood to set in the fabric.






;
, This only works with wet blood. Before deciding to use hydrogen peroxide, note that it may bleach or weaken certain fabrics, and can cause stains itself. So use it cautiously and make sure to pretest the hydrogen peroxide on a small, inconspicuous spot on the stained item. Hydrogen peroxide can safely and effectively remove blood stains from porous surfaces like concrete.









Pour hydrogen peroxide on the stain. Dilute the hydrogen peroxide with 50% water if you are treating delicate fabrics. Take care not to let the foam spread outside the original stain area.
Replenish the hydrogen peroxide several times, as the chemical action slows and the foam becomes stable.
Wipe away the foam using a cloth and pour on a bit of hydrogen peroxide again until the stain is gone or extremely faint.
Wash the stained item with cold water and normally used soap or detergent.
You can also soak the entire garment in a bowl of hydrogen peroxide. Let it sit for 15 to 20 minutes. Remove the stained clothing from the hydrogen peroxide and rinse it out in cold water.
 Using a paste of salt and water is a great way to get rid of blood stains from items that cannot be put in the wash like mattresses.









Rinse the stain under lots of cold water. If you have access to running water, put the stain under the tap and let the cold water run through it. You will be able to wash away a lot of the blood this way. If your stain is on a carpet or a piece of heavy furniture, mix some ice and water into a bowl or bucket and take it to your stained area and blot the stain with a dish towel or a sponge.
Rub the fabric together under the water if possible to release more of the remaining stain. If you are able to treat the stain within 10 to 15 minutes of it happening, you may be able to wash it out completely. However, if you still see signs of the blood, get some salt.
Mix a little water with salt to create a paste. You want to saturate the stain with salt, so the amount of paste you will need depends on the size of your stain.
Rub the salt and water paste onto the stained area. The abrasiveness of the salt granules and their dehydrating properties will loosen the remaining blood stain and draw it out of the fibers.
Rinse the salt away with more cold water. Check if the stain is gone.
When the stain is gone or you can't wash away any more of it, put the fabric into a normal wash cycle with laundry detergent.
If the stained item cannot be put in the wash, use as much cold water as needed to rinse away the blood and salt.
 Sometimes you don't have hydrogen peroxide or salt on hand. This method is similar to the salt method, but instead of salt, you rub soap or shampoo directly into the stain. If you are using this method on carpets, mattresses or furniture it's important not to use too much soap, since it's difficult to wash it out.









Soak the stained area in cold water.
Rub a generous amount of soap or shampoo right onto the stain.
Scrub the area hard between your fists, with your palms facing each other.
Work up a good lather. Add more water if needed.
Rinse in cold water and repeat until the stain and the lather are gone. Do not use hot water. Hot water makes the stain set in.
 Mix 1 tablespoon of ammonia with 1/2 cup of cold water and pour it on more stubborn stains. When the stain is gone, rinse with more cold water. Avoid using ammonia on linen, silk or wool.








