 Your thoughts can change your feelings (loneliness, depression) and behaviors (how well we cope). If you think negatively about being alone, you will most likely have negative feelings about it. However, if you embrace being alone you may be able to better cope with it and reduce your loneliness overall.


Use positive self-talk. For example, tell yourself that being alone can be a good thing. Tell yourself, "It's okay to be alone. I like my own company." This can help you build up your tolerance to being alone.
When you find yourself thinking negatively about being alone such as, "I hate being alone. I'm so lonely. This is terrible," think of some alternative thoughts that might be more realistic and helpful. For example, you could think or tell yourself, "I can deal with being alone. I feel lonely but I know I can cope with it. It's not so bad. Alone time can be a positive thing.";
, Studies show that how you think about yourself in relation to others has an impact on your level of loneliness.Fear of rejection can discourage social activity and increase feelings of loneliness.


If you are thinking you are inferior, this may lead to worrying about social interactions. Remind yourself that we are each different but equal. You are worthy.
Expect positive outcomes instead of negative ones when interacting with others.Think of alternative ways that the situation might pan out. For example, perhaps the person will like you! It may not always turn out as badly as you think it will.
 Animals are the next best thing to humans. There is a reason some therapeutic treatments involve therapy dogs or nature-related activities. Research suggests that being in nature or around animals can give you sense of calm and reduce loneliness.Get a dog, cat, or any other pet (fish, hamster, etc). However, don't overload yourself with too many pets that are difficult to manage. Make sure you identify first what you are prepared to take care of (a fish vs. a dog can be a big difference). If you've never owned a pet before, start small.
If you cannot get a pet, go to the pet store and spend some time with the animals. You could also visit a zoo, or offer to watch a friend’s pet for the weekend.
 When alone, reading can give you a sense of social connection and help combat loneliness.You can connect with the author or characters in the book. Reading can also transport you to another place and distract you momentarily from feeling lonely.Read as much as possible, because reading not only calms you but also helps keep your mind fresh and active.


Pick a novel that you can read for pleasure.
Choose a genre that you enjoy such as adventure, fantasy, or sci-fi.
You can even read a magazine.
Many books are available online as well.

