 There are a lot of fraudulent lenders on the market, so go into your search with extreme skepticism. You need a lot of hard evidence of a company's legitimacy before agreeing to do business with that company.Get the lender's phone number from an online source or the phone book and call to make sure they really are who they claim to be.
Ask for the lender's physical address and use that to search for reviews online. Don't do business with them if they refuse to give you an address.
Check with the Better Business Bureau (BBB) to see if the lender is registered in your state. If they are not, or have a poor BBB rating, avoid them.Search for the lender online. If others have fallen prey to a scam, odds are they have posted about it online.
Homeowners looking for help with mortgage payments should be particularly skeptical. A lot of fraudulent companies mimic government websites in order to lure victims, so do a lot of research when seeking out help for mortgage payments.
Always assume there's a possibility a company could be fraudulent before engaging in business with that company. Never assume a company is legitimate just because it claims affiliation with a particular agency. Research the company to make sure that connection is real.;
, Call your the Attorney General’s Office or your Department of Banking or Financial Regulation. Give them the name of the company you're working with, and ask if it's registered in your state. In the United States, lenders are required to be registered in the states where they conduct business. An unregistered lender is likely a scammer.If the lender is registered, look them up on the Better Business Bureau. Make sure they have a solid rating. Even if a lender is registered, they could still conduct scams. It is dangerous to work with a business with a lot of complaints filed against them.
You should also look up the company on the Federal Trade Commission's website. They can also provide you with information on a company's reputation and legitimacy.
 If you are searching for a mortgage lender, you should look for them on government-affiliated websites. You can gauge if a company is officially associated with the government based on its URL. Companies whose URL's end in ".gov" are vastly more likely to be legitimate than other websites. Go for these companies when selecting a lender. The Making Home Affordable official website, as well as the website of Housing and Urban Development, both have a ".gov" URL., The adage "If it seems too good to be true, it probably is" is particularly apt when dealing with lenders. You should not work with a company that offers quick and easy fixes to difficult financial issues.


Modifying a loan or stopping a foreclosure is a difficult process. There is never a guarantee that an attempt to do so will be successful. Therefore, companies that claim such promises are likely fraudulent.
"Money-back" should also be avoided. Most legitimate companies do not charge for things like loan modifications, so there should be no need to get your money back.
 Such claims are often dubious. A lot of businesses make false claims of being government backed to look legitimate. Research companies who make these claims to make sure they are not fraudulent.


Your mortgage lender can tell you if you qualify for assistance through any government program. If you're looking for help from the government, go to your lender before seeking out outside companies.
 A company that asks for personal information up front is suspicious. A legitimate lender will understand most people are uncomfortable offering personal information over the phone, and should not pressure you to do so.You should only give personal information to companies you trust. Never give out personal information until you have made sure a company is legitimate.
The same holds true on the internet. Never give personal information over the internet unless you are sure the lender is legitimate and your connection is secure. Look for the green lock symbol in your browser's address bar. This means that your connection is secure.
Fraudulent companies may ask for things like bank account and credit card information, as well as information like your social security number. You should not give out information unless it's made clear why that information is necessary.
 Any legitimate company should have a physical office. When you ask for a physical location, a representative should have no trouble providing this information. If a company dodges questions about their physical location, do not work with this company., A legitimate company will need to see a credit report prior to making a deal with a client. A company that is going to lend you actual money will want some evidence you can repay them down the road. A company that is not worried about credit is probably fraudulent.Watch out for ads that say stuff like, "Bad credit? No problem!" You should also be suspicious of a company that promises to give out loans to anyone.
When meeting with a representative, expect to be asked about your credit history and asked to provide personal information so that a credit report can be obtained. Never supply personal information before being confident that the lender is legitimate.
 You should not have to pay an application fee when applying for a loan. Fraudulent companies are looking to get money out of people fast. One way to do this is to ask for an application fee.When meeting with a representative, ask if there is an application fee. If the answer is not "No," you should look for a different company.
Companies often try to hide application fees by referring to them by different terms. For example, say you ask about an application fee and the agent replies, "There is no application fee, but there is a small processing fee." Understand a processing fee is more or less the same thing. You should find a different company.
 You can get a sense of a company's legitimacy based on the salesperson's tactics. Lenders make money off of the interest accrued on loans. They will want to know about a bit about you before signing an agreement. They will provide you with a variety of quotes and information on loan rates before following up later. Fraudulent lenders tend to be more high pressure. They are likely to want to pressure you into an agreement on the first meeting.A suspicious lender is likely to present you with application papers on the first meeting. They may pressure you to fill them out if you express hesitance, or ask for time to think it over.
A fraudulent lender will be trying to sell you something rather than help you pay off a loan. Instead of answering questions to assess whether their company meets your needs, they will try to convince to reach an agreement right away.
 Money wiring is almost always a bad sign. There are very strict mail fraud laws in the United States. To avoid government tracking, scammers will find other ways to gain access to your money. Under no circumstances should you work with a company that wants you to wire them money.Money wiring is very difficult to trace, especially money wired from one individual to another. Never wire money, as you could end up having your money stolen and be unable to track down the scammer.
 A legitimate lender will never want you to take over your mortgage or the title on your home. Companies will often advertise themselves as "foreclosure rescuers" and ask that you transfer your titles to them. A scammer will offer to buy your home and allow you to stay as a renter. However, as soon as you sign your title over to a scammer, they can evict you at any time., There are several items that a loan document should always include. For example, the following information should be clearly stated: loan amount, annual percentage rate (APR), repayment schedule, default provisions, and any other special conditions. If any important details are left out, you may be dealing with a scammer., You do not want to end up getting roped into a high interest loan, or a loan with hidden costs. Scammers may also stealthily put in a clause that transfers ownership. Take a few days to read an agreement thoroughly prior to signing.It may be a good idea to have a legal professional look over a document, especially if you're unfamiliar with legal documents.
Never sign anything you don't understand or that is conflict with the terms previously agreed upon.
 If you suspect a company is conducting a scam, report them. You have an obligation to prevent other people from falling victim to a loan scam.You should file a complaint with both the Federal Trade Commission, and the Internet Crime Complaint Center.
Contact a number of major credit reporting bureaus, and provide them the name of the fraudulent company.
If you gave over information to a fraudulent company, make sure to check your credit report, bank statements, and credit card statements regularly. You want to make sure a company is not spending your money.

