 Due to their size, dwarf hamsters can easily get lost in your home. They can be very difficult to find if they escape. They are also highly susceptible to injury if stepped on or attacked by another pet. Therefore, never allow your dwarf hamster out of his cage without supervision.


Many hamster owners get what is called a hamster ball. This is a sealable plastic ball you can place your hamster in. Your hamster will be able to run around your home with the ball as protection. However, you should never leave your dwarf hamster unsupervised in a hamster ball. Hamster balls can break, allowing your hamster to escape.
 A dwarf hamster will live for one to two years on average. if you want to make sure your dwarf hamster is healthy for most of his life, watch for signs of illness. Certain medical issues should be evaluated by a veterinarian.


Check your hamster's eyes and nose once a week. Hamsters are prone to colds, marked by wetness and discharge around the nose. Eye infections sometimes occur in dwarf hamsters, although they're more common in Winter Whites than Russian Campbells. It's still a good idea to occasionally check your hamster's eyes for discharge. An eye infection should be evaluated by a vet.You should also look at your hamster's bottom once in awhile. Staining, loose stools, or a wet tail can indicate diarrhea. Female hamsters may develop infections in the womb, marked by a foul odor and discharge from the area above the anus. Diarrhea and other infections require a trip to the vet.As your hamster gets older, it's not uncommon for his fur to get patchy in places. However, in a younger dwarf hamster bald spots, rashes, and scaly skin may be a sign of an allergy or a mite infestation. Take your hamster to the vet if you notice such changes.When handling your hamster, feel for any lumps and bumps. Benign cysts are common in hamsters but, in rare cases, a lump could be cancerous. New lumps should be evaluated by a vet as soon as possible., Dwarf hamsters are usually high energy. They're prone to sudden bursts of movement. They also chew, dig, and make nests frequently. Dwarf hamsters groom themselves a lot, so it's not uncommon to see a dwarf hamster licking or scratching frequently. If you notice a lack of grooming, a dip in energy, and a disinterest in chewing and digging, take your hamster to see a vet. Abnormal behavior can be the sign of a medical condition.However, there is one exception. If your dwarf hamster is on the older side, you can expect him to slow down with age. This is generally not a sign something is wrong. If your dwarf hamster is older than a year or a year and a half, it's normal for him to be less high energy., Hamsters can develop diabetes. The first sign is usually an increase in water consumption. If you suddenly notice you're filling up your hamster's water bottle more than usual, make an appointment with a vet to have your hamster checked for diabetes.