 Regular daily use of your feet will produce calluses and blisters, which are mainly made up of dead skin. To keep your feet baby soft, remove this dead skin everyday after you’ve had a shower or a bath.Use a pumice stone or foot file to remove the dead skin from your feet. Concentrate on the edges of your heels, the balls of your feet, and the outside edges of your large toes. This areas are more likely than others to build up with dead skin.
Pumice stones and foot files work like sandpaper. The coarse or rough surface of the stone or file slow (and gently) removes any dead skin cells from the outside layers of your skin.It’s usually easier to remove dead skin after your feet have had a chance to soak in warm water, which is why it’s best to perform this step after a shower or a bath.
Use a circular motion when rubbing either a pumice stone or foot file on your skin. You’ll only need to perform this step for a few minutes on each foot.
If you’ve never exfoliated your feet before, it may take several days of performing this step before your feet feel baby soft.;
, Unlike other parts of your body, your feet don’t have sufficient means to keep themselves properly hydrated. Plus, as we age, skin cell regeneration slows down and can increase skin dryness. To help keep your feet hydrated and feeling baby soft, apply a moisturizing lotion or cream to your feet every day.Ideally you can perform this step after you’ve had a shower or bath and exfoliated your feet. But you can also get into the habit of applying moisturizer to your feet every night before bed.
Remember that lotion and cream can make your feet slippery, so be careful if you step onto a tiled or hardwood floor with your bare feet after applying moisturizer.
 An important part of your feet are your toenails. So getting baby soft feet should also include getting soft, non-brittle nails. You can do this by applying petroleum jelly to your toenails each night before you go to bed.While not required, you may wish to put socks on over your feet after you’ve applied the petroleum jelly so it doesn’t rub off on your sheets before it’s had a chance to soak in.
 Hot water, in general, isn’t that great for your skin. The high temperatures can cause your skin to dry more quickly than using warm or even cold water. In order to prevent the skin on your feet (and the rest of your body) from drying out, shower and bathe in warm water instead of hot water. And if you soak your feet, use warm or cool water.