 In most states, a debt isn’t yours unless it is in your name. For example, if Jane and Joe are married, Jane can run up the bills on a credit card in her name and Joe isn’t responsible. However, nine states are “community property” states, and debts incurred during marriage are generally both spouse’s responsibility on divorce. The following are community property states:Alaska (optional)
Arizona
California
Idaho
Louisiana
Nevada
New Mexico
Texas
Washington
Wisconsin

, Generally, any debt incurred before marriage is yours alone. However, if you took out debt after your marriage and before divorce or separation, then it will be a community property debt.


States differ depending on when the marriage ends. In Wisconsin, for example, the marriage ends with the final divorce decree. In Washington, however, the marriage ends when you are living separately with no intention of reconciliation.If you are splitting up, consult with a divorce attorney before taking out a loan. Depending on the timing, you might be creating a debt for your spouse as well.
 The easiest way to protect your spouse’s credit is to pay off all joint debts before tackling any individual debt that you have. If necessary, freeze your credit cards so that you don’t incur any more debt. Contribute as much excess cash as you can to pay down debts quickly.
 Depending on your state, debts might be divided 50/50 (as in California), or the judge might have discretion to provide an unequal distribution (as in Texas).However, credit card companies are not bound by your divorce decree, and they might still go after your ex-spouse.Regardless of what the judge decides, you can voluntarily assume responsibility for debts by transferring them to a credit card in your name after you divorce. Use a balance transfer and relieve your ex-spouse of responsibility.
Don’t transfer too early. Consult with a lawyer about when community property ends in your state.
 You can provide added protection to an ex-spouse in your divorce settlement agreement. By providing indemnity, you agree to reimburse your ex-spouse for any expenses if a creditor comes after them for a debt.Unless you transfer the debts into your name (using a balance transfer or debt consolidation), your ex-spouse will still take a credit hit if you default on the debts. The indemnification clause can’t protect against that.

