 In order to be independent, children need to be able to make decisions for themselves. You can help your child become confident with their decision making abilities, by allowing them to make small decisions while they are young. This teaches them that you value their opinion. As kids get older they will begin to make decisions on their own.


For a young child you could give two lunch options and ask which one they want. This allows you to control the situation, but still gives the child the opportunity to feel involved in the decision-making process.
For older children you can increase the importance of the decisions they make. For example, allow them to choose their extra curricular activities, or what courses they will take in high school. You can help guide them through the decisions by weighing out the pros and cons.
 When you are teaching your child to make decisions, you need to explain to them the consequences of their decisions. This will help guide your child to make good choices as opposed to rash decisions. As long as the decision will not impact the health and safety of the child, you should let them make bad choices, so that they can get a better understanding of the consequences.For example, if a young child wants to take ten dollars to school to buy a snack, you could suggest only taking 5 dollars because they may lose some of their money.
This way you are providing them with the potential consequences of making that decision, but ultimately leaving the choice to the child.
 Alone time is important for the development of independence in your child, primarily because it allows your child the freedom to problem solve and make decisions without your input or guidance. It also allows your child to become comfortable without having a parent around.For a young child, you can give structured alone time. For example, set up their toys in the living room and tell them to play independently while you make dinner. This will give them an opportunity to gain comfort on their own in a safe and controlled setting.
For older kids you can let them walk or ride their bike to school alone or with a friend. Make sure they understand all safety rules. This will help them feel more independent outside of the home.
For young teenagers you can try leaving them home alone. Begin by leaving them for short periods of time (10-20 minutes) and then you can increase the time as they become more comfortable.

