, Once you are inside the official Rockstar Games website, browse through the tabs on top and select “Downloads.”

, After selecting the Downloads, scroll down the page and find “Games for PC & Mac”, which is just under the Mobile Games category.
 As soon as you select the website’s list of games for the PC, you will immediately find GTA V on the first row of the choices of games. At the moment, a PC download is only available for the PC.
 After selecting GTA 5, you will be shown a description of the game. Just below that description, you will see three tabs which are links to three different sites wherein you may officially purchase the game: (1) Download through Rockstar Warehouse, (2) Download through Steam, and (3) Download through Amazon.
 Once you click the Rockstar Warehouse option, you will automatically be redirected to the website where you can download the game. Select “PC Download” from the list of game platforms available.


After choosing the PC Download, and checking all the other details of the game, click “Add to Basket” to proceed with the purchase.
You will be asked to login your credentials for the Rockstar Warehouse site. If you do not have an account, you may also sign up at this point.
As soon as you are done logging in, or creating, your account, select a desired payment method. You can either pay through PayPal or by simply registering your credit card information at the Rockstar Warehouse site. Once this is done, simply wait for your download (65GB) to begin.
 After selecting the “Steam” download option at the Rockstar Games site, you will be transferred to the official Steam website for GTA V. Scroll a bit down and click on “Add to Cart,” which is a green rectangular button just below the game’s video screen.


Log into your Steam account when prompted. If you do not have an account at this time, you there is an option to create one for you to select.
After logging into your account, verify all the other details of the game (software requirement, download size, price, etc.). Once you are done checking out all the necessary information, you select the payment option you want to use in purchasing the game. After that, just wait for your download to begin, which will require 65GB of hard drive space.
 After select “Amazon” as the purchase site, you will be asked for the game platform. Select “PC Download.” You will then be shown the details of the game(download size, restrictions, etc.), read and review them before proceeding. Once that you are ready to download the game, proceed with your purchase by selecting “Add to Cart.”


Since you came from the Rockstar website, you will still probably have to log into your Amazon account at this point. Do so, or create an Amazon account if you don’t have one.
After logging in, or creating, your account, select a payment method. You can choose to pay through PayPal or through your pre-registered credit card information. You can also register a credit card if you don’t have one registered to Amazon yet.
When you are done choosing a payment facility and have confirmed your purchase, just wait for the 65GB download to begin.

