 At this meeting, everyone in the family will be able to express an opinion about the vacation. Even if the child is too young to participate, just being at the meeting will make them feel included.You might announce the meeting by saying, "We're trying to come up with ideas for our next vacation, and we want everyone's input."
You can have this meeting during dinner or another communal family activity, or you can call a special meeting when everyone is home after school and work.;
, If you don’t have any plans for your next vacation, try asking your child if they have anywhere they want to go. Younger children might give you some idea of activities while older children and teenagers can come up with creative ideas for destinations.To younger children, you might just say, “If you could visit anywhere, where would you go?” If they come up with a good idea, you can say, “We’ll consider that for our next vacation.”
To older children and teenagers, you can say, “We’re trying to think of ideas for our next family vacation. Do you have any opinions?” If they come up with something that is unreasonable, you can say, “That sounds fun, but I think that might be a little out of our price range.”

, If you already have a few places in mind, you should give the child two or three options. Ask them which they would prefer for the next family vacation. This will give the child some control while still letting you choose the destination.You can say, “Would you rather go camping in the woods this summer or visit the beach?”
If you have a very specific destination in mind, you should still phrase it as a question. Instead of saying, “We’re going to New York City this summer,” you can say, “We were thinking about visiting New York this summer. How do you feel about that?”

, Older children and teenagers can use the internet to read up about different potential options. Tell them to spend some time researching before reporting back to the family.You can say, “Why don’t you go online and compare the different options? See what looks more fun to you.”
Ask everyone to contribute two or three different options. You can discuss them together at another family meeting.
With younger children, you can sit at a computer and research ideas together. Explain the different activities to the child.