 The things that you know how to do well may be a good way for you to help someone. Consider your talents and any special skills that you possess and that you could put to use to help someone. Some things that might be useful to others include:


Knowledge of tax preparation to help someone do their taxes.
Writing abilities to help someone craft a good resume.
Knowledge of a subject to help someone prepare for a test.
Knowledge of home repairs to help someone fix something in their home.;
, If you have the financial freedom to help someone with things like food, rent, utility costs, or other necessities, then this may also be a great way to help.Think about your financial situation and figure out how much money you could potentially give someone who is in need of help.


For example, if you usually have enough money left over from your basic expenses to save $200.00, then you might consider using this money to help someone buy groceries or pay their heating bill for one month.
Don’t worry if you do not have much money to help someone with. Even a small amount, such as $5.00 may be a huge help to someone. However, there are other ways to help if you can’t give money at all.
 Owning certain resources may give you opportunities to help people in need. Take stock of what you own that might be useful to someone else. Some things you might use to benefit someone else include:


A spare room in your home.
Extra clothes and shoes that you can loan or donate to someone.
A car that you can use to provide transport for someone who is without a means of transportation.
A lawnmower to help someone care for his or her lawn.
 You might have some other ways that you can help someone who is in need of help. Try to think about any other skills or assets that you can use to benefit others. Some other ways you might help someone include:


Spending some of your spare time with someone who is lonely, such as an elderly friend or relative who is living alone or in a nursing home.
Offering to run errands for someone who is housebound.
Providing free child care to a single mother who cannot afford a babysitter.

