 Before reinstalling Chrome, you'll want to uninstall the original copy. You can do this from the Control Panel:


Windows 10 and 8.1 - Right-click the Windows button and select "Control Panel."
Windows 8 - Press ⊞ Win+X and select "Control Panel."
Windows 7 and Vista - Open the Start menu and select "Control Panel.";
, The wording will vary depending on your current view mode. This will open a list of your installed programs.
 By default, the list should be organized in alphabetical order.
 You'll find the Uninstall button above the list of programs after selecting one.
 This will ensure that all of your data is deleted completely before installing a fresh copy of Chrome.
 To completely eradicate Chrome data, you'll need to enable viewing of hidden files:


Open the Control Panel and select Folder Options.
Click the View tab and check "Show hidden files, folders, and drives."
Uncheck "Hide protected operating system files."

, Now that hidden files are visible, find and delete the following folders on your computer:C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Google\Chrome
C:\Program Files\Google\Chrome
XP only: C:\Documents and Settings\<username>\Local Settings\Application Data\Google\Chrome


, Open Internet Explorer or another installed browser and visit google.com/chrome.
 This will take you to the Chrome download page.
 This should download the correct version for Windows.


By default, Chrome will download the 32-bit version of the browser. If you'd like to use the 64-bit browser on your 64-bit system, select "Download Chrome for another platform" and select "Windows 10/8.1/8/7 64-bit."

, Chrome will display the terms of use for the browser. Chrome will also set itself as the default browser after installation, which you can change by unchecking the box.
 You may see a few small windows open and close.
 This will allow your computer to download the installation files from Google.
 The necessary files will download and Google Chrome's installer will begin. This installer will download more files, and then begin installing Chrome once the download is finished.


If you are having problems running the online installer, download and run the alternate installer from Google.
 When you launch Chrome after installing, you may be prompted to select your default browser. Choose Chrome or any other installed web browser on the list to make it the default browser for your computer.
 After the Chrome window opens, you'll be taken to the sign in page. Signing into Chrome with your Google account allows you to sync your bookmarks, extensions, themes, saved passwords, and form data. This is not required in order to use Chrome.

