 An overactive bladder (OAB) is a syndrome which leads to an immediate and unstoppable need to urinate.Common symptoms of the syndrome include:Urinary urgency (primary symptom)
Urgency incontinence (not making it to the toilet quickly enough)
High urinary frequency and nocturia (getting up at night to go)

, Your doctor will help you officially diagnose OAB as the underlying cause. Only 2% of men who suffer from OAB experience regular symptoms of incontinence, so your doctor will want to exhaust other potential causes.Your doctor will likely perform a physical exam, as well as ordering urinalysis to test your urine and potentially even a cystoscopy in complicated cases.Findings also suggest the overactivity of the detrusor muscle, which is found in the wall of the bladder., Treatment involves behavioral therapy with a timed-voiding regimen. A timed voiding regimen involves going to urinate at set times—for example, every four hours—whether or not you actually feel the need to empty your bladder.


This is a bladder retraining regimen, and a form of cognitive behavior therapy. Trying to train the bladder to empty at certain times to prevent incontinence.
A recent report has shown that biofeedback-assisted behavioral therapy (timed voiding) was shown to be superior to pharmacologic therapy with Oxybutynin or placebo in patients receiving treatment for detrusor instability.Biofeedback is when a patient is attached to some electrodes that measure their subjective, unconscious physiologic responses. That way they can see in plain sight when their body is having a physiologic response (such as the urge to urinate, and attend to their needs) versus a “false alarm.” This ability to see factual data rather than guessing increases their accuracy of judging their bodies cues.
 There are some pharmacologic interventions, specifically Ditropan, which is dosed as 5 mg twice daily or 5 mg extended release tablet once daily. Combination therapies, using combination of behavioral, pharmacologic, and biofeedback are common.