 A cat in shock might not recognize their surroundings or housemates. They might also stagger or fall from being off balance. Their energy level could range from low to non-existent. They won't respond if you try to play with them or open a can of food., The normal heart rate for adult cats is 110-130 beats per minute (bpm). For kittens, it's 180-220 bpm.Cats in the early stages of shock might have an abnormally high heart rate. It might then slow to a weak, slow rate. If your cat has no pulse, administer CPR immediately.To check your cat's pulse, place your hand on their chest just behind the left elbow. Count each heartbeat for 15 seconds. Multiply that number by four., On average, healthy cats take 16 to 40 breaths per minute. A cat in shock will take more than 40 breaths per minute. However, the breaths will be shallow. If your cat stops breathing, perform CPR immediately.To calculate your cat's breathing rate, count the number of times your cat's chest rises (inhaling) or falls (exhaling) in 15 seconds. Multiply that number by four. Don't count both rising and falling, as this will give you an inaccurate rate., Cats in shock experience a drop in body temperature. Feel your cat's limbs and the underside of their paws. If they feel cold to the touch, wrap your cat in a towel or blanket. Call the vet immediately., When a cat is in shock, blood will be drawn away from their nose and tongue. This causes both sources of exposed skin to become pale. Their gums will darken to a dark pink at first. As blood withdraws from the area, the gums will turn gray or white., Press your finger against your cat's gums for a second. When you remove it, you should see a white patch where your finger was. If it takes more than two seconds to become pink again, your cat's blood circulation is abnormally low. Call your vet immediately., If your cat has experienced prolonged vomiting or diarrhea, they might be dehydrated. Gently take the skin between your cat's shoulder blades and pull it upward. The skin should fall back into place after you release it. If it fails to fall back after two seconds, your cat is likely dehydrated and needs immediate veterinary attention., Shock can kill quickly. Immediately after your cat has sustained a major injury, such as being hit by a car or receiving a deep cut, take them to your vet or local animal hospital. Do this even if your cat seems okay following the incident.

If shock comes about as the result of heat exhaustion or allergies, seek out your vet as soon as your cat starts to act lethargic or confused. When shock is caught in its early stages, your cat will have a better chance of survival., If your cat has sustained a wound, apply direct pressure to slow or stop the bleeding. Wrap the wound in sterile gauze. If you don't have access to gauze, use a clean towel to wrap the wound.Avoid hydrogen peroxide or rubbing alcohol. These substances can damage the injured skin even further.If you think your cat might have a fractured bone, cover it with a towel., Cover them with a blanket. This will keep them warm en route to the vet's office or animal hospital. Keep their head at a lower level than their heart by placing towels under their torso. This will direct blood flow to their brain., Check for a build-up of secretions around your cat's nose and mouth. Clear them away with your hand or a towel. Make sure nothing covers their mouth or nose., If your cat is lethargic or losing consciousness, they can choke on food or water. Even if they're still fully alert, they could still start vomiting, which could speed up dehydration. Your vet will administer food and water once your cat is stabilized., Cats recovering from shock usually have to stay at the vet's office or animal hospital for several days. However, it's important to their recovery that they see familiar faces and hear familiar voices. Talk to your cat and pet them often to reduce their stress., If your cat is recovering from a fracture or surgery, you'll have to reduce the likelihood of a relapse after they come home. Keep them in the smallest room you have. Clear away any furniture and block access to window sills that your cat would like to jump on., Follow the dosing instructions on the package. Don't stop giving your cat their medicine at the first sign of improvement. If the vet gives you a 14-day dosage, give the cat the medicine for the full 14 days., Change the dressing as directed by your vet. Administer any topical medications that your vet prescribes. Check the wound and/or stitched area for redness, swelling, bleeding, discharge, or a foul odor. These could indicate infection. If you notice any of these side effects, call your vet immediately., Any injury from a burn to a broken bone to a hit-and-run can throw your cat into a state of shock. Injured cats might seem okay at first, but shock can set in quickly and cause rapid deterioration in your cat's health. Don't leave anything to chance. When in doubt, get your cat to your vet or nearest animal hospital., Poisoning is another trauma that can trigger shock. Various plants, foods, and medications can poison your cat. The American Association for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) has developed an exhaustive list of these potential toxins.Replace any toxic plants with non-toxic alternatives. Keep medications in child-safe bottles or securely sealed in pill sorters. Store toxic foods like chocolate, citrus fruits, and avocados in the fridge., Dehydration can bring on shock. Make sure your cat has a constant supply of water throughout the day. Top off the water bowl before you leave for work and go to bed.

If your cat experiences heavy vomiting or diarrhea, they could become dehydrated. Contact your vet if vomiting doesn't clear up after 24 hours or if diarrhea doesn't stop after 48 hours., Heat stroke and car accidents are common incidents that can trigger shock. Cats who live indoors don't face these dangers. If you must take your cat outside, keep them in a cat crate or securely wrapped in a towel.