 If you are using pillar candles, use both short and tall ones. This will make your mantle look more interesting. Also, try to use a color that contrasts with the mantle, or the wall behind it. For example, if you have a dark-colored mantle, use white or ivory candles. If you have a white mantle, use pink candles for a softer look, or red candles for a romantic look.


Red, pink, and white/ivory are typical Valentine's day colors. You can also use gold or silver.
 If you can't find any red or pink candles, but don't want to use plain white candles, you can always dress up what you have. Wrap some twine or thick lace around the middle of a candle, and secure it with a piece of clear tape or a drop of glue. Stick a heart-shaped button or sticker in the middle.You can also wrap strips of double-sided tape around a candle, and then roll the candle around in glitter. Use Valentine's day colors, such as pink, red, gold, or silver. You can match the glitter to the candle color, or use a contrasting color, such as gold glitter on a red candle.
 This is great for those who have plain candles and don't feel like decorating them. It can turn a plain set of candles into Valentine's day ones with little effort. Place your pillar candles on the base first. Next, scatter some conversation hearts or glass marbles across the base, between the candles.


Use Valentine's day colors for the glass marbles, such as red, pink, silver, and gold.
 Fill a shallow, glass bowl with water, and add some floating candles. For some more color, scatter some red or pink glass marbles across the bottom of the bowl. You can use ordinary white floating candles or rose-shaped ones (in red, pink, white, gold, or silver).


For a twist on the floating candle, consider using a tall, cylindrical vase or a mason jar instead of a glass bowl. Fill the vase or jar almost to the top with water, and add the candle.
 You can also use other vase fillers as well, such as conversation hearts or glass marbles in pink, red, or clear. Try to use a contrasting color for the candle, so if you are using pink filler, use a white candle. For a finishing touch, wrap some pink or red ribbon around the middle of the vase, and tie it in a bow.To use less filler: place a small can inside the vase, and stick the candle on top. Fill the space around the can with filler, all the way up to the top of the can. When you are done, the can should not be visible.

