


Do not think about what you don't want, or dwell on past occurrences, because if you only think about all the bad things that have happened to you, or the bad things that you think are going to happen to you, then you'll only get more of the bad things you don't want to happen.
Thinking things such as, "I don't want this to happen..." or, "This will not happen..." or, "This is happening now, but it wont happen again..." is not acceptable. You are not pushing the bad circumstances away, or stopping them from happening. If anything, you are actually attracting the bad circumstances to you. The law of attraction sees that you are thinking about, not about how you don't want it, just that you are thinking about it, and the law of attraction will give you whatever it is you're thinking about.;
, This is the hardest part for most people to understand. It's also incredibly hard to learn how to use, but its not impossible and is totally worth it. As was just mentioned, this step is the hardest part for people to learn, but it's also the most important part. Applying the law of attraction to your life will be unsuccessful if you do not know how to manipulate your bad feelings into good feelings.


If you're feeling good emotions like happiness, love, excitement, gratitude, passion, joy, hope, and satisfaction, then your thoughts will be positive and positive things will happen to you. But if you're feeling bad emotions such as anger, fear, resentment, depression, hate, revenge, and guilt, then your thoughts will be negative and negative things will happen to you.
If you're feeling those good and positive emotions and something negative happens to you, then you have to be able to control your emotions and not let that negative thing that has happen to you, affect your emotions. There's an easy answer to how to keep your feelings positive: you need to think positive thoughts! So, what is a positive thought? It is a good feeling and realistic thought, which you believe in. Of course, it can take time to find such a thought and you may have to apply it over and over again until you think it habitually, if this is your desire, but in any given situation, we can find positive thoughts. Just don't expect that you will feel great all the time, because that is just not possible and not how life is.
For example: In the morning, if you start out having a good day and as long as you don't allow anything to change that feeling/mood, then you will continue to attract more situations/circumstances/people that sustain that happy feeling. Same thing happens if you wake up in a bad mood. If you start out having a bad day and do not alter your mood, then you will only attract more bad and unhappy situations/circumstances/people.
What is about to be said is very important, and you need to fully understand. The way you feel is everything. It is the key to applying the law of attraction. If what you desire is to be healthy, then you have to feel as if you are already healthy. Not wishing to be healthy or hoping to someday be healthy, but actually feel as if you are already healthy, even if you are not. You have to continue thinking and feeling this way all the time. You have to commit to the feeling of already being healthy. If you do not commit to it, then it will be a waste of time and nothing will change.
If what you desire is something tangible like a new car, then you have to feel as if you already have that new car. Not wishing you owned the car or hoping that someday you will eventually own the car, but actually feeling as if you already own that vehicle, even if you do not own it. You have to continue thinking and feeling this way all the time. You have to commit to the feeling of already having that new car. If you do not commit to it, then it will be a waste of time and you might as well just go back to wishing and hoping you had that car and never do anything about it.
Once you realize that the way you feel is everything and you begin to direct your thoughts based on how they feel, little by little you can find the feeling place of what it is you desire and it'll manifest into your experience.
 Begin to speak as if what you want is already coming to you, or is already part of your experience.
 It is a declaration. A declaration begins the process of creating. Be sure whatever follows "I am..." is indeed what you want in the now and to perpetuate into the future. Also, make your statements concise and precise. Put it in a nutshell. Do not add to what you want all the reasons why you cannot have it, (i.e., "I want to have a new car, but I can't afford it). Instead simply state what you want in present tense ("I want a new car.") with no qualifiers, not but, no because, clean and clear.
 If you want a new job, one more fulfilling, more exciting, better paying, thinking about it and talking about it will not get you there. You MUST take action that tells the Universe that you want that job. Begin actively looking. Make contacts. Talk about what you want in a job. Tell your friends and family what you are doing. Support your desire with action. Manifestation of what you want comes much more swiftly and completely when you stand by your words. Stand in your integrity. Do what you say you are going to do. Show the Universe that you are a powerful creator by BEING what you say you want to be.

