 Do this by pressing the Power button found beside the USB port, where you can charge the tablet and transfer data. You will then be greeted by the welcome screen, followed by the registration and account setup.;
, There should be a list of languages the Paperwhite is compatible with, select the language you want. Confirm the language by tapping “OK” in the confirmation window that pops up.


A loading screen will come up, as well as a progress bar. After loading, you should see the Kindle Paperwhite logo and some of the features that the Paperwhite has.
 The next screen will take you to the Network Connection settings. This is where you connect to a wireless network in your home or surroundings to be able to get Internet access to browse the Internet or purchase books.
 It will then bring up a list of networks it detected.
 Tap on a network that you can access, enter the network’s password (if necessary), and tap “Connect.” Your Kindle should now be connected to the network.
 If you have an Amazon account already, choose “Use an existing Amazon” account.


If you don’t have one yet, choose “Create a new account.” This will require you to enter your email address, a password for the account, and your credit card details for payment of online purchases.
 Type in the necessary information on the fields provided and tap on “Register” when you’re done. You will be notified that your Facebook and Twitter accounts are synced with the tablet, so you can post and share quotes on your social accounts through the tablet.


Tap on “Next” to proceed.
 Tap either “Cloud” or “Device” in the upper-left corner to access the content in those respective storage mediums.


If you’re using the Kindle for the first time, there should be a “Getting Started” guide telling you that your books are archived in the cloud for free.
 Tap on a book from the main menu to begin reading it.


The guide should then show you the areas on the screen surface that you can tap for different actions with the tablet.
 Tap on the larger, center area to turn to the next page; tap the leftmost area to go back a page.
 On a page you want to bookmark, tap the top of the screen to access the menu button, and tap the bookmark icon at the rightmost side. It will then let you choose to add a bookmark, or view the existing bookmarks you’ve previously made.
 Tap on the top area of the screen to access the navigation buttons and various options.
 The X-Ray feature allows you to see the general details about characters or the plot from a book. It displays items, names, and terms that appear constantly in the book, allowing you to see the frequency with which they are mentioned and how involved these characters or items are in the story.


Access X-Ray by opening a book and tapping the top section of your screen to access the menu bar, where you then tap “X-Ray.”

, Tap on the top section of the screen to get the menu bar, and tap on the light bulb next to the shopping cart icon. A slider will appear, allowing you to change the brightness by sliding the bar up and down.
 Access the menu bar, and tap the “Aa” icon. Here, you will see a bunch of options involving font adjustment, like font size, indicated by the fonts of ascending sizes.


Simply tap the font size you want, and the system will adjust the font accordingly. The same goes for Margins, Spacing, and Font Style.
 In the menu bar, tap the magnifying glass icon to enter search mode, where you input the words you want to search, and press the “Search” button to begin looking for instances of the word.


When searching from the home screen, the system will look for book titles or authors, while in a book, the search function will look for items in the book or document itself.
 In the Menu bar, tap the Shopping Cart icon, and you will be taken to the Kindle store, where you can purchase books with a few taps.


If you set your payment methods up earlier, you will have a much quicker time purchasing books.

