 The card technique will only work on a spring latch. Spring latches are generally the kind that move with the handle when it is turned. Turn the handle to make sure that the spring lock is engaged. If it doesn't turn, it's locked.


A dead bolt is often located above or below the handle. If the handle moves but the door doesn’t open, the dead bolt is locked and you'll need to try a different method.This method will be much less likely to work on modern locks, which are designed to be less vulnerable to unlocking with a plastic card.
 When opening a door with a plastic card, the card may be damaged. Because of this, you should avoid using important or frequently used cards, like credit cards. A library card or point card will be less of a big deal to replace.Laminated cards tend to work best. These cards are bendy and can be inserted more easily between the door and its frame.
 Press on the door with moderate force with your non-dominant hand. This will create some extra space between the door and frame, making it easier to insert your card. Work your card into this gap just above the doorknob on a downward angle.If there's molding on the frame, there will be less space between the door and frame, making this process more difficult. In these cases, you may want to try another method to prevent costly damage.
 Your card is wedged between the door and frame, right? Wiggle it deeper into the space between the doorknob and doorjamb until you meet resistance. This is the lock mechanism, which you’ll need to force back to disengage.


Feel around with the bottom corner of your card a little bit. You should feel the angled part of the latch facing towards you.
If the sloped side of the latch isn't facing you, you'll need to slide a long piece of plastic behind the latch to work it from the angled side., Press the card away from the knob to apply greater pressure to the latch. It’s unlikely you’ll be able to completely disengage the latch this way, but when you feel it start to give, push on the door and it should open.This may take a bit of maneuvering. Try different positions until you find one that allows the card the most purchase on the lock mechanism.
Although this won’t be necessary for some latches, it may help open the door if you turn the knob lightly with your free hand disengaging the latch.