 One of the key distinctions between civil and criminal law is who initiated the proceeding. Civil cases have plaintiffs which are private individuals or businesses, while criminal cases are initiated when government attorneys file charges.If a case title lists the names of private individuals or organizations on both sides of the "v." it is assuredly a civil case.
However, this doesn't end your inquiry, because sometimes the government can sue or be sued. Just because the government is a party to a case doesn't necessarily mean it's a criminal case.
In criminal cases – excluding appeals, in which the defendant's name will be first since they appealed a conviction – the government always is the first party in the case. It will be the state (styled as "The State of," "The Commonwealth of," or "The People of," the state in question) or federal government, depending on whether the defendant is charged with a violation of state or federal law.
When the government is a party in civil cases, on the other hand, you typically will see the name of a particular government department or agency, or the title of an office. For example, a civil case might be "The Department of Education v. Sally Sunshine.";
, No matter how egregious the offense, people generally cannot be arrested because someone sues them in civil court. Some offenses such as assault and battery present the possibility of both criminal charges and civil liability; however, if the defendant is arrested it is in conjunction with the filing of criminal charges.Civil defendants can be held in contempt of court and arrested for contempt if they refuse to follow the court's order. However, they will be released as soon as they comply with the order.
For example, suppose a group of neighbors sued a nearby hog farm for polluting their water supply in violation of health and safety regulations. The owners of the hog farm cannot be arrested, since they have not been charged with a crime.
However, if the owners of the hog farm are found liable for the neighbors' damages and are ordered to clean up the water, they can be jailed for contempt if they violate the order and refuse to conduct the required clean up operations.
 It's a somewhat more theoretical distinction, but defendants are charged with crimes because they have harmed society as a whole by their actions. Civil lawsuits remedy harm to particular private individuals or businesses.While some crimes do result in harm to an individual, the victim isn't a party in a criminal case. In most situations, the victim doesn't even have to consent to the criminal prosecution of the defendant. Criminal charges are filed by state or federal attorneys regardless of the victim's desires.
Keep in mind that in many situations, the victim can tell the prosecutors that they don't want to press charges, and the prosecutors will go along with this preference. However, don't confuse that with thinking that the victim's permission is required to press charges.
Even if the victim says they don't want to press charges, prosecutors can do it anyway. This is because a criminal case is brought to correct a wrong against society – not a wrong against a particular person. In fact, some crimes have no specific victim at all.
Civil cases, in contrast, are brought by plaintiffs who want to be compensated for some wrong that has been done to them. If they win their case, the defendant will be ordered to do something or to pay them money to compensate for their losses.
 Someone charged with a crime has a number of Constitutional rights, including the right to an attorney. If a criminal defendant cannot afford an attorney, the court will appoint one.Criminal defendants have a number of other Constitutional protections, because the outcome if they are found guilty is potentially a loss of freedom. Civil cases typically only involve paying money, which is a much lesser threat than the loss of liberty.
For example, criminal defendants in most cases are entitled to a trial by jury. You typically are not entitled to a jury trial in civil court and may have to pay additional court fees to get one.
Some of these rights may appear in civil cases. For example, a witness in a civil case may "plead the Fifth" and refuse to answer a question.
This right against self-incrimination can be used in a civil trial because something the person says in the civil trial could be used against them in a criminal trial. However, the right against self-incrimination does not extend to admissions of things that would indicate civil liability.
Keep in mind that some states guarantee the right to an attorney in civil court in limited circumstances – typically in cases related to child custody in which the person could potentially lose their parental rights.
These are still considered civil cases, but states that provide court-appointed attorneys in these cases recognize that parental rights are perhaps as important as personal freedom and should not be taken from someone unless he or she has the opportunity to be represented by legal counsel.
 You may be familiar with the criminal burden of proof, "beyond a reasonable doubt." Plaintiffs in civil cases never have to prove their cases to such a high degree of certainty.The standard burden of proof in a civil case is "preponderance of the evidence." This means the plaintiff must prove that the defendant more likely than not is responsible for the injuries or losses the plaintiff suffered.
In contrast, for a defendant to be found guilty in a criminal trial, the prosecuting attorney must prove that there is not a shred of doubt that he or she committed the crime. The criminal justice system is based on the idea that someone's life or liberty should not be taken from them unless there is no question they are guilty.
For this reason, a criminal defense case typically consists of poking holes in the prosecution's theory of the case, introducing doubts that the defendant did it. Examples of this include demonstrating that the sole eyewitness to the crime had a vision impairment that would have made it impossible for them to positively identify the defendant, or that they were under the influence of alcohol or drugs at the time of the incident.
These methods of impeaching a witness's testimony also are used in civil cases. However, the defendant must demonstrate substantially larger holes in the plaintiff's case to prevail in a civil matter than they would in a criminal one.
 Affirmative defenses essentially are excuses that, if proven, would absolve the defendant either from guilt or liability. While defendants carry the burden of proving any affirmative defense in both civil and criminal cases, the weight of those burdens differs substantially.Most people are familiar with affirmative defenses such as the insanity defense in criminal cases. Being found not guilty by reason of insanity can be much more difficult than simply poking holes of doubt in the state's case, because the burden is on the defendant to prove that they were incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong or understanding the consequences of their actions.
If a criminal defendant proves an affirmative defense, he or she usually is found not guilty of the crime. Likewise, a civil defendant who successfully raises an affirmative defense may be found not to be liable for the plaintiff's damages.
Since the prosecution must prove its criminal case beyond a reasonable doubt, the bar for any affirmative defense is correspondingly lower than it would be for the civil defendant.
This is why plaintiffs often are able to prevail in a civil case against a defendant who was found not guilty in the criminal case arising from the same incident.
 Some civil cases employ a proof mechanism that shifts the burdens of proof back and forth between the plaintiff and the defendant. Essentially, if the plaintiff is able to show specific facts, it creates a presumption in favor of the plaintiff and moves the burden of proof to the defendant.One example comes in a civil lawsuit for copyright infringement. If the plaintiff has registered their copyright, that registration establishes that they hold a valid copyright in the work infringed. If the defendant wants to argue the copyright isn't valid, they bear the burden of proof.
This type of burden shifting isn't allowed in criminal cases because it would violate the defendant's Constitutional rights.
One exception is strict-liability crimes, which typically are called "violations," involve local law, and can only be punished by payment of a fine. Traffic or health and safety violations may be classified as strict liability. If an inspector finds a health and safety violation, it's up to the defendant to show some reason they shouldn't have to pay the fine.
 Courts generally cannot punish civil defendants with jail time as a penalty for their actions, no matter how harmful. Criminal offenses, in contrast, may include a jail sentence depending on their seriousness.While a civil defendant can be placed in jail for being in contempt, the charge of contempt typically requires an additional hearing in which the person is formally charged with contempt. They are given the opportunity to either comply with the court's order or go to jail.
However, a civil defendant won't face jail time if they lose their civil case. For example, if you are sued by a credit card company for defaulting on your credit card, and you lose your case, the judge cannot put you in jail.
The credit card company will get an order against you for the amount you owe, which it can enforce by placing liens on your property or garnishing your wages, but not by getting you thrown in jail.
In contrast, a person convicted of a crime may be sentenced to jail for a period of time until it is determined that they have repaid their "debt to society."

, Although the defendant may be ordered to pay money in a criminal case, these amounts have a different purpose than the monetary damages paid in a civil case.Generally, a criminal fine must be paid to the state, while civil damages are paid to the person who initiated the lawsuit.
Criminal fines have nothing to do with any losses incurred by anyone as a result of the defendant's actions. Rather, they are designed to punish the defendant for violating the law.
Criminals also may be ordered to pay restitution to their victims. However, unlike civil damages these amounts are sought by and paid to the state. In some cases the state pays the victims of the crime and then the criminal defendant is responsible for paying the state back.
In contrast, the court has nothing to do with enforcing civil judgments. Once a plaintiff wins a civil lawsuit it's up to them to file another legal action to enforce the order, for example by garnishing the defendant's wages, if the defendant doesn't voluntarily pay the amount ordered.
 Ultimately, a criminal trial is intended to punish someone who is guilty of a crime, while a civil trial is intended to right the wrongs committed by one private individual or business by compensating the victim for their losses.Criminal law uses the concepts of guilt and innocence, while civil law relies on the concepts of negligence and liability. A civil defendant may be found liable for a plaintiff's damages as a result of an accident, without the plaintiff having to prove the defendant intended to cause the injuries or losses.
In contrast, most criminal offenses require the prosecution to prove the defendant acted with some level of intent. To a certain degree, it is that intent that is punished – not necessarily the commission of the act itself. This is why proving stronger levels of intent results in greater punishment for the defendant.

