 One of the traditional methods to treat a nick or cut is to apply a small piece of toilet paper to the area and wait for it to clot over.While this method works, it often takes longer to stop the bleeding than some of the other remedies discussed below.
Don’t forget to remove the toilet paper before leaving the house.;
, Cold water constricts the blood vessels, which slows blood flow to the area and helps stop the bleeding. Grab an ice cube from the freezer and hold it to the affected area.You can also try to run the affected area under cold water or hold a cold cloth against the wound.
Some people recommend soaking a hand towel with water, wringing it out, and then placing it in the freezer so it is available to treat these minor shaving nicks and cuts.
 Hot water will also help stop the bleeding because it basically cauterizes the wound. Hold a warm cloth firmly in place over the wound.


You might have to keep running the cloth under warm water for maximum effect., Witch hazel is an astringent that also constricts blood vessels and should relieve the bleeding. Soak a cotton ball with witch hazel and apply it to the location of the nick or cut.Since witch hazel is an astringent, be prepared for it to sting when you apply it.
 The next time you nick or cut yourself shaving, reach for the lip balm or vaseline. Since the texture is waxy, it seals the skin and forces the blood to clot over.Don’t apply the lip balm directly from the tube because then you can’t use it again. Instead, scrape a little off with a cotton swab so your lip balm is still sanitary to use.
 Many antiperspirants and deodorants contain aluminum chloride, which can cause a blood clot to form and help stanch the bleeding. Coat your fingertip with the deodorant or antiperspirant and then gently apply it to the affected area.So you don’t have to throw the tube of deodorant away after using, it’s best to apply with a fingertip or a cotton swab.
 If the cut is small, sprinkling a little sugar onto the wound will stop the bleeding and also disinfect the wound.Some people also recommend cayenne and black pepper, but these will sting more than the sugar.
 Before being marketed as a mouthwash, Listerine was originally used as a surgical antiseptic. Splash a little mouthwash on the affected area to disinfect your wound and stop the bleeding.As you might imagine, it stings quite a bit, but it should get the job done.
 Eye drops such as Visine constrict blood vessels, which help slow and stop bleeding. As a result eye drops can also provide relief when you cut or nick yourself while shaving., Once standard issue in medicine cabinets and shaving kits, these products have been around for centuries. Styptic pencils usually contain titanium dioxide, potassium alum, or a sulfate formulation that helps the blood clot. Similarly, alum blocks are bar-soap sized blocks of potassium alum, which constricts the tissues and stanches blood flow.To use a styptic pencil, you wet the tip and press it against the nick or cut.
To use an alum block you wet it and rub it on the affected area.
The astringents in these products make them sting, but they should stop the bleeding quickly. They can also prevent razor burn.
Styptic pencils and alum blocks can leave behind a powdery, white residue, so be sure to check the mirror and rinse it off before heading out the door.
You can usually find styptic pencils and alum blocks at pharmacies, beauty supply stores, and online. Traditional barber’s shops might also sell them.

