 Many of these approaches are equally applicable to those in a position of caring for or living with the sufferer of an eating disorder. Above all, be sure that the person is getting medical attention and treatment; if you are legally responsible for the person, then be sure to get them professional help immediately.


Most of this section presumes that the person with an eating disorder is either a child or an adolescent, but adult children or household members can be substituted for most of these steps too.
 As a family or household member, you will be in constant contact with the child or adolescent sufferer and they need to know that you're not angry with them or that you'll burst out into demands every time they appear. This may feel very constraining for you but this is a time for your learning as much as for the sufferer and you'll need patience, courage and a calm attitude to be a positive and effective supporter. Show affection and kindness. The person needs to know she is loved. "I love you ____. We are all going to get through this together."
Support the therapy process but don't try to invade your loved one's privacy or take control of it. Don't ask intrusive questions, don't address the issue of weight directly with her and if you have specific concerns, raise them directly with the therapist or doctor.
 Don't neglect other people as a result of supporting the sufferer. If worry and attention is directed to him alone, others will feel neglected and he will feel unduly focused upon. As best you can (and expecting everyone else to do so too), focus on creating a balance in the household that nurtures and supports everyone.
 It may be tempting to ignore, withdraw or abandon the sufferer if you feel helpless or angry about the situation. However, withdrawal of your emotional support will harm her intensely. It is possible to love herand to handle her manipulative ways effectively. If you find this difficult, speak to the therapist for suggestions.


Your child will recognize your concern if, instead of rushing her, you just let her know that your door is always open if she needs to talk. "I know that you are confused. I understand that you may need time to process all that's going on. I just want you to know that I am here for you and you can talk to me about anything.", If anyone in the household obsessively talks about food or weight, they will need to tone it down. Have a talk to any family or household member who does this without thinking. Moreover, do not use food as a punishment or reward when raising children. Food is something to be valued, not to be rationed or used as a reward. If this means that the whole family needs to change the way it views food, then this is a good way to move forward for everyone.Don’t try to limit the sufferer's food intake, unless you have been specifically told to do so by a medical professional.
 Teach the child or adolescent sufferer to not accept media messages outright. Teach her critical thinking skills and encourage her to question the messages that media gives, as well as learning to question the messages from peers and others who influence her.Encourage open communication from a young age. Teach the child or adolescent to communicate with you openly and honestly, and talk to her in the same way. If she doesn't feel like she has to hide anything, a key element of eating disorders is already removed.
 Show the sufferer that you love him no matter what, and give him compliments and praise for things done well frequently. If he fails at something, accept it and help him learn to accept it as well. In fact, one of the best lessons a parent or caregiver can impart is how to learn from failure and how to build resilience to try again.


Help your child accept and appreciate her body. Encourage physical exercise and self confidence in her body from a young age. Explain the importance of flexibility and strength created through exercise and help her to gain an appreciation of being outdoors and in nature by taking frequent walks, bike rides, hikes and runs together. If you can, participate in family running, biking, or triathlon events so that the children grow up seeing activity as healthy and bonding.

