 The single most important thing you can do to be a better teammate is to learn what your job is and then stick to it.


Warriors fight on the front lines while protecting their teammates and disrupting the enemy formation.
Assassins will focus their efforts on finding the right position to kill enemy heroes as quickly, efficiently and safely as possible.
Supports will hang back, heal the wounded and generally lay down a whole host of abilities to help friendlies and cripple baddies.
Specialists focus on dealing sustained damage against enemy heroes and taking down towers, forts, and keeps as quickly as possible.;
, You will not be able to control the allies that you’ll be teamed up with in Quick Match mode, but you can react in game modes that support drafting—most notably Ranked Match mode. Obtaining and mastering at least one hero from the four types available will give you the versatility to meet the needs of your team as the need comes up. Nobody wants to pick a warrior to tank or the support to heal? No problem. Nobody is picking assassins or specialists to deal sustained damage? You have it covered.


It is recommended that you obtain at least two heroes of each type, as you cannot pick a specific hero if the enemy team has picked it first.
On the same note, make sure to run practices matches against the AI if you are using a hero you are completely unfamiliar with. While this is not as effective a learning tool as going up against human players, AI matches will help you better understand what your chosen hero can do while in battle.
 Each hero type has a general philosophy around their role in the game, like tanking damage or tossing down high-damage spells. Choosing certain talent builds, however, can drastically alter your role in a particular match. Look at the heroes that your teammates picked, communicate with them to learn what build they are going for, and pick talents to fill a role that will work with the strengths of your team while covering its weaknesses.


For example, you can build Arthas to be a hard tank that excels at negating bursts of damage, a sustain tank that can weather constant damage by regularly healing himself, a ganker that can deal a surprising amount of damage that can kill squishy heroes, or a controller that can isolate and slow down enemy heroes for your team to focus on. Each build order has its own ups and downs, and it will be up to you to decide which build to pick for your team’s lineup.
On a similar note, make sure to pick talents that can counter the strengths of enemy heroes on the other team. Do they have a ton of disables on their lineup? Pick the “Cleanse” talent to help whoever gets focused down by control abilities. Do you see Nova or Zeratul on the other team? Pick “Reveal” to help prevent their cloaked heroes from catching you unawares.
 The minimap will tell you the position of your allies, your enemies, and important map objectives. It will also display “pings” sent out by yourself or other players that serve to relay useful information, like warning of danger or signaling intent to attack a certain position. This makes it an essential tool for communicating with your teammates when you don’t have voice chat available, which is why you should keep an eye on the minimap to not only identify what the enemy is up to but also to better coordinate with your teammates.


You can send out an all-purpose ping by holding G or ALT and then left-clicking an area or object on your screen. This also works when you click on the minimap.
You can add context to your pings by dragging instead of clicking your left mouse button. This will reveal a contextual menu where you drag your cursor to one area to send a ping with an additional message. Dragging down will call for aid, dragging left will call to defend, dragging right will indicate your intent to move to an area and dragging up will send a ping warning teammates of potential danger. These work on both the minimap and on objects area on your screen.
Pressing V will send a ping telling teammates to retreat. Again, it works on both the minimap and on areas on your screen., The next thing you can do to be a better teammate in HotS is to actually pitch in when map objectives spawn. Granted soaking experience in your lane is important, but these map objectives provide huge benefits to your team, from bombarding the enemy base with rays of lights or explosive cannon shots to summoning a gigantic monster that can sweep aside the defensive structures on a lane and open the way to the enemy core. These benefits far outweigh the meager experience points you get from abandoning the fight for the objectives, so join up and help out when you can.


The only exception to this rule is when one or two heroes from the enemy team decide to stay in their own lanes and push as hard possible with mercenaries or their own innate siege capabilities. When this happens, you now have a choice: go help your teammates for an easier capture or stay in lane to defend it from the enemy hero or heroes. The former is preferred if the hero is weak at pushing lanes and does not have mercenaries aiding the push, while the latter is preferred when you have a siege-oriented specialist assisting a heavy mercenary push.
On the flipside, you could turn the tables on the enemy team by pushing hard while they’re focused solely on the objectives. This works best if you have a hero that can deal a lot of damage to mercenaries, minions and structures (i.e., Zagara, Gazlowe, Tyrande, Azmodan, etc.). This also works best when you have Bribe to capture mercenary camps in the blink of an eye (i.e., Raynor, Murky, The Lost Vikings, Azmodan, etc.). Heroes with the Mercenary Lord talent will do even better since they’ll be boosting the capabilities of mercenaries they’re escorting (i.e., Anub’arak, Sonya, Gazlowe, Azmodan, etc.) Doing so will either force the enemy to pull one or even two heroes away from the objective or risk losing forts and keeps in exchange for keeping five men on the objective.