 Before you can begin the process of becoming a real estate agent in Virginia, understand each state has different requirements for who is eligible. In Virginia, in order become a real estate agent you must:


Be at least 18 years of age.
Have a high school diploma or its equivalent, like a GED.
Pass both the state and national PSI exams, the Virginia real estate board's testing service.
Have successfully completed 60 hours of course work, approved by Virginia's Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation, on the principles of real estate.
Have completed an application and paid the appropriate fee.;
, Before you can take the real estate exam, and before you have a chance at passing, 60 hours of specific coursework are required.


Make sure the course you enroll in is approved by the DPOR, the Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation. If it isn't, the 60 hours you complete won't qualify you to take the PSI exam. The course should advertise itself as DPOR approved and you can search the DPOR website to find a list of approved coursework. If you are unsure, phone the DPOR during office hours and ask them about the course you're considering.
The courses you take will provide a basic overview of real estate practices, laws, and policies in addition to the basics of sales, negotiations, and closings. You also learn real estate vocabulary and math.
You can either take courses online or in-person, depending on your preference. Online courses can save time and money, but require more self motivation than in-person courses. In-person courses are often more expensive and more cumbersome to get to, but many find face-to-face interactions ideal to a learning environment., While you're taking the proper courses, which can take a long period of time, try getting some experience in the field. This will give you a glimpse into the industry to make sure it's right for you before you launch your career.


Get an internship or office job at a real estate firm. This way, you can make a connection in your field - which can lead to jobs down the line - and get a feel for the world of real estate.
Ask a real estate agent if you can shadow them for a day or a week. This can provide invaluable on-the-field information on your career path.
 Even after you complete your training, you might still feel under-prepared for your exam. The exam is comprehensive and follows a specific format, and knowing the format can be as vital to successfully passing as knowing the information itself.


Online, many sites allow you to take practice exams for free. Taking a series of practice exams in the weeks leading to the test can be a great way to prep as you'll know what to expect and where you weak areas are during the exam.Books are available for purchase online or from Amazon that contain valuable information on vocabulary and exam questions and also have practice tests you can take at home.Kaplan University and other outlets offer online test prep courses and products for the Virginia real estate exam. These can be a bit pricey, however. At Kaplan, for example, it's $99 to take a test prep course but it might be worth it if you prefer a more structured environment for studying., Before you can enroll in a state certified PSI exam, you must be approved by the Real Estate Board. You will be required to fill out an application to assure the course work you took was DPOR approved and pay a small application fee, usually in the range of $50 to $60.There is no application deadline to take the exam in Virginia, as exams are administered daily.
The processing time for your application is around two weeks.
 Once your application is approved, you can take the real estate exam. In Virginia, PSI exams are administered on a daily basis at a variety of locations. Phone the PSI center, open 24 hours, at 1-800-733-9267. The PSI center will help you select a time and location that works for your schedule.The locations are:


Charlottesville
Falls Church
Richmond
Roanoke
Tyson's Corner
Virginia Beach
Johnson City, TN
Salisbury, MD

, There are rules about what you can and cannot do during the real estate exam. Make sure you know these rules before going into the exam room.


You should arrive at the exam center at least 30 minute early. This extra time is used for sign in and identification.
You must provide two valid forms of identification.
Personal electronic devices, personal items like notebooks and backpacks, and hats and visors are not permitted during the exam.
No conversing is allowed during the exam.
Only non-programmable calculators that are silent and battery operated are allowed.
You may not leave the room during the exam.
No smoking, eating, or drinking is permitted during the exam., There will be two sections: a national real estate test and a Virginia test. You will need passing grades on both.


Take only the Virginia section if you have a valid real estate license from another state.
Expect about 120 questions, which will need to be answered in about 2.5 hours.
Before you begin the exam, there is a brief tutorial explaining how to use the computer during the exam. You allowed up to 15 minutes to view the tutorial. That time does not count towards you time spent taking the test so read the instructions carefully.
Questions are multiple choice and each question has 4 possible answers., In order to be eligible to apply for a license, you need a passing score on the exam.


A passing score is a minimum of 56 on the national portion of the exam and a minimum of 30 on the state portion.
If you take the exam by computer, your score will be given to you immediately. If you pass, you will receive a notification that you passed.
If you do not pass, you will receive a notification you did not pass alongside diagnostic information about your strengths and weaknesses you can use when retaking the test. You can schedule retesting at any time.
If you take the exam by paper, an official report will be handed out at the examination center., Before you can apply for your license, a fingerprint and background check is required. Electronic fingerprinting should be conducted at one of the testing sites, and once this and the subsequent background check are complete they are valid for 45 days. Use this time to submit your application., Once you have successfully passed the exam and completed the background check, you must apply to the Board of Real Estate to obtain an official license to practice. You can get the application in person by visiting your local branch of the board or obtain an application online through the DPOR website. Fill out and submit the application. The application should be submitted within 1 year of passing the test, but sooner is better as your background check/finger printing is only valid for 45 days., As a real estate agent in Virginia, you're allowed to join a number of real estate boards in the state, have access to exclusive databases for real estate agents, and are able to market, buy, and sell homes for your own monetary gain. However, you must live up to standards of conduct outlined by the real estate board.


Disclose any felony or misdemeanor convictions during the application process, and when renewing your license.
Maintain a reputation for honesty, truthfulness, and fair dealing., All new salespersons must complete a 30 hour board-approved course within one year of obtaining their license. The following eight courses are included:


Fair Housing, ADA, and Civil Rights (2 hours)
Real Estate Law and Regulation (8 hours)
Ethics and Standards of Conduct (3 hours)
Current Industry Issues and Trends (2 hours)
Agency Law (3 hours)
Contract Writing (6 hours)
Risk Management (3 hours)
Escrow Requirements (3 hours), Once you've been in the game for awhile, you will be required to take 16 hours of continuing education to renew your license when the time comes. Eight of those credit hours are elective, and the other eight must be the following:


Ethics and Standards of Conduct (3 hours)
Fair Housing (2 hours)
Legal Updates and Emerging Trends (1 hour)
Real Estate Agency (1 hour)
Real Estate Contracts (1 hour)

