 Nobody wants to hang out with the crumpled kid. Your clothes shouldn't be outrageous but should show sides of your personality. Wear something that doesn't have any stains or inappropriate messages. Don't dress up as someone you're not.;
, Don't make it obvious that you're trying to please the person, they don't want to be stalked. Just say "Hello!" to them at lunch or in the locker room, etc. Strike up a conversation about something you're both interested in, like sports, video games, dance, a certain T.V show, etc.
 You never know who might become friends with you! You have a better chance of finding a best friend or soulmate if you keep your eyes, and your options, open. Go up to a friendly looking person in the halls or in one of your classes and introduce yourself. You may just find the perfect person!

, You don't want them yawning at the sight of you. If you're going to have them over, then make sure you've planned something fun to do. For example, going to the cinema, having a swim or doing an art class. Remember that if you don't share tastes, you might not be as close of friends as you hope!

, You don't want your so-called 'BFF' (Best Friend Forever) resenting you and feeling pressured to be your friend. Notice the way they act around you. If they are mean to you they're probably not interested and you should cut ties with this person.
 If you're unapproachable you'll lose potential friends. Sometimes it's who comes up to you, not who you go up to. Have a nice, big, welcoming smile on your face when someone approaches you. Nobody wants to talk to a grumpy pants.
 Once you can trust them and feel comfortable with them, tell them that you have been looking for a BFF. Hopefully they'll accept or welcome your offer of being best friends. Once you're at this level of friendship, it should come more easily. Tell them about what's going on in your life, funny stories that happened to you, and/or your deepest, darkest secrets.
 If you're mean in any way, she/he may not want to be your friend. Help and support your friends when they need you the most.
 It's easy to make friends by pretending you like things they do, but at the end of the day you want a friend who appreciates you for who you are and shares your interests. Don't feel ashamed for what you enjoy or take pleasure in, there's a friend out there for everybody. There's plenty of fish in the sea!

