 cardstock is a bit thicker and more durable than regular paper and will make your garland look more elegant. To create a fun and eye-catching garland, choose paper with a variety of designs, from pink and purple polka dots to striped or checkered green paper. Just pick a few patterns that will look good together. You can throw in some solid paper for variety.
 Cut each piece of paper into 3-5 strips, depending on how big you want your circles to be. It will be easier to cut the circles if you cut the paper into strips first.
 The garland will look best if the circles are a few different sizes. Cut circles that are at least three different sizes -- anywhere from a 3 inch to a 6 inch (7.6 cm to 15.2 cm) diameter will do. You don't have to use each color of paper equally, and you don't have to cut the same amount of each size of circle.









The easiest way to cut the circles is to use a circular punch; you can also just trace a circular pattern on the back of each piece of paper and cut it with scissors.
 Lay down the circles in the order that you'd like them to appear on the garland. If you'd like to create a double-sided garland, then place the bottoms of two circles with the same size and pattern together. Lay them out in a way that creates variety and is visually appealing.


Place this pattern near your sewing machine so you'll be easily able to feed it.
 Pick a fun-colored thread for holding the garland together, such as red, and run a straight stitch down the center of each circle. Just place the first circle into the machine, place the needle down, and turn on the machine. Then continue to feed each circle into the machine, followed by the next one in the pattern you've chosen, until they are all connected by the thread. You can leave a few inches or centimeters between each circle, or spread them apart further or closer together.









They don't need to be evenly spaced or sown right down the middle. As long as the circles are connected and catch the eye, you'll have a spectacular paper garland.
Make an end stitch on the last circular shape.
 Once you've created your garland, you can just hang it up by sticking a few thumbtacks in the wall and draping the thread over them. For more sturdiness, you can use nails for the same purpose. You can also drape the garlands over trees or furniture.








