 It is important to choose a dog food that will meet the nutritional needs of your pet, so make sure that the food you choose is of high quality. You should also choose a food that is meant for small breed dogs. Regular dog food pieces may be too large for your Havanese to chew, while food meant for small dogs comes in smaller pieces.If you can’t decide on what to feed your Havanese, then check with your Havanese’s breeder or veterinarian.
Also, keep Havanese’s age in mind when choosing food. If your Havanese is a puppy, then you will need to feed him puppy food. If your Havanese is a senior, then you will need to feed him senior food.;
, Dogs have different nutritional needs than humans and some human foods can even kill them. If you plan to cook for your Havanese, then you should talk to an expert on pet nutrition first.


Your veterinarian is a good place to start, but she may refer you to a specialist for advice.
 The number of times per day that you will need to feed your Havanese depends on his age. Your Havanese will need to be fed often while he is a puppy and less often as an adult. Talk to your veterinarian if you are unsure about the right type of feeding schedule for your Havanese. In general, if your Havanese is:


eight to 12 weeks, then feed her four times per day.
three to six months, then feed her three time per day.
six months to one year old, then feed her twice per day.
past one year old, then feed her once per day., Your Havanese must always have access to a bowl of fresh, clean water. Make sure to you replenish your Havanese’s water as needed and clean the bowl once per day.


Place your Havanese’s water dish somewhere that he can access with ease.
Try using a stainless steel or ceramic bowl. These tend to be more sanitary than plastic bowls.
 Treats are a great way to reward your Havanese, but you should not give too many treats to your Havanese or he may become overweight. If you want to feed your Havanese some treats try offering:


cooked sweet potato slices
broccoli
baby carrots
a couple of cooked green beans
a few frozen peas or blueberries
a couple of watermelon chunks
a few slices of banana, There are some foods that you can never give your Havanese because it could make her very sick or even kill her. These foods include:alcohol
caffeine
avocados
chocolate
grapes and raisins
walnuts, almonds, pecans, and macadamia nuts
onions, garlic, and chives
yeast
xylitol