 Reading names off of the wedding guest list will allow you to make sure you are spelling names correctly, and will help you to give each person his or her proper title.
 Is the invitation being sent to a family, a married couple, an unmarried couple, or a single guest? This information is important to know when you are addressing the envelope.
 Keep in mind their titles and marital status.Addressing a married couple with the same last name: Write Mr. Firstname and Mrs. Firstname Lastname. Example: Mr. John and Mrs. Jane Smith.

Addressing a married couple with different last names: Write the name of the person you are closer to first. If you are equally acquainted with both, list them in alphabetical order. Write Mr. Firstname Lastname and Mrs. Firstname Lastname (or switch the order). Example: Ms. Jane Doe and Mr. John Smith.

Addressing an unmarried couple: You can choose to format the names however you like, but generally the names are either separated by a comma or given their own lines. Write Mr. Firstname Lastname, Ms. Firstname Lastname. Example: Mr. John Smith, Ms. Jane Doe.

Addressing a family: Write the word ‘The’ followed by the family’s last name. Example: The Smiths. You could also write The Family Lastname. Example: The Family Smith.

Addressing a single individual: Write the title and first and last name of the individual. Example Ms. Emily Emerson or Mr. Jack Jones.

Addressing a doctor or doctors: If you are addressing a couple where one of the people is a doctor, list his or her name first preceded by ‘Dr.’. If both people are doctors, write Doctors Firstname and Firstname Lastname. Follow the same principles for anyone with a distinguished title, such as Rev. or Captain. Example of one doctor: Dr. Amanda and Mr. Nolan James. Example of both doctors: Doctors Amanda and Nolan James.
 This should be the address of the family or the person you are most familiar with in a couple (if the couple is not living together).


Do not abbreviate or use initials in the street address of the recipient.
Add post office box numbers if needed.
 The return address is important for knowing which guests did not receive their invitations.


If an invitation is returned to you unopened, it means that you probably have the wrong address. Call up your guest and confirm the correct address.

