 A pyramid scheme is a  hierarchical investment scheme. It starts off with one person who recruits a few others to invest in a variety of different schemes. They in turn recruit other investors. The new investors are promised a high payout on their investments.Check to see how the investment has done in the past. If they don't give you information, or the information you get can't be verified, that should tell you that the investment is no good.
Ask if you can speak to other investors. If the answer is no, they are probably hiding something, and you should walk away from the investment.;
, Be wary if you are approached with an opportunity to sell a product such as a mailing list or reports. They are only useful as products for other people who get recruited into the pyramid to buy in order to qualify to be a member. This is the hallmark of a multi-level marketing pyramid scheme.The only true customers would be those people who are recruited to sell. As stated, they will most likely have to buy a certain amount of the product to get into the pyramid and to sell themselves.
Make sure you don’t have to recruit anyone else to make a profit.
You should be able to sell a product that many people will buy and use such as home goods, makeup or cleaners.
 Many pyramid schemes recruit people, and their investment is disguised as a gift. They are promised money from the gifts made by people they bring on board.Giving a gift is not illegal and thus can be done at any time by anyone. This is why this scheme is so popular and you may become a victim of it.
As with other pyramid schemes, gift giving eventually breaks down when not everyone can make a profit.
 There are people out there who will get you and others to hand over money promising to invest it for all of you. These people don't actually invest your money. They may pay you a little money to keep you happy, or they may not. If they do pay you or some of the investors money, it can come from any source. Usually they pay older investors with money from newer investors. This is called a Ponzi scheme., As an investor, you should not only know who will invest your money and how, but you should also keep track of how the investment is doing. You should ask for documentation of the investment. If they don't give it to you, it is a sure sign you probably won't be able to keep track of it and that it is probably a scam.
 If it seems to be, it probably is. A good question to ask yourself is, "If this is such a great opportunity, why are they spreading it around instead of keeping it to themselves?" Ironically, in the case of a pyramid scheme, initial investors actually do stand a chance of making money. It's the later investors who are usually hurt.
 While there are legitimate opportunities to make high returns, you need to beware when you are guaranteed this. No one can accurately predict how an investment will perform.


Back away when you are being pressured to invest by this type of lure.
 There is an element of risk in all investments. A legitimate sales person will let you know how the investment has performed in the past. One who is trying to take your money will use any tactic to get you to invest. Steer clear of investments when the risks are severely downplayed., People want to create a sense of urgency to get people to invest. If you make someone believe they will miss out on something huge, if they don’t act quickly, you can get them to invest. When you are confronted with this type of sales technique, take a step back and ask yourself, “How often is something truly a once in a lifetime opportunity.” The answer is, almost never. Never invest when you are promised the investment is this rare.
 The SEC requires that all companies selling securities provide potential and existing clients with details of how and where the money will be invested. Prospectuses typically list historical returns of the investment.Make sure those returns have been verified by a neutral third party.
Check the information you get from a salesperson with a reputable accounting firm. They will able to recognize a pyramid scheme very quickly. Then you can avoid it.
 Many people become excited about the prospect of investing money. They hurry to get in so that they can lock in the "big returns" they're afraid they'll miss. However, every good investor knows not only how to get into an investment but how to get out.If there are a lot of complicated rules regarding withdrawing your money that is a definite red flag.
It's an indication the fraudster is desperate to hold on to your money, and you should ask yourself why.
When you buy a stock or mutual fund you can usually sell your shares quickly and easily.
 Even smart investors get duped. To avoid a pyramid scheme meltdown of your assets, invest small in many different investments. This is called diversification, and it can help reduce the impact of fraud. This is because you will not have invested heavily in a pyramid scheme should you fall victim to one.You should never place more than roughly five per cent of your savings in a single investment.
Also, invest in a variety of industries and different forms of investments like stocks and bonds.
 Many bad investments involve unregistered securities. These include stocks, bonds, hedge funds and more. Do your research. In the U.S., you can check with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to see if something is a registered investment. The contact information is as follows: North American Securities Administrators Association or (202) 737-0900. You can also check the website at: https://www.sec.gov/.Ask the promoters of an investment if they are licensed to sell that type of investment.
Contact a state commission office, a state's Secretary of State, a Corporations Commission or Securities Commission.
A business should be registered with one of these entities.
Stay away from investments with no documentation. That is a sign that it may be unregistered.
 If a person is pressuring you into investing as soon as possible, beware. It is not common practice for legitimate brokers or other people who help investors to be aggressive in their sales practices. People who push too hard may have a hidden agenda.Remember to be cautious when considering any investment.
Once you give someone your money, you may not get it back.
 Make sure the salesperson and the company or firm he represents have never had any problems with criminal activity. Make sure both have a clean record. You don’t want to be involved with people or companies that don’t have a good reputation. They have not done business “by the books” in the past, they probably won’t when it comes to handling your money.


Remember that people operate under aliases. It is important to find out someone’s true identity.
 Do not trust the claim that a number of seemingly reputable people have already invested money. This is a tactic used to get you to feel that you can invest safely because others have already done so. People who use this tactic will also tell you that these people are making money off of their investments., Here, an offer of a favor like selling to you at a lower price is made in exchange for you to buy now. You need to ask yourself why someone would be that desperate to get you to invest. Using this tactic is a sign that the sales person is only interested in getting you to invest and does not want you to walk out the door without doing it., When you are made to believe that "there aren’t enough" spots for investment to go around, red flags should go up. The urgency created by this tactic is meant to get you to invest quickly. Remember, unscrupulous salespeople will use any tactic to get your money. When you hear that there just isn’t enough investment opportunities for everyone, that is a sure sign that someone is trying to defraud you., This person will make statements like, “As the CEO of XYZ, I can assure you the investment is sound.” This tactic is called “the source credibility tactic.” The idea is to create a sense of credibility so that you will trust them.Remember that it isn't wrong to let people know that you are high up in an organization. Many legitimate people do this for the credibility it gives them.
Be cautious if the person seems to be overly relying on these claims or pushing you to invest.
Research the person to see if their claims are genuine.

