 There are many good photo editors, such as GIMP. However, this article will focus on creating character banners using a photo editor called "PicMonkey."

Note that not all the photo editing options are free on PicMonkey. In order to unlock certain ones, payment of money is required. However, note that the free options are still of good quality.;
, Be sure it is easily accessible in your computer file. You should also confirm whether you truly want to use this picture or not before you start.

Note that you don't always have to draw your own characters. To make a quick, easy profile for casual roleplaying, look up an image on Google.
 On their home page, you should see a box that says "Edit a Photo." When you mouse over the box, you have the options of either going through your computer files for the image or dragging one from a separate tab into the box.
 It should open up to show your computer files. Once you have found the picture of your character, click the "Open" button located on the bottom right of the screen.
 You'll see your character's image on the right while a bunch of organized options lay on the left.


You can crop the image if you feel like it's too big. You are also given the opportunity to resize the photo if necessary. Exposure and color options are provided, as well as the opportunity to increase or decrease the sharpness of your photo.
 You should see a long menu of icons going downwards.
 This will give you options to help you beautify your image and make your character's good looks really stand out. A new set of options should pop up, and you should no longer see the options to crop or resize your photo.
 Underneath "Basic," you should see the option "Dark Edges." Once you have clicked it, you have the opportunity to darken the corners as much as you want.
 Choose the fade option if you don't want the darkness to be that obvious. However, how dark you would want the photo to be will depend on the amount of blackness already set in your photo.


"Size" will determine the size of the darkness in the photograph, while "Intensify" chooses how dark the photo will be.
There is also a color option if you don't want dark edges, but it is recommended you keep it at black.
 Don't worry if you mess up because you can always hit the undo button (found on the top menu bar or you could just hit "Ctrl + Z").
 Click it.
 You have the options of making it green, blue or red. Although some photographs may look stunning with blue or red, it's usually best to use the green option.
 You could also increase the strength of the tint if you believe the quality of your photograph is a little weak.
 Your photograph should be immediately yellowed and slightly faded while the fade option appears on your left.
 However, note that "Dusk" doesn't always look good on all characters. Some of them look hideous, while the beauty of others is enhanced dramatically.
 Click it.
 You can choose different tints and find out which one looks best with your character, but do notforget the fade button is available.


Unfortunately, some characters appear like Medusa with the Sepia option on. Use your discernment, and save the poor souls from such agony.
 It should being holding a list of icons. Click the "Tt" icon, also known as the "Text" icon.
 The fonts are organized into groups, such as "Handwriting" and "Script." Scroll through the list, and choose the one that fits your character's personality best.


For example: If your character is a vampire, sink your fangs into the "Dracula" font. Or, if your character is a gentle, shy girl, a font using feminine cursive (ex: La Bella Aurore) will fit them perfectly like a glove.
 You must click on the text you want first before "Add Text."

, Mouse over the text box till your mouse turns into an "I" symbol.
 Type in your character's name.

Note that PicMonkey also provides you with more options to personalize your text! Not only are you able to change the color of your text, but you can also resize it, cause it to fade, and move the text around to any area on the image (provided that the text is still within the image).
 Make sure it's noticeable, but also check to see that it doesn't take all the attention away from your character's face. If you feel that your text is a little too bold or noticeable, fade in the text a little, using the options PicMonkey provides with the text box.

Beware of fading the text in too much or too little.
 The "Save" option should be on the menu stretched across the top part of your computer screen., Note that the size of the file will depend upon the quality you choose.
 It will automatically open up to your computer files, and you can choose which file you would like your character banner to be saved in., Choose a website that uploads images. An example of a good image uploader is "TinyPic.", Copy the IMG code for forums and message boards. This will be the URL that helps display your image., Paste the IMG code and submit your post. When you view the page, you should see your character banner embedded in your post., May the roleplays be ever in your favor.