 You should always talk with your doctor before switching formulas. This includes if you are switching for dietary or financial reasons. Your doctor will be able to recommend a formula suitable for your baby and can help you with the transition to a new formula.If your baby gets hives, a rash, redness, or vomits forcefully after drinking formula, they may have a true allergy to the milk or soy protein found within the formula.
Your doctor or pediatrician may also recommend switching formulas for dietary reasons. For example, your baby may need more iron in their diet and, therefore, an iron-fortified formula may be best.
If the doctor does not suspect a true medical problem; however, they may be able to recommend a brand or formula that can improve other health symptoms, such as fussiness, gas, iron deficiency, or poor weight gain.;
, It will be easiest on your baby’s digestive system to stick with the same protein type when switching formulas. If you have decided to try a new brand for cost rather than medical reasons, this should be relatively easy. For example, if your baby's current formula uses cows' milk as the protein type, then you should choose a new less expensive formula that also uses cows' milk., If you are switching formulas because your baby has a digestive intolerance, you will need to choose a formula with a different protein type. See which new formula your doctor thinks will help your baby's digestion.Your doctor may recommend that you try a soy-based formula instead of a cows' milk formula to treat a lactose intolerance.
 If your baby was previously drinking a formula with iron, DHA, or other additives, consider selecting another formula with those characteristics. Reading the label will also help you understand the ingredients and you can avoid any ingredients that may cause an allergic reaction in your baby.
 In some instances, your baby will be able to switch formulas relatively easily and will not fuss about a new type of formula. Try giving your baby a little bit of the new formula to see how they react. If there is no issue, then you can switch to the new formula immediately.Similarly, if your baby is allergic to their old formula, you may need to switch completely to the new formula with no period of transition.
 In some cases, your baby may be a little fussy about the taste of the new formula. In these instances, switch formulas gradually. This will mask the flavour of the new formula and make the transition easier.Begin the transition by giving your baby ¾ of the old formula and ¼ of the new formula.
Feed your baby this mixture for one day. Then, try half of the old formula with half of the new formula and feed your baby this mixture for one day.
 Continue to increase the ratio of new formula to old formula each day. For example, on the third day feed your baby a mixture of ¼ of the old formula with ¾ of the new formula and on the fourth day give your baby 100% of the new formula.By this point your baby should expect the flavour of the new formula.
 While transitioning from one formula to another, monitor your baby. Watch for persistent vomiting, diarrhea, excessive gas, or constipation. These are all signs that your baby may be experiencing an allergic reaction. Allergic reactions differ from normal digestive irritation because they are chronic and may impact your baby's ability to gain weight.For instance, acute diarrhea and gas is common among babies, but chronic diarrhea or constipation often means the child has an intolerance.If you believe your baby has an allergy to the new formula, seek medical attention immediately.
 Allergies can also present themselves on the surface of the skin in the form of hives or rashes. If you baby begins to develop a rash, you should take them to a doctor immediately. This could be a sign that they are allergic to the new formula., If you notice blood in your baby’s stool or vomit, you should take your baby to the emergency room immediately. This is a sign of a severe allergic reaction and needs medical treatment.