 Literature tests can be in wildly different formats depending on the class and the instructor; they are very different from math or spelling tests. If your professor or teacher gives you the format of the test, make sure that you understand what each component of the test entails. This understanding will aid you in the study process. Here are some common literature exam components:


Definitions of literary terms or phrases
Quote identifications, where you are given the quote and need to explain who said it in what context in what literary work by which author.
Passage analysis
Short answer questions
Essay questions, either on one work or linking together multiple works

, If your class focuses on literary terms, such as “symbol” or “anaphora” or “free indirect discourse,” make sure that you can not only define the literary term but also provide examples of it from texts in your class. Quiz yourself with these flashcards and look for more examples of them in your assigned texts.
 If you have taken good class notes, rereading through your notes will refresh your memory about the important points made during class. Take note of the important ideas presented in the class, such as “coming of age” or “man vs. nature.” The ideas that stand out in your notes could potentially appear on the exam. Make a condensed study guide, pulling together the most important ideas from your notes. Use the “read-recite-review” method --read over your notes, recite what you remember from them, and then review and assess how much you retained.
 Understanding all of the material for a literature exam is crucial, so now is the time to look back on that confusing passage of Faulkner that you didn’t understand in class. If there’s a passage analysis on one of these confusing sections, you will be happy that you reviewed it!

, If your exam requires an essay, you should look through your notes and texts for potential essay topics, such as dreams, motherhood, or nature. Take note of these for potential exam questions that ask you to talk about symbols and themes across multiple texts studied. Symbols and themes are often frequent topics of literary discussion, and having a grasp of the underlying meaning in your assigned texts will prepare you even more for the exam.
 Ask them questions about confusing passages. Discuss what each of you thought were the important ideas throughout the class--your opinions might vary! Ask them to read-recite-review their notes to you. Hearing different opinions and points of view about the texts in a literature class will help you see the works more holistically.

