


Squirrels are more likely to approach the trap if it is positioned out of the way rather than in the open middle of the attic.
Only use small traps since squirrels may panic and hurt themselves in larger traps. As a general guideline, a trap that is 6 inches (15.25 cm) by 6 inches (15.25 cm) by 18 inches (45.75 cm) is a good size.
Live cage traps can usually be purchased at hardware stores.
Each trap might be set a little differently, so you should read the instructions in order to set it up properly. Usually, you will need to position a swing bar trigger mechanism in a specific way so that it will be "tripped" as soon as the squirrel enters the cage, closing and locking the door.



Peanuts, peanut butter, walnuts, soda crackers, bread crusts, and apple slices are common choices.
Make sure that the food is placed far enough inside the cage to prevent the squirrels from grabbing it through the side.
 After trapping a squirrel, you should move it away from your home.


Moving the squirrel roughly 10 miles (16 km) away from your home and yard is usually enough to discourage squirrels from coming back.
Do not simply move the squirrel into your yard, unless municipal regulations only allow you to do that much. If you move the squirrel into your yard, it is likely to simply search for a way back inside.
Check the attic for baby squirrels. It is possible that you caught a mother squirrel, in which case, her babies will be helpless without her. Make sure to relocate baby squirrels along with the mother.
Wear thick, heavy gloves when releasing a squirrel from a trap. If it seems angry, release it from a distance by attaching a cord or rope to the release mechanism and pulling at it from far away.
Check your local laws about animal relocation. In most municipalities, it will not be a problem for you to trap and relocate squirrels. This may not be the case for every city or county, though.
 Leave the trap in place for at least an additional week after catching your last squirrel.


For best results, you should also patch up any entrances to your attic. Leave the trap in place for a week after catching the last squirrel before patching up holes. After blocking squirrels out, continue to keep the traps up for an additional few days to a week.

