 Deboning a bird certainly isn’t a pretty process, and it’s not exactly clean either. Wear a shirt that you don't mind getting messy. It should be clean, since you're handling food. Make sure it has short sleeves or sleeves that can be rolled up and stay out of the way.


Tie up your hair, too. Unless you’re eating this entire bird by yourself, don’t risk your own hair being part of the stuffing.;
, This will be messy, and the de-boned bird will take up a large area (especially if it’s a 20-lb turkey). Make sure you have room to maneuver it and yourself. You can use a large trash bag to cover your countertop, with a cutting board on top.


Don't forgo the cutting board part. You'll want something under the bird to hoist and turn it around easily.
 In the kitchen sink, remove the plastic wrapper the bird comes in. Remove any fasteners holding the legs together, too. Then, reach inside the body cavity and remove anything that is in there. Many poultry processors put the giblets into a paper package inside the body cavity.


Get rid of anything that isn’t the bird, strings included. You'll want to use fresh ones when you tie it back up.
 You can tell the breast from the back because the breast has a "valley" running down it, separating the right and left breast halves. On the back, you can feel the backbone. When the bird is breast up, the legs (drumsticks) point upward slightly. When the bird is breast side down, it will look a little bit like it's kneeling on the cutting board.


You’ll probably be able to tell which is the front and which is the back just from the position of the wings and legs, too. But in case you can’t, the valley is the best thing to look for.
 You may cut the skin in several places, then flip the knife edge up and cut through the skin from underneath. You may also find it easier to cut just to the left or the right of the spine. Through the rest of the deboning process, be careful to not cut through the skin.


A clean, sharp knife is best. A dull knife will result in ragged cuts and be a lot harder to maneuver. That being said, be careful. You may find that you get stuck in an area and end up lurching for more force, putting yourself in danger. Be careful and take your time.
 Grasp the skin with one hand, and (carefully!) cut the meat away from the bone. Start by grasping the skin next to the spine cut furthest away from you. Cut as close to the bone as you can.


You will have to feel around to figure out where the bones are, and toward the beginning, you will encounter the wishbone. Simply work around this as best you can. If you wish, you can bend the bone until it breaks away from the rib cage, and cut it away. You might find this easier.
 Slowly move down from the back, around the side, toward the breast. It's okay if you cut off bits of bone, cartilage or tendon along with the meat; you can easily fix that later. You want to remove as much meat as possible off the bones. Work slowly at first, and make small cuts until you get the hang of it.


Take care to not accidentally cut through the skin from the inside. Keep separating the meat from the rib cage until you reach the leg and wing joints. With small cuts, clear the area around each joint so that you can see as much of the joint as you can.
 Put down the knife and grasp the wing in one hand and the area on the body around the wing joint with the other. Bend the wing back and twist it a bit until the joint pops. You need to do this to be able to cut through it and get the bones out.


Once the wing joint pops, you'll notice the wing go limp (as it's now unconnected from the body).
 With the tip of the knife, reach in and find the gap between the wing bone and the socket. You just created this gap when you popped the joint. If you can't find it, keep looking, and wiggle the wing around until you see it – it'll be white. Cut through the wing joint and any tendons, taking care not to cut through the skin.


If you do cut through skin, don’t worry. The bird can be tied up, and the meat will still be delicious – it just might not be as pretty. We’ll cover what to do if this happens towards the end of the guide (meaning you can worry about it later).
 Grasp the leg in one hand, and the area on the body around the leg joint with the other. Bend the leg back and twist it a bit until the joint pops. This is just like you did with the wing joint. Getting the hang of it?


Again, if you don’t do this, the entire half of the skeleton is still connected, rendering it very hard – if not impossible – to debone. You’re essentially separating the bones from each other so they come free much more easily.
 With the tip of the knife, reach in and find the gap between the leg bone and the socket. You just created this gap when you popped the joint. If you can't find it, keep looking, and wiggle the leg around until you see it. Cut through the leg joint and any tendons, taking care not to cut through the skin.


You'll see a white ball of hard material when you see the joint – it's pretty hard to miss.
 Continue cutting meat off the bones, and stop short of the keel (the cartilage breastbone). This is where the bone comes closest to the skin, so stop here for now.


We’ll come back to this in a bit. There’s more bird to debone in the meantime. It'll be easier once you get rid of everything.
 Rotate the bird around, and do the other side. You can either rotate the bird around or rotate the cutting board with the bird on it. Start at the spine, and follow the steps above, removing the meat from the bones on the other side of the bird.


Pop and cut through the wing and leg joints just as before, wiggling it around until you see the white joint and connective tendons.
 Lifting up the rib cage with one hand, carefully cut the meat away from the keel. Be very careful at this point not to cut through the skin. This is where the skin is very close to the keel bone.Separate the last point of attached bone from the meat, and lift it away.


But don’t throw it away! You should use it to make stock. Grandma would be proud.
 You should now have a very large flattish piece of meat resting in front of you. Run your hand along the surface of the meat, and feel for small pieces of bone, cartilage, etc. that you may have cut away along with the meat.


This is totally normal, and even happens to seasoned cooks. Cut these off and dispose of them.
 You can also debone the legs, if you like, but you don't have to. Some people prefer to leave the legs with the bones in for presentation. To remove the thigh bone, carve the meat away from the top of the thigh bone, and around the bone. Pop the joint between the the leg bones, cut through the cartilage, and remove the thigh bone.


Again, this is very similar to what you did for the wings. The only difference will be the structure of the bone and how you’re able to grasp it.
 You can do one of two things: sew up the bird and then stuff it, or pile the stuffing on it and then sew it up. Either way, fold the two edges of the bird back to the middle using heavy kitchen string to sew it up. You can make a needle out of a large paper clip, and use pliers to push and pull it through. Be sure to sew through both skin and some meat, because the skin will tear if you sew through that alone.


You will be "sewing" up the bird where you made the first cut through the skin along the spine. Begin at the neck (wing) end and draw the string through both skin and meat on both sides and tie a knot to hold the two sides together. Then "sew" down the cut, pulling the two sides together.
If you already piled the stuffing on top, continue sewing the bird shut. If you will be stuffing the bird now, stop before you get to the cavity, leaving the string and needle to one side. Stuff the bird (you may find it easier if you place it in the kitchen sink, but wash the sink first), sew the cavity shut, and tie off the string., After the bird is sewn up, flip it over so that it is breast side up. Because it has been deboned, the bird will look somewhat relaxed, and the legs will sag to the sides in a yoga-esque pose. You can use more kitchen string to tie up the legs into position.


Even if you left the leg bones in, you may still want to put a tie around the legs. They lack the support from the entire skeletal structure and may still sag a little if not tied.
 If you roll the bird over and find that you DID punch through the breast skin, don't worry. Simply take out your needle and kitchen string and sew it up as best you can. It will still roast up deliciously!


You can also tie the wings and legs together cross-ways to hold the bird together in the pan. There's no real wrong way to do it (as long as the ties are sturdily on, of course).
 Deboning the bird will removes the rib cage, obviously. But as a practical matter, this means two things: (1) the bones, which hold the cold after the bird is removed from the refrigerator, are gone, which means that the bird roasts faster, and (2) the deboning process itself brings the meat up to room temperature, and if done the day you intend to cook the bird, also means that the bird roasts faster. Plan this into your cooking schedule.


Julia Child claimed that a deboned 15-pound turkey was done in less than two hours, although you should plan to be flexible, as it could take longer than that., A deboned bird can take a LOT more stuffing than a bird with the bones in. Not only is there more room because the entire rib cage is removed, but the meat and skin can stretch as well. A deboned bird can take 2-3 times more stuffing For instance, a 20-pound turkey will use about 2 loaves of stuffing bread. Talk about a feast!


Want a few more ideas? wikiHow has some tasty articles on turkey stuffing, bread stuffing, and even chestnut stuffing.
 You didn't throw away the giblets and neck bones, right? Those can be made to add some serious flavor to your gravy. What's more, it eliminates waste, which is a total holiday win.


And it's cheap, too. All you literally need is flour, water, and the giblets. This just might be the tastiest, simplest gravy you've ever made.

