 Identify the person’s underlying emotion to help you choose which action to take. Anger, is a useful emotion. It is known as a “cover” or secondary emotion that can mask underlying emotions.If we think about it, anger can be used to display all sorts of underlying emotions including but not limited to: hurt, frustration, and fear, with anxiety topping the list as a common driver to anger. You get to discover which is operating during a conflict.


Humans, from an early age, learn to cope with things that happen around them and to them. If they learn to respond in an angry way, then they will use that coping skill over and over. Children carry their coping skills into adulthood. Even though they may cause problems, some people will refuse to change.
Children who grew up in a chaotic home have few childhood coping skills except to become hyper-vigilant – always on guard, always externally focused on others, always on edge waiting to see what is going to happen next. , Serve as your own mediator (a person who intervenes between two parties to bring about an agreement or reconciliation). Do your best to create a mediation-like environment. In the most successful mediation sessions all parties get their emotional needs met, the truth can be revealed, and the conflict can move toward resolution.Make that your goal.


If you sense the person is getting out of control, then find a way to remove yourself from the situation. You may say things like, “I can see that we aren’t going to resolve this today so I’m going to leave now,” or “We can’t resolve this problem if we can’t talk calmly, so I’m going to take a break and we can discuss this later.”
You may be shocked by what is said to you; but maintaining an honest and empathetic stance will help you to understand. Ideally, you can set ground rules from the beginning that there will be no name calling.If the situation doesn't allow that, then you can say, "We don't have to resort to name calling to get this problem solved. Let's focus on the problem."Remember that you can take a break from the interaction to allow for a “cooling off period." This may help the person calm down and approach the situation in a more positive way., Approach each situation carefully. People exhibit varying degrees of anger. Some reactions can be mild, and some extreme. Don’t be the one to escalate the problem.


Anger can be an impulsive reaction to a stimuli rather than a well-thought out response. You will need to investigate what triggers an anger response in the person with whom you interact. In some cases, a person could be diagnosed with a condition such as Intermittent Explosive Disorder.There are times when people just want to vent about a situation and don’t need you to do anything other than listen and say, “I know what you mean.”

, Approach an angry person with the goal of neutralizing his anger. Establish a reliable way to disarm and diffuse the situation. For example, say things like, “I know you’re angry about this and I’m sure we can work it out.” If you are caught in a situation with someone who is angry, then there is definitely a conflict that needs to be resolved. You are basically creating a negotiated solution to the conflict.If someone is having an anger outburst and you are not, then you will be the one in charge of maintaining control. You can say things like, “It sounds to me like we can solve whatever this problem is, peacefully.” Seek first to understand, then to be understood.Listen to the person who is angry by paying attention to what he says. Without interrupting him, say things such as, “I hear what you’re saying. Let me see if I’m on target here. You’re upset because ____.” Be an excellent listener. Everyone likes to be heard. Wait until the person is finished talking before you comment, and do not interrupt the person. This shows the person that you respect him and want to hear what he has to say.
 Respond in a way that shows that you have self-control. You may be the only one exercising self-control. It may be difficult to maintain your composure in difficult circumstances; but focusing on a positive outcome will carry you through.


Be flexible and remain composed even if he is emotionally “all over the place.” This will help you remain focused on identifying the underlying issues and guide the interaction toward a peaceful conclusion.
Get him to buy-in to the idea of resolving the matter. Say things like, “I know this is a difficult situation, but I’m confident we can work together to figure this out.” This sets up a positive outcome simply by letting the other person know that you are a willing and optimistic participant.
Always be positive when an agreement is reached. Tell the person you are happy an agreement was reached. Ask the person if he is happy about how things turned out and if there was anything that could have made it better.
 Remember that you are human and so is the person who is mad. Keep in mind the bigger picture - the consequences of an unsuccessful outcome – and that may be just the thing you need to keep the conversation on a positive path.


For a person to grow and change he needs an environment that fosters genuine interactions (openness and self-disclosure), acceptance (being seen with unconditional positive regard) and empathy (being listened to and understood. This would be your role in the process of helping someone deal with his anger issues. Be realistic about the outcome. You may not be able to resolve every conflict. It doesn’t mean you have to stop trying. It's good to remain guardedly optimistic.
There will be times when you will have to assert yourself to get your point across, or to shut the conversation down. Remaining unruffled will be the key. For example, you may have to say, "I understand what you're saying, but I'm going to have to stop the conversation for now. What we're doing isn't working. Perhaps we can find a solution later."

