 A vegetable scramble is a simple dish made by sautéing vegetables in a shallow pan and then adding beaten eggs over them to hold the dish together. Begin by adding any vegetables you like, including onions, garlic, bell peppers, chili peppers, tomatoes, zucchini, broccoli, mushrooms, asparagus, or spinach. Once the vegetables are cooked down, pour one or two beaten eggs over the top, and allow it to cook thoroughly.;
, Hash browns or home fries are wonderful ways to cook potatoes for breakfast. However, this preparation also works well when substituting winter squash or yams for some of the potatoes. Consider adding minced onion and bell peppers to the mix to add flavor, color, and increase the vegetable content.
 Wraps provide an easy template for creating a healthy breakfast. Begin by sautéing a hearty amount of your favorite vegetables - the same ones you would prefer in an omelet or scramble. Scramble an egg in a separate pan, and then fill a warm tortilla with the vegetables and egg.
 Orange juice and other fruit juices are mainstays at the breakfast table, but you can easily drink your vegetables as well. If you do not feel like juicing your own fresh vegetables at home, there are many bottled fruit and vegetable mixes that you can buy at the store. Remember to check the nutrition label, however, as some of these vegetable juices can contain high amounts of sodium.
 One technique that will allow you to incorporate more vegetables into any meal is to serve a plate of fresh cut vegetables alongside the main course. Cucumbers, carrots, celery, and cherry tomatoes are all easy to munch in their raw form, and can complement a breakfast as well as any other meal.
 When it comes to breakfast toast, butter and jam are the undisputed favorites for toppings. Instead, try topping your toast with some fresh or cooked vegetables, including spinach, basil and tomato. Avocados are another topping choice that can even rival the creaminess of butter or margarine.
 Some vegetables, including carrots, zucchini, and sweet potatoes, can be marvelously incorporated into fritters, pancakes, or other pan-fried dishes. Shred or puree the vegetables in a food processor, and add them to the batter before cooking.
 Try a hearty salad for breakfast, or a heaping plate of steamed or stir-fried vegetables. These vegetable dishes can always be paired alongside breakfast favorites like eggs and toast if desired.

