 x 4 in. 8 in. boards. These boards will make up the post to the punching bag. To create the shape you need, place two boards on top of each other and then place the remaining board along their 2-inch sides. Glue the boards together using wood glue. Make sure you run the glue along the lengths of the boards. Once they are glued, screw them together., You want them to stick out so that they can help the board stay in the concrete mix.
 Nail the plywood into the bottom of the boards. The plywood needs to be big enough to support the three boards while standing.
 You want the glue to dry completely before moving on to the next steps.
 Make sure they are evenly stacked. The tires will form your base.
 Use four bags of concrete so that you have enough to fill the inside of the tires. Place the bag of concrete inside of the wheelbarrow towards one end. Cut the bag open using a hoe. Once it’s open, pour out the mix and remove the bag.A wheelbarrow allows you to mix the concrete easily.
You can use a shovel or spade instead of the hoe.
 With the concrete on one side of the wheelbarrow, pour the required amount of water into the other side. To find the required amount of water, read the bag of the concrete mix. Adding more than the required amount can render the mix ineffective.


Make sure to keep about 4 cups of water nearby in case you need to add more to the mix.
 Using a hoe, gradually mix small amounts of the concrete into the water. Keep mixing until the mix is completely wet. As you mix the concrete, make a pile of wet mix on one side of the wheelbarrow.
 Place the post inside of the tires and then fill the tires completely with concrete, making sure there are no empty spaces left inside. While the concrete is still wet, make sure that the post is leveled and centered in the tires. Smooth the top of the concrete.


Make sure you wear gloves and safety goggles when pouring and maneuvering the concrete. The concrete mix can cause serious burns.
 If you move on to the next steps and the concrete is still dry, then the post will be uneven. Once the mix is dry, the base will become very heavy. To maneuver the stand, angle the post down and roll it using the tires.
 The futon mattress will be used for the padding of the punching bag. Lay the post down. Attach one end of the cut mattress to the post by using duct tape. Wrap the remaining part of the mattress until it is completely around the post. Tape the loose end of the mattress down with duct tape. Make sure the mattress is wrapped tight so that the punching bag has structure.


Check with your local classifieds or online postings to find a futon mattress if you do not want to purchase a new one.
 Now that the mattress is secured to the post, wrap the exposed area with duct tape. Make sure you overlap as you tape so that you have very tight layers. You will cover every bit of exposed mattress that runs the length of the post. This will completely secure the mattress and make it suitable for punching.
 The pad will help keep the bag quiet when you hit it.

