 For this recipe, you will need 2/3 cup of baking soda, 1 teaspoon fine sea salt, 1 to 2 teaspoons peppermint extract or other essential oil, and filtered water.Sodium bicarbonate (commonly known as baking soda) polishes the teeth and eliminates bad breath eliminating acids and creating an alkaline pH. Another great advantage is that it is relatively inexpensive.Salt acts as an abrasive that helps remove plaque. It also causes you to salivate, and saliva is nature’s method of protecting teeth.It also provides minerals that help protect your enamel, and this effect is increased when combined with baking soda.
The essential oil is for taste.
The water is for consistency.;
, Make sure that the sea salt is mixed thoroughly with the baking soda. When you look closely at the mixture, you should not see clumps of sea salt among the baking soda, but rather the salt should be dispersed so that it is difficult to pick out from the baking soda.


This can be accomplished using a fork or whisk, which will help break up any clumps of salt. Leaving big clumps of sea salt can be harmful when brushing, so make sure to mix everything together until it is the same consistency.
 However, you can try other “flavors” too.


Other essential oils commonly used include: lavender, which has shown to provide calming effects when used orally; orange, which has also been shown to reduce anxiety; and eucalyptus, which has antiseptic and antibacterial properties.These are all also used in dentistry for similar effects.
 Do this a few drops at a time, and stir well after each addition.You can make it as thick or thin as you like, but be aware that if it is too thin it will be difficult to keep it on the brush and it will get diluted faster by the saliva, making it difficult to brush your teeth.
 Essential oils should be stored in glass containers, so this is especially important if you have chosen to include oil. Store the paste near your toothbrush, out of direct sunlight in a cool dry place., You can dip your brush right into the paste if you wish, or you can use a small spoon to heap it onto your brush. Experiment with using different amounts. Start with a pea-sized drop, and add more if you don’t feel it is enough.

