 Get the first string memorized, then focus on one letter completely. Start by finding all of the Es between the head and the 12th fret and then move on to another letter. Trying to learn all the notes at once is much too confusing to be productive, so split the task up into individual notes. There are a lot of theories out there about what order to learn notes, but a good order to try is E - G - B - F - D - A - C.


Practice playing just that one note, using the same finger each time. Build up speed slowly until you can find every single note without looking.
You can use the top string to locate just about every note. Once you know the notes on the low E-string you can use the following tricks to find them anywhere.
 Octaves are the same note, but at different pitches. Think of perfectly harmonizing singers, one who is high-pitched, one low and deep, who are singing the same note, to understand octaves. On guitars, octaves make it easy to find notes. Simply move down two strings, and then right 2 frets, and you have an octave. For example, start with your finger on the 6th string, 3rd fret. This is a G. If you move down to the 4th string, 5th fret, this is also a G.









There is one exception to this. The 2nd string (open B) is a half-step deeper than the rest. So, to find an octave ending on the 2nd string, you go down two strings, and right three frets.
 If you go down one string, then to the left 5 frets, you arrive at an identical note to the one you started on. For example, if you start on the 4th string, 10th fret, you can find an identical note on the 3rd string, 5th fret (these are both C).









You can also go in reverse. A string higher and to the right 5 frets will also create an identical note.
Like with octaves, the 2nd fret is the only exception. If you end on the 2nd string, you move the left 4 frets, not 5. So, the match for 3rd string, 4th fret note is an open B-string, or the 0-fret., There is a variety of tricks and patterns that can help you find notes at any time with a bit of quick thinking. Using the octaves and matching notes, you can add the following tricks to help you locate any note as you practice:


The top and the bottom string, both E, are identical.
The D string, the 4th string, is just the E string shifted 2 frets down.
The G string, the 3rd string, is just the A string shifted 2 frets down.
The B string, the 2nd string, is just the A string shifted 2 frets up., For example, for the first week, you might spend the first 5 minutes of practice finding every single E on the guitar. For the whole week, find and play every E note on the fretboard, practicing to the point where you don't need to count or find it. The next week, move on to find every single F. After a few weeks you'll have the board happily memorized.


Pick a spot on the guitar and move only up and down on all 6 strings, hitting just the Es in your little box to where you started. Slowly build up speed as you play until you know all the Es on that section of the fretboard.
Don't worry too much about the sharps and flats -- once you know the natural notes these will be easy to find., Music notation is written out in notes, so being able to quickly read music and find the matching frets on the guitar is the perfect way to learn the notes quickly and effectively. If you can get to the point of basic "sight reading," where you can look at sheet music and find the notes as you read, you've perfectly memorized the notes.

