 The Dollar Pills parking lot is where this event takes place. It is a block southeast of Franklin’s first safehouse.Two blue blips will show up on your radar if the random event is available.


Take a four-door vehicle to the location. If you take another type of vehicle, you will be required to find one with four doors.
It is also advisable to take a fast vehicle, as there will be a high-speed police chase. Examples of fast four-door vehicles are the Ubermacht Oracle, the Dewbauchee Exemplar, and the Bravado Buffalo S (which Franklin owns).;
, When you arrive, you will witness their robbery. Afterward, they will ask you to take them away from the scene of the crime, then get into your vehicle. This will cause the cops to come after you, as helping them flee gives you a two to three-star wanted level.
 Find a straight road to drive down as fast as you can without crashing. Your radar will flash red and blue if you are within sight of the police. Once you are out of their line of sight, hide in the nearest alleyway until your wanted level is gone.


When the police can no longer see you, they will appear on your radar as blue cones. The cones represent their line of sight. While you are hiding, try to stay away from the blue cones.
If a police car is approaching you while you are hiding, and it is likely that they will see you soon, drive away fast until you find another alleyway to hide in.
 The location will appear on your radar as a yellow line leading to a yellow dot. Follow the navigation line until you arrive at the destination. Once you drop them off, Packie will give you a $1,000 reward, and he will be unlocked for future heist missions.


If you prefer, you can drop them off at the Altruist Cult instead for $2,000. In order to do this, you must be playing as Trevor. However, this is inadvisable because it will not unlock Packie as a heist accomplice.
After dropping four people to the Altruist Cult, another random event will unlock for Trevor, which results in a gain of $100,000. Dropping Packie and his friend off would make it so that you only have to deliver two more people from random events.
You will not be paid for delivering a fourth person to the cultists, since it triggers the new random event. Therefore, if you have already delivered two or three people to the Altruist Cultists, you will not get a payment for dropping off Packie and his friend.If you don’t want to recruit Packie as a heist accomplice, and don’t want to deliver him and his friend to the cultists, you can kill them and collect the money and ammo they drop. You can gain around $2000 to $3000 by doing this.

