 If you're looking for a bank-owned home, you are probably not hung up on the condition of the home--but you are certainly looking for other things. Make a list of requirements you have for your foreclosure, such as location, price range, how bad the condition is, type of home, and so on.


It is important to come up with this list prior to finding a real estate agent so that you can hand them your requirements right away. This will help them find properties that meet your needs.;
, Finding bank-owned properties isn’t as easy as it is to find a traditional home. Some listings charge a fee for access, and while there are some free listing sites, the listings are much better on paid sites. Finding an expert real estate agent who knows the foreclosure game can help you find houses you never would have on your own.
 Many bank-owned homes are sold during auctions. Two types of auctions are available: public foreclosure auctions, and public auctions. In order to get to the public auction stage, the house passes first through the foreclosure auction right after liquidation. If it doesn’t sell there, it is turned over to an agent. If an agent can’t sell it, it is given to an auction company.Auctions usually take place quickly and before you have had time to inspect the home.
Some also require that you pay in cash.
 You can find foreclosed homes on the market by doing a simple internet search with the terms “REO properties” or “foreclosures.” The results will reveal listings on both government and bank websites., You can also find foreclosed homes on traditional real estate websites, but these homes are in the hands of real estate agents. If you go after one of these homes, you will have to deal with the agent instead of directly with the bank.


Popular sites that have real estate listings include Zillow and Redfin.
 if you are serious about buying a bank-owned home, consider getting preapproved for a mortgage loan from the bank. You can’t truly consider a home unless you know how much you have available for spending. Do a little planning to make sure your credit score is high before you apply.


When you go apply for a mortgage loan, you need to have documents in hand like proof of income and assets, employment verification, and identity documentation., Real estate agents who have experience selling foreclosed homes are the best ones to consider hiring for your house hunt. Your real estate agent can negotiate with the bank so that you are saved this hassle, as well as find homes that you don’t have access to as a consumer. The real estate agent will also present your offer to the bank.In the foreclosure market, your real estate agent does not have to contract with other buyers' agents in order to look at the home. This means that your agent can show you multiple homes at the same time.
 Before making an offer on house, get the property inspected and appraised so that you know you are getting the best value for your price, and so that you know what risks you are taking by procuring this house. The benefit to house hunting amongst foreclosures is that you don’t have to have a bid on the house before making an inspection.Home inspections can also help you determine the estimated cost of repairs and the condition of the house., Look around in the neighborhood of the foreclosure you have your eye on to determine what price range the house would be in if it were not foreclosed. Make sure that your offer is comparable to these other values. Look up recent sales in the neighborhood on realty websites (or ask your agent) to determine these prices., Ask your agent for advice about how to protect your offer. They may be able to recommend a contract that has contingencies in case you wish to back out at any point in the offer process., Finally, after you have prepared for it, make the actual offer. The price that the house was listed for is most likely set at market value, so you won’t get much wiggle room with the asking price. Work with your agent to determine the best price based on the prices of recently sold homes in the area, as well as your own finance option.


Tell your agent what price you want and they will make the offer to the bank.
 Even though you have done your research and come up with what you believe is a fair price, you will likely be issued a counter offer as the bank searches for the best price it can get. Don't be surprised by a counter offer that is not satisfactory. Make another offer in return if you don't like it.


The bank may not want to negotiate on price since it is usually set at market value, but you may ask for a lower interest rate or lower closing costs.
Banks typically counter any offers under list price, but you can still get an offer accepted under market value by negotiating.
 Although a bank-owned home generally has a clear title, you should never assume this is the case. Search public records or ask your agent to help you find liens or owed taxes on the property you are interested in.Hire a title company to run the title search, making sure that it is a full and insured search, to be certain that there will be no financial snafus when you close the deal.
Make sure the bank pays for the final utilities and any code enforcement fines that are not recorded as liens, as well.
 Be prepared to wait weeks or even months for the negotiation dust to settle. Banks usually shop around for the best price they can get on a foreclosed property, so they may hold out for another buyer if your offer is too low., Once a bank agrees on your price and will sell the house to you, get a hold of your real estate agent and lender to obtain the money you need to pay for the house. In your appeal for cash, you should include estimates on renovations, escrow, closing costs, excise tax, and any other costs you foresee.


Closing costs vary with each home purchase, but can include a credit report fee, a fee for processing your loan, attorney fees, inspection charges, title insurance, and many more.If you are getting financing, the lender will prepare an estimate of the closing costs. If you pay cash, the real estate agent can prepare the estimate.
 After your offer is accepted, the deal can officially be closed. Generally your real estate agent will obtain the keys and give them to you when you sign the final papers for the house.


When you buy a home, just as when you buy a car, you actually have the title signed over to you. This is part of the process once your offer is accepted. This is also the time you agree to pay closing costs.

