 It’s important to untangle knots as soon as they form and before you wash your hair. Begin by spraying the knot with a mixture that is three parts water to one part olive or coconut oil. Apply your regular conditioner directly to the knot and from the roots of your hair to the tips on the knotted section. Then use your fingers to gently remove hair from the knot.When you have partially untangled the knot, use a wide toothed detangling comb to gently brush hair starting at the tips and working your way up the section, brushing down.
It’s important to never try to comb or detangle knotted hair when it’s completely dry. Doing so is extremely difficult and will damage your hair. Dampening your hair and adding product makes the knotted section of hair more slippery so that the knot can come out easier.
 If you want to straighten your natural hair, let the hair air dry partially, spray your hair with a heat protectant, then use a comb attachment on a blow dryer to gently brush the hair with heat to straighten it., If you are looking to style your hair as opposed to wearing it down, try styling it in protective and low-maintenence styles that keep your hair in place and require no daily manipulation or styling of the hair.Braids, including box braids and cornrows, are classic and stylish protective styles. If you don't have long hair, you can braid synthetic hair in to give you extra length.
Twists, including Senegalese twists and two strand twists are also good options for a protective style. Like with braids, you can also add in synthetic hair or even beads to add more to the look.
You can also do updos such as bantu knots or buns.
 Wearing a weave can actually protect your hair as long as you choose a sewn-in weave as opposed to one glued to your hair, so If you want to wear a weave, have it professionally sewn-in to your hair unless you are very experienced. Visit your stylist every two or three weeks after getting the weave to make sure it stays tight to your hair and doesn’t pull on your natural hair.Glued in weaves often rip your natural hair out when they are removed, whereas sewn-in weaves can be removed without any damage done to your hair.
You can also wear a wig if you don’t want to have a weave put in. Simply put your hair up, put a wig cap on, and wear the wig.
 You can keep your weave in between one and a half to three months, depending on the advice of your stylist. After your second consecutive weave, you should get the weave removed and let your hair rest for about three weeks, as wearing weaves for too many months can strain your hair and scalp., Relaxing your hair does do a certain amount of damage, but the damage is far less if you get it done professionally as opposed to doing it at home. After your first session, you will need to get your newly grown hair near your scalp touched up every few weeks so that it matches your relaxed hair, but never get your whole head of hair relaxed twice, as this can severely damage your hair.