 Your school may provide a list of materials that you will need, or you may need to make your own list of the supplies that you will need. Major retailers like Target and Walmart, as well as pharmacies like Walgreens and CVS, typically run promotional sales during the weeks leading up to the school year: you can often get all of the supplies that you need in one stop.


Plan ahead. While stores usually advertise back-to-school sales, some items may be cheaper during other sales. For example, clothing may be cheaper during end-of-summer clearance sales held before the back-to-school sales. Get your list ready in advance, and look for deals throughout the summer.Check for additional student discounts. Keep your student ID handy as some retailers offer discounts if you can show that you are a student. Ask a salesperson or look online for a list of major retailers with discounts., Get your supplies ready in advance so that you will have a chance to double check that you have everything. Make sure that your bag is large enough to carry the items that you will need daily. Use the sections of your backpack or organizational supplies to make all of your supplies easily accessible.


Make sure you have folders to collect loose papers and assignments. You might lose important information or undermine your success by turning in damaged work.
Plan to have extras of the most essential items. It is easy to lose a pencil before an important test, so have several writing utensils stashed in your bag.
 Pack a small bag or a compartment in your backpack with items that can help in emergencies. For example, a pack of tissues can be ready in case you get a runny nose in class and a bandage can help if you get a papercut while reaching into your bag. Try to buy mini sizes so that you don't take up a lot of space in your school bag.


Some items that might help you in a pinch: a pack of gum or breath spray, lip balm, a few adhesive bandages, a packet of tissues, antibacterial gel, oil blotting sheets, a compact mirror and makeup, sanitary pads/tampons, tweezers.
Try not to advertise your preparation as other students may take advantage of your foresight and ask to use your supplies. If you aren’t careful, you'll eventually be left with nothing. If people are pestering you for gum, try carrying an empty gum packet as evidence that you're chewing your last piece.
Keep your essential items separate from your books or they may break in your bag. They may even leak and ruin your books if not kept in an individual pouch or bag.
 Make sure that you have enough space for the items you plan on carrying with you daily. You will want to keep necessities like your phone, headphones, a bus pass, and keys nearby for safe keeping and so that you don't have to spend too much time hunting for them when needed. If you wear a blazer, or have front pockets in your bag, you can use them for small items that could get lost in a bigger pouch

