 Is your song going to be classic music? Is it going to be rock or jazz? Maybe your song is going to be Caribbean themed? This is the time to decide, as later, it might be too late.;
, You will realize that at the bottom of the screen, there are many colours. Each coloured square represents a different pitched note. You place down your notes by clicking on the square of the note that you want to place down and clicking on the screen. You can click on the squares of the notes at the bottom of the screen to see what note they play. Write your song and make sure that it matches the theme you planned out at the beginning.
 Bugs are the little tiny instruments with eyes going through the screen at all times. You are allowed four of them in the screen at once. Use the tweezers option to pick up a bug and run it through the notes you placed. It doesn't matter which bug you select. If the bug isn't turned in the direction that you want it to be, shake it in the tweezers until it does. If you like the way the music sounds, then move onto the next step. It you don't like the way the music sounds, then make some last minute corrections. If the the notes are good but the theme sounds wrong, don't worry because that's because of the bug you chose.
 You have to select the 'bugs' button and from there, you select your bugs. You have a large list of bugs to choose from now but you are only allowed one yellow bug, one blue bug, one green bug, and one red bug. You can see what sounds the bug plays by clicking on the sound button located just below the bug. By clicking on the sound button, you can see if the bug is a good bug to use to play your song, as each bug represents a different musical instrument. After you chose your four bugs that will play your song, click on the 'OK' button.
 The notes in the game are made to represent musical notes and also, they can draw pictures as each one has a different colour. Now you can draw a picture that matches the theme of your song somewhere on the screen by clicking on the colour you want and placing it down. Make sure that you keep you notes that your bugs play away from the picture so they don't get mixed up together.
 You do this by placing one or more of your bugs on the notes that you wanted it to play. You use the tweezers to get the bug(s) to the notes. Now sit back and enjoy the music. If you still have any corrections to make, you should do them immediately.
 You do this by clicking on 'file', and then 'save'. Now you have to fill in three boxes. In the one that says 'artist', put your name there. In the one that says 'title', put the title of your song there. In the box that says 'description', you can put a brief description of your song including the theme, the bugs you used, and when you made your song.

