 Just like people, dogs that get older have a hard time handling change. It’s important to your older dog’s health to get enough to eat, even when it may be difficult.Feeding your dog at the same time each day can provide it comfort and show your affection.Talk to your vet about giving your dog optimum amounts of protein to maintain muscle mass without adding fat to its diet.
Recognize that dental problems may make it difficult for an older dog to chew. Switching to smaller sized food or canned food may be beneficial. An excellent way to show a little extra affection at mealtime is to hand feed your older dog., Exercise is an important part of any dog’s health. This is especially true for older dogs that need to maintain muscle mass. But your once vivacious dog may need less or different exercise as it ages. Tailor your dog’s daily exercise to what it can do. This might be a one hour walk or walking from your house to the neighbor’s.Celebrate whatever your dog is able to do with praise and affection. For example, say, “Way to go, Axel! You made it!” while giving your dog a pet on the ears.Consider alternative types of exercise for your dog. Activities such as swimming can offer an older dog exercise without harming their joints.
 Dogs are pack animals in the wild. As a result, they are not made to spend a lot of time alone.Many dogs don’t need the stimulation of play as they get older. Rather, they need relaxation time.This might include play that stimulates the body and mind or just spending time with you during your own daily routine. These not only strengthen your bond through healthy attention but also provide your older dog affection.Schedule at least 30-60 minutes of relaxing time with your dog every day. You could play fetch or Frisbee or ball. If your dog doesn’t want to go outside, letting it play with treat toys is an option.If your dog doesn’t feel like moving, put its bed somewhere near you. For example, if you’re cooking, let your older dog sit or lie next to you in the kitchen.Consider purchasing or making a couple of cozy dog beds to put in places where you frequently are. This allows your dog to comfortably be at your side.

