 Uggs are meant to be worn in cold weather, which means they go best with fall or winter clothes. Try tucking trendy jeans into your Uggs if you want the boots to be the star of your outfit. For a more subtle look, wear flared pants over your Uggs. Be bold and try out a pair of dark red or green skinny jeans, but be sure to color coordinate with your boots!, If you’re more into leggings than pants, wear your Uggs over a pair of warm leggings. You can wear single shade leggings in an earth tone for a classy look, or a patterned pair to spice things up. Combine with a loose sweater or top and you’re good to go!

, As long as you’re also wearing tights or leggings, go ahead and wear a blouse and skirt or winter dress with your Uggs. As a rule of thumb, though, make sure your outfit is relatively casual. Uggs aren’t meant to be worn with ball gowns.
 Don’t be afraid to dress up your Uggs with some fun accessories. Throw on a puffy vest or a big scarf to keep warm and look fashionable.Since Uggs are monochromatic, spice up your outfit with some long earrings, a necklace, or a brightly colored winter hat.
 Uggs, though trendy and high end, are meant to be a casual accessory. They’re generally not appropriate for work, or a formal dress event such as a wedding. Wearing Uggs with fancy clothing will look unnatural and will make the boots stick out in an unpleasant way. Instead, wear when hanging out with friends, to a casual meal, to university, or to work (depending on the accepted dress code of your job).


One of the best things about Uggs – you can wear them with sweatpants! Tuck a pair of sweats into Uggs when you’re running errands on a lazy winter day. Pair with a tight long sleeve shirt and you’ll be warm, comfortable, and casually fashionable., No matter how much you love your Uggs, try not to wear them in warm weather. Though comfortable, Uggs are sheepskin boots designed to keep your feet warm. If you wear them in warm weather, you not only run the risk of making a fashion faux pas, but also ruining your boots with excess sweat.

