 One thing you need to do in order to build your self-esteem is to practice proper hygiene. In taking care of yourself, you will come to care for yourself more and more. To take care of yourself, you’ll need to practice proper hygiene. Wash your hair, and your skin regularly. Brush your teeth and your hair. Use deodorant. Wash your hands when needed. This will help you feel good about your body.


If you or your family have a hard time paying for personal hygiene items, there are often many resources in the community where you can get them for free. Local churches and organizations will often have services that provide necessities. If they don’t, they may know where to look for help.
 Take care of your clothes. Wash them when they’re dirty and fold them to keep them from getting wrinkled. Don’t keep clothes that have a lot of holes or are ripped. Try to remove stains from clothing and if they can’t be removed, get rid of the clothes. Wear clothing that fits, not clothes that are too small or way too baggy.


If you have problems getting new clothes, you can get clothing for free from many local churches and community outreach centers. Thrift stores will also have clothing that is much cheaper than what you’d pay in normal stores. If you’re worried that all you can find is outdated clothing, try thrift stores in nice towns or nice parts of town. Stores next to big colleges will be your best bet. This will increase your chances of finding clothes which are practically new and certainly nice enough to wear for many years.
 Teenage years are formative years, and many teens suffer from a deficit of sleep. You may think it's fine to skimp on sleep, but this practice actually has a serious impact on your health. Scientists have found that poor or little sleep is associated with lower rates of optimism and self-esteem.

So if you want an easy way to boost your self-esteem as a teen, shoot to get at least 7 or 8 hours of sleep every night., A big part of feeling good in your own skin is exercising. Extra fat or generally being out of shape can make you feel sluggish, out of breath, or just unpleasant. Exercise will help you feel more energetic and healthier.


Anything which gets your heart rate up for at least ten minutes is exercise. Work out by jogging, doing push-ups and crunches, or doing squats. Anything that works for you is perfectly fine...just be consistent and don’t give up!

, Eating healthy, like exercising, will lead you to feel better in your own skin. Eating a lot of junk food will weigh you down and make you feel sluggish and sick. Eating healthy food will give you more energy and you’ll feel much happier. In feeling better, you’ll be able to feel better about yourself.

