 Some dogs, especially younger puppies and dogs that have not had much exposure to grooming, may be frightened of grooming tools. If this is the case, it can be helpful to let your dog sniff the brushes to see that they're nothing to be afraid of.Do not let your dog chew on the brushes. Some puppies may try, but this will set a bad precedent for future grooming sessions.
 There are many different types of detanglers available for grooming a dog's coat. The best type of detangler includes a conditioner to soften the coat. You can even buy instant detangler that begins to work immediately upon application - simply spray the coat thoroughly and start untangling mats., Shedding blades and universal slicker brushes can help work out mats and remove loose fur, leaving your dog's coat thick with healthy fur. However, these brushes can be painful for the dog if you use it to brush the entire coat. Instead, use one of these specialized brushes to target problem areas in the coat where you notice clumps and tangles.Detangling before you brush can help prevent snags on your dog's coat.
Be gentle as you work out the tangles and mats. Pulling too hard at a mat could hurt your dog's skin, which could potentially lead to an infection.
 Some dogs will be resistant to getting brushed, even if it does not tickle them. They may be frightened or confused about what's happening. If your dog struggles, offer treats to keep it calm and distracted.Choose special treats that you usually reserve for special occasions. For example, pieces of cooked chicken or turkey may distract your dog better than kibble.
 It's generally best to brush with the grain of your dog's coat. The only exception is for thick outer coats that have a soft undercoat (like a sheepdog's coat), in which case you should brush with the grain on the outer coat and against the inner coat's grain.As you brush, start as close to the skin as possible without scratching your dog's skin, then work the brush outwards.
Use gentle strokes. Being too firm with a brush can end up hurting your dog.
See Groom a Dog for more detailed instructions and tips.

