 Be friendly with all customers and ask questions related, and also not related, to their shopping when creating conversation. Customers like when associates are open and are willing to help when needed and enjoy being able to make small conversation with ease.
 Know the promotions and product that you have in your store. This will help to lead customers in the right direction with their needs and wants. Also, keeping the store tidy will make it easier for customers to find what they need, and also help other employees find items quickly for a customer


Pre-party. With being party ready, you should also have a “pre-party” with the MOD (manager on duty) before you begin your shift; this is where the MOD will update you with any current changes in promotions, the numbers for the day (KPI’s = key performance indicators), and what is to be expected from you during your shift.
 Be honest when helping a customer. Personal testimony is an important aspect when connecting to the customer’s individual style.
 Act like you’re in the customers “shoes” when helping them with their decisions. Everyone understands what it’s like to be a customer, so feel as though you’re shopping yourself when helping or looking for what the customer has in mind.
 In other words, do NOT under any circumstances not show up for your shift, also known as a “no call, no show”. If extremely necessary, you may call in before your shift at a reasonable time to relieve your shift, more so if you are really sick, have a major personal matter to attend to, etc.; however, AEO does not promote this action.


With this in mind, showing up late is NOT acceptable. If you have an issue with getting to work on time, then it is your responsibility to call the store to let the MOD know. Being tardy is also frowned upon by the company.
 You may be working in any of four areas of the store when you arrive for your shift: the cash & wrap, fitting rooms, the sales floor, or the Stockroom. Be prepared to do the task at hand and be willing to do what it takes to make that task successful.

