 While this usually won't win you any games, it can help you out if you're stuck and give you some better tiles to work with. It is arguable whether or not this method is considered cheating. People who do assert that you should know any word you play. Others consider it a legitimate strategy in normal gameplay.Find an open area of your game board that you can potentially build a word on. Try adding one to three of your tiles in different combinations next to or around a letter you can incorporate. Click the "Play" button when you think you may have a word. If you don't, the game will simply tell you to try again without the other player knowing. For more points, focus on letters that would make a word overlapping one or more bonus tiles.
Open up a word browser or another program with a spellchecker. Try typing different combinations of your tiles in various orders until either the program doesn't underline them (meaning that it is a viable word for you to use) or suggests a corrected spelling of a word that fits the game board.
 If you choose to use a physical book, this is the ultimate low-tech method. Browse words that begin with a letter on the board followed by one or two that you have in your hand. While some don't consider this cheating, others contend that using an outside reference goes against the spirit of the game.


Leafing through a thesaurus is much more efficient than using a dictionary. This is because thesaurus entries are generally much shorter than those in a dictionary, fitting many more words in a page. Run a finger or piece of paper down the page to quickly scan for an appropriate word.
 There are dozens of very short, obscure words that are recognized by the dictionary that Words uses. Many users have compiled lists of these online for free use. This tack can be a lifesaver when you're stuck with a bunch of difficult letters and no idea what to do with them.


Some common examples that seasoned Words players should know: qi, xu, gi, xi, zo, and oi.