 Bridal magazines are a great way to get a fuller sense of what kinds of dresses are on the market. Even though you may have an idea of what kind of fit you’re looking for, there are still many other factors to choosing the perfect dress., Apart from fit, there are also several other elements that are important to narrow down what style of dress you want. Picking out how you want your ideal dress to look mostly has to do with personal preference and style.


Think about the neckline of your dress. Do you prefer a high neck, a scoop neck, a V-neck, or another kind of neckline?
Consider whether you prefer the look of gauzy, flowy dresses or ones that are more fitted.
Think about the color of your ideal dress. Is it a traditional white dress or another color? If you like white dresses, think about whether you like pure white or a shade of off-white.
Think about what length you would like, and what would suit you.
Also consider what amount of detailing you want for your dress. While some brides like intricate beading and embellishments, some prefer unembellished gowns where the fabric and the cut make the statement.
 The Internet is another great resource to turn to. Not only are there thousands of great sites that have wedding dress picture galleries, but you can also search for your preference in dresses. Now that you have narrowed down the unique characteristics of your dress, do a Google search of these elements for inspiration.You can Google phrases like “glittery wedding gown” or “V neck wedding dress” if you have a sense of what you want your dress to look like beyond its fit.
 Take images that you have collected of your favorite wedding dresses and styles. You can print them out to make a physical collage, or you can make a Pinterest board so you can access the pictures from your computer.Sometimes making a collage or board can make sense of what kind of dresses you like. You may not really know why you like a dress when you look at it individually, but if you put pictures together of different dresses you like, you may start to see similarities in style.
 Before you go shopping for dresses, you want to make sure that you have all your research with you. This can make the whole process of shopping easier, and it will help whoever is fitting you know what you want. Make sure to consolidate your research, whether it be pictures, collages or notes. You can even create a kind of “mission statement” from your research, something like “I am looking for an off-white floor-length empire dress.”

