 Use a knife-sharpening stone, pumice stone, or other gritty or rough material to scrub your skin. Use a strong but slow motion to avoid tearing your skin, and alternate by rubbing with your fingers to prevent friction burns. Attempt this for several minutes, then move on if the glue shows no sign of balling up or peeling off.


If nothing else is available, use a scrap of wood or a thick index card.;
, Rub one of the following oil-based materials onto your hands for several minutes:









Hand lotion, olive oil, sunflower oil, or baby oil are all gentle on skin. Increase the effectiveness by heating it for about 10 seconds in the microwave, and/or by mixing in a pinch of salt to add friction.
Lip gloss, lip balm, petroleum jelly (Vaseline), nonstick cooking spray, or oil-based makeup removers are additional options. Also Argan oil with raw Shea oil is a very good solvent.
Polyglycol body lotion may be extra effective., Use a blunt butter knife or your fingernails to scrape away at the edge of the glue, while it is still oily. Avoid sharp blades, which may "succeed" by cutting off your protective outer layer of skin.
 Some people report success when rubbing slices of lemon or lime on the glue, or rubbing with a citrus oil or skin-safe citrus-based cleaner.









This method may sting if the gorilla glue or exfoliation has caused dry, cracked, or torn skin.
 Wipe off your hand of the previous ointment, then track down the ingredients for a potentially more effective mixture. Industrial users of MDI, the bonding ingredient in Gorilla Glue, use the following mixture to clean up spills:








Washing soda / soda ash (5 to 10%)
Liquid detergent (0.2 to 2%)
Water (add to reach 100%)

, The glue will wear off along with your regular skin replacement, with the stain fading completely in about four or five days. Waiting is recommended over using harsh chemicals, which are often ineffective and may damage skin.









Keep your hands moisturized with lotion during this wait, as gorilla glue can cause dry or cracked skin.

