 Although any days of the year should work, most people travel to Disneyland during the summer.;
, Not all tastes will be enjoyed by all. Whether it be the whimsical world of Disneyland park, or the wilder side known as Disneyland's California Adventure park, there's something for every age group.
 Whether it's the "it's a small world" ride, the Pirates of the Caribbean ride, the Haunted Mansion or whatever, find out a little about each of the rides existing there and explain what each ride will do.


Have several meetings with each family member. Explain rides that may be able to be tailored to their age group. Keep a list of what you expect to see written down along with their respective "land" they are featured in available nearby.
 Get to know the ride and what your kids could expect to see. Ask yourself the following questions about the POV ride experience: Is the ride an indoor ride, or will it go outdoors? Does the ride vehicle travel fast or does it travel rather slow?


If you're not into rides, this step might not be for you. Not many character greetings on the walkway paths are ever taped for YouTube itself.
 Whether it's from a food vendor or it's a piece of clothing or other piece of merchandise, you'll need to know exactly what your kids might be enticed into asking you to purchase. While some age kids are free with a paying adult, some are a smaller additional charge. Know these things before you leave, and potentially even purchase your tickets or ticket package. (Plan this part at least one month before your intended arrival in the Anaheim, California area.)

, Whether it's by car, bus, airplane, train or if you are only a few blocks away (by walking), it's impossible not to be able to arrive in the area of Disneyland.
 Have them either hitch a ride in a stroller or have them walk (if they are over the age of completely being immobilized by the stroller) through the gate with their ticket.


Don't give your kids any water or juice jugs as you go through security, but as soon as you get through the turnstiles, it's okay to give them the liquid to drink. Make things easier on the checkpoint person, so they don't have to glance at the kid in an "awkward" way.
 You'll find these just beyond the turnstile gates. If you don't speak much English, recognize that some of these maps come with additional language park map copies.
 While most people head right for Fantasyland and it's great classic rides (Dumbo and it's a small world), you might want to work the opposite way from Sleeping Beauty Castle starting at Adventureland and working backwards and around the opposite way. There are some other really great rides that exist from Adventureland going around to Tomorrowland.
 Make a pass into and out of Toontown USA and eventually into and through Sleeping Beauty Castle.
