 Everyone goes through puberty. It’s a normal part of life. It might feel embarrassing to talk about the changes that you're going through. Don't worry. Most people feel pretty shy when talking about puberty. Take a few deep breaths and remind yourself that everyone goes through this.


Remember that your parents are there to support you. Don't worry that they won't understand what you're experiencing. They have gone through the same thing.
Give yourself a pep talk. Look in the mirror and say, "I am confident that I can handle this conversation."
Your parents may even be impressed by your maturity in wanting to know more about such important changes to your body.;
, What are you hoping to get out of this talk? Puberty is a big change in your life, and there are many different ways that the conversation could go. Pick a few major points of interest to start out. If you want to focus the conversation on learning about sex, for instance, figure that out ahead of time. You should also decide whether you want your parents to simply listen to you or if you want them to offer advice.Try making a list of what is important to you. For example, if you're concerned about preparing for your first period, make that your top priority.
If you want advice from your parents, prepare a list of questions to ask.
If you just want them to listen to your feelings, say, "I know you guys are more experienced than me, but for now, could you just listen?"

, This is an important conversation, so you’ll want to be ready for it. Don’t run the risk of being caught flatfooted. Once you figure out what’s important to you, figure out how you want to phrase it.


Try writing down some things you want to say. You can even make note cards to have with you during the conversation.
Rehearse what you plan to say. Try looking in the mirror while you ask potential questions.
You will feel more calm and confident if you have a game plan.
 It’s OK if you only feel comfortable speaking with one parent in particular. If you’re male, you may want to talk with your dad. If you’re female, you may want to talk with your mom. Or you may be all right talking with both of them. But figure that out before beginning the conversation.Make your decision clear to your parents. Try saying, "Mom, could you and I have a private talk after dinner?"

, You don’t have to tell your parents everything. And if you’re not close with your parents, or if you know they won’t want to talk about anything sexual in nature, it may be a better idea to talk to someone else. Consider talking to an older sibling, or even a grandparent. An authority figure to whom you aren’t related, like a school counselor or nurse, could also be a good choice.You could say to your older brother, "Brad, I'm nervous to talk to mom and dad. Could you answer some questions for me?"
If you decide to talk to the nurse, ask if there are any pamphlets you could read. A medical professional is a great resource for this sensitive subject.
 You want to make sure that your parents have time to be fully present for this important talk. Don’t ask them when they’re busy with something else, or when they’re running out the door to get to work on time. Pick a time such as the weekend when you know that they will have an hour or more to talk with you.You should also consider letting your parents know ahead of time that you have something important to talk about with them. You don’t need to say exactly what you want to talk about. But by asking them something like “Hey, can we talk about something tomorrow? It’s private, so I’d appreciate it if it’s just us” you can increase the chances of them taking the conversation seriously., Your parents may not want to talk about anything at all if they’re tired or overly preoccupied with another matter. By starting off a conversation with a question about a more trivial topic like the weather or how their day was, you can get a better sense of their mood. And by starting the conversation off in this way, you can more easily move on to a more serious topic than if you brought up the serious topic first.You could start by saying, "How was your day?"
Or you could try lightening the mood by telling a funny story about soccer practice.
 Remember that everyone goes through puberty. It is totally appropriate to want to talk about this subject with your parents. Be open and honest with them. They might feel awkward at first, too, but you can work together to have a productive conversation.


Try saying, "Dad, I have some questions about the changes that are happening with my voice. Can you explain some things to me?"
You can also be upfront by saying, "I'm nervous, so please be patient with me."

, Remember that an effective conversation is a two-way street. You want your parents to show you respect and understanding. You owe them the same treatment. Listening is one way to show this.Make eye contact. Even if you feel awkward, look at your parents when you talk. It shows them you are listening.
Ask questions. If you don't understand something, ask. This demonstrates that you are serious about learning more about the subject.
 While you should listen carefully to what your parents say, you should also make sure that they don’t turn the conversation into a one-sided lecture about appropriate behavior or sexual abstinence. Remember that this conversation should be an opportunity for you to learn more about what’s happening to your body. Politely but firmly let them know that while you care about their views, you were hoping to have an opportunity to express yourself as well.You can try saying, "Puberty is more than about sex. I also want to know what changes I can expect in my mood."
Another tactic would be to say, "I understand you want to ensure my safety. The best way for me to stay safe is to gain a clear understanding about sex."

, Don’t lie or hide the truth about anything. Explain your situation and any concerns you have fully. If you are as open and honest as possible, there is a much greater likelihood that your parents will respond in kind.You can say, "Mom, I got my period yesterday. Can I talk to you about how I feel?"

, If you act irritable around your parents, they will probably act the same way towards you.In the event of a disagreement, stay as calm and collected as possible. Say what’s on your mind, but remain mature when you do so.


If you get frustrated, take a time out.
You can say, "I'm getting emotional. Would you mind if I go to my room for a little bit?"

