 Make sure that your drive has the ability to write DVDs, otherwise, you won't be able to erase, reformat, or write new data the disc.


If you are using Windows XP or another older version of Windows, you may have to download and install Service Pack 3 in order to recognize your DVD-RW disc.;
, If the DVD-RW has data on it, you'll first need to erase what's there. Click "Start"->"Computer"->"Windows Explorer" then click the DVD icon. This will pull up the DVD burner software. In the toolbar, click "Erase this disc" and follow the instructions.In Windows 8 and 10, you'll need to click the "Manage" tab first.
 This appears when you either insert a blank disc or double-click the blank disc in the computer window.


If no window appears automatically after erasing the disc contents, eject and re-insert the now blank disc into your drive to prompt this window to appear.
 You'll be prompted to enter a name for the disc. This name will appear when the disc is inserted and allow you to recognize it. Give it a name that describes its intended contents if possible.
 You have two options when it comes to formatting a DVD-RW in Windows: "Like a USB flash drive" (a.k.a. Live File System) or "With a CD/DVD player" (a.k.a. Mastered). What you choose depends on how you intend to use the disc.Live File System is appropriate if you want to be able to add and remove files from the disc at any time. The disc will act similarly to a USB drive and files will be burned to the disc as soon as they are added.
Note: Live File System discs created in this manner are only compatible with Windows.
Mastered is appropriate if you'd like the disc to function more like a closed system. All of the files are burned at once after you're finished adding them and no more files can be added without a full erase when using this format.
Note: Mastered tends to be better for burning lots of files. In addition, Mastered discs will be compatible with other operating systems.
 Once you've selected your formatting method, the drive will prepare the disc. This may take a few moments. After it's finished, you'll be able to start adding files to the disc.
 Open the disc in an Explorer window and start dragging and dropping the files you want to burn. If you are using a Live File System, the files will be burned as they are dragged over and the disc will be finalized when you eject it. If you are using the Mastered format, you'll need to click "Burn to disc" once all the desired files have been added