 Miconazole is often the go-to treatment option for pediatricians treating thrush. Miconazole comes in a medicated gel that a parent or caretaker will need to apply to the baby's mouth.Wash your hands with antibacterial soap. You will need to have clean hands before applying any medication to your child.Administer 1/4 of a teaspoon of miconazole to the affected areas of the child's mouth, up to four times daily. Use a clean finger or a clean cotton swab to apply miconazole directly to the affected site.Do not use too much gel, as it may cause a choking hazard. You should also avoid administering the gel in the back of your child's mouth, as it could easily slide down his throat.Continue miconazole treatments until your pediatrician tells you to stop.
Miconazole is not recommended for infants under six months of age. The risk of choking is significantly increased in children younger than six months., Nystatin is often prescribed instead of miconazole, especially in the US. It is a liquid medication that is administered to the affected area in a child's mouth using either a dropper, medication syringe, or a clean cotton swab coated in nystatin.Shake the bottle of nystatin before administering each dose. The medicine is suspended in liquid, so it's important to shake the bottle so that the medicine is evenly distributed throughout the bottle.Your pharmacist should give you a dropper, syringe, or spoon to measure and administer nystatin. If your pharmacist has not given you a tool for measuring and administering nystatin, follow the instructions that came with the medicine.If your child is small, your pediatrician may recommend that you administer half a dose to each side of the child's tongue, or she may recommend that you use a clean cotton swab to apply the liquid to the sides of your child's mouth.If your child is old enough to follow your instruction, have the child swish the nystatin around his mouth to thoroughly coat the entire surface of the tongue, cheeks, tongue, and gums.Wait five to ten minutes after administering nystatin before feeding your child, if it is near his meal time.Administer nystatin up to four times daily. Continue administering the medication for up to five days after thrush has cleared up, as thrush commonly recurs shortly after treatment ends.Nystatin rarely causes side effects like diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, or stomach discomfort, or may cause allergic reactions in some children. Talk to your pediatrician about the possible side effects of nystatin before administering the medication to your child., If your child hasn't had any luck with miconazole or nystatin, your pediatrician may recommend that you try gentian violet. Gentian violet is an antifungal solution that is applied to the affected area using a cotton swab. It is available in most pharmacies without a prescription.Follow the dosing recommendations on the bottle or from your pediatrician.
Apply gentian violet to the affected areas using a clean cotton swab.Administer gentian violet two to three times daily for at least three days.Be aware that gentian violet will stain both skin and clothing. Gentian violet may cause your child's skin to appear purple while treating him with gentian violet, but this will clear up once you've discontinued use of the medicine.Talk to your pediatrician about using gentian violet, as some children may be allergic to the medication or to the dyes and preservatives used in gentian violet., If other methods fail, your doctor may prescribe your baby fluconazole, which is an antifungal medication that the child swallows once daily for seven to 14 days. It will slow the growth of the fungi causing your infant's infection.Follow your pediatrician's instructions on dosage.

