 He or she might want a weekly progress report, but as there is no perfect template, there is no insurance that you will nail it the first time without decent background search. Put yourself into his or her shoes and predict the needs. This will raise your success rate.;
, Whether your boss prefers to receive the weekly progress report via e-mail, in-person or on a spreadsheet, using a popular management methodology will keep you structured and manager impressed. The PPP stands for Progress, Plans and Problems.
 Firstly, start off with a positive note and list all your weekly achievements. But remember, when it comes to reporting, less is definitely more. Your boss does not need know how many pencils you sharpened or how many useless emails you sent out. Focus on the tasks that bring value to the company and therefore are directed towards the over-all objectives. Keep the list of Progress short but accurate by writing down the most important tasks that will bring the smile to your manager's face.
 The name weekly progress report might refer to the tasks that were achieved in the previous week, but one important part is also the plans for the next 5 days. Therefore, make your boss happy by sharing a glance to your future plans. Show initiative and share your ideas. But once again, do not list every single task that you have in mind. Write down 4-5 key items that are crucial. This will demonstrate your strategic thinking as well.
 Don't be ashamed of having stumbling stones on your way to success. Everyone does, but the important part is to be open and honest about them. After some time dealing with the problem all by yourself, you need input from others for innovative solutions. It is much easier to figure out a solution together with somebody. Even if your manager has not the time to give you tips, he is able to direct you to the right person. Therefore, be open and brave. Write down the problem you have encountered (and we all know there is at least one that is hindering your performance).
 To make your manager proud, evaluate yourself before he does. In the end of your report, mark down how happy you are with your week (keep it simple, on a scale of 1-5). Whether you are happy what got done and how things developed during the work week. Managers love graphs and stats that give a great overview. As a bonus give him percentage of the relationship between done and planned items, to show that whatever got planned last week is now finished by 89%.
 There are tons of great weekly progress report tools out there. What is more, most of them are free for single user. So, take the advantage, sign up and make your life easier. For example, one tool that is built upon the PPP methodology is weekdone.com.

