 If you want to pull off the pirate look, you'll need to be convincing from the neck up. The right clothes won't take you very far if you don't have the face and head of a pirate. Here's what you do:


Have a nice tan, or apply makeup that is a few shades darker than your skin to give yourself a tanned look. You spend all of your time on the deck of a ship, so it's only natural that you would have a sun-kissed complexion.
Have rosy cheeks. Both male and female pirates are busy sword fighting, sparring, and running around the deck, so they should have a flushed look to their cheeks. Gently apply some blush for the look you want.
Have smoky eyes. All pirates should have eyes that are lined in dark eyeliner to create a smoky effect. Both genders should also apply dark eyeshadow to emphasize their look.
Pirate hair should be wavy and should look natural, like it dried in the sun.;
, Having appropriate attire will help you achieve the pirate look you are going for. Not only do you need the face of a true pirate, but you should wear the shirt and pants of true sea dog to capture the essence of a pirate. Here's what you do:


Whatever you wear, remember that you've spent many years aboard a ship and don't have time to buy new clothes, and that you do your laundry in salty water aboard a ship. Therefore, your clothes should have a faded, lived-in look. The more patches and rips in your outfit, the better.
Both men and women can wear loose white poofy shirts that they can tuck into their pants. They can have untied drawstrings hanging from their collar. Men should reveal their chest hair, and lady pirates can show a little bit of cleavage.
You can layer a red or black jacket over the white top. Pirates can get cold at night on the windy seas.
Men should wear tight leather pants, or ripped black jeans. Women can also wear tight leather pants, or a poofy red skirt and black laced leggings with an interesting pattern. The leggings can have rips in them too.
For shoes, wear either pointy black boots, ragged brown sandals, or even bare feet, if it's appropriate.
 The right props and accessories can help accentuate your outfit and show that you really put a lot of thought into your pirate look. You don't have to be weighed down by too many items, but a few key additions will help complete your ensemble. Here are some things to consider:


A pirate hat (also known as a tricorn hat) is a must. This three-cornered hat will add mystique to your look.
A leather belt. Bonus points if you have a place to store your sword.
A plastic sword. A plastic gold or silver sword that is not dangerous should be tucked into your belt. Be careful with this prop and make sure everyone around you knows it's not real before you whip it out.
A parrot to keep on your shoulder. This will really impress the public. A fake parrot is best.
A bag of gold doubloons to sling over your shoulder. It should make noise as you clink the coins together, and they can occasionally spill out. This will show that you've had a successful time pillaging and plundering out on the sea.
An empty bottle of rum. Pirates love their rum, so you should bring out a bottle of rum filled with a non-alcoholic beverage such as root beer that looks like rum so you can take swigs from it periodically. If you're at a party or another place where it's appropriate to drink, and you're of legal age, drink from a real bottle of rum.
A few key temporary tattoos. A tattoo of a skull and crossbones or of an anchor placed on your bicep, neck, or forearm will help complete your look.
The right jewelry. A true pirate should wear a thick gold necklace and sliver and gold loop earrings. If you're a man and don't have your ears pierced, clip-ons will do.

