 A painkiller like ibuprofen or acetaminophen should be your first step in trying to numb a painful tooth.These painkillers will alleviate the pain from your tooth, and should also decrease any swelling in the infected area. These are all readily available at your local pharmacy.


If you’re treating a toothache in a child younger than 18, do not give him or her aspirin. This medication can cause Reye’s syndrome in children and teens.
Do not exceed the maximum dose required when taking an over-the counter painkillers and be aware of the potential adverse reactions or allergies, which can include severe internal bleeding.;
, Benzocaine is a numbing gel that can be purchased over the counter at any pharmacy or drug store. Although the effects of this gel are temporary, it will effectively decrease tooth pain by numbing the sensitive, inflamed, and infected tissue.The inside of your mouth is naturally a wet place, and this moisture will cause the Benzocaine to wear off quickly. To prolong the effect, first dry the painful area with a clean cloth, and then apply the numbing gel to the dry area.
Over time, the Benzocaine will be diluted and wear off. To prolong its effect, do not lick at the numb area, and do not prod the numb area with your fingers. Do not swallow the medicine either or it will numb your throat. Check and see if your gums hurt or if you notice anything from using the gel. If something goes wrong, stop using it.
 This will temporarily numb the toothache, and can also kill some of the bacteria in your mouth that are causing the infection. Purchase 3% hydrogen peroxide from your local drugstore or pharmacy, and mix with water at a 1:1 ratio. Swish this in your mouth until you feel the pain start to numb.Spit the peroxide out; never swallow it. Hydrogen peroxide can be very unhealthy if swallowed.
You can also rinse your mouth with straight hydrogen peroxide, as long as you then rinse with water several times. Use this no more than three times a day and never more than five days in a row because hydrogen peroxide can cause teeth sensitivity.

