 If you have been diagnosed with contact dermatitis, ringworm, lice, or another medical condition that is causing your helmet itch, you will need to carefully follow your doctor's orders. You may be required to take oral medication, use topical creams, and it may even be necessary to replace your helmet. Consider holding off on riding (and, therefore, wearing your helmet) until your condition has resolved completely.
 This can help to prevent and treat itch while you're wearing your helmet. Though it can be annoying, it's important to never try to reach an itch beneath your helmet while you're on the go.


Topical scalp stimulants work by cooling your scalp. They also relieve any irritants and sooth your scalp from helmet itch.These stimulants are good short-term solutions when you're on the go; however, you may need something more intensive to prevent helmet itch long term.
 Low irritant shampoos leave your scalp's lipid barrier intact. The lipid barrier protects the scalp from infection and keeps it healthy.Additionally, dying your hair can irritate your scalp and damage its lipid barrier. In its more natural state, your hair will grow a healthy protective layer to prevent itch.
If your shampoo still irritates your scalp, you can use moisturizing products as well. These products can help to replenish your scalp's natural barriers.
 Scratching can often make your helmet itch worse, especially using fingernails or other sharp objects. This can cause lesions in your scalp's surface, allowing bacteria in the lining to infect your scalp.


Scalp infections can make helmet itch worse. They can also lead to hair loss if left untreated.If you are actively suffering from helmet itch, wetting your hair can provide some relief. Additionally, using a topical scalp stimulant will provide temporary relief.
 Some hair products have been developed specifically for helmet wearers. These products may be the best type to get to avoid helmet itch.


You should be able to purchase these products at most bike and cyclist shops. It may also be a good idea to ask other cyclists or your hair stylist.
Many of these products may focus on "helmet hair." While some of these products may be useful, make sure they do not dry out your hair, which will irritate any existing helmet itch you have., If your helmet itch is especially bad, it may be a good idea to get an entirely new helmet. Bacteria can build up in a helmet, even if it is cleaned on a regular basis.


When you have cleaned your helmet, helmet lining or physical barrier, and your scalp, you may still have helmet itch. At that point, it may be better to start over with a brand new helmet entirely.
Reaction to helmet lining is less likely, but possible with new headgear. If the problem persists, continue to try working with your helmet, lining, and scalp to keep away helmet itch.

