,

Get rid of their breeding spots:






Empty excess water from flower pots.
Clean pet food and water dishes frequently.
Once or twice a week, clean out birdbaths, swimming pool covers, buckets, barrels, and cans.
Check for clogged rain gutters and clean them out.
Remove discarded tires, trash, and other items that could collect water.


Protect yourself and your family:






Consider staying indoors at dawn, dusk, and early evening, which are peak mosquito biting times.
Install or repair door and window screens to prevent mosquitoes from entering indoors.
Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants outdoors (weather permitting).
Place mosquito netting over infant carriers when you are outdoors with infants.
Apply insect repellent to exposed skin. Choose a repellent that provides protection for the amount of time that you will be outside.
Spray clothing with repellents containing permethrin or another EPA-registered repellent. Do not apply repellents containing permethrin directly on your skin.
 WNV infections do not lead to any noticeable symptoms or any symptoms at all. Those infected may show a fever, headache, skin rash, body aches, or swollen lymph glands as symptoms.;
, It may give rise to encephalitis, inflammation of the brain, or meningitis, inflammation of the tissue that is seen around the brain and spinal cord. People aged above 50 are at an increased risk to WNV disease. The fact that no effective medication has been found so far to treat this disease makes prevention of WNV disease extremely important. The most advisable way to prevent WNV is to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes.
 Using insect repellents is a very effective way among them. Realizing the increased threat posed by mosquitoes scientists from around the world have worked tirelessly to find some powerful mosquito repellent formulations. It is advisable to use repellents that are based on natural ingredients as they do not cause any adverse effects on your health. Repellents make you less attractive to mosquitoes and make you resistant to mosquito bites.
 Clearing up standing water is another very effective way to get rid of mosquito bites. Look around your home for standing water holders and empty them instantly. The period between dusk and is when mosquitoes can be most expected and so, stay indoors during this period or even if you go out, do so only after adequate application of repellents. Also, ensure your window and door screens are not giving any space for mosquitoes to enter your home.
 A combined effort from the researchers in Australia and China who have worked extensively over the last decade to find a competent mosquito protection product resulted in this product. Skin Armour Deep Woods Outdoor Soap is a completely natural product made from a group of powerful natural oils.