 The great thing about this fundraiser is that the upfront costs are minimal and enjoyable! Provided you plan well and look for Easter items at reduced prices, you will make a tidy profit. You will need to plan the hunt space, supervise the hunt, have an Easter bunny, and advertise well. You will need to have the following:


Easter eggs and other Easter candies
Easter decorations
Plastic Easter egg covers
Easter bunny costume (make, hire or borrow);
, It might be school grounds, a local park, a large garden of someone happy to have kids running around it, a sports field with interesting features at the sides, etc. The area must be one that is safe for children and can be easily supervised when the kids are on the hunt. Do not hold it where there are such dangers as cliffs, dangerous waterways, druggie parks, etc.
 Don't set the date on Good Friday or Easter Sunday as this is the time for family reflection and celebrations. Instead, the weekend before, or the Easter Saturday might be good times. Take the time of day into account; afternoon can be good for the best light and to avoid clashes with sports events, etc.
 It is important to know the size of your hunting ground first, as this will determine how many goodies it can handle. The more, the better, as this means more kids can go on the hunt, increasing your fundraising. For good deals, look at the following:


Large stores with sales on Easter fare
Candy stores
Costco and similar places with bulk Easter items
Ask for a donation from a local chocolate manufacturer (convince them by explaining your good cause and offering to advertise them well; ask for banners, etc., of theirs that you can display on the day of the hunt)
Ask for a voucher donation for a major prize or two to make the hunt really exciting. Local retailers will often help out in return for advertising.
 This will require a knowledge of what eggs and candies you will be able to source at a good price, as well as knowing the terrain of the area. Map out the hunt space and ensure that there will be adequate hiding spots for the eggs and candies that you will be purchasing. The hunt shouldn't just be about finding an egg; you can also include:


Easter games
A chance to talk with Easter bunny or have a photo taken
A chance to find one really special, very worthwhile prize (for example, something containing a gift voucher)

, You will need a bevy of volunteers able to do the following:


To set up the hunt and put out the eggs, candies, etc.
To be Easter bunny
Keep an eye on the hunt, to ensure kids don't wander off, to martial disputes, to add more eggs, etc.
Help with advertising, signs, etc.
 Create posters and fliers to advertise the event. Put the posters up on street fronts, on bulletin boards, in shop windows, etc., and give out the fliers or even mail them if this is within your budget. If this is a school fundraiser, ask kids to give the fliers to their parents and to family members as well, and suggest that adults put up the ads in their workplaces. Ask the local radio stations to advertise and see if you can get a news item on TV too.
 There are many ways to do this but keep in mind that you will need to keep costs down and there should be fairness involved.


Consider how many finds constitute the end of the hunt and then, if a child wants to keep looking, they need to buy another chance to do so.
A fee per child of around $3-5 is reasonable.
Increase the price depending on what you offer. For example, taking a photo of a child with Easter bunny can add another few dollars.



Fill plastic Easter eggs with candies, wrap any eggs that might be affected by melting snow or rain in food plastic, create the major prize(s), etc.
On the morning of the hunt, or an hour or two before it, have volunteers go around hiding the items in suitable places. These places should be staked out well before putting the prizes in place. The major prize(s) should be extra well hidden.
Prepare the photo taking area with Easter Bunny.



Make sure that children are not trying to get more turns than they have paid for and keep an eye on gathering too many prizes without payment.
Have volunteers keep filling hiding areas if appropriate.
Keep a record of prizes that have been won, especially the big ones.
Hold the games and supervise well, give out prizes.
Take the photos with Easter Bunny and either produce the photos on the spot or get people's email addresses to email them copies.
 There will be wrappers, plastic eggs, etc., lying about after the event and it is your responsibility as the organizers to leave the place as clean as you found it.

