 BookDrop is a way to connect your Dropbox to your Amazon Kindle Account. Go to getbookdrop.com to begin connecting your Dropbox and Kindle. BookDrop is a free third-party service. It will ask you to log into your Dropbox account and authorize BookDrop with Amazon like you did with your email.
Bookdrop works with any Kindle device or mobile Kindle app. This means that it will work on tablets with a Kindle application as well.
 Once on the site, you will see a large button that asks you to login with your Dropbox account. Click the button and you’ll be taken to your Dropbox account. This web app creates a way to add books to your Dropbox/Apps/book-drop folder, which is created once you sign in. Once you’ve authorized the service through your Amazon account, you’ll be able to drop PDF files into this folder. The files will be transferred to your Kindle automatically.
In addition to PDFs, BookDrop can send other file formats both native and non-native to Amazon. You can transfer .epub, .cbr, and .cbz as well. However, these file types will vary in quality as none of these are officially supported on your Kindle.
 Upon clicking this button, you will see an area of text asking you to drag the bookmarklet to your bookmarks bar.


There will also be a blue arrow directing you to drag the button into your bookmark bar.
Click and hold the button and drag it up into your bookmarks bar.
 Once you drag the button into your bookmarks bar you’ll see a third step appear. Click the link to go to your Amazon page.


You may be asked to login into Amazon. Enter your username and password to sign in. You will be automatically taken to your Manage Your Content and Devices page.
 While on your Manage Your Content and Devices page, go to your bookmarks list and click on the “Activate Bookdrop” bookmark.


While still on your Amazon page you’ll see a BookDrop popup. It will have a list of your devices.
Click on the device you wish to connect. Then click the blue “Activate BookDrop” button in the lower right corner.
Once you activate BookDrop you’ll have a sample PDF. You can find this PDF in your Dropbox/Apps/book-drop folder and on your Kindle.
 To add your own PDF to your Kindle, go to your Dropbox account. Find your Dropbox/Apps/book-drop folder. Click the upload file icon, choose your PDF, and click “OK”.


Once your PDF has uploaded, click “Done”.
Make sure your Kindle is connected to Wi-Fi.
Locate your PDF file on your Kindle in your “On Device” section. It may take a few minutes for your PDF to show up.

