 Choose short efforts, between 2.5 to 10 seconds, and do many sets, usually, to cover a full range of motion.;
, With a power rack type of setup, it is very simple to mimic isometrically the press, bench press, squat, deadlift, shrugs, pulls, cleans and curls.
 For example, pushing a wall may strengthen your legs but your strength will transfer over to the strongman stunt of pushing a car and not for doing a barbell squat.
 If you are testing your strength with a partial range of motion isometrically, then test your strength with a partial motion.
 For example, you have trained with weights for several years at a gym, but you now have very little time to go the gym. Instead, at home you do a quick but intense program of isometric squats in your power rack. There are no weights to change and it is quiet and safe. In essence, to test your strength with a free weight, you must have experience and good technique.
 For example, you did a squat routine with 11 efforts of 7.5 seconds each with the final 3 efforts at high intensity.
 If you did 11 efforts at 7.5 seconds each then you have done a total of 82.5 seconds.
Next, choose a free weight squat set/rep scheme that would take 82.5 seconds. For 82.5 seconds, you might allocate about 20 seconds for the first set, 15 seconds for the second set, and finally 45 seconds for the top set. Time yourself, or someone else, in the amount of squats that can be done for a warm up set and a top set.
 With the squat again, if you have been training seriously with the squat isometrically for a year, then your strength level will be fairly high and your might choose as your top set 90% of your previous free weight personal record. An experienced strongman will know that it takes years to to build strength and one year is not enough to build great strength if you have a full training routine, of which strength is a part of, and other demands such as a job, school, family, socializing, and other interests.
 In your regular squat routine do: isometric squats, calisthenic squats and squats with a dowel on your shoulders. Do the dowel squats for form.

