 Add the butter to the skillet and heat over medium-high until fully melted.


You may also want to prepare your slow cooker by coating the bottom and sides with nonstick cooking spray or by inserting a special slow cooker liner. This is not strictly necessary, but without taking either precaution, the steak pieces may end up burning and sticking to the slow cooker, making cleanup a mess.
 Place the four ingredients in a large resealable plastic bag and zip closed. Give the bag a good shake to thoroughly blend the seasonings with the flour.


Alternatively, you could combine the flour and seasonings in a wide bowl with shallow sides. Make sure that the bowl is shallow enough and wide enough for you to place a piece of steak in. Sift the ingredients together to ensure that they are well-combined.
 Add the steak to the flour in your bag and close the bag again. Give the bag another good shake so that all sides of each piece get coated in flour and seasonings.


If using a bowl instead of a bag, add the steak pieces to the seasoned flour in the bowl and turn them over a few times, dredging all the sides completely.
 Add the steak to the hot butter and cook for about 3 minutes on both sides, or until both sides of the steak turn brown on both sides.


You could skip the skillet steps from a technical standpoint, but they are strongly recommended. Browning the steak before cooking it in a slow cooker enhances the flavor.
Once brown, remove the steak from the skillet and place the pieces directly in the slow cooker.
 Add the beef broth, onion slices, onion soup mix, brown sugar, allspice, ginger, mushrooms, and bay leaf to the skillet. Add any remaining flour, as well. Bring to a slow boil, stirring continuously with a whisk, for about 5 minutes.


Cooking the sauce in a skillet beforehand is not strictly necessary, but it is a good idea. Adding the liquid ingredients to the pan and stirring the contents allows you to deglaze the bottom and pick up all the brown, flavorful bits previously stuck to the pan. The flour can also cause the sauce to thicken once it boils.
 Make sure that each of the steak pieces is evenly submerged in the sauce.
 Once done, the steak should be very tender.


Slow cooking round steak in liquid is another great cooking method to use. Round steaks tend to be fairly lean and not very tender, and the ultra slow cooking provided by a slow cooker helps the meat break down more, making it very tender when done. The liquid it cooks in prevents the beef from drying out, as well.
 Remove the steak from the slow cooker and transfer to individual serving plates. Ladle some of the sauce over each piece of meat before enjoying.


Note that you should remove the bay leaf before dishing out the steaks and sauce.

