 Non-stick cookware may be convenient, but it can be very dangerous. Non-stick cookware may release toxic fumes if it is overheated. These fumes can be dangerous if you inhale them. Stay away from Teflon pans.If you overheat Teflon pans, you may develop flu-like symptoms.
The fumes from non-stick pans may also kill pet birds.;
, Aluminum cookware may not be as safe as you’d think. Long-term usage of and exposure to aluminum can cause health problems. Using aluminum cookware often can introduce more aluminum into your body than is safe.Aluminum may damage the brain and block toxins from leaving the body.
 Copper cookware is appealing to the eye, but it may be dangerous when placed in cookware. Copper and nickel are heavy metals that are toxic. They are both used in the shiny finish of copper cookware. Cooking often with this cookware may introduce these heavy metals into your food and body.A build up of these metals in your body may negatively affect your brain and cause chronic illnesses.
If you want to use copper cookware, look for items where copper is only used on the outside. Sometimes, copper is placed between two layers of other metals, such as stainless steel, which is safe. Never buy cookware that has copper on the inside lining.
 Safe cookware can become dangerous if it is damaged. If you have non-stick cookware and the coating is coming off, throw it away. This can be very dangerous and release toxins into your food.If you use ceramic cookware that is cracked or chipped, get rid of it. If the glaze contains lead, being chipped or cracked increases the risk of lead seeping into your food.
 Plastic cutting boards can be a health hazard. When the knife cuts into food, it leave cuts and grooves in the plastic. These open spaces can house bacteria like E.coli and salmonella.Choose wood or bamboo cutting boards instead. Bacteria doesn’t stick to it as much.
 Many glazes contain lead, and sometimes you can't be certain whether the cookware is lead-free or not. If you find ceramic cookware that is lead-free, go with that. For others, you may need to inspect it a bit more closely before using it. Some may say on the bottom it is for decoration only and not for food.Many glazed terracotta dishes, especially from Latin American countries, may contain lead. Use these only for decoration; do not eat from them.
Overly decorated tableware, especially from Asia, can pose a risk. If there are brightly colored decorations anywhere that will touch food, use caution.
Homemade ceramics, even in the United States, may contain a lead glaze. Talk to the person before using it with food.
Antique ceramic tableware poses a threat because it may be from before lead was outlawed.
Decorations on top of the glaze may cause a deterioration of the glaze, exposing dangerous metals such as lead.
 Not all countries have the same laws for cookware safety. Double check the country of origin when choosing cookware. This may influence the types of materials used in the production.


For example, ceramic cookware made in other countries, such as Latin American or Asian countries, may contain lead and be unfit for food use.