 Hypomanic symptoms include feeling high, energetic, and euphoric while not needing much sleep.Hypomania is not as severe as mania, which is a characteristic of Bipolar disorder. Signs to look out for include:Extreme optimism
Inflated self-esteem
High energy despite not sleeping
Racing thoughts
Extreme distraction
Excessive physical activity
Irritability or agitation;
, Depressive symptoms in cyclothymia include low mood and low activity.While depressive symptoms exist, they are not sufficient enough to be diagnosed as a major depressive episode.Some other symptoms to look out for may include:Feeling sad or hopeless
Loss of interest in activities
Feeling worthless
Sleeping problems
Eating too much or too little
Fatigue, feeling slowed down
Tearfulness

, Cyclothymia includes experiencing frequent and persistent mood swings.You may feel like you cannot control your moods or that they fluctuate considerably over a short period of time. They may be extreme and include tearfulness and sadness then elation and joy. You may feel out of control of your moods or confused by the changes in mood.


For example, you may wake up feeling teary and not know the cause of your tears. Later, you may feel intense joy or elation with no distinct cause. You may experience sudden mood changes with no specific trigger.
 Some people with cyclothymia experience suicidal thoughts or behaviors.Other risk factors include experiencing a childhood or sexual trauma, being homeless, gay, in debt, or a veteran.If you’re having thoughts of suicide or self-harm, reach out for help. Call emergency services, or go to the emergency department. Call for support, too, which can include a friend or family member, medical doctor, or therapist. Check out How to Convince Yourself Not to Commit Suicide|.
If you’d like to talk to someone about your suicidal thoughts, reach out to a hotline. In the USA, call 1-800-273-TALK (8255). In the UK, call +44 (0) 8457 90 90 90. In Australia, call +61 2 9262 1130.
 To have a diagnosis of cyclothymia, your hypomanic symptoms and depressive symptoms must be present for two years. In children and adolescents, symptoms must be present for one year.You will cycle through symptoms of hypomania and depression throughout this time in varying degrees.


Keep track of your symptoms. You may want to start a mood journal to track your symptoms.
 Your mood swings, hypomania, and depression are ongoing when you have cyclothymia. Symptoms are present at least half of the time of the last two years. Within one year, you will have no more than two months in a row of symptom-free behavior.Symptoms tend to be consistently present, even though they cycle frequently.
Cyclothymia typically onsets in adolescence or early adulthood. It can also begin in childhood.It appears equally in men and women., Although cyclothymia is less severe than Bipolar disorder, it still affects functioning. Depressive episodes may be of short duration and have less intense severity, yet will likely interfere with your ability to function on daily tasks.Hypomanic episodes may affect your thinking, concentration, and ability to function normally.


While these changes are not as severe as Bipolar disorder, they do affect your day-to-day living.
 Cyclothymia, Bipolar disorder, and depression tend to all run in families.Your risk of having Cyclothymic disorder increase if you have a first-degree relative (parents or full siblings) with Bipolar I disorder., Ask a trusted friend or family member how he or she perceives your behavior and moods. It can be helpful to get insight from someone who knows you well and can be honest with you. This person may give some examples or help you determine what symptoms sound like they may apply to you.


Be ready for an honest answer from those around you. Keep in mind that you’re gaining information and that the responses are not a personal attack on you. Keep an open mind and thank the person for being honest.
 To obtain an official diagnosis, make an appointment with a therapist. Once the therapist has made a diagnosis, he or she can create a treatment plan to guide you through treatment and therapy.Visit a local mental health clinic or call your insurance provider to meet with a therapist. You can also ask for recommendations from friends or family members, look at reviews online, and ask others from a support group.
 A therapist may evaluate your symptoms to determine whether they resemble Cyclothymic disorder. The therapist may ask you questions through a structured interview and/or give you questionnaires to fill out regarding your symptoms. You may discuss your personal, work, and social history, how your symptoms affect your life, and how other people respond to you. Your therapist may ask about substance use or abuse, as this is common in people with cyclothymic disorder.Bring up any concerns you have regarding your symptoms or diagnosis.
 Cyclothymia is closely related to Bipolar disorder, yet symptoms are less severe.Your therapist may ask you about your symptom severity and the duration of your symptoms. He or she may also ask how long you’ve experienced cyclothymia.


Your therapist may track your moods and symptoms closely over time, as cyclothymia may progress to Bipolar disorder., See a medical doctor to rule out any medical causes that may contribute to your mood. Your medical doctor may perform a medical exam and ask you to complete lab tests to see if there is any medical cause of your symptoms.He or she may also ask you about your lifestyle habits such as sleep, nutrition, and drug use.
Some medical illnesses that can lead to mood disorders include neurological disorders (like Alzheimer’s disease or Huntington’s disease), heart attacks, problems with the pancreas or thyroid, and cancer.