 Write down all of the positive features associated with the product. Remove those features that are common in similar products you’re competing with for sales. This will leave you with the benefits of your product that give it a competitive sales edge versus comparable products.;
, One way to help determine which benefit is most significant is by identifying which feature is the most unique to your product. This is your unique selling point. When thinking about which benefit you will emphasize in your release, remember that you’re hoping to grab the reader’s or viewer’s attention.One sure way to grab your audience’s attention is by offering something they’ve never heard of before. Even better, shoot to convince them your product will improve their lives in some way.
 While conceptualizing how to package your unique selling point in the most appealing way, think about how your product will literally affect its users’ lives. You’ll want to share this vision with your audience, by including a reference to a solution or experience that your product offers.Your product’s unique selling point is largely objective, but there’s more to a good product press release than just saying: “Look, we added handlebars to a bicycle.”
In order for your product release to be the most appealing, you also have to clearly state, “Our bicycles are now easier and more safe to ride!”
Further, while your unique selling point emphasizes the reason your product is worth buying or investing in, the story about your product’s importance or appeal will emphasize why journalists, bloggers, and other media producers may want to write about your product or feature your release.
 Your product may be an extremely specific item with relevance to a very particular audience – such as industrial or commercial businesses that use products such as yours. In these cases, stick to the facts about your product’s objectively superior qualities.For instance, if you expect trade publications to be the media outlets most likely to carry your release, you’ll likely want to emphasize technical benefits associated with your product.
 Your headline needs to be one of the strongest statements in your release. Especially online, many people who will see your release may only read the headline. Accordingly, emphasize the main benefit of the product you’re releasing right out of the gate.For example: "New cell phone comes with cord attached for easy charging" or "Popular line of coolers now feature sync-ability with multiple devices."

, Fill your first paragraph with the most pertinent information regarding who will benefit from your product, and why it’s worth reading further. Essentially, convey the product's "story" here. Also include the launch date and any event information about the product’s release right up front, so interested parties immediately understand the relevant timeframe.Begin with a sentence that summarizes the content of the release, providing a clear idea of what the release contains.
For instance, "SnowMonster Enterprises has released a new line of tailgate equipment that not only keep your beers cold for 7 days, but now also stream a SnowMonster-approved soundtrack directly to all bluetooth-capable devices within 7 miles."

, Include support and evidence regarding the quality of your product in the body of the release. In particular, include prominent testimonials, numerical statistics, details of research that supports the value of your product, and excerpts from any case studies that have been done regarding your product’s use.In particular, include one or two brief, direct quotes from a stakeholder or a company executive that will provide journalists with a narrative to develop or a point to address further.
Try something like, "SnowMonster's CEO has audaciously claimed that "Fraternity parties will never be the same. We at SnowMonster have always provided you the best way to keep your cans cool. Now we've provided you the best way to blast featured radio singles and SnowMonster hype messages from every single speaker at the party, simultaneously. Phones with the SnowMonster phone case will play loudest, of course.""

, Wrap up the body of your release’s text with details about how interested parties can learn more to acquire the product. Specific details regarding where further information may be found, and how one may go about purchasing the product in various capacities should be included here.At the very least, your concluding content should include your company name, any relevant website URLs, addresses, and email addresses, and a telephone number for inquires, sales, and other business concerns.
 Particularly if your company or a company your product is affiliated with is already well recognized, you’ll want to convey who is behind the product. Even if your company is brand new, of course, consistent exposure will lead to increased credibility of your brand, and this this will strengthen people’s assessment of your credibility.


If you have a company logo, include it at the top of your release.
As an example of a company profile: "SnowMonster Enterprises is known for the most successful marketing campaign in the contemporary era. It sells coolers, t-shirts, and the most popular snap-back hat on the branded-wearables market."

, There are several rather simple logistical concerns to ensure you’ve covered. The release should be under two pages, and under 500 words. Use a common, standard font, such as Times New Roman or Calibri. Your headline should be in larger, bolded text. Make sure the document you provide to media outlets has a white background and uses a 1 inch margin, is single-spaced, and has an empty line between paragraphs., A press release of any type is a professional document that will be treated with less seriousness if there are writing mistakes. Proofread your release, preferably more than once, to ensure it is free of spelling or grammar errors.One common slip to watch out for is the uses of words “I”, “we”, or “you.” These risk leading to grammatical inconsistencies, and their use may make your release come across as a bit too much like an infomercial.
 The higher the quality of any images of the product, the more likely they will be included, not to mention prominently featured in any third party’s publication of your release.If possible, include a video or link to a video in your release as well, as videos are an especially effective marketing tool online.
 If you’re hoping that your product press release will be picked up by third-party media outlets, make a point of contacting a few key outlets directly. Include something that they can offer their followers.For instance, include a special offer or opportunity that they may share with their followers.
Even better, offer to allow a particularly valuable publication opportunity to release the news of your product first. This alone will greatly strengthen the chances that a particular outlet will feature or expand upon your release.

