 The best way to stick to start studying. If you do so you will feel very proud, but also find out your weak points.
 If you're studying for an English test, but you know that there is a new episode of The Big Bang Theory on, what will you do? Probably turn on the TV and say that you can study later, or just think to yourself that you can multitask and end up just watching the show. So choose your time wisely!

, Turn off your phone and put it in another room so you don't get tempted to check Ethan's Facebook status or text Stacy and Jenna. Don't study in front of a turned OFF computer because it's just a temptation for your personal business.


If you need to study on the computer, make a promise to not go on YouTube, Facebook or post a Twitter status saying : "Uggghh studying!!!! :'(" because... Just don't!
Also, if you like studying with music, don't. You'll end up singing and dancing, which does not count as studying. Ask your family members to leave you alone for an amount of time, and say that you're busy if anyone calls you.
 If you spent three hours a day studying for a big test, don't feel bad making yourself a nice hot chocolate with tiny marshmallows, lying in a comfy couch, wrapped in your favorite cozy blanket watching Orange is the new black. If you're a girl and you Aced that Math exam, give yourself a manicure or have a Spa day at your own home. If you're a guy and you just got an A in History and English, invite a buddy over and you two can watch the game together. Or just eat. It's basically the same if it's delicious, right?

, Believe it or not, you can have both. After you've done your homework you can go out shopping with your friends or play a game of soccer. If your assignment is nicely done, resting on your desk, go and have a sleepover with your bestie or go to the cinema. If you don't like that kind of stuff you can exercise in your free time. Good grades and a hot body? Well don't mind me!

, Just follow all the steps and you are guaranteed to get better in school.

