 You'll need 14 people for a whole soccer team; 10 people to play on the outfield, 1 goalie, and 3 substitutes.;
, At first the coach needs to know the level of the soccer skills of each player and then prepare a plan on how to develop each individual and the team.
,,


The coaching plan must cover the soccer fundamentals initially.
 After you have found and evaluated the skill's level of the people on your team, you'll need to start assigning positions.

Forwards: These are the players who are the primary scorers. You'll need 3 forwards; a right forward, a center forward, and a left forward.






Fullbacks: These players help defend the goal on their own team. You'll need 3 fullbacks; a right fullback, a center fullback, and a left fullback.






Midfielders: These players play between the forwards and fullbacks. You'll need 4 midfielders.






Goalkeeper: Defends the goal. You need only 1 goalkeeper.






Stopper: A player who is good at stopping attacks in the center. You need only 1 stopper.






Sweeper: A player who plays between the fullbacks and goalie, this player has to be quick and tough. You need only one sweeper.
 For example, take a midfielder who has been proven to score goals. Then take your first pick centre forward. Play the centre forward in the mid-fielder's position and vice versa. Many defences focus on the person playing forward. That will leave the actual forward free to lead the attack., If you're playing competitively or are in an official competition, keep reading below.
 Find a good coach who is willing to always be there to help and teach your team. You need someone absolutely reliable to coach your team, you can't have someone who will quit right in the middle.
 If you plan on joining an official local competition, you'll need a good name and team colors.
 Find sponsor to support and help advertise your team. Check around local stores and talk to the managers about sponsoring your team.
 Once you have a team made up, you can start signing up for soccer tournaments.

