 You probably have some things lying around that you don’t use anymore. Selling your old items can be a great way to make money. Sites like Craig's List, eBay, and even Facebook can help you find people willing to purchase old items.


Old toys, video games, video game systems, books, DVDs, collectibles, like baseball cards and stuffed animals, can be great items to resell online.
Know that you won’t get as much money as you paid for items you are selling. Once something has been used, it loses value. So expect to make about 30 to 40% of what you originally paid for an item when you resell it.Try eBay. Make sure to accurately describe the condition of the items you are selling. eBay will allow you sell items in an auction setting or list a "sell now” price. Be prepared to ship the items you are selling. It is going to cost you some money to ship the items, so be aware of this when coming up with your prices. Never give out your address, home phone number, or agree to have someone come by the house to pick the item up. You don’t who is agreeing to buy your items and you need to protect yourself. If you're under 18, you will need to have an adult create an eBay account that you can use.Try Craig's List. Craig's List has a section where you can post about items you're willing to sell. If you're posting in a specific city, you may have to meet a buyer in person if they make an offer on an item. Be safe. Meet the buyer in a public place and take a friend or family member with you.There may be specific sites to sell used books, video games, collectibles, and other items. A google search may provide you a list of possible websites where you can sell your products.;
, Certain stores, like bookstores and game stores, buy used items if they are in good condition. You could try taking books you have already read to the bookstore to sell them or video games you don’t play anymore into the game store to make some money. Old clothes, toys, and household items can be sold at thrift stores. Again, be aware that you won’t get as much money for these items as you originally paid, but if you have a lot of stuff to sell it will add up with time., Garage sales are great means to sell old items for a small fee and get rich when you are a kid. See if your parents are willing to hold a garage sale. If you're about to move or simply have a lot of clutter, your parents may jump at the chance to get rid of old items. You can set up your own booth where you can sell some of your own old items., If you're crafty, you can try and make and sell your own crafts. Knitted items, candy, jewelry, and gift baskets and other items might sell during holiday seasons when people are looking for unique gifts.


You can sell items at local craft fairs. You can also sell them online on websites like Etsy.If you're under 18, you will need an adult to manage your Etsy account.As with conducting any online sales, be careful. Do not give your address and only meet someone face-to-face if it's in a public space and you're accompanied by a friend or family member., If allowed, see if you can sell things in school. Things like pencils, erasers, snacks, or other school supplies might sell well if you can offer a discounted price. Resell items you did not use in the previous school year, or ask your parents if you can purchase them in bulk at an office supply store or discount warehouse. Just make sure you check with your principal and teachers. Make sure selling supplies in school is allowed given your school's policies.

