 A dog that is injured may react aggressively to someone they don’t know. If you can see that the dog is injured, consider contacting a local shelter or animal control to help you deal with the situation properly.It may not be immediately obvious that the dog is injured if you can’t see blood or a broken limb. However, there are less obvious signs of injury. For example; the dog may lick an area that is hurting intensely, he might pant even though he is sitting still and it isn’t hot, or he may squint his eyes.If you have a relationship with a local veterinary office, you might also be able to contact them for help with the situation.;
, Even the friendliest dog might react aggressively if they are frightened or injured. Be cautious when approaching a stray dog. Don’t just walk up casually and grab them by the collar. Since the dog doesn’t know you, they may bite to try and defend themselves.Instead, try to see if the dog will come to you. If you need to approach the dog, do so very slowly. Let the dog smell your hand before trying to touch the animal.
Look for signs of aggression. These signs may include: growling, snarling, showing teeth, lunging towards people, or standing very still and rigidly., If you have a small morsel of food (like a small piece of meat or a dog treat), hold it in your hand way out in front of you, and very slowly move towards the dog. Stop immediately if the dog reacts aggressively. While you approach the dog, use a calm and reassuring voice.You can say things like, “It’s OK,” “good boy,” and “come here.” These may be phrases that the dog’s owner uses and will be reassuring to the dog.
 If you are able to catch the dog, you should use a leash with a collar or a harness to keep control of the dog. In an emergency, you can use a belt as a slip lead, but this should not be considered a long-term solution.Try not to be rough with the dog. When you catch the dog, keep talking to the dog calmly, pet them gently, and help them understand that you are just trying to help. Avoid making quick aggressive movements that might frighten the dog.
 If you don’t feel comfortable catching the dog on your own, if you can’t tell whether the dog is injured or potentially aggressive, or if you can see that the dog is behaving aggressively, it is best to contact animal control. Don’t try to approach a stray dog unless you are absolutely sure that they are not going to react defensively.If you aren’t sure of how to contact animal control, you can find information about local animal control and other local shelters on this website: http://theshelterpetproject.org.
You can also try calling your area’s non-emergency police number. This is usually a local number that will connect you to the police without having to use the emergency number unnecessarily.
If you can’t catch the dog on your own, don’t just give up and leave the animal to figure it out on their own. Animal control can help you with the situation.
 Look to see if the dog has a tag on their collar that contains the owner’s contact information. If they do, then all you need to do is contact them, and have them come get the dog. If they don’t, look for a tattoo that will usually be located inside the dog’s ear or inside of one of the legs.If you don’t find tags or a tattoo, then you can have the dog checked for a microchip at the vets or at the shelter. This microchip will contain the owner’s contact information.
 Before you turn the animal over, try seeing if you can get the dog to lead you to their home. Make sure that you put a long leash on them so you can grab hold of them if necessary (for example, to stop them crossing a busy street).Put the leash on and then in a firm (but not threatening) voice, tell the dog to “Go home!” This is a command that some owners teach their dogs. If the dog seems to respond, and begins walking in a certain direction, follow them. Ask anyone you pass on the way if they have seen the dog before.
If the dog doesn’t seem to understand the command, then move on to the next step.
 In some places, you may be required by law to turn strays over to animal control; in other places, you might choose to foster the animal at your home while trying to find its rightful owner. Check with your local animal control office to find out what the law in your state or country says.The reason for this is that owners typically look first at animal shelters, but people who find dogs often feel reluctant to take dogs to shelters for fear that they will be euthanized.
If the shelter does mention the possibility of euthanization, consider offering to foster the dog until the owner can be found. If you can’t foster the animal, ask friends and family if they might be able to do it.
 If you can’t or don’t want to take the animal to a shelter, and it is legal to do so in your state/country, then make sure you have a safe place for the animal to stay. Don’t just bring the animal home and lock them away in a room alone. They will probably be very frightened, so if they are not aggressive, do your best to make them feel that they are safe. You should still contact all the shelters in the area to provide a description of the pet in case the owner calls.Swing by a veterinarian’s office on the way home and ask them to check for a microchip. If the animal is microchipped, then you can return them to the owner right away.
You can make them feel a little less frightened by talking in a soothing voice and petting them gently. Offer the animal water and a bit of food, preferably pet food.
If you have one, you can keep the animal secured in a crate. If it is a large dog, and you have a secure yard, this may be a good place to keep them. However, don’t expect to leave them in a crate or in the backyard alone for days. This is not fair to the animal.
If you have other pets, it’s best to keep your pets and the stray separated. You can do this by keeping them in separate rooms or crates. This is because you don’t know how the stray might behave around other animals, and you also don’t know their medical history. Some diseases are very contagious among animals and you don’t want to spread anything around.
If you have found an animal with lots of fleas and/or ticks, it is best to take the animal to the vet or the shelter for treatment, especially if you don’t have experience with bathing animals.
 Whenever you try to find the dog’s owner using social media, signs, or classified ads, it is important that you leave out one small bit of identifying information. This is because some dishonest people try to claim a pet that is not theirs as their own.For example, don’t post a picture of the dog anywhere. Instead, describe the dog so that the owner would suspect it was their dog, but would have to describe the breed of the dog or offer more specific information about the dog.
If you find a small white pomeranian, don’t write “Found Pomeranian,” instead write, “Small, fluffy, white dog.”
If you want to post a picture, try to find something unique about the dog that only the owner would know. For example, if they are wearing a collar, take it off for the photo and then ask anyone who comes forward to tell you what kind of collar they were wearing.
 It is a sad truth that many people take advantage of kind hearted people who try to find the true owners of lost pets. These people may take the animal from you and then try to sell it, may harm the animal, or may even harm you. Thus, it is wise to be very cautious with people who come forward.If someone calls claiming to be the owner, don’t answer any questions about the dog. Instead, make them tell you about the dog. Ask the caller the questions. For example, you can say, “What color is the dog?” “What gender is the dog?” “Approximately how big is the dog?” “Was the dog wearing a collar, and if so, what color was it?” “Does the dog have any unusual markings?” “Is the dog microchipped or tattooed?”
If you believe it is the owner, ask them to meet you at a specific vet office, and ask them to bring photos and any other information they have that proves they are the rightful owner. Doing it this way will protect both you and the dog.
If you aren’t going to meet them at a vet’s office, then ask a friend to come with you to take the dog, and let a different person know where you are going and when you expect to be back.
 Buy a few pieces of neon colored poster board and write “FOUND DOG” in huge letters on the board. Include your contact information and a bit of information about where you found the dog.Post one poster board in the exact spot where you found the dog, and post a few others at major street intersections. Make sure that the writing is large enough so that drivers can easily read it.
 You can take a black and white picture of the animal so that the owner will have to describe the color, include your contact information (or the shelter’s information), as well as information about when and where the dog was found.Distribute these flyers all around town. Be sure to take one or two to each local shelter, hang them on telephone poles, and on community boards. Also take copies to vet offices and pet supply stores as these places almost always offer to post these flyers in their offices and stores.
Consider laminating these pages before hanging them. If you will post signs outdoors and live in an area where it rains a lot, a piece of paper with an ink picture may not last after the first rain. The ink will run all over the page and no one will be able to read it. If you can’t laminate the pages, consider sticking each sign in a sheet protector and then hanging them so that the opening is towards the bottom. This will keep rain from getting inside the sheet protector.
 One of the most common ways to share information about a lost dog these days is to post on social media. Leave off the photo, and simply post that you’ve found a dog. Include the area, date, and time that you found the dog. You can also include a vague description of the dog (e.g. large, small, long-fur, short-fur, etc.), but don’t describe the dog in detail.


Ask friends to share your post on their own accounts to help spread the word.
Try searching social media sites such as Facebook for lost and found pet groups. Type “lost dogs” plus the name of your city or town, and you’ll find a list of groups related to the keywords.
There are also social media sites dedicated specifically to helping people living in the same area connect. One of these sites is https://nextdoor.com/, which may be another useful place to post about the animal.
 You can also take out a lost and found ad in the newspaper, and contact local TV and radio stations. They will often make short announcements that a dog has been found along with a number the owner can contact., Check all around town for signs that report a lost dog. Match the information you find on these signs with the dog. If you believe you have found the owners of the lost dog, contact them immediately to let them know.Recognize that the dog might have travelled quite far, so don’t just look for signs around your neighborhood. Try to look all around town, and if you can, go for a drive or ride your bike as far and wide as you can looking for signs.
Even if you don’t find signs, you shouldn’t assume that there is no owner looking for the dog. If the owner is elderly or disabled, they may not be able to post signs. If the dog has only been missing for a few hours, they may not have had time to post signs yet.
 Some owners will take out an ad to help find their pooch, while others might try online classified sites such as Craigslist.If you find someone you believe is the owner, follow the same protocol that you would had the owner contacted you. Ask them to describe their dog in detail. If you believe they are the owner, ask them to meet you at a vet’s office and to bring any proof of ownership they might have.
 This can be temporary or, potentially, a long-term home. For most shelters, it is very difficult to keep a stray dog over the long-term. Though many shelters will do their best, you can ease this burden by offering to find a foster home (if you cannot foster the dog yourself) in the interim.


If you have tried for weeks to find the owners with no luck, then try finding a more permanent home for the dog. Ask friends and families if they are interested in adopting the pet. If they are not, ask them to think about whether or not they know of anyone that might be interested.
If you can afford to do so, you could also offer to cover the adoption fees and any immediate vet bills to help take care of the dog.

