 Silicosis cannot be cured. The condition causes damage to your lungs that cannot be reversed. Treatment aims to alleviate symptoms and improve overall quality of life. The treatment also will try to slow the progression of the disease.As you age, the damage to your lungs will worsen. However, with proper treatment, this can be slow and take a long time.;
, If your breathing is significantly affected because of the silicosis, you may be given oxygen therapy. This may be short-term or long-term. You may be put on a mechanical ventilator or given a small portable oxygen machine.Your lung function and the severity of the damage to your lungs will dictate whether or not you receive short-term or long-term oxygen treatment.
 There are different medications you may be given depending on your symptoms. One common medication is a bronchodilator, which helps to increase your airways so you can take in more air and breathe easier.Sometimes, silicosis leads to chest infections. If this occurs, you will be given antibiotics to help treat the infection.
If you are coughing up a lot of phlegm, your doctor may give you medication to help, like steroids.
 When you have silicosis, you are at a higher risk for Tuberculosis. Contracting TB can cause many complications for you, impede your ability to breathe, and increase lung damage. You should have regular TB tests to screen you for TB.Talk to your doctor about how often you should schedule TB tests.
 Silicosis makes you more vulnerable to respiratory diseases. To help reduce your risk of contracting one of these diseases, you should get yearly flu and pneumococcal vaccinations.Since pertussis (whooping cough) is on the rise in some areas, stay protected with a "Tdap" vaccine every 10 years (tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis)., In extreme cases, you may need a lung transplant. This is only occurs if the lung damage is severe and your condition is progressing rapidly or aggressively. This procedure is very rare for silicosis, and your doctor and care team will only suggest this after every other treatment option has been exhausted.