 If you have not already, this will entail creating an account and downloading the game at the League of Legends website and selecting your respective server (top left hand corner will let you select server).


It's recommended to create an account on the server that is geographically closest to you to negate some connectivity issues.;
, Thresh can be purchased in the in game store for either 975 RP or 6,300 IP (when not on sale). Or can be purchased through other players gifting you.
 Instead, Thresh collects the souls of dead enemies by approaching them or by placing Dark Passage's lantern nearby. Each soul permanently grants 0.75 armor and ability power. Champions and large minions and monsters always drop a soul. Small minions and monsters only sometimes drop a soul. A soul will only drop if the enemy unit dies within 1900 range of Thresh. Souls are visible to allies, and only become visible to enemies if the enemy team has vision of Thresh. Souls disappear if not picked up after 8 seconds.
His Q ability is Death Sentence: Active: After a 0.5 second wind-up, Thresh throws out his scythe in a line and forms a tether with the first enemy hit, dealing magic damage and stunning it for 1.5 seconds. Upon hitting an enemy, Death Sentence's current cooldown is reduced by 3 seconds. While the tether persists, Thresh cannot attack and he will periodically tug on the tether, each time pulling the target a short distance toward himself. After 0.5 seconds, or instantly if he hooks a minion or monster, Thresh can reactivate the ability to use Death Leap. Active - Death Leap: Thresh pulls himself to the bound enemy. This removes the stun but allows Thresh to attack again. Thresh loses the ability to activate Death Leap when the tether breaks.
His W ability is Dark Passage: Active: Thresh throws his lantern to the target location where it remains for up to 6 seconds. If an ally right-clicks the lantern, they will pick it up and will be pulled to Thresh's location. If Thresh moves more than ~1500 units away, the lantern will return to him. For the next 6 seconds, allies who come near the lantern (even while Thresh is holding it) gain a shield that absorbs damage for up to 4 seconds. Allies can only receive the shield once per cast.
His E ability is Flay: Passive: Thresh's basic attacks deal bonus magic damage on each hit. This value is equal to the total number of souls collected, plus a percentage of his attack damage based on the amount of time since his last attack. Active: Thresh sweeps his chain in a broad line towards a target direction. Enemies hit take magic damage, are knocked in the same direction as the chains, and are slowed afterwards for 1.5 seconds
His ultimate (R) ability is The Box: Active: After a 0.75 second delay, Thresh summons 5 spectral walls around him that last up to 5 seconds. Enemy champions that touch a wall take magic damage and are slowed by 99% for 2 seconds, but break the wall. Once one wall is broken, the remaining walls deal half damage and apply half the slow duration. An enemy can be affected by multiple walls.
 A rune page of 9 armour marks, 9 armour seals, 9 magic resist glyphs and 3 health quintessence's and a masteries layout of 7, 23, 0 is advised. The reason behind this is Thresh is otherwise squishy early game due to his lack of passive armour gain by leveling up.


Bear in mind that Thresh can be played in a variety of ways and experimenting with various set ups can be beneficial if it complies with your playing style.
 Due to Thresh being a support champion by nature, you will usually play in the bottom lane to support your attack damage carry.


When playing any support role, it is important to let your attack damage carry (ADC) gain as much "farm" (minion kills and champion kills) as possible. It is important to let your ADC get the finishing blow on enemies, this is crucial during the laning phase in order to increase your teams damage output as your ADC will be able to buy damage increasing items in the shop.
 Collecting souls for Threshes passive is a key element to his effectiveness as Thresh, unlike other champions, does not gain an armour bonus upon leveling up, meaning that Damnation is his only means of passively increasing armour. Due to his lack of starting armour.
 Your Q ability can be used in numerous ways; not only is it a basic grab to slow and control your enemies, it can also be used to navigate across terrain due to it's secondary active component, allowing you to rapidly close in onto the ensnared victim. For example, as an escape mechanism, you can cast your hook on any minion in the jungle, again press Q and you will find yourself launched over the wall.
 Dark Passage is a great way to save your teammates, provide a shield to allies and also to safely harvest souls at a distance. Bear in mind, that when attempting to cast Dark Passage to save allies, the ally must be within a close proximity of the lantern in order to click it so this will require some accuracy and possible movement prediction on your part.
 The reason that you should be sensible in your usage of your active component of your E ability is that in the majority of the time in the laning phase (especially) the passive damage boost is more useful than the active. Flay is best used once you have successfully hooked and enemy and once they are free, use Flay to further slow and disable them. Holding the enemy is key to letting your teammates put out as much damage on them as possible. Also remember that this ability can interrupt enemy dashes (e.g. Leona's Zenith Blade and Lucian's Relentless Pursuit ) if timed correctly, it cannot however interrupt blinks (like Ezreal e or the summoner spell flash)

, Although The Box doesn't have an incredibly long cooldown, it is still significant. Due to The Box being cast upon your position, positioning is an important factor to this ability. The Box is best used in team fights to damage and slow the majority of the enemy team, this will provide the chance for your team to retreat or to use the impairment of the enemy team to their advantage.
 As Thresh is a renowned support champion, some essential items include a sightstone, boots of mobility, talisman of ascension and the iron locket of Solari. Place importance of what the enemy team purchases and build to counter them (for example, if the enemy is focusing on magic damage, buy into magic resist over armour). Another potential item choice is the item Zeke's Herals but do keep in mind that it is a more advanced item that requires superb game knowledge and some communication to use at full effectiveness.


If you believe that the game will extend into late game territory, buy into health as by this point in time, it is likely that you will have amassed quite a number of souls providing a good amount of armour and ability power to sustain you. Due to his high amount of free Armor in the later stages of the game, Thresh is one of the few champion where, under certain conditions (more than ~82 souls) thornmail is the most effective armor item without requiring any other bonus armor item.
