 Significant weight gain or loss, as well as being underweight or overweight, can cause problems with ovulation and irregular periods. Gaining weight if you’re underweight, or losing weight if you’re overweight, will often help with fertility and get your period back on track.Eating disorders, especially anorexia, can cause extremely low body weight – about 10% under normal weight – which messes with hormones and can stop periods.Eating disorders are seriously illnesses that can really harm your body. If you have concerns about your eating habits, talk to a parent, friend or doctor for help.
 Getting a moderate amount of exercise is not only good for your health, it can help to regulate your periods. Overexercising, however, can cause you to be underweight or decrease your body fat so much that you can’t ovulate. Increasing or decreasing your level of exercise to hit that appropriate middle mark can help regulate your period.Girls who do activities that require intense training, like ballet or gymnastics, might have irregular periods or no periods at all.As long as you see your doctor to make sure you're getting all the nutrition you need, it's okay.
 Foods that are high in fats, carbohydrates, and processed ingredients can cause all sorts of changes in the body including irregular periods. Eating a whole food diet, one based on foods you cook or prepare, is the best option for overall body and menstrual health.Reducing the amount of refined carbs you eat and getting the right servings of fruits, vegetables and dairy can help a lot.


Supplement nutritional gaps with quality multivitamins that include calcium and magnesium, and a fish oil supplement., Caffeine can cause many negative effects on the body, and some studies show that self-reported habitual caffeine use might be linked to various changes in the period cycle.Specifically, caffeine can cause a shortened cycle; i.e. more frequent periods.Women with irregular periods are advised to stay away from caffeine as much as possible., Estrogen and progesterone are the two most important hormones that regulate ovulation and your period. Drinking a lot of alcohol can interfere with how your liver works with those hormones, causing problems with menstruation and many other physical issues., Stress plays a huge role in the menstrual cycle because stress actually affects hormones. The more stressed you feel on a daily basis, the more likely you are to throw off your cycle.Practice relaxation and stress coping techniques like yoga, meditation, exercise, or a nice bubble bath. Periods usually regulate once stress decreases.


If you’re going through a major life change like switching jobs, getting married or divorced, or moving, the increased stress might mess with your cycle. Make a mental note of the stress and change, and work on calming techniques.