 It consisted of three products: cleaner, toner, and treatment. The cleaner and treatment both contained 2.5% benzoyl peroxide (BPO), which has been shown to kill the bacteria that causes acne.The toner contained witch hazel, which has antioxidant and astringent properties to reduce oil.This original formula has now been replaced by Proactiv+, which introduces the new active ingredients glycolic and salicylic acid.
 It consists of an exfoliating cleanser, pore targeting treatment, and moisturizer, used in that order.Skin Smoothing Exfoliator — The first step is cleansing and exfoliating your face. The exfoliator contains 2.5% benzoyl peroxide (BPO), which has been shown to kill the bacteria that cause acne, as well as glycolic acid, which acts as an exfoliant at low concentrations, producing smoother skin with less blemishes.Pore Targeting Treatment — A vesicular delivery system (basically microscopic bags) deliver BPO directly to the pores. These sorts of systems have been shown to be more effective at treating acne while reducing side effects like dryness and itching.Complexion Perfecting Hydrator — This contains a moisturizer, 0.5% salicylic acid to gently exfoliate and unclog pores, and a “skin brightener” with a number of natural ingredients (kojic acid, licorice extract, bearberry and sophora root) that have been shown to break down skin pigments to remove blemishes., A one month supply of Proactiv+ costs $19.95, but when you purchase it, you will be signed up to receive an additional 3 month supply every 90 days at a cost of $59.85 plus $2.99 shipping and handling. You can purchase Proactiv+ three ways:


Online
By calling 1-888-651-2715
Or at a mall kiosk

, Proactiv is designed for men and women from adolescence through adulthood with mild to moderate acne or hormone-induced outbreaks of acne.Proactiv may also reduce redness, oily shine, and balance uneven skin tone.It can take four to six weeks before Proactiv users see results.Many users with sensitive skin report redness, severe dryness, and itching after using Proactiv+.Some users may experience sensitivity or even an allergic reaction to benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid, two of the active ingredients in Proactiv products. Symptoms of an allergic reaction include itching, swelling of the face or throat, hives, or difficulty breathing.In case of an allergic reaction, users should immediately discontinue use and seek medical assistance.
In extremely rare cases, people with impaired stratum corneum permeability barrier function (i.e. extremely fragile skin) may suffer from salicylism, leading to brain and kidney damage.If you have extremely thin or fragile skin, consult your doctor before using Proactiv+.
 Hydroxy acids, including glycolic and salicylic acid, are pregnancy category C substances, meaning they may be safe, though they have caused birth defects in some animal studies. Specifically, animal studies have produced birth defects when hydroxy acids were given orally in doses 6 times the maximum topical dose. Consult your doctor to decide if Proactiv+ is right for you while pregnant.Most physicians recommend against using pregnancy category C substances during pregnancy unless absolutely necessary.

