 Higher intensity interval workouts have become more popular. They are known to torch calories, but specifically burn higher amounts of body fat compared with traditional cardio.A study conducted by the University of Virginia found that people who had 3 out of 5 cardio sessions per week with intervals burned more belly fat, although they technically burned the same calories during the workout itself. Most gym machines come with interval programs. You can do interval programs on treadmills, stationary bikes and elliptical machines.
You can create your own high intensity interval program by alternating between short bursts of very high intensity exercises with longer bouts of more moderate intensity exercises. For example, you can try alternating between 1 minute sprints and 5 minutes of jogging.
 In addition to interval training, studies have shown that it's equally important to do at least 30 minutes of cardio exercises each week to help reduce belly fat.To specifically decrease visceral or belly fat, some health professionals even recommended doing up to 60 minutes daily of aerobic activities to have more significant effect on visceral fat.Try walking, biking, swimming, hiking, running, working out on an elliptical or rowing machine.
Aim to do these activities at a moderate pace. This is usually described as when it is possible, but difficult, to keep up a conversation as you perform the activity.
 Lifestyle activities are a great way to add more exercise to your day. Being more active throughout the day has been shown to have similar benefits to 150 minutes of planned cardio each week.


Choose times when you are sedentary, such as watching TV, break time at the office or commuting and insert activity into the mix. Think of times when you can move more or take more steps.
For example, do sit-ups, pushups and planks during commercial breaks. Stretch while you are stuck in traffic and walk around the office during break time.
You can also consider buying a pedometer or downloading a step counter app on your smart phone. These will help track how active you are during the day and a good way to see how much you've increased your activity level.
 Weightlifting builds lean muscle mass which can help increase your body's metabolism and ability to burn calories at rest.In addition, resistance training helps increase bone density and reduces your risk for diseases like osteoporosis.Include body weight exercises, such as pushups, planks, squats or lunges. These are great toning exercises but also increase your heart rate.
Learn to use free weights or weight machines. Start with popular exercises like chest presses, rows, pec flys, overhead presses, front and side arm raises, lunges and squats or the leg press machine, calf raises, and biceps/triceps last. Tricep exercises include the tricep overhead press, tricep pull downs on a cable pull, and tricep kick backs.
You may want to consider investing in a session with a personal trainer if you have never used weights before. They will be able to show you how to lift weights and provide you with an appropriate weight lifting program.

