 What better way to serve God? Even if you are unable to go, you could always find a time a couple of times a week to quietly reflect, pray, and read your Bible.


Going to church is one of the most common ways people serve God and even if it’s not your favorite activity try and use that time to forget about any troubles you may have in your life for an hour and focus on your relationship with God.
Church can be a very spiritual and cleansing experience not unlike meditation or exercise. In this case, you’re just exercising your faith.
 Tell other people about Him or invite them to church. Don't be ashamed of God, He's your creator.


However, just as you shouldn’t be ashamed of God, this doesn’t mean that you should Shove him down someone’s throat. Serving God doesn’t mean forcing Him on others.
 Serving God doesn’t mean toting your accomplishments and good fortune. It means thanking Him for what he has blessed you with and remaining humble about it.


Quietly reflect on how your faith has given you fortune and remember that it’s your job to use it to help those in need.
Maybe you got a big promotion at work. Don’t go around bragging about it, instead use your new status to make your workplace better or help your coworkers when they might need guidance.
If you won an award for something or got recognition for an accomplishment, remember that God gave you the tools you needed, and chances are you didn’t accomplish this alone. Serve God by setting an example of humility that others can follow.
 If you’re a parent you know how much your children look up to you and learn from you. And leading by example is never more important than when it pertains to your kids. A great way to serve God is to introduce Him into your children’s life.


Read books to your kids that teach them about spirituality.Show them how God exists in their daily life and teach them how to walk with God in their hearts using examples from the bible or real life., When you are frustrated or in a hurry to be somewhere or accomplish a task it can be easy to lose sight of how to serve God, but pause and think about how He would want you to act.


This can also be a sort of prayer to God. It’s good to pause sometimes and take a moment to ask yourself “How does God want me to act?”
Letting God and your faith in Him help you decide how to act is not only a great way for you to find some inner peace, but it will show others around you your best self. And others will follow your example.
 God is the ultimate forgiver. He forgives us of our sins and transgressions. And while forgiveness isn’t always easy when you’ve been wronged, this is one of the best ways to serve God, and in turn, yourself.


If you’re having a hard time forgiving someone, use the other ways that serve God to help you. Pray, talk to God, go to Church, and even do something good for someone else.
You can write down the good that’s come of out of a bad situation and ask God to give you the strength you need to forgive and focus on those good aspects.

