 This can be done by consulting the equipment's operating guide, often found inside the electrical control box or the air handler unit. Many systems also have a label on the unit's cabinet that will have the manufacturer's specifications. Refrigerants commonly used in fairly modern systems are R-22 (HCFC-22)and R410A, sold under names like SUVA410A and Puron. This is important in order to make sure you get the right type of refrigerant and the correct charging manifold set for charging.
 Normal inverted flare schrader valve connections can be equipped with quick connect adaptors to lessen the loss of refrigerant during the connecting process, and they will decrease the chance of injury from liquid refrigerant contacting your skin in the process. Which ever connection you use, understand that even with a system switched off, the refrigerant is under high pressure, and it is dangerous.
 The thermostat and its related circuitry are the on/off switch for your system. You will be turning off the power to the unit itself in the next step, but you want to start and stop the unit using the thermostat, not the disconnect, as this is not what the disconnect is designed for.
 The outside unit should be equipped with a fused disconnect or circuit breaker located near the unit. Remove the fuses or turn the breaker off before continuing.


With the AC unit off, hook up the gauges according to instructions. This will be with the low pressure side (the small hose/blue hose) on the gauges and the high pressure side of the system (the red hose). Older manifold gauges may not have color coded hoses, usually, the low pressure gauge and connector is on the left facing the gauge, the high pressure is on the right, and the supply hose, which is connected to your refrigerant tank, evacuation pump, or other attachment, is in the middle.
With the gauges hooked up, turn on the AC and wait 15 minutes for the system to stabilize.
 The blue gauge should have dropped if the system needs to be recharged.


To verify this, use a temperature gauge with a probe attached to the low pressure side - or return line—which is the larger of the two lines.
Recharge if the temperatures on the blue gauge do not correspond to the number recommended in the equipment manufacturer's specifications.
Use the site glass. Another way to determine if your system needs recharging is using the site glass on the unit. Many residential units are not equipped with site glasses, but if your unit has one, it will be on the outside of the unit on the return line between the inline dryer and the compressor.

Once you have located the sight glass and cleaned the view port, look into it while the unit is running. See if there are bubbles mixed with the liquid refrigerant. A properly charged AC unit will be free of bubbles. You need to recharge the unit if there are bubbles mixed with the liquid coolant. Note that on a unit that has been improperly charged, bubbles may result from air or moisture trapped in the hermetically sealed refrigerant system.



