 Get to know her likes, dislikes. Observe the clothes that she wears, the shoes, the way that she styles her hair. Find out what sports she participates in, if any, and any other after-school activities she is involved in. Learn whatever you can about this girl.;
, Once you know more about her likes, you can start cultivating these too. For example, can you buy some of the outfits she wears? Not the same, mind you, but similar, and of the same quality and style? Can you become involved in some of the activities that she is doing? This will not only get you "in-the-know" so that you can have genuine talks with her but she'll also be likely to bump into you during these occasions.
 This may feel bewildering but you've got to start somewhere, right? Talk about things you have in common. Some of those things in common should be well known to you by now, and your involvement in some of her interests will help a lot. Be very careful about gossip; until you know this girl really well, you don't know who she knows or cares about, even quietly and off-the-side. Even popular girls have soft hearts for lame ducks here and there for one reason or another, so don't screw up by dissing anybody.
 If you seem to really hit it off, exchange cell numbers or screen-names for instant messaging. Do not overwhelm her with messages, however. Take it slowly, occasionally sending her a bit of interesting fashion or entertainment news, for example. Or alert her to an upcoming cool party or even in your area and let her know you're thinking of going if the weather is good etc.
 Popular people do not like clinging people; they like loyal, devoted, and imitating people but they don't like to be responsible for their close set of friends. Be devoted, interested, and keen, but do not be a barnacle. Let her know you're busy sometimes and that there are other friends that you've got lined up to do things with. Be elusive and hard-to-find sometimes. That is tantalizing, especially to someone who is used to being fawned on. If you have friends from several "cliques", try to hang out with all of them regularly, especially at times when she can see you. This will give her a clear indication that you hold your own and are definitely worth knowing.
 It is important to always ask yourself why you seek friendship with a popular person. If it is because you are genuinely fascinated by this person and really think that they'd make a great friend, that's fantastic. But if you think being friends with someone popular will solve your own personality issues and internal fears, insecurities, and unhappiness, then think again. These issues will only be magnified by catapulting yourself into the limelight of the popular crowd because you will be forced to behave in ways that can increase your insecurities, including making you feel uglier, fatter, less intelligent etc. Deal with any underlying personality challenges more constructively if this is your real motivation, by doing such positive things as getting counseling, joining an acting class, improving your knowledge etc., to gain confidence, rather than seeing popularity as a panacea to your problems.