 It's important because you will not have access to all the preppy stuff.;
, These are the best animals for many reasons. They can be for both boys and girls. If you can't get membership, do the wolf instead.
 Put on a color that matches your pattern color for color 2. Then, for the patterns, try the leaves and color it something that goes with color 1. For example, Turquoise with Bold Pink. Purple with Darker Pink. Blue with Purple.
 That will be your head wear. For the neck, get a plain necklace (or any other necklace that you like) of a color you like. Get a designer skirt in Epic Wonders or the tutu in Jam Mart Clothing for a touch (actually this is very important) of girlishness. If you don't have enough gems, play more games. If you like, get the elf bracelets, flower bracelet, sparkly shoes, or high heels for your feet. Don't get anything that makes you look tough, but buy the elf armor for your swimsuit.
, Go to the Play Wild parties, Cruise Ship parties, and Heatwave parties. If you go to the cruise ship party, be sure to say: (is wearing designer swimsuit)

, You are the new queen in the castle, so show who you are! Say things like, "Sprays New Jungle Max Fruit Mix Perfume!" Runs Perfect (insert country name)" "Tips Through Long (insert hair color) Hair!" "Texts BFF's On New Sprint Smartphone!" (Because Animal Jam doesn't let jammers say "phone.") "Flips Long (insert hair color) Wavy Hair!" "Is Beautiful Teen Daughter Of Mira! "Applies Extreme Midnight Mascara!" You can make up your own, just make sure that you put a lot of detail in them, and make sure you're bragging about what kind of pretty diva you were born to be!

, Use capitals at the beginning of sentences, spell your words correctly, use good grammar. Don't use rude or cruel behavior at any time. Laugh only when you know it's funny, not every second of your jammer life.
 Try all of the following in red:


Wear a head flower and flower bracelet.
Wear a designer skirt.
Get elf tail bracelets or any bracelet (optional).
Get some diamond earrings or any earrings (optional).

