 A dog's coat is a good sign of their health and nutrition. A healthy dam will have a shiny coat. If she is long haired, her coat will be thick. There should be no patches or bald spots in the dog's coat. The fur should be flexible, not brittle or coarse.If the dog's fur smells, she may have fleas or a bacterial infection. Do not breed her until it is taken care of.
If you want puppies with a particular coat color, try to match the dam and the sire's coat color. While this cannot guarantee you puppies of a particular color, it can increase your chances.
 A gait is often used in breed standards to judge how well a dog walks, but a dog's gait can also help you figure out if she has hip or weight problems. Ask someone to walk the dog while you watch. If the dog is stumbling, unbalanced, or unable to walk straight, you may not want to breed her.


A pacing gait is one in which both legs on side of the body hit the ground at the same time. Overweight or tired dogs may demonstrate this gait. Most breeds are penalized in the show ring for this gait. The only exceptions are the English sheepdog, Polish Lowland Sheepdog, and the Neapolitan Mastiff.Certain breeds, such as Greyhounds and Miniature Pinschers, have unique gaits. Check the breed standard if you are looking to breed these as show dogs.
 If you are looking for a working dog, such as a herding dog or livestock guarding dog, you should watch her as she works. Test the mother dog on the skills that you want to pass on to the puppies.


For example, if you want a scent hound to sniff out people for search and rescue, have a person hide, and give the dog a piece of their clothing with their scent on it. See if the dog can find the person based on their scent.If you do not own the dog, ask her owner if you can come by for a demonstration of her abilities.
If you are looking for a dog that can compete in lure coursing, agility courses, herding competitions, or other athletic sports, you might look for a mother that has won prizes in these fields.

