 Before you finalize the purchase of your home, you should do a final walk through a day or two before the closing. By the time you are ready to close, you should have gone through the house several times, and had a home inspection done. The purpose of this final walk through is not to try to find problems with the home (that should have been done long ago), but rather to make sure the seller has held up his or her end of the bargain by making the repairs you have specified in the contract and left behind any appliances they agreed to leave.To make the final walk through appointment, ask your real estate agent to set it up with the seller’s agent. If you notice anything unusual, your real estate agent should notify the seller’s agent immediately to get the issue resolved.
Also, keep in mind that issues can be resolved after closing on the house if you are closing soon and cannot wait. An addendum can be added to the contract to hold parties accountable to what is written. This addendum will need to be signed prior to closing.
 While you certainly can ask questions at your closing, if you have any lingering questions before the closing, you should ask them well in advance. Contact your loan officer about any mortgage questions, your attorney or title officer about questions relating to title, and your real estate agent about any other questions you may have about the deal.You may have a concern that will take time to investigate, require the revision of documents, or require repairs to be made to the property. Such issues may mean that the closing cannot take place as scheduled, so make sure to have all your questions addressed well before the closing date.
 Prior to the closing date the buyer should arrange to have the home’s utilities accounts transferred into his or her name as of the closing date. Contact the individual utility companies and make the necessary arrangements. This step may be required for the closing to take place, and is also a great idea since it allows the home to be ready for move in on the closing date.Be aware that this is often not possible to arrange prior to closing. Many utility companies are strict and will not change services over until you can produce a deed to the house.

