 Get a Russian Visa. Buy an airplane or train ticket, and book a room in a hotel.


Hotels (known as гостиницы in Russian) are very expensive in Moscow, so you may want to consider booking a hostel instead. They are much cheaper and you might see and talk to many people from other countries.
Moscow has several airports. Make sure your travel plans to your hotel or other accommodations take your arriving ariport into account.
Taxis are available at the airport, but many drivers speak only Russian. Come prepared with the address written or printed out (in Russian) to give to the driver if you are not comfortable speaking Russian.;
, If you're going in winter, pack a lot of warm clothes. If it's summer, bring hot-weather clothes.


It's always best to bring a jacket of some sort, even in the summer. The temperature drops at night.
 You could use either the Metro (subway) or a rental car, but the Metro is better because of the traffic.


Driving in Moscow is not recommended for foreigners.
 The design of the Moscow Metro is known to be one of the most beautiful in the world.


Tickets can be purchased at any Metro station. If you will be in Moscow for an extended period of time, you can buy a "Troika" card that can be used on a buses, trolley-busses and the Metro.
 Usually all the places of interest are shown on the map of the city.
 In these, you can find everything about cultural life of Moscow, including popular movies, theatres, museums and so on.
 It is a brief walk from the Kremlin across a beautiful pedestrian bridge. There is a pedestrian-only street and lots of sculpture. The museum is filled with works by Russian artists.


Alternatively, you can reach the Tretyakov Gallery by taking the Metro to the Tretyakovskaya (Третьяковская) station.
,


While in Red Square you can also Shop at GUM in Moscow


,,


The Arbat contains many shops. Don't be afraid to shop around for the best price. You can often haggle to get better prices at the souvenir shops, don't be afraid to try to talk the prices down a little. Many of the shop workers speak English.
 Take the dark blue Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya line to station Partizanskaya and make a day at this Russian style county fair/carnival/flea market.
 Hoping to find a piece of pre-Glastnost U.S.S.R? Then go to the All Russian Exhibition Center, the former Soviet Union's Exhibition of Economic Achievements. Kind of like a Soviet Epcot Center, this lovely (and large!) park was created to highlight each of the former Soviet Republics' cultural and economic achievements. It can be reached by taking the gold (#6) metro line to the VDNKH station. Check out the following link for a detailed description from the NY Times: http://travel.nytimes.com/2007/11/11/travel/11heads.html?fta=y

, The park was redesigned and renovated in 2011 and makes for a nice place to spend an afternoon along the river.

Take the one of the red or brown lines to the Park Kultury Metro station and walk south across the bridge to reach Gorky Park.
