 You might know somebody who plays the guitar or who knows somebody who could put you in the direction of a good guitar teacher. This method of searching is very useful as you will be able to ask questions to a student about the lessons they receive. If you really don't know anybody who can help then contact local music shops who will give you a list of tutors in the area .;
, Once you have a list of guitar teachers you need to decide on a few things. How much can you afford to spend per month? (Guitar lessons are usually hourly or half hourly a week and most tutors keep a regular time slot that you will be expected to regularly attend for at least a month). What style of music do you want to play? (Most guitar tutors can teach a variety of styles but some teachers specialize in only one style eg. classical or rock. If you want to learn to play blistering Van Halen solos then a strictly classical teacher will not be as qualified as a teacher who plays rock guitar). do you require one to one lessons or do you want to join a small group or class? If you can already play the guitar but have a specific technique or style you wish to learn then consider this too.
 Call a few teachers on your list to find out if they are within your budget, that they are able to teach the styles that you want to learn, if you are looking for a tutor for your child then make sure that they are CRB checked and have a safe learning space and that you are able to sit in on the lessons. You also need to speak to any potential tutors to make sure that you get along from the start! What experience or qualifications does the teacher have? (many guitar teachers are not academically qualified but this doesn't mean that they are bad teacher!)

, Some tutors offer the chance to attend a lesson (not free though) to see how you get on. If you attend a trial lesson you can treat it as an interview to decide if you will employ the teachers services. If there is a good learning atmosphere, you are made to feel relaxed and comfortable and you feel that you are LEARNING then you should book some more lessons.

