 GSP’s are high-energy dogs and they require at least 30 minutes of vigorous exercise every day. Two 30 minute exercise sessions per day are even better.That is why GSPs are best for people with active lifestyles.


Try taking your dog along with you on morning walks or runs. Some dogs can even learn to run beside a bike while you ride.
If you have a sedentary lifestyle, then consider hiring someone to take your dog for morning runs. You might also consider taking your GSP to a local dog park to play. Otherwise, it is possible that your dog will develop behavioral issues due to boredom and pent up energy.
 GSPs are great fetchers, so playing with a Frisbee or tennis ball in the backyard can be an excellent way to help your GSP get some exercise.Try heading out to your yard once per day to play a game of fetch with your GSP.


Playing fetch is also a good way for you to bond with your GSP.
Make sure that you have somewhere safe to play fetch with your GSP so he will not be near traffic or other hazards.
 GSPs like to chew, so it is a good idea to provide things like rope toys and rawhide bones for your GSP to chew on. If not provided with something to chew on, your GSP may find an item such as a shoe or something else that is important to you.Try alternating your GSP’s chew toys so that he does not get bored of them. Try taking a toy away and exchanging it with a new toy every day of the week.
 GSPs are bred to hunt and track, so they are used to spending lots of time around humans. Even if you do not plan to take your GSP hunting, you should take him along with you to do other things as much as possible.For example, you might take your GSP with you for a hike, a day at the beach, or on a visit to a friend’s house.
 Crate training is an excellent way to provide your GSP with a secure space to retreat to when he is feeling scared or overwhelmed. If you decide to use a crate, get one that is large enough for him to stand up, turn around, and lay down in. It should not be any bigger.Place some comfortable bedding and a favorite toy in your GSP’s crate to make it a comforting space.
Keep the crate open for the first couple of weeks and allow your GSP to investigate the crate and use it as he pleases. After a couple of weeks, you can start to close the door when your GSP is in his crate.
Do not keep your GSP in his crate for more than a few hours. Dogs are not meant to be kept in crates for long periods of time.
Never use a crate to punish your GSP. Crates are meant to be safe places and your dog should not be afraid to go into his crate., Teaching your GSP some basic commands is another great way to stimulate his mind and enhance your bond. Start by teaching your GSP how to do things like sit, stay, shake, lay down, and heel. You can teach your dog these commands on your own or take a class with your GSP.


Use positive reinforcement to train your GSP. Never hit him or yell at him if he disobeys. Instead, provide your GSP with treats, praise, and petting when he does something well.Keep training sessions short and regular. Your GSP will be more likely to maintain his concentration if sessions are kept between five to 10 minutes long. Try to do at least one training session every day.
After your GSP has learned these commands, you can teach him some more advanced ones as well. GSPs are intelligent dogs so they are easy to train., GSPs tend to have even temperaments and do not act aggressively towards people, but a poorly socialized GSP may be frightened or confused by new types of people or children. Make sure that you socialize your GSP well from the time he is a puppy. Take him out with you and invite people over so that your GSP puppy encounters all sorts of things such as:children and babies
men and women
other dogs
cats
people in hats, holding umbrellas, wearing boots, etc.
loud noises
crowds
cars and bikes

