 Steaming your face will be more effective if your face is clean. Use your fingertips, a gentle cleanser, and some lukewarm water to cleanse your face before you begin your steam treatment. Use gentle circular motions to apply the cleanser and then rinse it away with the lukewarm water.


Gentle cleansing twice per day may also help to get rid of your blind pimple and improve your acne. Avoid scrubbing your face because scrubbing can cause irritation, redness, and scarring., To give yourself a steam treatment, you will need a few drops of an essential oil. Some essential oils have antibacterial properties that can help with acne. Some good choices include:


Peppermint
Spearmint
Lavender
Calendula, The easiest way to give yourself a steam treatment is to fill up your bathroom sink with hot water. If your water comes out of the tap at a temperature that is high enough to produce steam, then you can just use the tap to fill up your sink. If not, then you will need to boil some water.


You can also use some boiled water in a large bowl or pot. Just do not hold your face over a pot of water as it boils and don't get too close. Remove the water from the heat before using it to steam your face.
 After you have your sink or bowl full of hot water, you will need to add a few drops of the essential oil of your choice. Add the oil directly to the water. You should be able to smell the oil in the steam.
 After your steamy water is ready, place a large towel over your head. This will serve as a tent to help more of the steam hit your face and work on your blind pimple. Make sure that the towel is large enough to cover your entire head and the sink. A full-sized towel works best.
 Once you have your towel over your head, you can place your head over the sink to that you are about 12 to 15 inches (30 to 38 cm) away from the steamy water. Stay in this position for about 15 minutes.


If the steam feels painful or you have trouble breathing, then stop the steam treatment. The water may be too hot. Try adding a bit of cool water and see if that helps.
 After you have finished steaming your face, you will need to rinse your face with some lukewarm water. Drain your sink or empty your bowl of steamy water carefully. Then, turn on the faucet and adjust the water so that it is lukewarm. Use the lukewarm water to rinse your face.
 After you rinse your face, pat it dry with a clean cotton towel. Do not rub or scrub your skin as your dry it. You may also want to follow up this treatment with a non-comedogenic moisturizer to restore any moisture that was lost from the steam treatment. Moisturizing is an important part of caring for your skin and treating acne.