 Whether you have lots of friends or a few friends, it's important to like being with them. If you feel awkward or like you don't fit in, try to understand if you are spending time with the right friends.


Good friends are supportive, kind, and honest with you. Think about if your friends are people that you trust.
Even if you want to feel like part of the group, it's important to identify whether you actually like the group you're with.
Don't force yourself to be friends with people who irritate you.;
, Sometimes you may feel like everyone is having fun without you. Maybe you weren't invited to a weekend party, or maybe they didn't ask you to hang out at lunch. If you're feeling forgotten, decide whether you want to be friends with them.If you're shy and quiet, it can be tough to feel included. Extroverts are more talkative and outgoing, while introverts tend to be quieter and more thoughtful. If you don't speak up, it can be easier to be forgotten, especially if you're an introvert with a group of extroverts.
If you weren't invited to a friend's event that you're not interested in anyway, then maybe feeling snubbed shouldn't really apply. If you're not interested in the events that your friends have, maybe you need to evaluate what events you really like.
If your friends are just mean or selfish, then being left out might be a good thing. Your friends shouldn't make you feel less-than.
 If you feel like you're spending a lot of time alone, figure out what sort of things you'd rather be doing with friends. What types of friends do you want to hang out with? When you see your classmates or co-workers doing lots of social things, do you really enjoy those things too? Or do you just envy them?Pretending to be someone that you're not and surrounding yourself with fake friends is likely to be less satisfying than doing things that you like with a smaller group of friends.
Think about how satisfied you are with the activities you and your friends do together. For example, if you and your friends go barhopping every weekend, then think about whether or not this is something you enjoy. If you are not satisfied with this activity, then what might you like to do instead? Perhaps bowling? Rock climbing? Playing board games at home?
Don't judge how good your social life is by how many friends you have. Focus on keeping or making new friends based on personality, common interests, trust, and openness.

