 If you want the simplest, most foolproof look for your stacked earrings, choose several pairs of stud earrings. Look for small, delicate studs that won’t overpower one another.Stud earrings have a more relaxed look, so they're an ideal option when you're going for a more casual look.
If you want your studs to have a more glamorous look, choose styles that features gemstones, such as rhinestones or pearls.
If you aren’t sure how to pair your studs, purchase a set that includes several pairs. They’ll likely coordinate with one another easily.
You may want to choose a common theme for your studs. For example, you might wear several pairs of different star- or heart-shaped studs.;
, If you want your stacked earrings to be a little more eye-catching, add a pair or two of hoops to your studs. It’s best to choose small, delicate-looking hoops so they complement the studs.Like studs, hoop earrings have a more casual look. They pair well with relaxed outfits, such as a tee shirts and jeans.
You can wear the hoops anywhere on your ear. For example, you might place one pair on the lobe and add another to the cartilage at the top of your ear.
If you prefer, you can use all hoop earrings in your stacked look.
 For the boldest stacked earring look, work a dangling style into your arrangement. Dangling earrings look best when worn in your first lobe piercing, so pair them with studs and hoops in your other piercings.Dangling earrings are an ideal choice when you want your stacked earring look to have a more glamorous feel. For example, add some dangling earrings when you're wearing a gown or other formal dress for a special occasion.
The longer your dangling earrings are, the more dramatic your stacked earring look will be.
 When you’re pairing studs, hoops, and/or dangling earrings, it’s usually easier to create a flattering stacked look with earrings that are similar. Stick to all silver, gold, rose gold, enamel, or another material for your earrings so they are more likely to complement one another.You can also use common gemstones to create a cohesive look for your stacked earrings. For example, you might wear studs that all feature rhinestones or pearls.
 While choosing earrings that are all the same metal or feature the same gemstones is the easiest way to put together a stacked look, feel free to be creative. Combine gold and silver earrings or rhinestones and pearls for an eclectic, artsy look.If you’re not sure how to mix metals or gemstones, start with several pairs of earrings in a single metal or gemstone and add just one contrasting pair. For example, go with all silver earrings and add a single pair of gold hoops for your cartilage.
Pair earrings with different gemstones in the same metal. For example, you might wear a pair of gold studs with an emerald colored stone with gold studs with a sapphire colored stone.
Pair earrings in different metals with the same gemstone. For example, you might wear a pair of silver studs with rhinestones with gold studs with rhinestones.
 When you’ve stacked your earrings, you want to show them off. It’s best to wear a pulled back hairstyle that keeps your ears visible so the earrings are a major part of your outfit.A simple ponytail or bun is an ideal hairstyle when you’re wearing stacked earrings.
If you don’t want to put all of your hair up, consider going for a half up half down style. Pull just the hair from the sides of your face back with a clip, bobby pins, or hair elastic so your ears are fully visible.
 When you’re wearing stacked earrings, opt for a shirt or blouse with a higher neckline. That will draw attention up toward your face and ears so your earrings will get plenty of attention.A turtleneck or mock neck top is ideal for pairing with stacked earrings.
 A simple crew or boat neck top has a softer look than a high neckline because a crew neck hits at the base of the neck and a boat neck usually hits at the collarbone. Either option will still draw the eye upward, though, so it will complement your earrings.You can find dresses, sweaters, blouses, and tee shirts with a crew or boat neck, so you can go for as casual or as polished a look with your earrings as you like.
 With stacked earrings, it’s best not to wear too much other jewelry to compete with them. You may want to skip any type of necklace entirely, and limit your rings and bracelets to just one or two, so the earrings are the main focus of your look.If want to wear a necklace with your earrings, opt for a delicate style with a thin chain and small pendant.
While it’s best to limit your other jewelry, it can be a fun look to stack rings on your fingers to mimic the look of the earrings. You can wear several rings on one finger or spread out several rings among multiple fingers.
 The most common ear piercing is on the lobe. When you want to stack earrings, though, you’ll need more than one lobe piercing. In most cases, that means piercing the upper portion of the lobe as well so you can fit as many as three to four earrings on at a time.With lobe piercings, you can wear virtually any type of earrings, including studs, hoops, and dangling styles.
 A helix piercing occurs in the cartilage in the outer rim of the ear, usually near the top. You can wear studs or hoops in the piercing.A helix piercing usually takes between 8 and 16 weeks to heal.
 The auricle is the middle portion of the outer rim of the ear. Piercing this area allows you to stack a hoop or stud earring with whatever earrings you may be wearing on your lobes.If you’re thinking about getting an auricle piercing, keep in mind that it can be very painful and may require 8 to 12 weeks to heal.
 If you pierce your tragus, you can wear a stud or hoop in the oval shaped cartilage that sticks out in front of your ear canal. With an anti-tragus piercing, you can wear a barbell in the cartilage outside the ear and opposite the tragus.A tragus piercing typically requires 8 to 16 weeks to heal.
An anti-tragus piercing may not be possible in all individuals because the anti-tragus is often too small to pierce. It usually takes 8 to 16 weeks to heal.
 A conch piercing occurs on the cartilage above the lobe and anti-tragus but on the inside of the ear. You can wear a ring or barbell in this type of piercing.A conch piercing can take between 8 and 16 weeks to heal, and typically hurts as much as cartilage piercings.
 If you don’t want to commit to more than an earlobe piercing or two, you can find faux ear piercing jewelry that allows you to stack earrings in a variety of ways. You can usually find them at stores or online shops that specialize in accessories and inexpensive jewelry.

You can find jewelry designed to fake cartilage, conch, and tragus piercings.

