 Before you can handle or be happy in a one-sided relationship, you have to recognize that it is one-sided.Think about the way you and your partner relate to and sacrifice for each other. If you are consistently doing more than your mate, you are probably in a one-sided relationship.


Are you always the one to say “I love you” first?
Do you generally have to be the one to suggest that the two of you spend time together?
Are you usually the one doing sweet things for your significant other, while she rarely seems to think of you?;
, Focusing on yourself will help you be more aware of how you honestly feel about your partner and the relationship. It will also make you happier with yourself.Take care of your needs and wants. It can be easy to put your partner’s desires before your own. Take care of yourself like you take care of your mate.
Spend time away from your partner developing your own interests.
Make sure you are loving and respecting yourself.
 Take some time to think seriously about what is and isn’t okay for your partner to do.For example, you might be okay being the one to say “I love you” first, but may not think it’s okay for him to ignore your calls. Figuring out where you draw the line will help you be happier because you won’t feel like you are being taken advantage of.


Talk to your partner about your relationship boundaries. Let him know where the line is before he crosses it.
Consider what you will do if he ignores your boundaries. Think about how you will handle it.
 If you are in love with a celebrity or someone famous who you have never met, keep in mind that this is okay and normal, but that this is infatuation and not love. Loving someone implies that you have a relationship with that person and know her personally. If you have an infatuation with a celebrity that you feel like borders on obsession and is making you unhappy, then check out How to Get over a Celebrity Obsession.
 For a relationship to work and be healthy, both partners need to be willing to put in the effort to address problems, help care for each other, and support each other. If your partner is not willing to put in the work, then it is not truly a partnership. Ask your partner if he would consider going to counseling to address your feelings that the relationship is one-sided and strategize about how to make things more balanced.


If your partner is not willing to put forth the effort, ask yourself if this is what you really want from a relationship and if it's healthy for your own wellbeing. You may love your partner, but you deserve to be loved and supported too. You may need to end the relationship to find someone who will give you the love and attention you deserve.

