 Versatile eggs are the low-carb dieter’s friend. Eggs are a great source of protein and healthy omega-3 fats.For the highest nutritional content, look for pasture-raised eggs laid by chickens fed a natural diet of healthy plants. It’s hard to get tired of eggs, since there are endless ways to cook them.


Make your scrambled eggs more filling by tossing in spinach, chopped mushrooms, shallots, and any other veggies you have on hand.
To make an easy 2-ingredient pancake batter, blend two eggs with a small banana. Cook the batter in butter or olive oil heated on a griddle.
 Meat is an important factor when it comes to creating satisfying low-carb meals because meat does not have any carbohydrates. Since you aren’t filling up on carbohydrates, you’ll need extra meat in order to feel nourished and full. At least once a day, have a serving of lean chicken, beef or pork to alongside your vegetable dishes.


Fish is another key component of a healthy low-carb diet. Aim to eat fish one to two times a week. Before making a purchase, check to see which types of fish are in season and have been sustainably sourced.Avoid eating large quantities of processed meats, like bacon, sausage and cold cuts. These meats are preserved with nitrates or large amounts of salt, and recent studies have linked them to cancer risks.Any meat that has breading or bread crumbs added will contain carbs.
 Foods high in monounsaturated fatty acids, polyunsaturated fatty acids, and omega-3 fatty acids aid in blood sugar control and heart health.

Cook your vegetables in healthy oils such as olive oil or coconut oil to add flavor and essential nutrients.Avocados, nuts, and fish are also excellent sources of healthy fats.

Avoid foods that contain trans fats, which may increase risk of heart disease and some cancers.Fried foods, processed snack foods, and processed meats are often high in trans fats.
Animal fats, such as full-fat milk, butter, lard and fattier cuts of beef and chicken, can also be healthy when eaten in moderation; however, some sources link these saturated fats with greater levels of cholesterol.

