 Bloodseeker, or "BS" as DOTA players like to call him, is primarily an "agility hero." His main attribute is agility, so you will never have to worry about "low attack speed or damage" with this hero. This ability is also passive, which is a huge advantage during gameplay.


You will be able to pick out every hero on the map with low health and, with the help of extra speed and damage provided by Bloodthirst, chase and kill them.;
, For your starting items, take a "Quelling Blade" and "Tangoes". Bloodbath will help to keep your health up and the only hard part is getting last hits on enemy creeps. The Quelling Blade will help you with that and you will have to do some practice on your own as well.


Not only does the ability provide effective health regain, it gives you a good damage boost which can be very helpful towards getting early kills.
 This ability marks a large area in blood and this mark expires after a few seconds, causing every hero within the mark to be silenced and take pure damage. Although the damage is not very high, the large area of silence is very useful for crippling enemy heroes who rely on their abilities. It is also a great ganking and initiation skill.
 This will help you to take more kills and get more powerful!

, This is one of the most powerful and highly destructive ultimate skills in DOTA. It causes immediate shock to any enemy hero and traps it in place as the more an enemy hero moves the more damage it will take. This skill is a wonderful ganking skill and completely immobilizes any lone heroes that you encounter during your roaming around the map.


Remember BS needs as many kills as possible so roaming around the map for unsuspecting enemy heroes is a core strategy for this hero.
 By this time you will have entered the mid game phase and hopefully gained enough gold to make your core item: Sange and Yasha. This item is absolutely wonderful for BS, as Sange gives damage and adds health which BS always needs. In addition, Yasha provides a great base speed gain and attack speed increase, which in addition to Bloodthirst makes BS literally fly around the map to chase down enemy heroes.
 Just remember to always choose your ultimate at levels 11 and 15 as soon as possible. Once you get 3rd level of your ultimate you will be virtually invincible 1v1 against any hero in the game. You'll be a great asset to your team during fights.
 There are 2 options while making a large item for BS once you have earned a lot of gold. Either you could go for the Butterfly Build or the Radiance Build.


Butterfly is the supreme item for any agility hero and gives huge boosts to attack speed and damage as well as the option to increase your movement speed on will. With this item you will be producing tons of damage per second.
The second option is to increase your damage per hit which is provided by radiance. Radiance also gives an added advantage of burning the enemy team/creeps in a large radius for 50 damage per second.
The choice is entirely up to you at this point and greatly dependent on what type of enemy heroes are present in the enemy team. If the heroes are mostly low health radiance is a better choice but if there are tanky heroes, butterfly is needed to lower their health quickly before they can cause too much damage.

