 Professional baseball is one of Cleveland's oldest traditions, going back nearly 140 years. Not only is The Tribe (nickname for the team) a charter American League Team, but the city has National League roots as well, so you have nearly a century and a half of rich baseball stories, facts, and records.;
, If you throw your Indians hat on while walking the streets, be prepared to talk Tribe: know the rosters, the standings, the stat. leaders. Don't look like an idiot and be caught off guard, baseball fans can't play it dumb.
 Nothing makes being a fan easier then following the team throughout the season, you'll catch the trades, stats, and scores by simply listening. If you prefer radio, tune to WTAM 1100. If you like TV you'll want the STO network. If you don't live in the Great Lakes region get yourself an XM.
 Nothing will bring your family closer together and closer to the Tribe then taking them to Progressive Field (formerly Jacob's Field), it's a family friendly venue, but with a blue collar touch.

The Jake - Jacob's Field, "Magic at the corner of Carnegie and Ontario" is the beautiful home of the Tribe. Though the name was recently changed to Progressive Field, many fans still refer to it as Jacob's Field, and you will still be understood if you say "The Jake." For now, at least.
Chief Wahoo - You know that racially incorrect red-faced native with the goofy smile on your hat? His name is Chief Wahoo, and he's been in the family for over 50 years.
Bob Feller/Herb Score - Not only were these guys dominating pitchers for the Tribe, but they're kind of like the team and fan's adoptive grandpas. They can be seen at games, and have been loyal to the city since their playing days.
Slider - He's... She's... It's that pink thing that dances on the dugouts between innings.
Hammy - AKA Tom Hamilton, Radio voice for the Tribe, best known for, "SWING AND A DRIVE, WAAAAAAAY BACK, GONE!!!"
Paul Hoynes - This guy has been trying to answer Tribe fan's questions for years with the Plain Dealer, no one thinks he knows what he's talking about. Hey Hoynes! No offense, we love you anyway.
Terry Pluto and Bud Shaw - These Tribe beat writers are about as opposite as you can get, if these guys were movies, Pluto would be Field of Dreams, and Shaw would be Bull Durham. Pluto writes for a hopeful future, and a past of curses and magic moments. Shaw writes with about as much sunshine in his heart as a winter in Cleveland. Both get the facts straight, Both are knowledgeable, pick one from the other based on your personal taste.
John Adams - You know that pounding you hear during Tribe at bats, or with two strikes on the batter? It all starts in the bleachers with John and his drum. He's been pounding away in the bleacher seats at every game since 1973.
 Get yourself a hat, shirt, wall pennant, and bumper sticker.
 Baseball is rich with amazing and sometimes funny stories and The Tribe has their share as well. You can learn them through talking to other fans, or by reading some great Indians literature, here's a few good titles:


Our Tribe by Terry Pluto ISBN 188622871X

Curse of Rocky Colavito by Terry Pluto ISBN 0684804158

Dealing by Terry Pluto ISBN 1598510223

Endless Summers, The Fall and Rise of the Cleveland Indians by Jack Torry ISBN 0912083980


, The tribes biggest long-time rivals include:


Yankees
Twins
Tigers
White Sox
Reds.

Game 7 of '97 World Series
The 1987 Sports Illustrated Cover
The Strike shortened '94 season
The 1993 Spring Training boating accident
Ray Chapman's Death
Herb Score's eye
The 2005 collapse, and the Coco Crisp trade

, Every fan should know these victories:


1920, 1948 World Champions
'20, '48, '54, '95, '97 American League Champions
'95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '01, '07 Central Division Champions (Division Record)
455 Consecutive Sellouts (MLB Record)
First AL African American Player - Larry Doby
First MLB African American Manager - Frank Robinson
Greatest single game comeback in baseball history-August 5th 2001




American League Charter Member Est. 1901




14 Hall of Famers based on time with Cleveland. 26 if you count any association, however brief.
Retired Numbers:

455-The Fans
19-Feller
14-Doby
3-Averill
21-Lemon
18-Harder
5-Boudreau



