 First specific questions about the job to see if you have the skills to do the job. Second 'Human Resource" questions that are designed to see if you have the right personality to fit on the team. You have to be good at both types of questions to be able to get the job.;
, Can you work alone? (I work well on a team and I can work alone when I have to.) Where do you see yourself ten years from now? (I see myself doing the same job and maybe moving up a little in position and becoming more "Senior") Why are you changing jobs? (I have learned a lot in my current position and I would like to work for a firm with more challenge and more responsibility). What salary are you looking for? (If you mention an amount it looks bad unless you are grossly underpaid. I say, "I am open.") What don't you like about your current position? (Don't mention anything bad, say, "I am happy with my current position, the benefits and the pay, I was told about this position and on the "spur of the moment" decided to go in an interview). Tell me your weaknesses (If you are honest, they will not hire you. Rather tell them that you do not like when you are asked to figure out who to lay-off or that the drive is too long).
 Look through it for any add-ons or tweaks that you would like to fit in before you will be put to hand it in. Read through it a few times so you are familiar with what your resume reads off. Have a family member or friend read it out loud so they can spot errors, instead of having your interviewer find the mistake.
 All you need is at least 4 friends or family members and a list of different interview questions (at least 5 questions per person). Have your friend/family members ask you questions, each using their own way of expressing it to you. They will have fun, so will you, and you get to practice for your interview!

, This simple exercise helps your nerves calm down because you have a better knowledge of what to expect, and you sound polished up and ready once the big day hits.
 Now, you don't need to spend loads of money, but you need to look presentable. Women: A simple black or grey pantsuit with an elegant blouse under topped off with a stylish sweater and heels. Men: Go with a suit. No need for the tux to come out from behind the closet, but the pants sure can. Use an elegant shirt and some dressy shoes. Your hair, and yourself, should smell good. Do you get nervous the day before? Grandma's tip: Get about a cup of 2% milk and pour it in a cooking pan. Set your stove on medium and let it stir for about 2 minutes, or until it's warm. Put in some powdered chocolate and add about 2-3 tiny marshmallows. The milk helps to cool down your nerves while you eat a sweet treat. You should also get your rest. Go to bed at approximately 9:30 so you will be well rested. Remember to wear perfume/cologne to smell good. Your appearance counts, sometimes as much as your smarts. If you feel great, you are most likely to better answer interviews.

