 Unfortunately, most people will do anything they can to alleviate discomfort rather than truly experience it. When you feel emotional pain or when you are inconvenienced, don’t look for the easiest solution. Take some time to consider the best possible solution. In some cases, that may just mean giving a situation some time.For instance, if you are in a new relationship and you get in an argument, your instinct may be to run, because you feel uncomfortable or experience emotional pain. Ending things might seem like the easiest solution and the best way to protect yourself from further discomfort, but in doing so, you miss out on the opportunity to grow, learn, and stay in a potentially rewarding and wonderful relationship. Remember that growing can be painful, but it's usually worth it.
 Patience is like a muscle: the more you use it the stronger it gets. You can put yourself in positions to strengthen your attitude toward patience. Try to do something like this everyday.Get in the longest line at the bank.
Go inside a restaurant instead of using the drive-thru.
Park in the last row when you go to the grocery store.
 Impatience is often expressed by the way we eat. Impatient people tend to rapidly gobble down their food, while relaxed folks take their time. You can work to cultivate patience by taking the time to chew your food. It will take a bit of discipline at first, but in time, you will stoke your ability to remain relaxed and at the same time, improve your digestion., When you focus only on some future goal, it robs you of the ability to enjoy what’s happening in the present. A person with a future-oriented mindset has trouble being relaxed. The worst part is, the future never really arrives, so you end up spending your whole life in an anxious state. Instead, focus on the journey and enjoy the ride.Stop to notice details during your day.
Name five or more features about what is happening in the present moment.
You may notice, for example, that the sky is a deep blue with a few clouds, a Tom Petty song is playing, or your dog is splashing in water and looks so happy.

