 It’s true what they say: the way to one’s heart is through the stomach!


If you’ve got game in the kitchen, impress your sweetheart by cooking up his favorite dish or surprise him with some sweet baked treats.
Send him off to work with a specially backed lunchbox full of his favorites. Include a sweet or saucy note for him to discover with his lunch. It means a lot to know that some one cares to do these little things for him., It’ll impress your beau that you’ve got the gumption to take the initiative with things, rather than putting all the pressure or responsibility on him.


Surprise him with a kiss or an unexpected display of physical affection.Offer an impromptu massage, especially after he’s had a long or hard day at work.If your boyfriend is comfortable with public displays of affection, wrap your arm around his arm or put your hand in his back pocket when you’re out walking together.Plan your next night out. Take the planning and even financial burden off of him by taking him out on a date. Invite him out with you to do something that’s especially fun for him or inline with his interests.
Be spontaneous and bold, especially if he likes excitement. Plan a surprise party for him, or get tickets for something unexpected and fun. You'll impress him by being able to surprise him in a good way.
 Eighty percent of men in a recent poll said that they like women who are go-getters. So impress him by being one!Don’t be shy with your own personal, scholastic, and professional ambitions. You’ll impress the right guy with your ability to be interested in your future in addition to a romantic life with him.Be sure to carve out free time away from work for the two of you. This includes not talking about work or school all the time, especially when out on a date.
Be confident, but not too braggy. You don't want to make a bad impression on your guy by putting him down or making yourself seem too good for him.
 Be confident in yourself and secure in your strengths as a person and a partner. Your confidence will help make you magnetic and make a lasting impression on your boyfriend as well as everyone around you.