 Keep one of them beside the door so you can remove the hair quickly before you leave for work, school or social occasions.


Don't have a lint roller? Use tape! Any sticky tape (transparent, masking, duct, etc.) will pull hair off your clothes. You could even make your own lint roller with a dowel, an empty thread-spool and some sticky tape.
Throw your clothes in the dryer for about ten minutes and add a dryer sheet, or a dryer ball. This technique can help loosen the hair from the clothes. Using fabric softener when you do laundry also helps keep hair from sticking to clothes.
 Brushing your cat more often will help trap that hair before it has a chance to go skittering across the floor. Use a fine-tooth cat brush and regularly groom your kitty.


Cats groom themselves, of course, but many animals enjoy the feeling of being brushed and being held. If your cat doesn't like it at first, hold the animal firmly to your chest with your hand under its belly and pet it. Talk to the cat in a soothing voice.
 When late spring rolls around, it's important to start grooming your cats. They'll shed at the beginning of summer and at a variety of other times during the year, depending on the breed. Some cats shed constantly and will need to be brushed year round.
 While it might seem strange, it can be done safely. Try stretching a stocking or thin sock over the vacuum hose and then vacuuming your cat's back very gently if it's relatively comfortable around the vacuum. Because most pets go scattering when the vacuum comes out, this is usually difficult to pull off. The object here is to catch loose hairs before they attach themselves to you and your surroundings.
 If you find fur on the couch or on your favorite clothes, it might be tempting to push your cat's face into the mess and attempt to "punish" them, but this is the last thing you should do. Instead of learning that it's wrong to rub on or lay on a particular surface, your cat will only learn to fear your presence and may actually shed more as the result of stress. The point is: "punishment" is likely to be lost on a cat. It may serve only to drive a wedge between it and you. You may just have to accept the fact that cats and loose hair go together. 