 While the requirements for adoptive parents may seem relatively minor in comparison to many international countries, they are strictly enforced.


Both married couples and singles can adopt, but single parents must be at least 16 years older than the adoptive child. Some regions also insist that adoptive parents must not be more than 45 years older than the adoptive child.
Consult your adoption agency if you have any medical conditions or take any prescription medications. Russian adoption law does restrict international adoption by individuals with various medical problems, and some conditions may preclude you from eligibility. This is especially true of mental health problems.



Russian law demands that orphaned children must be placed on the adoption registry for six months without being adopted by a Russian family before that child is eligible for international adoption.
Russian children must be 8 months old or older before going up for international adoption. If you want to adopt a baby, your Russian paperwork must state that you are willing to adopt a child between 0-4 years old. Most Russian children adopted internationally fall within this age range.
You also have the option of adopting a group of siblings instead of a single child.
 This is the government agency that deals with international adoptions, and all adoption proceedings will go through them.
 Russian adoption law requires the use of an accredited agency.Make sure to do your own research on each adoption agency under consideration before selecting one.
 They will direct you to an orphanage, at which point, you will need to travel to Russia to meet with children up for adoption.
 You can only select a child after directly meeting him or her in person. After applying for a court date with the Ministry of Education, you will return to the United States, but the prospective adopted child will remain in Russia.
 Russian law requires you to present certain documents before adopting a child. You must have these documents prepared and translated into Russian in time for your date at adoption court. The documents include a home study, USCIS approval notice, copies of your passport, marriage certificate, police certificate, medical examination report, evidence of your place of residence, and several financial documents.


These documents should also be authenticated by the U.S. Department of State Authentications Office.
 Your presence is mandatory; this cannot be done via proxy. After the court hearing, you will obtain an adoption certificate and a new birth certificate.
 At this point, you will complete any lingering paperwork and bring your new baby home.

