 The number one way to make your friend jealous is to make him or her feel completely irrelevant to you. The easiest way to do this is to act like you have so many amazing friends who are such cool, Interesting people that you don't really have time for your old friend anyway. Here are some ways to make your friend feel like you have so many amazing friendships that you can't really bother with him or her:


When you're with the friend, talk about how amazing one of your other friends is. Talk about the other friend's great sense of style, humor, or her ability to be an amazing friend. Don't be too obvious about it -- just try to sneak this point into a conversation.

When another friend comes up to you, act all excited to see him or her by saying "Hi!" and giving the friend a big hug and generally turning into a chatterbox around the friend. When your old friend approaches you, don't ignore her, but just say "Hey" and act like it's no big deal that she's there. She will notice the difference.

You should always talk about the latest cool thing you did with your other friends without inviting your old friend to come along.
;
, One easy way to make your friend jealous is to make her see how amazing your relationship is. If your friend is single and really wants to date someone, then you should talk about what a great boyfriend or girlfriend you have, talk about the latest romantic thing he or she did for you, and brag about all of the fun weekend plans you have with your special someone.


When your friend calls, you can sound all excited when she picks up the phone. Then you can say, "Oh, I'm sorry, I thought you were my boyfriend/girlfriend."

If you friend asks you to hang out, say you'll be doing one fun thing or another with your significant other, even if it's not true.

If your boyfriend or girlfriend gives you an amazing gift, don't be afraid to flaunt it to make your friend jealous.
 Another way to make your friend jealous is to talk about all of the amazing plans you have coming up, whether it's a trip to the beach with a few of your girlfriends, or a weekend getaway with your beau. You can even talk about how you're counting down the days until you can do these things, or you can talk about how you're preparing to hang out with your friends or significant other. Just talk about how excited you are to do fun things with people other than your friend.


Act like it wouldn't even cross your mind to invite your friend along.

When you're done talking about your fun plans, your friend might try to counter with something equally cool that he or she is doing. If this happens, act like you're hardly paying attention.
 If you want your friend to feel like you have too many great relationships to really spend time with her, then you can use your phone to drive the point home. When you're alone together, spend half the time texting other friends and laughing at their responses, or just giving the phone a sly smile every few minutes. Make it clear that talking to your friend is your last priority.


When your friend tries to get your attention, just keep saying, "Uh-uh," and make it clear that you're not really listening cause you care more about what your other friends, who aren't even there, have to say.

You can even answer the occasional phone call while your friend is right there.

Just remember that this behavior, while effective, will also be incredibly annoying.
 If you have the cutest kitten or dog in the world, chances are that your friend is already jealous. You can make your friend even more jealous by showing her photos of your pet, posting photos of your pet on Facebook, or talking about how you don't know what you would do without your beloved pet at your side. This will be particularly effective if your friend has always wanted a pet.


If your friend is trying to tell you something important, keep changing the subject to something silly about your lovely pets.

