 After you've shot the raw footage, upload it onto your computer and edit it. Most cameras can be connected via USB cords or by an SD card that you can remove and load into a (usually) USB converter. Follow the instructions for the particular camera that you've used.


Save the raw footage as a separate document so you can feel free to edit and make changes. You can always go back to the original footage if necessary, confident that you won't lose any of it. You can always start over.
 Unless you shot everything perfectly and want to keep your video as is, it's best to use a user-friendly editing software that will allow you to trim, adjust, add music, and otherwise clean-up the raw video that you've captured. If you want to add captions or boost the audio, you'll need to open the footage with some kind of editing software.



Popular free versions of editing software include:

iMovie
Windows Movie Maker
Avidemux



Professional editing software includes:

Apple Final Cut Pro
Corel VideoStudio Pro
Adobe Premiere Elements



, When you've loaded the footage into the software, start cutting out anything that you don't want in the final product. Cut repetitive scenes, or trim down everything to the bare essentials and start organizing your best footage. Depending on the kind of video you want to make, you may want more shaky and informal footage, or you may want a clean and professional product. Use your judgement depending on the project.
 Move scenes around to switch the order if it improves the video. If you're documenting a party or another event, don't worry so much about staying true to "the way things really happened" and make the best possible version of the video that you're making. Tell a story.
 Most editing software includes lots of options that allow you to smoothly transition from one scene into another scene, making it easy to move things around and make changes. Avoid hard or disjunctive cuts, unless that's an effect you hope to include in the video for some reason.


iMovie and other kinds of software has lots of complicated fades and transitions that you can use, but use them sparingly. It can distract from the final video if you get carried away. Stay true to the content and make the video the most important thing, not the fancy transition you just learned how to do on the computer.
 If it fits the video you want to make, upload music that's on your computer and use it in the background as a soundtrack to montage moments in your video, or take the sound out entirely if its not important, and use music in its place. This can be a good way to lively up camera phone video that might not have audio as good as the quality of its video.
 When you're finished, finalize the project by exporting the finished video into a video file, like a .avi or a .mov. Open in a playback software like Windows Media Player or Quicktime and check out your work.
 After you've exported the file, consider how you'd like to share your work with others. You could burn your video onto a DVD to provide physical copies to people. This is a particularly good option if you've taken wedding footage, or footage of another kind of private event that was attended by a small group of people who would be interested in the footage.


If the video has wider appeal, upload your video to YouTube. As long as it's short enough, you can create a YouTube account and upload your video relatively quickly. It'll be online in no time and then you'll be able to share the link with anyone you want.
If you want your video online, but would prefer it stay somewhat private, you can upload privately with a Vimeo account. The video will be password-protected and very high-quality, meaning that you can share it freely with anyone who you provide the password with, but it won't be visible to just anyone.

