 Your Rules of Civil Procedure will contain helpful information about how to answer your Request for Admissions. You should find your rules, which will depend on the court you are in:


Get the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure if you are in federal court. It doesn’t matter what state your federal court is in. For example, the federal courts in Arkansas use the same Federal Rules of Civil Procedure as the federal courts in Florida. You can find the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure online.Get your state rules if you are in state court. Each state’s rules are different, though many copy the federal rule pretty closely. You can generally find your state’s Rules of Civil Procedure online as well.If not, then contact your nearest law library, which may be in your courthouse or at a nearby law school.;
, There should be a rule of civil procedure that deals specifically with Request for Admissions. Read the rule carefully. It will contain necessary information, such as the following:


Your deadline for responding. In federal court, you have 30 days after being served to file an answer unless the judge changes the amount of time or you and the other side agree to shorten or lengthen it.The number of requests you can be asked. Some states limit the number or requests a party can ask. If the other side asks too many, then you can raise this objection to the judge. For example, in Nevada, you cannot serve more than 40 requests, although you can ask for more if you are asking about the genuineness of documents.The form of your answer. In some states, you have to type out the request for admission before answering it. For example, you have to type: “Request No. 1: Please admit that you received a traffic ticket on April 21, 2015. Response No. 1: Admit.”, Your judge probably also has local rules which you should find and read. You can get these rules from the court’s website or by calling the judge’s chambers and asking for a copy. The local rules might contain information about requests for admission.


For example, judges might limit the number of requests by local rule., Once the Request is delivered to you, you should read the requests carefully. Technically, each request should contain a single fact, but sometimes people write compound requests with multiple facts included. You need to fairly respond to the substance of the request, so read each request closely.Also write down notes beside each request. For example, if you find something vague, then note that fact.
 Before you can answer a request, you may need to find documents or other information. Your Rules of Civil Procedure probably require that you make a “reasonable inquiry” and that you find documents or information “readily obtainable” or in your possession.Give yourself plenty of time to find required information. If you work in a large corporation, then it may take you some time to gather necessary documents or information to answer the requests. The court expects you to make a reasonable effort to gather information.
Don’t cut corners because you have run out of time. You might be tempted to deny all requests or claim that you lack sufficient knowledge. However, the court can sanction you if it finds you could have found out the information after reasonable inquiry. Document the steps you took to find the information.
 If information comes into your possession after answering the requests for admission, then you should amend your answers, if necessary. The court will expect you to notify the other side if you need to add to or revise an answer to a request.
 You should set up your document using the same margin, font style, and font size as you used in your other court documents. Generally, you can set up the document using 14 point Times New Roman or Arial font. Use a one-inch margin on all sides.


In some courts, you might need to print off your answers on pleading paper.This is paper that is numbered down the left-hand column. You can download pleading paper from the Internet if you need to., The caption contains the name of the court, the names of the parties, and the case number. It may also contain the judge’s name. You can get the caption information off the Request for Admissions.


Remember to title the document. You can title your answers “Respondent’s Responses to Plaintiff’s First Request for Admissions.”, You should identify yourself in the introduction and state that your answers are provided solely for this lawsuit. As the person answering the Request, you are the “Respondent.”


You could write, “Respondent Alex Ashe responds and objects to Complaint Counsel’s Request for Admissions (‘Requests’) as set forth below. The following responses are made solely for the purposes of this legal action.”You can also expressly reserve the right to revise or supplement your responses in the future.
 You can generally object to all of the requests on certain grounds. Some courts frown on general objections; however, you typically are not hurting yourself if you include them. Read your local rules to see if general objections are prohibited. Common general objections include:You object to the requests to the extent that they require you to search for and produce information or documents not within your possession, custody, or control.
You object to the requests to the extent that they seek information you can’t locate after a reasonably diligent inquiry, or they seek information or documents readily available from public sources or another source that is more convenient and less burdensome or expensive.
You object to the requests to the extent that they seek information protected by the attorney-client privilege or other privileges, such as the attorney work product doctrine.
You object to the requests to the extent that they seek legal conclusions.
You object to the extent each request is prejudicial, incorrect, vague, ambiguous, and/or argumentative.
 If part of a request is true, then admit the part that is true. If part of the request is false, then deny that part. Also identify any part of a request that you lack sufficient knowledge to admit or deny.Answer the requests in the order they are presented. Don’t skip around.
Check your rule of civil procedure to see if you need to include the text of the request before answering it.
 Instead of answering, you could raise an objection to an individual request. If an objection applies to only part of a request, then answer the part of the request that the objection doesn’t apply to. Specific objections include:The request is compound. Each request should contain one fact. If there are multiple facts, then you should object. For example, a request that asks, “Admit that you own a 2014 Ford Focus and that you have never made an insurance claim” is asking for two facts.
The request is vague, ambiguous, or unintelligible. For example, a request that asks you, “Admit that you live at the house” is vague because it has not identified a house.
The request is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of relevant, admissible evidence. A request might not relate at all to the lawsuit. For example, if you were sued for medical malpractice, then requests should relate to your credentials, experience, and your course of treatment. If a request asks, “Admit that you are 150 pounds,” then this request is not relevant unless your weight had something to do with the lawsuit.
 You don’t need a conclusion. Instead, simply insert the words “Respectfully submitted” and then include a signature line. Beneath the signature line, put your name, address, and contact information. Include the date., You need to certify that you sent your answers to the other side. In some courts, you can add a certificate of service to your answers. Type this up on a separate sheet of paper and include the name of the person you sent your answers to as well as the method of service.


In some courts, you might complete a Proof of Service form instead.You can typically pick this up from the court clerk.
 Make copies of your answers and serve the original on the party that sent you the Request. If this person has an attorney, then make sure to serve your answers on the attorney.If you are a party to the lawsuit (and not an attorney), then you can't serve the answers yourself. Have someone 18 or older not a party to the lawsuit make service.
There may be multiple parties in your lawsuit. For example, you may be one of four defendants. If the plaintiff served you requests for admission, then serve copies of your answers on the other defendants.
 If you have any questions about how to answer a Request for Admissions, then you should contact a lawyer. A qualified lawyer can read your requests and help you understand how you should answer them.


You can find a lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.If you are low income, then you might qualify for legal aid. Legal aid organizations provide free legal services to people in financial need. You can find legal aid near you by visiting the Legal Services Corporation’s website and clicking on “Find Legal Aid.”