 Even if you are not a British citizen, there are several groups of travelers who will not need a visa in order to enter the UK. Getting a visa can be a long and expensive process, so if you don’t need one, it’s probably better not to bother.Certain groups have free passage into the UK. Citizens of other European Union nations, non-EU members of the European Economic Area, Switzerland, and members of the Overseas Countries and Territories (OCT) do not need a visa.
People who definitely need a visa include those who are stateless, hold a non-national travel document, hold a passport from an authority unrecognized in the UK, or are a refugee.;
, There are a number of different visas available from the UK. The kind you get will depend on your purpose for visiting the country, what country you are coming from, and how long you intend to stay. Check your circumstances through the visa website to see what kind of visa you require.There are a number of other countries from which the UK does not require a visa for any visit less than six months, including the United States. When you search for your visa, the British government will tell you that, and also provide a list of documents you will need when you enter the country.
 If you are visiting the UK for more than 6 months and are a resident of a specific list of countries, you’ll need a tuberculosis test. You will get a chest x-ray, and may need to give a sample of sputum (phlegm coughed up from your lungs).The clinic that tests you must have been approved by the British Home Office. The British government has a full list of the countries that require a test, as well as lists of approved clinics.There are some additional rules that provide exemptions from TB testing. If you are a diplomat accredited to the UK, a returning resident who hasn’t been away for more than 2 years, or you lived for at least 6 months in a country that the UK doesn’t require testing from and you’ve been away from that country for no more than 6 months, you don’t need a TB test for a UK visa.
 Apply through the British government’s service, available online at the Visa4UK site: . You will be able to fill out an application for your visa, which includes information about what type of visa you would like, how long you intend to stay, and the purpose of your visit. When you are finished, print out the form.


You will need to register an account at the site before you begin. You will need to include information such as your name, date of birth, nationality, and current address and contact information.
You can receive the forms in your native language, but all of your answers need to be given in English.
There is a specific new service available for Standard Visitor, Marriage Visitor, and Permitted Paid Engagement visas from China, India, Russia, Belarus, Benin, Nigeria, South Africa and Turkey.
The UK does not allow the online application in every country. If yours is one of them, you need to go to the application centre and fill one out there.
 The cost of your application will depend on several factors, including the type of visa you are trying to get and how long you intend to stay in the UK. Each visa costs a different amount, so be sure you know what you are expecting to pay before you begin the application.There are additional services available in some countries, such as priority service for fasting processing. You will be able to select and pay for these services when you fill out the online application. You can also select and pay for some of these services at the application centre when you submit your application.
 In order to finish your visa application, you should bring your materials to an application centre. That is where you will submit your application materials.To receive a British visa while in Canada, for example, you will need to visit one of the centres in Toronto, Edmonton, Ottawa, Halifax, or St. John’s.Some countries do not have application centres, so you will need to apply through a centre in a neighboring country. For example, if you hold a passport from Bhutan, you will need to visit an application centre in India for your visa.
 These appointments are usually made as part of the application process, so when you fill out your application, it will ask you to arrange a time to visit the application centre. Be sure to print out the email confirmation you receive for your application. You will not be able to go to your appointment without it., You should get to the application centre 10 minutes before your appointment to sign in. If you are late, you will miss your appointment, and need to reschedule, which can take some time. All visa applicants are required to book an appointment before submitting their application.Remember to bring any supporting documents required to your appointment as well. These documents can include a confirmation of your appointment, a valid passport or travel document, a signed and dated printout of your application, a printout of your payment receipt, and any other supporting documents relevant to your application.
Your appointment will include the collection of biometric information, such as fingerprints and a photograph. Depending on the country, you can bring a photograph with you, or have one taken there.If you are in a nation that takes a digital finger scan, make sure your fingers are free of decoration, cuts, abrasions, or any other markings that might make it difficult to get an acceptable scan. If you are having your picture taken there, it should not include sunglasses or tinted spectacles, or any head covering unless it is worn for religious or medical reasons.
Some appointments will require an interview, such as a student applying for a Tier 4 visa under the Point based system. Make sure to include this information when you make your appointment.The UK offers a range of additional visa services, such as the priority service, for faster processing. You can find out which services are available on your local visa application centre's website. You can usually select and pay for additional services ahead of your appointment, or on arrival at the application centre.
 Once you receive confirmation that you are approved, go back to the centre to pick up your passport and visa. You are now certified to travel to the UK.


In some larger countries, like the United States, the British government’s Decision Making Centre will mail your documents directly to you. They will also notify you by email when they have made a decision.Processing times vary depending on the type of visa you are applying for, so check with your application centre to see how long you can expect to wait.From the United Arab Emirates, for example, UK Visas and Immigration will try to return non-settlement visas within 15 working days. Settlement visas can take a little longer, within 12 weeks. These times are estimates, as the government will review each application individually.