 Launch Facebook on your mobile device and log in using your registered email address and password.;
, Do this by tapping the three horizontal bars at the top right of the screen.
 Another menu will open where you can name the Facebook page and indicate its category.
 Tap the name field and enter the name you want for the Facebook page.
 Below the name field, select “Category.” This defines whether your page is a Business page, a personal Blog, a Brand or Product, etc.
 As soon as you select a category for your page, you will then be asked for a subcategory in the same pop-up window. Subcategories are shown below the name of your Facebook page. Type in keywords to get related subcategory options.


In example, if the Facebook page is for an IT company, you may select some software solution as a subcategory. If it’s for a restaurant, you can have the cuisines it offers as a subcategory.
 This will create the Facebook page, but you will still need to add a description to it.
 A new pop-up will appear where “Step 1” and “Step 2” are written at the top. Since “Step 1” is blue in color, that means you are on “Step 1.”


In first block, write a little about the person, business, or product you have created the Facebook page for.
In the next block, enter the website URL of the business/person/product. This will link fans directly to the website from the Facebook page.
 You will then be taken to Step 2.
 Here you can generate a unique web address for your page so that people can directly access it on Facebook.


Once you are done, tap on “Set Address” at the bottom.
You also have the option to skip this step by clicking the “Skip” button, but it is advisable to have a Facebook web address.
Once you’ve set the address, you will be taken to your new Facebook page.
 You can add a profile picture to your page by tapping on “Add Profile Picture.” Your device’s camera roll will open where you can select the photo. Tap it to upload it as a profile picture.


A Facebook page with a catchy profile picture can attract fans; if the Facebook page is of a business or product, it can attract new customers. A good profile picture will ensure that people visit your page often.
The profile picture can be the business logo or symbol representing the business or it can be any image showing brand loyalty.
 Do this tapping the option “Add Cover Photo” below the “Add Profile Picture” option. Your device’s camera roll will open where you can select the photo. Tap it to upload it as a cover photo.


The cover photo adds beauty to your page. It is a constant reminder of how extraordinary and exceptional your business is.
It is recommended to upload cover photos that are high resolution and will not become pixelated. The size specification is 850px × 315px.
Try to upload an image related to the Facebook page you have just created.
 Now that your new Facebook page is created, it’s time to let your friends know about it!


Tap “Invite friends to like this Page,” and a list of your Facebook friends will appear. Scroll through the list, and tap the “Invite” button next to the friends’ names you’d like to invite.
Inviting friends increases the page’s visibility. The more people see your page, the more audience/customers you will most likely get. You will eventually get more exposure, and you can tell more people about your business.

