 You’ll need a clean sock that you don’t mind ruining. With short hair, it’s especially important to choose a sock that isn’t too long, such as an ankle or quarter length style. Go with one that’s a similar color to your hair too, so it won’t stand out if any of it peeks through.A sock with very firm elastic at the top works best because it will help keep the bun securely on your head.;
, With a pair of scissors, snip off the toe of the sock. Your goal is to create a tube of fabric that you can easily slip your hair through. After you’ve removed the toe, turn the sock inside out.








You only have to cut off enough of the sock to open it up. However, if you only have a long sock, you may want to cut off a little more so it fits your short hair better.
 Once the sock is inside out, begin rolling it up from the toe to the elastic. Continue rolling it until the sock forms a thick donut that you can slip your hair through.
 With short hair, you want the pieces to be as smooth as possible so they lay well in the bun. Use your favorite brush or comb to smooth out your hair and get rid of any tangles.








If you’re going for a messier, more textured bun, you can skip the brushing.
 The bits and pieces of short hair will lay more smoothly in the bun if you apply some product before you style it. Work a small bit of gel or serum through your hair with your fingers to keep the short pieces up and secure when you create the bun.
 Gather your hair together as you would for a traditional ponytail. Don’t pull the hair up too tight, but secure it with an elastic at the back or top of your head.








The spot that you place the ponytail is where the bun will wind up. While a traditional top knot it usually positioned at the top of the head, you can go for a low or side bun if you prefer.
If some stray hairs fall loose from the ponytail, don’t worry. You can take care of those after you’ve created the bun.
 After you’ve secured your ponytail, grab your sock donut and slide your hair through the center. Move the donut all the way to the base of the pony and then pull it back down so there are only a few inches of hair on the other side of the sock.








If you hair is extremely short, you may be better off pushing the sock donut all the way to the base of the ponytail. Instead of rolling your hair into the bun, simply divide the end of the pony into several pieces and wrap them around the sock to hide it. Pin the hair in place to secure it.
 While holding the sock donut in place at the end of your ponytail with one hand, use your other hand to divide your hair into three or four sections. Wrap each one around the sock and tuck the ends under of the donut to secure them.
 With the ends of the ponytail tucked under the sock, slowly begin to roll the sock to the base of your pony. Use both hands to roll so you can keep the hair in place as you go.








As you roll up the sock, your hair will be wrapped around it to hide it. If there are any gaps, you can move the hair around to cover the fabric once you’ve secured the bun.
 When you’ve rolled up your hair, use the elastic in the sock to secure it over the base of your pony tail. If the elastic is tight enough, the bun may stay all by itself. If the bun feels loose, though, use some bobby pins to secure it.
 With the bun secured, look for any stray, short pieces of hair that have come loose. Smooth them into place with your fingers, and use bobby pins to keep them in place.
 Short pieces of hair may need a little help staying in place in your bed. Use a flexible hold hairspray to lightly mist the bun, as well as the top, sides, and back of your hair, to lock it in place all day.
