 Dry heat is a process used on oils, petroleum, and powders. Also, any items that are sensitive to moisture use dry heat. Dry heat is used to slowly burn the microorganisms away and is typically done in an oven. There are two types of dry heat, a static-air type and a forced air type.


The static air is a much slower process. It takes longer to raise the temperature of the air in the chamber to sterilization levels because it has coils that heat up.
The forced air process uses a motor that circulates the air inside the oven. The heats range from 300 degrees Fahrenheit for 150 minutes or longer to 340 degrees Fahrenheit for an hour., Similar to autoclaving, you begin the dry heat method by washing your hands and applying non-sterile gloves. Next, wash instruments to remove any debris or matter that might be left behind. This ensures that the items that get put into the ovens are as clean as possible and will not have non-sterile materials left behind on them. , Just like with autoclaving, the medical tools are placed into bags during the sterilization process. Place the cleaned instruments into sterilization pouches. Seal up each pouch so it is airtight. This is important because wet or damaged packages will not be sterilized during the process. You need to make sure the bags have temperature sensitive tape or an indicator strip. If they don't, you should add one.


The tape helps you ensure the products are sterilized by reaching the temperature necessary for the sterilization., Once you have all the tools in pouches, you need to load the pouches into the dry heat oven. Do not overload the oven because the tools will not get sterilized correctly. Once the pouches are loaded, start the cycle. The sterilization process will not start until the chamber is at the right temperature.


Follow manufacturer’s guidelines for loading the ovens.
After the cycle is complete, remove the instruments. Check the indicator strips to make sure the items were sterilized. Take the tools and store them in the safe, clean, dry place in order to protect them from dust and dirt.