 Include a medium or large stone Buddha figurine as your central element. Add a pagoda or “stone” lantern for visual appeal, and include a bridge or artificial rock sculpture for fish to swim through. Include fish such as rainbow fish, clown loaches, golden panchax or silver sharks.Buy an Asian-themed background for your tank, or create your own by printing and laminating an enlarged photograph.Make sure your Buddha statue is made from natural rocks or polyresin and is not painted.
Buy artificial bamboo to fully submerge, or live “Lucky Bamboo” if you would like a dual under water/above land look. ”Lucky Bamboo” cannot be fully submerged. Make sure the plant’s leaves are above water.Alternatively, you can aquatic friendly plants and mix with dried bamboo sticks to create a bamboo “forest.”Whether bought or made, backgrounds are easy to attach, move, and change. For the most seamless look, make sure to hide any tape or other tools used to attach them to the tank.
 Use quartz sand as your main substrate and include some artificial desert plants or fun natural-looking desert accessories. Make it a specific desert by adding ancient Egyptian decorations, like a pyramid, broken columns, and/or a sarcophagus. Include bright fish to add color to your sandscape, like Firemouth Cichlids or Bengal Danios. Or, find artificial animal skulls and cacti to model a North or South American desert and species found in these waters. Stack objects in the tank so that fish have both places to hide and objects to swim through.
South American fish include Colombian Moon tetras and Buenos Aires tetras, Swordtails, and Blind cave fish.
 If you like science fiction, a space theme might interest you. Choose a substrate like sand or gravel to imitate a distant planet’s surface. Look for accessories like a crashed UFO or alien figurines. Include interesting looking rock formations and a galaxy background. Or, include colorful lights and cover the back with plain black paper.


Buy a floating satellite accessory to introduce a human presence in your outer space scene.Use spray paint and round objects to paint a space scene with nearby planets.Include an artificial ruin to suggest a past alien civilization lived there.
 Use a castle as the main decorative element, preferably one with holes fish can swim through. If you don’t want to buy a big castle, make a background for your tank with a castle scene and add smaller objects to it. Use multicolored rocks as substrate and colorful accessories. Add a fairy or two and maybe even a dragon. Angelfish and tetras look great in this type of environment.To create your own background, find an image you like, enlarge it to the size of your tank, print it off and laminate it.
This theme allows for a wider selection of plants. Pick colorful artificial ones that complement your substrate materials.

