


The particular government entity that mandates requirements for obtaining a pilot's license may also have a school locator that can help you begin the selection process. The United States agency, the Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, has such a tool.
Different licenses are available depending on the type of aircraft you wish to fly and whether you will fly professionally or recreationally. A PPL is the designation for a private pilot's license according to the Joint Aviation Authority, or JAA, which governs flight schools in European countries. According to the JAA, the "JAA-FCL 1" is the general term for rules regarding an aeroplane license; "JAA-FCL 2," specifies the criteria for a helicopter license. Similarly, the FAA also has licenses for private and recreational pilots.
The school that you select must have a flight instructor with the knowledge and certifications to train you for the appropriate license. For example, in order to become an air transport pilot, the school should have an instructor with such a license.;
, In some countries, a doctor must perform the examination at specific facilities.


The JAA certifies authorized medical examiners (AMEs) to provide assessments. AMEs are located throughout the JAA member-states, and are often simply physicians in hospitals and clinics.
The CAA, or Civil Aviation Authority, in Great Britain mandates that commercial pilots undergo an initial medical examination at the United Kingdom CAA Aeromedical Centre (AMC) at Gatwick airport in West Sussex. The examination takes around half a day to complete.
The FAA requires you to see an Aviation Medical Examiner, or AME. You can find an AME in your area by visiting the FAA's website.
 There are several variables that determine your total tuition cost.


While the FAA requires a minimum of 40 hours of flight time to become a private pilot, the number of hours that it takes you may vary by state. However, many training facilities note that 55 hours of flying is more realistic.
Many schools suggest that students take at least two classes a week, which correlates to finishing in 6 months.
Unlike paying for a semester of tuition in a lump sum at a traditional university, you can pay for lessons as you take them. Some schools may offer discounts if you pay for several classes at a time, and some schools offer financing.

