 Babies are prone to having diaper rash because of trapped moisture inside their diapers. A normal diaper rash should disappear within days. If the diaper rash is caused by a yeast infection, there will be appearance of small red pinpoint patches that move away from the center and covers the baby's bottom.


Also, if the mother or the baby is taking antibiotics, the rash is likely caused by a yeast infection, because antibiotics kill the good bacteria that balance the naturally occurring yeast in the body.;
, It is easy to determine whether there is a yeast infection in the baby’s mouth. If there are white patches surrounding the sides of the mouth, the tongue, gums, or lips, a yeast infection is probably present.


These patches can look like a curd of milk or undigested milk.
Don’t take it off as it can cause soreness.
 Sterilize items that come in contact with the mouth such as pacifiers, toys, or milk bottles. If you are breastfeeding make sure you clean your nipples using a cotton and water before latching your baby. This will ensure that fungal bacteria from the toy do not enter your baby’s mouth the next the item goes into his/her mouth.


Most bottles, teats, and spoons can be sterilized in a saucepan filled with water, such that the equipment is completely submerged.
If your baby is being exclusively breastfed or bottle-fed, then make sure you gently wipe your baby’s tongue and gums with a soft cloth dipped in warm water after every feed. This will remove any residual milk in the mouth, and deter the yeast from thriving.
If your baby is old enough to accept top-feed, give him/her a sip of sterilized water after every feed. This will rinse away the residual milk, sugar, or food in the mouth, which help Candida to flourish.
 Diapers made of natural fabrics are more breathable than their synthetic counterparts. Increased airflow and circulation in the diaper will help reduce the chance of yeast development, and natural diapers allow this without constantly removing the diaper to allow for drying.


After every diaper change, allow the baby's bottom to air dry for some time before replacing the diaper.
 Try using plain coconut oil, petroleum jelly, or diaper rash ointment every time you put your baby in a diaper. These ointments act as protective layers on the baby’s skin, minimizing direct contact with urine and fecal matter. This will help to prevent the development of yeast and other rashes.


This barrier will also help keep the skin dry.

