 Ideally, there should be plenty of people around and enough light for everyone to see you. Don't use an ATM in a deserted location. It might be well lit, but if you are robbed or hurt, no one will be around to help you., This will minimize the likelihood of being robbed, because chances are better that there will be plenty of people around. Also, robbers simply tend to prefer the cover of darkness to the light of day.Avoid using ATMs at night whenever possible. If you must use an ATM at night, use one that is well lit and near a busy road or business., Robbers usually prefer to target isolated individuals, as opposed to groups of two or more. If you can bring a trusted friend (or even better, group of friends) along with you to the ATM, you’ll make a much less enticing target.Make sure you trust everyone in your ATM “herd,” though — you don’t want to get scammed by a friend-of-a-friend!

, Only roll down your window when (and as little as) necessary. This minimizes the chance of a criminal getting into your car and robbing you., Keep your eyes open for anything out of the ordinary, and trust your instincts. If something feels off, assume a problem and go elsewhere.Tell-tale signs include people walking up to you with their heads down, people standing suspiciously close to you while you use the ATM, or people loitering nearby, watching you at the ATM.
 If it’s during business hours and the bank is open, why not just walk up to the teller and withdraw some cash instead? Or, consider getting cash back when making a debit card transaction at the grocery store or other retailer., Never write down your PIN number on a piece of paper, or your hand, or anything else. Memorize it so that when you go to an ATM, people won't try to sneak a peek at your PIN (or even steal your card) while you're looking at the numbers.Make your PIN something you can remember, but not something obvious like your year of birth, house number, or — worst of all — “1234.”

, Keep your bling and your fancy purse or jacket at home when you hit the ATM. Stick with sweats or something else that doesn’t shout “look at all the money I have!”, Savvy thieves can make alterations or add components to the ATM that let them collect your personal information. Or, they may be able to jam the cash dispenser, hoping you’ll head into the bank to report it while they walk off with your money.


If anything looks out-of-place or newly-added to the machine, find another ATM.
 This will protect you against people who might see your PIN numbers as you type them in.Never feel embarrassed about doing this, or even politely asking someone to take a step back if they’re close enough to get a good look at your transaction. Try “I’m sorry, but would you mind taking a couple steps back while I finish my transaction? Thanks.”

, It’s just simple math — if you get robbed of $50 instead of $150, you end up at least a bit better off. Also, if the robber can see that you’ve only taken out a small amount of cash, they may decide you’re not worth the effort or risk., Weigh the minimal chance that the ATM spit out the wrong amount of cash versus the huge enticement this activity offers to a robber. Just pocket your cash quickly and go.


This will bring unwanted attention to you and your money. Always wait until you are in your car or somewhere safer.
 Never leave them behind, even if you crumple them up a bit and shove them into the little trash slot the ATM may have.If you don't need to keep them, tear them up thoroughly and take the ripped pieces with you to throw away at home. Even a receipt that you don't want can be found by someone else and used for malicious purposes.
 Never accept a seemingly kind offer of help if the machine freezes up on you, especially if the person says something like “Here, let me show you a trick to fix this. I’ll just punch your PIN in for you … what is it?”Police officers and bank employees will never ask you for your PIN number. If they need that kind of information, they can get it without your assistance.
 If anything at all seems out of the ordinary, cancel your transaction immediately. Go somewhere else to get your cash.If you don’t obviously have cash on you, you make a much less appealing target for a robber.
 If a robbery attempt seems imminent or you sense that you can safely get away from a robbery in progress, then run. You may even want to throw your wallet or cash on the ground as you go — remember, that’s what the bad guy wants., If you’re cornered, caught off guard, or the criminal has a weapon, compliance is almost always your safest option. Don’t try to be a hero — do what the robber says and give up your cash. It can be replaced; your life cannot., Unfortunately, some bad guys may be intent on harming you as well as robbing you. If, and only if, you are confident that your safety is a risk regardless of whether you give up your cash, defend yourself. Don’t worry about “fighting fair” — go for sensitive areas like the eyes, throat, groin, and knees.


If you can incapacitate your attacker for just a moment, run away immediately, even if you must leave your cash behind.
Look for self-defense or martial arts classes in your area so you can be better prepared.

