 With regular screening, colon cancer is treatable and may be prevented. Knowing your risk factors will dictate when you start getting screened. Being aware of certain medical and lifestyle risks can help you catch colon cancer early and give you a high chance of survival. Most colon cancers occur after age 50, and African-Americans are at higher risk than other races., If you have one or more relatives who have had colon cancer, your chances of getting the disease increases.If you have a family history of colon cancer, you should consult your doctor and see if he would recommend screening.
 Inflammatory bowel diseases like Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis can increase your risk for colon cancer. If you've been diagnosed with either of these conditions, you are at an increased risk and should consult with your doctor regularly. Certain genetic conditions like familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (Lynch syndrome) or diabetes can increase your risk of colon cancer., Certain lifestyles put you at greater risk for colon cancer. There are a number of these, including:Being overweight or obese.
Sedentary lifestyle.
Smoking.
Drinking heavily (more than two drinks a day)A diet high in red meat and processed foods or low in fiber, fruits, and vegetables

, If you have experienced any of the following, you should visit a doctor.


Blood in your stool.
Persistent stomach pain.
Rapid weight loss without trying.
 Fortunately, colon cancer often begins as benign colorectal polyps. Removal prevents them from growing into cancerous tumors.Because of this, medical experts agree that the most effective way to prevent colon cancer is through regular screening.


For normal adults with no risk factors, screening should begin at age 50.
Adults with specific risk factors should begin earlier. Consult your doctor and see when he would recommend you begin screening if you have one or more risk factors for colon cancer.
 While your doctor can recommend which test will work best for you, it helps to know what to expect with some of these tests.


Colonoscopy. This test involves inserting a camera into the colon and getting a full internal view. This is usually considered the most accurate test. Another advantage is that if the doctor spots any polyps or growths, he can remove them on the spot.CT Colonography. Also known as a virtual colonoscopy, this involves using a CT scanner to create a digital picture of the inside of your colon. This is an option if you cannot undergo a full colonoscopy.Flexible Sigmoidoscopy. This is similar to a colonoscopy, except the doctor uses a smaller tube to examine only the lower third of your colon.Stool test. This detects blood in your stool, which is an early symptom or sign of colon cancer., This usually varies from every five to ten years, depending on the particular test and the findings of your last screening. Sticking to this regular schedule can significantly decrease your risk for colon cancer. However, your doctor may recommend stool tests more frequently.
 Fiber helps waste move smoothly through your digestive system. This is significant because waste buildup is thought to cause polyps that eventually develop into cancer. Not only can increasing your fiber intake help prevent cancer, but it is good for your overall health.There are several high-fiber foods that you could easily add to your diet.Fresh fruits, especially berries with seeds. Leave the skin on all the fruit you eat, as this will give you the highest amount of fiber.
Vegetables. Leafy and crunchy vegetables usually offer the highest amount of fiber. For potatoes, leave the skin on to get the most fiber.
Whole grains. White products have been bleached and lack many of the nutrients found in whole grain products. Switch to whole grain bread, pasta, cereal, and oatmeal to easily increase your fiber intake.
Beans. You can easily incorporate beans into soups and salads to get a high dose of fiber.
Brown rice. Like white bread, white rice doesn't offer many nutrients. Convert to brown rice to add more fiber to your diet.
You could also try a fiber supplement like Metamucil or Konsyl if you're not getting enough fiber out of your regular diet.
 The acid these foods produce in the colon can stimulate tumor and polyp growth.Animal fats are generally linked to cancer and should be eaten in moderation. Red meat like beef and pork specifically should not be eaten in excess.Processed and frozen foods can also be high in fat and other chemicals that could increase your risk for colon cancer.
 Evidence exists that folic acid can help prevent and fight cancer. Some good sources of folic acid are citrus fruits and leafy green vegetables like spinach.Make sure you get your folic acid from food. Tests are unclear whether folic acid supplements will help prevent cancer., Evidence suggests that calcium helps prevent the formation of precancerous polyps.Some good sources of calcium are:


Dairy products like milk, yogurt, and cheese. Dairy products are most commonly cited among foods high in calcium. Softer cheeses like ricotta and mozzarella generally have higher concentrations of calcium.
Green vegetables. Spinach, broccoli, broccoli rabe, and kale contain high doses of calcium.
Sardines and salmon. While all fish is good for your health, these two in particular are high in calcium. Canned sardines contain some of the highest concentrations of calcium in any food.
Soybeans. Eating soybeans plain or incorporating soy-based products into your diet is a great way to give your body a high dose of calcium.
 Antioxidants help repair cells and can bolster your body's defense against precancerous polyps.You don't need to take supplements to give your body antioxidants. There are several foods packed with antioxidants that you can easily add to your diet.Berries. Blueberries, strawberries, and raspberries in particular contain antioxidants and help fight inflammation that could cause precancerous polyps.
Nuts. Different nuts often contain different kinds of antioxidants. For example, walnuts are high in omega-3's, while Brazil nuts are high in selenium. Eat a variety of nuts to add a plethora of antioxidants to your diet.
Green, leafy vegetables. In addition to fiber, calcium, potassium, and magnesium, these vegetables are also a great source of antioxidants. Spinach, kale, broccoli, and lettuce will add a multitude of cancer-fighting nutrients to your diet.
Green tea. While all tea offers valuable nutrients, green tea contains the most potent and plentiful antioxidants. You can look for decaf options if you are sensitive to caffeine.
 The nutrients on this list can also be found in a number of dietary supplements. If you aren't getting enough out of your diet, the following supplements can also help reduce your risk of colon cancer. Your doctor can advise you about supplements if you are unsure of your needs.


Calcium.
Magnesium.
B vitamins.
Omega-3 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids.
Vitamin D.
 If you smoke, quit. If you don't smoke, don't start. Smoking has been linked not only to multiple types of cancer, but a wide array of other health problems. It is overall best to avoid this habit altogether., While a small amount of alcohol is actually considered beneficial and healthy, more than this can jeopardize your health. If you average more than two drinks daily, you may be at an increased risk for colon cancer.If you are a heavy drinker, it is best to cut back and lower your chances of adverse health effects.
 Being overweight or obese puts at a greater risk for a number of health problems, including colon cancer. You can help improve your chances of avoiding cancer by either maintaining a healthy weight or losing weight if you have to. Work with your doctor to find out what your ideal weight is, then stay as close to this goal as possible., A sedentary lifestyle puts you at increased risk for colon cancer. Regular physical activity can help prevent cancers and is also great for over physical and mental health. An ideal goal is at least 30 minutes of physical activity daily. You don't have to start running marathons- a number of simple, enjoyable activities can improve your health significantly.Take a 30-60 minute walk a few times a week.
Ride your bike.
Sign up for a swimming class.
Take up gardening or another activity.
 While there is conflicting evidence, some suggest that the Western world's sitting toilet is responsible for much higher colon cancer rates in developed countries over underdeveloped countries.A squatting position is said to allow waste to flow through the colon in a more efficient and natural way, preventing constipation and lowering risk for colon cancer. There are attachments available on the internet to help convert your toilet into a squatting toilet simply and cheaply.

