 If the other party in a lawsuit wants to add a new claim to be decided by the court at the same time, they will file a motion for joinder. For the purposes of the motion, the court calls them the "moving party." This motion must be served on you, along with other documents including an affidavit of facts and a memorandum of points of law in favor of the joinder.You typically also will receive a notice of motion, which lists the date on which the judge will hear the motion. Read the notice carefully, because it includes the deadline you have to respond to the motion.
If you don't oppose the motion, you don't have to do anything. However, if you do oppose the motion, you must file an opposition memorandum explaining to the judge why the new claim should not be added to the lawsuit.
The claim involved may be a counter-claim, a cross-claim, or a third-party claim. Counter-claims don't involve any other parties. For example, if you sued someone for injuries you sustained in a car accident, and they file a lawsuit against you for injuries they sustained in the same accident, that would be a counter-claim.
Cross-claims and third-party claims all involve cases in which there are more than two parties. For example, suppose you had a friend in the car as well when you had that car accident, and both of you sued the other driver. If your friend decided to sue you as well, that would be a cross-claim.
Third-party claims are against people or businesses who aren't already involved in the lawsuit. To continue the example, if the other driver finds out you're insured, they might decide to also sue your insurance company – even if you didn't file a claim against your insurance and your insurance company isn't involved in the lawsuit. That would be a third-party claim.;
, The moving party's memorandum in support of their motion references court rules, appellate court opinions, and other legal sources that support their argument that the new claim should be joined with the original lawsuit.You must understand these authorities if you want to oppose their argument, because you have to be able to show the judge how their argument doesn't work.
Go to the public law library in the courthouse and get copies of everything they've referenced in their memorandum. The law librarian can help you find them.
If the moving party cited case law, pull those opinions and read them, then look them up in a legal citator to find out if those opinions are still good law or if they have been overturned or limited by a later court.
You also want to pay close attention to the facts in cited cases. Seldom will the facts be exactly the same. Rather, the moving party will make analogies to build the argument that the facts are similar enough that the rule in that case should apply to the situation at hand.
You can defeat this sort of argument by looking for ways in which the two scenarios are different, and pointing out that those differences are important enough as to render the rule inapplicable.
 Once you've got a good handle on the rules and authorities cited in the moving party's memorandum, make a basic outline with key points that oppose their argument and demonstrate that the court should not grant the motion.Put your strongest argument first, and work down from that. You may only have one argument, but if you have two or three you stand a better chance of convincing the judge that joinder shouldn't happen.
Include your references for each point in your outline, as it will form the basis of the memorandum you file with the court.
Stick to the facts provided by the moving party, unless you have evidence that a fact is inaccurate.
 Introduce each point with a summary or topic sentence, then make your point, then provide a conclusion sentence that restates the point. Lawyers often describe this basic writing style as "tell the court what you're going to say, then say it, then tell the court what you just said."
If you make a point of law, make sure you have a legal reference to back it up.
You may want to read some other opposition memoranda to get an idea of what the finished product will look like. Ask the law librarian at the public law library in the courthouse to help you find some.
Keep in mind you also can consult with an attorney or hire one just to write your opposition memorandum but not to represent you in the case as a whole. If you decide this, though, you have to act fast, because the court typically doesn't give you a lot of time to file your opposition.
 Although you typically don't have to file a proposed order if you are opposing a motion, it may help for you to have one prepared. If the judge decides to rule in your favor, he or she will ask if you have an order prepared.A proposed order is a fairly formulaic document. as the clerk or the law librarian at the courthouse for orders issued by the same judge in which a motion for joinder was denied.
Other than the specific names or facts, you typically can copy the language from an order entered in another case.
Make sure the caption on the first page of your proposed order and your memorandum are copied exactly from the other documents filed in the case, and includes the same case number.
 After you've completed and signed your documents, you must file the originals along with two copies with the clerk of the court in which the lawsuit will be heard.You may have to pay a fee to file your opposition – typically around or under $100. If you previously applied for a fee waiver in the case, you won't have to pay this fee.
If you haven't applied for a fee waiver but doubt your ability to afford the fee, ask the clerk for a waiver application.
The court will look at the information you supply about your income and assets and determine whether they are below a certain threshold. If they are, you won't have to pay court fees for the remainder of the lawsuit.
The clerk will stamp your documents filed and give the copies back to you. One is for your records, the other you must have served on the moving party so they have notice of your opposition to their motion.
 If the moving party has already set a proposed hearing date, check that you have it correct. The moving party may not have set the motion for hearing, in which case you may have to choose a proposed date yourself.Each court has different procedures regarding how motion hearings are scheduled. If the moving party didn't anticipate that you would oppose their motion, they may not have scheduled a hearing.
The hearing typically will be scheduled at least a month out. This gives you and the moving party time to evaluate the arguments for and against the motion and plan your oral arguments.
 Immediately after you've filed your opposition memorandum, make arrangements to have it properly served on the other side. You can have it hand-delivered or use the mail.Technically anyone over the age of 18 who is not a party to the lawsuit can hand-deliver the documents to the other side, but typically people who opt for hand delivery hire either a sheriff's deputy (a U.S. marshal in federal court) or a private process serving company to serve the papers. This way you can ensure it's done properly.
You also can complete service by mailing the documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested. The green card you get in the mail when the documents are delivered is your proof of service.
You typically must complete and file a proof of service document to file with the court once the moving party has your opposition memorandum. If you used the sheriff's department or a private process serving company, they typically will complete and file this document for you.
 While the moving party doesn't have to reply to your opposition memorandum, they may choose to do so. If they file a reply, it will be served on you just as the motion was.If the moving party chooses to write and file a reply, expect to receive it within a few days or a week after service was completed.
The reply cannot introduce any new facts into evidence – it can only respond to arguments or points you raised in your opposition.
When you read the reply, keep in mind that these are arguments the moving party will be using at the hearing to attempt to defeat your opposition to their motion. You'll need to research any references they cited and figure out how to counter those points.
 You must show up on the date the hearing is scheduled if you want to oppose the motion. Even if you filed an opposition memorandum, if you aren't there to argue your case the judge may grant the motion by default.Keep in mind that the judge may cancel the hearing and decide whether to grant the motion based solely on the memoranda you and the other party have filed. If this happens, you'll receive a notice from the court.
You want to arrive at the courthouse before the time on the notice – typically at least a half hour before, but maybe earlier if the courthouse is particularly large. This gives you enough time to go through security at the courthouse entrance and find the courtroom where the hearing will be held.
When you arrive, take a seat in the gallery and wait for the judge to call the case. Typically judges hear many motions in one day, so you may have to wait awhile.
 The party that originally filed the motion typically has the first opportunity to speak to the judge and explain the nature of the new claim and why they want to add it to the existing lawsuit.Pay attention, and take notes if the other party says anything that you want to counter in your argument.
However, avoid interrupting while the other party is speaking. You'll have the opportunity to speak when they're done.
 Once the moving party has finished, the judge will give you a chance to explain why you don't believe adding the new claim to the existing lawsuit is proper.Use your opposition memorandum as a guide to your oral argument, but resist the urge to simply stand before the judge and read it. The judge has already read the document – he or she wants to hear what you have to say. #*Focus on the moving party's argument and the things they emphasized. List the reasons why their argument is incorrect.
Keep in mind that the purpose of joinder of claims is efficiency. If there's some reason that adding this extra claim would actually be less efficient, or cause the lawsuit to be more of a hassle, make that your major point.
 The judge will decide whether to grant the motion after hearing arguments for and against the joinder. You may want to have the proposed order you drafted ready in case the judge decides to deny joinder.If the judge grants the motion, the new claim will be joined with the existing lawsuit. How this affects you depends on your relationship to the lawsuit and the type of claim it is.
For example, if you and a friend have sued the other driver in a car accident to recover for injuries you sustained in a car wreck, and your friend has added a claim against you as the driver of your car, you now are the plaintiff in the case against the other driver and the defendant in your friend's claim against you.
If you were the defendant in a case and the plaintiff has added a claim against your insurance company, this could potentially take some of the work off of you, as well as the potential liability, because an insurance company typically has deeper pockets and can absorb a larger loss.

