 Consider everyone’s schedules and responsibilities as you make decisions about who will shop for food, who will cook, and who will clean up. Decide if you will eat separately or together.You may wish to assign roles: You do the shopping, your in-laws do the cooking, and your spouse cleans up, for example.
You may decide to assign days of the week when one family member is completely responsible for a meal, giving others the night off.
It may be helpful to create a weekly meal planning chart to help determine what everyone is serving and who is responsible for which meal.
Decide on family responsibilities and expectations for all meals. Some questions to resolve may include: Will someone be making a sit-down breakfast during the week? Will there be a designated day to go out for dinner? If you are not going to make it to a meal, when should you let the household know?

, You may want to make a chore chart or write down everyone’s responsibilities while you are talking. How will you divide up household duties? Who will be responsible for cleaning and maintaining common areas? Some other areas of responsibilities you may wish to discuss include:


Laundry
Cleaning bedrooms or separate family areas
Pet care
Outside home maintenance, such as raking leaves or mowing the lawn
Home repairs

, Living with multiple generations under one roof can be extremely rewarding for everyone. Children will have more adults in their lives to nurture them and help them grow, and the children’s parents can find some relief in sharing the workload of parenting. The parents of the children should be the ones to determine how they want their children taken care of and disciplined, and should discuss their expectations with other family members.For example, you may have a rule that your children can’t watch TV until they have finished their homework. Make sure that other adult members of the household agree to enforce that.
Affirm your discipline procedures. If one of your children misbehaves, what would you like the other adults in the house to do? Are there any discipline methods you disapprove of that you do not want to see used on your children? Be clear in your expectations.
Do not allow other adults to undermine your discipline procedures. If other adults in the house have a problem with your discipline (whether they feel it is too soft or too harsh), have them come to you with any concerns instead of talking to the children. A statement like, “Your mommy never lets you have cookies if you don’t eat a good dinner, but grandma will give you some!” undermines your parenting and confuses the children.You could say, “Mary, I know you mean well, and I am so grateful that you help out with the kids. But Matt and I have a rule that the kids don’t get dessert unless they clean their plates. Can you please abide by our rule in the future?”

, Determine which rooms need permission to enter. Make sure you all agree on ground rules around giving each other enough space.For example, you could decide that a house rule will be to knock before opening any closed door, or that Grandpa’s office is off-limits to the kids.
Respect each other’s privacy. You may have your in-laws living in your house, but consider their designated personal spaces (like a bedroom) their own property. Respect them and treat it as such, knocking before entering or not disturbing them in the evenings.
Designate which spaces “belong” to each family member and if family members can personalize those spaces. For example, can anyone add personal touches to common areas, or is the owner of the house the default decorator?If finances and space permit, you could consider doing some home remodeling for additional privacy. For example, you could put up a wall to divide a room into two separate, private spaces. You could even consider building an addition on the house, like an in-law suite (which usually contains, at a minimum, a spacious bedroom and full bath)., Look at your family situation and determine what other unique rules you may need to develop and enforce. Get input from all members of the household.


For example, if someone in the household works from home, what will other household members do to give the worker the space and privacy they need to do their job?
Consider any rules you may need to implement around driving and vehicles. For example, can everyone drive each other’s cars? Can teenage children drive their grandparents’ car?

