 These magazines can give you ideas that go beyond your usual look. There are many styles to choose from, and you want to make sure that you pick something that is a little more amped-up than usual but is still you. Be realistic about your hair. Everyone's hair is a little different. It's great to get ideas from magazines and online research, but keep in mind that your hair may not physically be able to be put in all the styles that you see.
 Many people, especially women, choose to hire a professional hair-stylist for their wedding. Hiring a professional is a great way to take some pressure off and also make sure that you look your absolute best. Have a consultation with your hairstylist to see what styles they would recommend for you. , Many women choose to wear makeup on their wedding day. Even if you do not normally wear makeup, consider wearing it on your wedding day to give yourself the assurance of smooth skin and that extra rosy glow. There are many great resources for makeup online, and even doing a quick Google search for wedding makeup is a good way to find inspiration.


Consider your skin tone and facial features and research what kind of makeup is most flattering for you individually., Think of your wedding makeup as a couple notches above your everyday makeup. For instance, if you normally don't wear makeup, you don't want to show up to your wedding unrecognizable! Kick it up a couple notches but stay away from looks that radically change your appearance.


If in doubt, stick to a clean, classic look. Your wedding day is probably not the day for a dramatic cat eye or purple lipstick. If you a wearing a traditional wedding dress, stick with a clean and natural look. Wearing a red lipstick is a good way to be bold but classic.
 The most important thing is a foundation that will look good photographed. Foundations that have the word "HD" in their name are specifically formulated to look natural when photographed. Foundations with a high oil content or a lot of reflective particles can make you look washed-out or ghostly when photographed, especially if you have a pale skin tone. , Many women hire makeup artists in addition to professional hairstylists, or choose estheticians that can do both jobs. This makes your life easier, and since makeup can get messy it takes that worry out of the equation.


Many professional makeup artists have websites with portfolios of their work. If you are thinking of hiring a particular makeup artist, look up some of the makeup styles that they have done to see whether they would be a good fit for you.
 Whether you hire a professional or do it yourself, you want to practice your hair and makeup at least once before your wedding. This will help you to make sure it is exactly what you want, and it'll also get you used to the feeling of this different look.Don't wear your wedding outfit when you are getting your hair and makeup done. You want to avoid getting anything on your outfit and doing hair and makeup can get messy.
If you aren't happy with how everything looks together, try to pinpoint what you would like to change or ask the opinion of your stylist and/or family and friends.
If you seem to be having an allergic reaction to a makeup product, take note and try a different product the next day.
Take a picture after your trial. Photograph your makeup and hair trial, and make sure to take close-ups. A picture will be a good reference so that you or your stylist will remember exactly what you want the day of your wedding. , Whether it be waxing, teeth-whitening or any other kind of beauty appointment, make sure to set it a few days before your wedding. That way if you have any kind of adverse reaction, it will settle before the big day. The couple days before your wedding will likely be hectic, so planning ahead will also free up some time during those last few crucial days. Get a manicure the day before the wedding. Doing it a day or two ahead reduces the chance of chipped polish. Even if you choose not to do color, make sure your nails are clean and trimmed. You're going to be flashing that ring quite a bit, and it's likely your photographer will want some close-ups of your hands.