 Since first and last names usually sound very different, breaking this tradition would make your character stand ever so slightly apart.


For example: Anna Joey, Robert Gideon, Paul Michael.
This is a very subtle approach and would make the most sense for a story that unfolds in a time and place that’s similar to your own.
 Watch the credits of a TV show or movie; a lot of uncommon names and name combinations can be found here. When you walk, bike, or drive around, take note of the street names. You might even borrow the name of a foreign city, a distant nebula, or a rare plant.


Because this is a broad approach, it could be applicable to a wide variety of genres as well as male or female characters.
 Flip through the phone book or a baby name book. In particular, baby name books have lots of uncommon names and interesting spelling variations.


For example: Razilee, Kadiah, Joval, Jantanie, Keryl, or Kaline.
If you want to be inspired by both a name and a character, check out a mythology book from the library; however, unless you want something obvious (ex. Athena), don’t go with Norse, Greek, or Latin mythology.
 J.K. Rowling, for example, is said to have created some of the names in Harry Potter by first describing a character and then creating an anagram from the descriptions. There are a number of strategies that you could use to engineer such a name. For example:


Blend common names together. So, Sarah and Josephine could become Josah and Saraphine; Garrett and Adrian could become Adriett and Garran; etc.
Try different spelling variations. Substitute Mykael for Michael, Gaebriel for Gabriel, etc.
Rearrange your own (or a friend’s) name. If your name is Bob Smith, scramble the letters to get something like Omi Thibbs. Your friend Eileen could be Neelie, Annabel could be Belanna, and so forth.
Create anagrams from common words. For example, laugh can be Gal Uh and jump can be M Puj. You can also use this technique to make a name that fits a character’s personality. So, the anagram of laugh, Gal Uh, could be a good name for a comedian and the anagram of jump, M Puj, could be a good name for a high jumper.
 If you want something truly unique, give up basing your name in anything you’re already familiar with and try to invent something completely new. This might be especially appropriate for a sci-fi or fantasy story that doesn’t fit your current cultural context.


Type a random string of letters in a Word document, then select a set that seems promising, and rework them to create something you like.
Or, you might cut individual letters out of a magazine, throw them into the air, and choose a combination based on how they fall to the floor.
 But try not to make it too obvious, as you don’t want to directly rip off an existing character’s name.


For example, if you want to name your character after Katniss Everdeen, don’t just name your character Katniss Everdeen, as this is not only unoriginal, it is also against copyright laws. Instead, try to create names similar to the existing name, such as "Katherine" instead of "Katniss", or "Dean" instead of "Everdeen.”
You can also use celebrity names to create new names by mixing up or combining the names. For example: Justin Bieber and Kate Alexa could become Jexa Kelbeir.
 Take a word or phrase and misspell it to create a new name.


For example, misspell “like this” so it appears as: lykkethez. Then, choose an interesting letter combo from the results. For example, Kethez, Ethe, or Ykke.
Type a few lyrics from a song without spaces to find interesting combinations. For example, all we are is is the wind could become Llwea, Arei, Isdus, Hewin, etc.
 Change a male name to fit a female or female name to fit a male.


Keep in mind not all names have opposite-gender equivalents.
 If you research names on a name generator (meant for baby names, but still useful), you will likely come across one name or several names that could work for your character.

