 Especially helpful in treating hair damaged by chlorine, olive oil adds substantial moisture to your hair and almost immediately ups its softness and shininess.Pour ½ a cup of olive oil into a bowl that you can safely microwave, and heat it for 20 seconds.
Using a towel to protect your clothing (or while wearing your birthday suit), massage warm oil into your hair a bit at a time.
Continue dabbing your fingers into the bowl and coating your hair until every strand is covered.
Leave the olive oil in your hair for 30 minutes before shampooing and conditioning as usual.
 Vinegar is especially effective in increasingly shine and in removing buildup from your hair that may have left behind by pool chemicals.Vinegar will also help diminish chemical smells and even help prevent discoloration of your hair.Make a vinegar treatment by putting 2 cups of cider vinegar into a glass receptacle for which you have a lid.
Add 10 drops of an essential oil of your choice and gently shake the glass to mix.
Cap the solution and allow it to sit and blend for at least 24 hours.
Add ½ a tablespoon of the vinegar mixture to 1 cup of water.
Simply rinse pool-damaged hair following your next shampoo and allow the mixture to soak in.
 A vitamin C and club soda tonic will remove chlorine and other buildups from your hair.Mix a ¼ cup of club soda and a ¼ cup each of grapefruit, orange, and lemon juices in a spray bottle.
If your hair reaches beneath your shoulders, up these ingredients by an 1/8th cup each.
Add a drop or two of sage essential oil for your bottle for extra vitality and sheen with your restore.
Spray the mixture onto wet hair. (If you just swam, rinse in clean water first.)
Comb the spray through your hair until strands are evenly covered.
Leave your hair alone for about three minutes before shampooing and conditioning as usual.
For supremely damaged hair, repeat this treatment every two to three weeks.
You can also purchase the equivalent citrusy product pre-mixed and packaged., Since the protein content of egg is especially high, this will help strengthen your hair shafts and make your mane shiny and silky to the touch.Crack an egg into a bowl and mix it with a fork.
Stir in a tablespoon of honey and a tablespoon of plain yogurt. (Stir well!)
Massage the mixture into a handful of clean, damp hair.
Build a recovery chamber for your hair by covering it all with a plastic shower cap.
Allow the mixture to sit in damaged hair for 30 minutes before washing with cool water.
 Since mayo contains a lot of eggs and a lot of oil, mayonnaise provides the protein that can help strengthen your hair, and the moisture that can help repair a dried out hairdo.Prep your hair for the mayo treatment by wetting it with warm water and wrapping your hair in a towel prior to application.
Put about 2 tablespoons of mayo in a bowl and use this to liberally apply mayo directly to your scalp, massaging it in with your fingertips.
Working your way from the scalp, coat all of your hair.
Wrap your hair in a plastic bag or shower cap and leave the mayo in your hair for 20 minutes before rinsing thoroughly.

