 Counterconditioning is a process whereby your older dog’s fearful or anxious reaction to separation changes to a happy, pleasant, or otherwise positive reaction. You can do this by ensuring your dog has a positive experience when you leave the house.For instance, you could give your dog a KONG toy when you leave the house. KONG toys are rubber playthings filled with bits of kibble or other doggie snacks. As your dog shakes and plays with the toy, small bits of the snack will come out so your dog can eat them.
If your dog’s separation anxiety is only triggered when you or another family member leaves the house, whichever of you remains at home could soothe the dog by administering a doggie treat, petting and patting the dog gently, and offering soothing words of affection like, “It’s okay,” or “Don’t cry, doggie.”
Counterconditioning works best with dogs who have mild separation anxiety.
 Desensitization is a separation anxiety solution that requires confusing your dog’s mental “anxiety monitor” by separating from your dog with progressively greater duration and frequency over a long period. Your desensitization program should always begin by addressing the most basic first-stage symptoms of anxiety separation, then tackling more intense symptoms.For example, start by confronting your dog’s pre-departure anxiety. Maybe your dog pants and paces as you put on your coat or jacket. You can desensitize your dog to this behavior by putting on your coat and then – instead of exiting the house – sitting down to read a book.
Once your dog has become desensitized to pre-departure rituals and behaviors, desensitize your dog to exiting the house. Walk out of the house, then walk back in after 30 seconds or so. Continue doing this several times each day for a few days.
Every few days, increase the amount of time you spend outside your house by 60 seconds.
Enact departure rituals and head out the door several times each day for several weeks in order to fully desensitize your dog. How long it takes to fully desensitize your dog depends on its ability to learn that your departure behavior and cues should not inspire anxiety.
Desensitization is best for dogs with moderate or severe separation anxiety.
 If you know you’re headed out soon, take your older dog for a walk around the block or at the park. Adopt a moderate speed. When your dog starts to lag behind or pant more than it usually does, you’ll know it’s tuckered out. Take your dog home for a much-needed nap (or at least a period of prolonged relaxation). While your dog is sleeping, you can make your exit.Instead of going to the trouble of wearing your dog out before leaving the house, you could also just time your exit to coincide with your dog’s regular naptime, if it has one.
 Think about your dog’s favorite space in the house – perhaps a special room, a spot at the foot of the bed, or one of the arms of the sofa. Many dogs also associate their crate with security and feelings of relaxation. Inside its crate or in another safe space, therefore, your dog is less likely to feel the pain of separation anxiety. Place your older dog in its favorite safe spot and say, “Good-bye for now, good dog. I will return soon.”, Dogs are excellent at sensing emotions. Sometimes your older dog’s separation anxiety is a result of it detecting anxiety in you. If you are noticeably nervous and worried when you head out the door, your dog might pick up on this and, over time, turn it into a habit. On the other hand, if you’re cool, calm, and collected when you head out, your dog will understand that your exit is no cause for alarm, and you will return home in due time. Avoid petting your dog or talking a lot to it when entering and exiting.

