 Place one hand on either the withers or the front of the saddle and the other on the back of the saddle (and don't forget to take hold of the reins) and swing your right leg over. Try not to kneel on the horse! Before you mount, check that your girth is tightened, so you can fit one or no fingers between the horse and the girth; you don't want the saddle to come sliding off when you try to mount!;
, Sit right in the middle of the saddle and shorten your reins. Push your heels down and keep your chin up and look forward.
 Squeeze with your legs, or if your horse is a little lazy, give him a small kick. Try to keep your hands still, because you might accidentally pull him to much to the left or right. Remember not to rest your hands on the horse's neck!

, First squeeze, and if he doesn't respond give him kick or, if it is necessary, a small whip. Don't post until your horse is in full trot. Then start to rise.


When you are going down, go gently, so not to pound down on the horse. Once you have a rhythm, double check your diagonals. To do this you have to look down at the inside forefoot (when you are riding a circle, the front leg on the inside of the circle) and make you sure this leg is in front of the horse when your bum is touching the saddle. If you are doing the opposite and your bum touches the saddle whilst this leg is behind the horse's head you need to sit for an extra beat to correct it (sit down for two beats instead of one). You should check your diagonal every time you change the rein you are riding. So the when you change the rein (go around the circle the other way round) you have to again sit for an extra beat. This ensures you look like you know what you are doing as those who are advanced in horse riding would be the only ones too know this.
 If there is no response, kick, then tap him with a whip. Make sure he canters on the right leg.
 See the world from his/her point of view. Imagine having a bit in your mouth. This will make you think of horses in a different way.
 Always groom him yourself, and give them extra attention. Treats are good too, but only healthy ones, and don't give him too many, or he'll demand them all the time. Remember horses are living creatures, so you should respect them. Also when you are riding your horse, every so often give him a gentle pat on the neck- this tells the horse that he is doing something well or right and is a way of praising/giving affection to your horse.
 Remember to first squeeze, then make a clicking noise with your tongue, then kick. Only use a whip as a last resort. Horses are willing to please if you know how to ask them correctly.

