 Avoid doomsayers... Do not let the complexity of "the system" stifle your drive and creativity.
 Nothing tried, nothing achieved. Use your ideas, smarts, training and education to help you make it.
;


Most examples and names of laws, etc. are for USA. Other jurisdictions may have similar rules of law and regulations.

Caution (caveat): Monarchies and socialist may be similar to democratic countries -- or very different.

Caveat: Some countries, such as those with religious oligarchy, or with communist party governments, may:

Assign you what you can or must do for an occupation; such as:

Educational goal assigned according to gender, talent, aptitude and achievement testing results, and
Decisions such as quotas, for the various jurisdictions, down to your own town and block committees, etc.
 Decide to learn about complying (or expect to be treated as if you should have known!) with city, county, state, national government regulations and tax laws (as required); work through "red tape" of "regs" including:


Register your company name (if you are sole proprietor or partnership, file your doing business as, called "dba", at county courthouse), etc.

If sole proprietor, use your own personal social security number as company ID number, or other assigned number, for sending in employee tax and FICA and matching FICA employer "contribution" payments, and your own, as well;


Get required W4 filled in, filed, social security numbers, claim dependents, etc., for employees;
Find out about requirements for insurance of various kind,
Keep required business records: logs, journals, compile taxable receipts and do cost records;

Do all purchase and payments, with business checks, as record;
Keep records for deductions, depreciation of equipment, etc.;


Make reports send in; give out copies to employees;
Post copies of some licenses, proof of registrations, sales tax permit, etc.
Federal tax ID number for your LLC, or such;
Withhold IRS, FICA (social security) and such and state income taxes and send in quarterly,
Comply with labor postings for OSHA (Occupational Safety & Health Admin.), EEOC (Equal Employment Opportunity Admin.) laws, etc.;
Commercial licensing for vehicle and driver (for certain sizes and types of vehicles), etc.
Incorporate if you need to limit liability (Inc., LLC, and such);
Register for "sales tax" (plus some nations have VAT, value added tax) and such;
Trade and professional certifications and license (plumber, electrician, etc.).
;
Building "certificate of occupancy" (number of customers allowed, such as seating and standing room),
Health department inspections (if preparing/handling food),

Comply with laws about hazardous materials,


Get building inspections for new wiring, plumbing, etc.;
Engineering and reports for septic tank and soil percolation test, especially near bodies of water;
Survey for building set-back from street,
Landscaping requirements: established lawn, etc.;
Ensure legality of rainwater run-off from lot, parking (and such) about flow amount, area and about roof run-off regs about distance from property lines, storm drains, etc.
Permit for new fence, business signs, parking space and other such laws,
Copyright and patent laws, social and legal considerations.
 You should not wait for the economy to decide your future. Consider, start thinking, planning, saving and eventually you might start a business or company. Large companies are likely to create plenty of industrial and manufacturing jobs in coming years, but can you say:


How many of those new jobs that are created will be in the U.S. with the global economy growing and attracting business?

, They were pioneers who "blazed new trails."

,, (Gandhi)


So, find an area of intense causation (every activity has a cause) in yourself such as the more famous innovators had.
 with ability to create and innovate.
Join the next generation of mavericks of business pioneers?

,,