 Neutral gray, complementary gray, and primary gray are easy to create with paint, but the best option depends on the paint colors you have and the desired application.


Neutral gray can be a great way to tone done other colors without altering the actual hue. Overall, it works best when you know you'll need gray in its purest form.
Complementary gray works best if you want to give cool or warm tints to the hue of the gray.
Primary gray works well when you need to create shadows or pair the gray next to a brighter color. Since primary gray contains all three primary colors, it can make nearby secondary colors look brighter.
 Pour equal amounts of the involved colors into a paint dish or onto a paint palette. Mix thoroughly using a painter's stick until the colors are equally blended.


To review, your color options are:

Black and white
Red and green
Yellow and purple
Blue and orange
Red, yellow, and blue


Blending the colors should result in gray paint. If you used “pure” hues, the resulting gray should be fairly flat in appearance. If the colors used weren't pure hues, however, you may notice a slight tint.
 Examine the shade of the developed gray. If it seems too dark or too light, you can add white or black paint to alter the shade.


Add white to lighten the gray or black to darken it. Work in small amounts of either color, though, to avoid altering the shade more than necessary.
Use white and black to alter the shade regardless of which type of gray (neutral, complementary, primary) you made. Adding any other color will ultimately affect the hue instead of the shade.
 Examine the hue of the developed gray. It it seems too dull for your liking, you can tint the gray by adding more color.


Add small amounts of the color regardless of which one you use. If you don't like the results, it'll be easier to fix them if you've only altered the color in small degrees.
If you made complementary or primary gray, add more of any color used to produce the original gray. In other words, if you made gray with blue and orange paint, you should only add more blue or more orange (not red, yellow, green, or purple).
If you made neutral gray, you can still tint the gray with color. In fact, you can mix nearly any paint color into the gray to create a wider variety of tints.

