 Having good "sleep hygiene"-- getting plenty of good quality sleep-- can help you feel better generally and can reduce headache occurrences. Adults should get at least 7-8 hours of sleep each night.If you have trouble sleeping, try some of the following techniques:


Limit your "screen time" before bed
Only use your bed for sleep and intimacy
Limit caffeine consumption in the later part of the day
Begin dimming the lights and giving yourself time to "wind down" before preparing for bed

, Try switching to unscented products and ask those to whom you spend a lot of time in proximity to do the same. Remove or unplug scented air fresheners from your living or working space as well.
 Although this won't alleviate your headache straight away, making dietary changes in the longer term can potentially remove a source of headaches for you in the future. If you don't know where to begin, see your doctor or a dietician/nutritionist.Find out whether you have any particular food allergies and eliminate those foods from your diet.
Reduce your intake of caffeine. Caffeine can induce headaches. Ironically, withdrawal from caffeine will probably cause a temporary headache, but once you're through the withdrawal period, you'll notice a positive difference.
You might consider avoiding or minimizing potential headache-triggering foods, especially those containing MSG, nitrites and nitrates (cured meats), tyramines (aged cheese, wine, beer, and processed meats), sulphites (dried fruits, condiments, and wine), and salicylates (tea, vinegar, and some fruit)., If your back or neck are misaligned, or you're suffering from poor posture and muscle tension, it's important to fix this source of pain. While you can try to improve your musculoskeletal problems through exercise such as stretching, yoga, or Pilates, it is usually important to also see a specialist such as a physiotherapist or a chiropractor to assess and treat your condition.
 Yoga aimed at reducing tension can remove or minimize headaches and prevent them from reoccurring. Simple neck rolling or relaxation yoga exercises are best.
 The way that you're sitting at the desk and using a computer might be contributing to your headache. Be sure that everything is at the right height and distance for your size.Make sure you can keep your neck in a neutral position while you work. We often end up slouching and pushing our necks out of alignment when using computers and other digital devices. If your neck is usually bent forward, move your computer so that you can look straight ahead while working.
Take regular breaks from all desk work and computer use. Exercise your eyes by looking at different distances for a few minutes every hour and do some basic body stretches.
 Many health issues can cause headaches, so if your headaches continue to be a problem for you, seeing specialists to address other problems can help you reduce your headaches.


See your dentist: If you clench your teeth or have jaw misalignment, tooth decay, abscesses, or post-extraction infection, these can be a source of headaches.
See your optician: If you need glasses, but it has gone undiagnosed, your eyestrain could be causing unnecessary headaches.
See your ear, nose and throat specialist: If you have untreated infections, perforations, or other problems with your ears, nose, and throat, these could cause headaches.
 If you're angry, irritable, frustrated, etc., you may be building up daily muscle tension to a point where it has become unmanageable and caused headaches. Anxiety, stress, and depression can also cause headaches. Seek professional counseling or psychological help for mapping out some fruitful ways to manage your emotions if they're dominating your approach to life every day.If you clench your jaw or grit your teeth, make an effort to relax your face. Try yawning to reduce facial tension.
Practice relaxation exercises before stress-producing events like exams, getting married, taking a driver's test, etc.
 This will help you to identify patterns that bring about headaches, such as after a particularly stressful period at work, after communication problems, after eating certain foods, starting your period, etc. Once you know what triggers your headaches, you can start learning to head off a headache before it even begins to develop.


This information can also be very helpful to your doctor if you experience frequent headaches. Bring your headache journal along with you to doctor’s appointments.
 If you’re a smoker, you may be aggravating your headaches. Cigarette smoke contains substances that are known to cause headaches, such as carbon monoxide. Cigarettes also contain things like nicotine that constrict blood vessels, causing headaches, and also keep the liver from being able to process headache medication.Quitting smoking can help you get fewer headaches, especially if you get “cluster headaches,” or headaches that occur in intense cycles throughout the day.Studies have shown that people who cut their tobacco use also cut their headache frequency in half.


Headaches can also be caused by exposure to second-hand smoke, especially if you have a smoke allergy or sensitivity. If you don’t smoke but frequently are in places where cigarette smoke is common, you may still experience headaches.

