 One of the best ways to conquer insecure feelings is to become a more confident person. That might seem tough, but once you've changed your mindset, you are already well on your way! Make sure to ease up on yourself and treat yourself the way you want others to treat you.We all make mistakes. It's a fact of life. When you forget to pick up the groceries you need for dinner, try not to be hard on yourself.
Instead, try thinking, "It's not that big of a deal. I'll have a sandwich tonight, and make sure I remember the groceries tomorrow."

, Self-care means making sure that all of your needs are being met. Sure, you know it's important to care for your physical health. But don't forget to make time to meet your emotional needs, too.


This also includes taking care of things like bathing and personal hygiene, eating well, taking any necessary medications, keeping appointments, and so on.
Make time for yourself everyday. Choose an activity that is relaxing to you.
For example, allow yourself time to read a chapter of a novel each day. Or try taking a relaxing bubble bath.
 Physical activity has been shown to be a real mood booster. Getting in shape is a great way to help build your confidence. Look for ways to add some more activity to your life.Walk more. Take a stroll around the block at lunchtime. Try walking to the movies instead of driving.
Take a class. Learn to love a new type of exercise. Consider taking a barre or HIIT class at your local studio or gym.
 If you’re feeling insecure, you might have trouble speaking up for yourself. Remember, your needs are just as important as the needs of others. Work on being more assertive and you’ll start to feel more confident.For example, maybe your older sister makes you feel insecure with her frequent put downs. The next time she says, “Don’t let Linda be in charge of dinner. She’s a horrible cook!”, speak up. You can say, “I’d love to host Thanksgiving this year. I’ve been working really hard to become a better cook, and I think I’m getting good!”

, When you have a plan, you’ll feel more in control. In turn, you’ll begin to feel more confident. Take some time to set some goals. You can include both long-term and short-term goals.For example, a short-term goal might be: “I will talk to at least two new people each week.”
A long-term goal could be, “I will improve my work performance and one year from now I will ask for a raise.”

