 You should bathe your quail in a warm area free from drafts. Alternatively, turn a heater on until the room has warmed up to a fair temperature. Never attempt to bathe a quail in the cold. They are prone to sickness this way.


A bathroom is not ideal as the tiles make the room a lot colder. Unless you can find a heater that will easily heat the room, then don't use the bathroom. Instead, use a warm living room or bedroom.
 The room should be a safe and secure space for your quail. They should feel calm in their surroundings. If there is a chance your quail suddenly escapes, will they be safe in the room?


Remove other pets from the room. Even a friendly animal can scare a small quail. Cats and dogs should be removed from the premises and so should other noisy birds such as budgies.
Ensure there are no small children in the room. You may be using objects to preen your guinea pigs that shouldn't be touched by young children.
Close all windows, doors and ensure the room is draft-free. Quails are more prone to illness if cold air can get into the room.
 Before you attempt to give your quail a bath, you can always try to get rid of any dirt on your quail with a damp flannel or sponge. If this step doesn't work, move onto bathing your quail.
 The water should come up to the halfway length of your quail's body but not too deep. Be cautious with the water as your quail can easily inhale it.
 Cup both hands over your quail's body and slowly place them in the lukewarm water. Use one hand to continue firmly holding the quail and your other to wipe away any dirty substances stuck to your quail. The water alone should clean any dirt on your quail.
 The chemicals in soaps and shampoos can irritate your quail's skin and remove important oils on their feathers, thus leading to dry and irritated skin.


If the dirt isn't coming off with plain water, consider using a safe, gentle soap to remove it. Gently scrub the dirt with your finger and a slight drop of soap. A tiny drop of baby shampoo should be safe to use.
 These should be kept dry and away from the water. If you attempt to wash your quail's face and ear region, they are prone to inhaling water and irritating their eyes, nose, and ears. If there is dirt stuck to your quail's face, contact a vet for professional advice.
 Wrap the body of your quail, leaving their head exposed, and allow them to sit in the towel. Gentle blot away at your quail's feathers, partially drying them. Stroke along the feathers.


Remember that at this stage, you should ensure that your quail is kept warm in a heated room.
A blow dryer can be used to attempt to dry the quail's feathers, but it's not recommended as the heat can be too hot and stressful for your bird.
 Your quail should be happily sitting in the towel. Not all the water can be dried through using a towel, so you will need to allow the quail to air-dry and preen itself as it does. Your quail should stay indoors until fully dry.
 Wing clipping isn't necessary, it can help prevent your quail from flying away or out of their cage. Get a friend to firmly hold the quail and then spread out their wing. Clip the tips of the flight feathers on both wings. Avoid cutting too close to the bone area.


Wing clipping is an easy process, but if you're a little unsteady, you can always book an appointment with a bird groomer or veterinarian, especially if your bird is jumpy.
 Overgrown nails will need to be filed back or cut down. Take the opportunity to trim them now. You will need sharp nail clippers and watch out to not cut the quick. The quick is the red bloodline that is visible in the nail.
 Once dry and clean, your quail should be ready to be returned home. Avoid returning your quail to a dirty cage. Make sure he/she won't get dirty all over again by being returned. Never return a wet quail that hasn't fully dried yet.

