 Even though it has become increasingly common for people to be vegetarian, and to a lesser extent vegan, you may still be a bit of a novelty at your school. If you are one of very few people only eating vegetarian food every day, you can expect to get some questions from your peers. Be polite and patient, and try to take questions in good humour.


If someone asks you what you eat, explain that there are loads of delicious vegetarian options, including a variety of meat substitutes.
You could even offer them a taste of your delicious vegetarian meal to show them that being vegetarian doesn’t mean only eating salad and tofu.
If someone asks you why you are vegetarian, be honest and straightforward.
You could say something like, “I just don’t like the idea of animals suffering, or of eating animals.”If you are open, honest and accepting of other people’s choices, they may be more likely to respond in kind to you.
 It’s likely that not all the questions you get from your peers are going to be friendly curiosity. Some people might make fun of you or taunt you for being vegetarian, especially if you are one of very few in your class. If this happens, keep your cool and don’t get angry. There’s nothing to be gained by getting in an argument, and it may only spur them on.


If someone taunts you by saying something like “I just ate a cow!” or, “You need meat to be strong,” try to shrug it off.
You could just say “Okay, good for you.”You could even ask a question in return, such as, “Why does me being vegetarian bother you so much?”
Being positive about vegetarianism rather than negative about people who eat meat is likely to create a better environment and understanding amongst your peers., An excellent way to make being a vegetarian at school more fun is to join or start a vegetarian club. This will help you to meet more like-minded people, spread some awareness about vegetarianism, and have fun at mealtimes by introducing each other to new vegetarian recipes.


The rules on starting a club will vary from school to school, so ask your teacher about how to go about it.
Often there will be an activities co-ordinator who you will need to talk to.
Your group can start out as a way to hang out with other vegetarians and share tips and recipes, but you could also use it as a way to explain why you are vegetarian to others.You can also non-invite non-vegetarians to come along and to try out some vegetarian food.

