 Go to Facebook and click on your name in the upper right corner of the page. You should be redirected to your personal profile page.
 The “Update Info” button should be located in the lower right corner of your cover photo. Click on this button to go to your “About” page.


The first section of the “About” page is “Work and Education,” and this is also the section you'll need to work from. You should be directed there automatically, but if you aren't, make sure that you click on “Work and Education” in the left side panel before continuing.
 Look for the “Professional Skills” heading on the “Work and Education” portion of your profile. Hit the “Add a professional skill” option to open a new entry., Begin typing the first professional skill you want to list. Facebook should automatically populate a list of possible matches once you type in a few letters.


If the correct skill doesn't appear immediately, keep typing. Facebook will continue searching for matches amongst its database of commonly added skills, and the more you type out, the more fine-tuned its search results can become.
Also note that you can add a professional skill not already listed among Facebook's possible matches. Simply type out the entire skill and proceed from there without selecting any suggested match.
 Look through the list of possible matches. Find the one that seems most accurate, then click on it once to select it. Hit the “Save Changes” button to finalize the skill and add it to your list.


If desired, you can change the privacy setting your entry before saving it. Leaving it as "Public" allows anyone to view that skill, but you do have the option of changing it so only friends, friends of friends, or customized groups of people can view it.
 Additional professional skills can be added by following the same procedure used for the first. Add as many professional skills as desired.


You'll need to click on “Add a professional skill” for each skill you wish to list. Type, select, and save each skill in the same manner as before.
 Exit the “About” page, then return to it once more and check the “Professional Skills” section of the “Word and Education” tab. Your list of previously added professional skills should still be there.


Typically, your professional skills will not appear in the top left box on the main page of your personal Timeline, so don't bother looking for them there. These skills only appear in the “About” section of your profile, but they should be visible to anyone who meets your privacy setting qualifications.

