 If you are interested in becoming an officer, look no further than ROTC. ROTC was founded in 1916 and stands for Reserve Officer Training Corps. Over 1,000 colleges and universities in the U.S. offer ROTC programs. Cadets who become involved with ROTC commit themselves to serve their country. For your dedication, the government will mostly pay your college education and you.


There are different types of ROTC programs to fit into the different groups of the military. Different schools will specialize in different branches of the military.
You can become involved with: Army ROTC, Navy ROTC, Marine Corps ROTC, Air Force ROTC, and Coast Guard split training., Become involved with your high school’s JROTC program to improve your chances of admission and your readiness for the program. By participating in JROTC, you’ll have a wider understanding of the type of training you’ll encounter in ROTC. This is also a great way to decide if officer training and the military are right for you., Look into senior and junior military colleges for the most scholarship and future benefits. Different colleges and universities offer different branches of ROTC. If you’re still in high school, talk to an admissions counselor about both your interests and educational opportunities., Take your time when applying to colleges. If you are not the greatest student, you’ll need to perform extremely well on items like written essays and standardized test scores. Find the teachers who you bonded with the most to write your college recommendations.


JROTC teachers will better improve your chances for military schools.
Apply to scholarship programs as soon as possible. Take your time on the applications. Try to get the most money for your education as you can.
 ROTC requires mental acuteness and physical resistance. It is a strenuous program, but will guarantee you a position as an officer after completion.Apply for additional scholarship opportunities once in ROTC. You should be able to get a fair share of money for participating in the extensive program.
 Once you finish ROTC, you will face the choice of becoming a commissioned officer. If you decide not to choose to be an officer, you may be required to serve for a small amount of time. Accepting a position as a commissioned officer will require you to serve up to eight years.

