 3D imaging works by sending different image information to each eye, to create the illusion of depth.The reality is that the 3D technology requires that your sense of depth perception needs constant tricking. In so doing, your eyes keep trying to refocus, and cannot succeed, but keep trying to do so. Your eye muscles become fatigued and your brain begins to tire from the confusion.The exact intricacies involved are far more complex and if you're interested, it's a good idea to do deeper research.;
, While technology is wonderful when used correctly and in a balanced manner, over-use and misuse of technology is the bane of our lives. We cannot thrive if we overload our senses, lose our sense of time, or abandon our creativity to constant technological stimulation. For this reason, be cautious when adopting 3D technology in your home, for all users. Realize the impact of 3D technology will take years to unfold and being wise in the process of using it will ensure that your usage is healthy.
 Children under your care are your responsibility and their potential vulnerability to over-use and over-stimulation by 3D technology is something you must be careful about.


Ensure that use of 3D technology is moderate. With your children's senses still under development, the precautionary approach suggests using common sense and not overdoing exposure to 3D technology.
Monitor the usage and behavior of all children to determine good exposure levels that work for your children. If you see any behavioral changes that are not healthy or normal by the standards of your own child, pull the plug or minimize/police usage.
Consider not allowing very young children to use 3D technology at all. At what age you draw the line is up to your parenting decisions but consider the maturity, developmental stage, emotional stability, and any addictive tendencies of your child when reaching your decision. Speak with health professionals for guidance about any concerns you have.
 Give your brain and eyes a rest by taking frequent breaks to do something else entirely:


Consider practicing an eye refocusing exercise, such as exercises suggested for taking breaks from computer screens.

Stretch your whole body. Go for a walk, do some stretches, run up and down the stairs, do something to stretch all your muscles.
Change the pace. Go and read, have a nap, ring up a friend and talk on the phone, write a poem, clean your teeth, water the plants, walk the dog, etc. Give yourself a real change of pace break.
 Every person's reaction to constant stimuli differs. If you find yourself reacting badly, you will need to take additional precautions. For example, if you find yourself losing a sense of reality, experiencing migraines or seizures, feeling nauseous, etc., you have found your own personal limitations that require immediate attention.


Seek medical advice immediately for serious issues such as seizures, migraines, etc.
Limit time spent with 3D technology if you are experiencing any sensations of reality change. Talk to your doctor or health specialist if needed.
If you are a highly sensitive person (HSP), or somebody who is easily overwhelmed by external stimuli, you might need to take extra care when using 3D technology.
 Devin Coldewey advises that it might be a good idea to opt out until the technology improves.Given that the quality of the products involved in home 3D technology is still under development, it's wise advice. Delay your gratification for the sake of a healthier, more enjoyable experience later.

