 Follow the steps in the band or yarn section to create braids in your horse's mane. At the end of it, you should have a line of braids running down your horse's neck. While there are no rules determining how many button braids to use, different competitions follow different fashion fads:Dressage competitions, where button braids are most popular, use 11, 13, 15, or 17 braids.
In show hunter competitions, 40 or more tiny button braids are a more favored style.
In jumper competitions and other situations where style does not earn points, braid however you like, or not at all.
 Find a sturdy cotton thread that matches your horse's mane color, or use a brightly colored thread for an easier practice session. Thread the needle, then tie a knot in the thread to keep it from slipping out.


You can buy "plaiting thread" for this purpose, but any strong cotton thread will work.
 Push the needle through the tip of the braid and pull it through. Do this two or three times in the same direction, until the thread is securely lodged in the braid., Fold the tip of the braid under the rest of the braid, to rest against the horse's neck. Secure the tip of the braid to the base of the braid by pushing the needle and thread through.
 If the braid still dangles down in a line, roll the middle under the braid to form a ball. This is the "button braid" look we're going for, also called a "rosette braid" or "dressage braid."

, Push the needle through the left side of the button braid, as close to the neck as you can work without risk of poking the horse. Pull the needle back through the right side of the braid base, then push it through the center.
 Bring the needle back over to the side of the braid you're next to. Repeat the last step at least two more times, pushing it through the left, pulling back through the right side, then pushing out again through the center.You are done when the braid is tight and secure, and there is no loose thread.


These balled-up braids can rest on top of the neck (better for long, thin necks) or fall slightly onto the right side (better for short, wide necks). You can control their position by how tightly you sew them, but don't stress too much about this while you're learning.
 Loop the thread around one of your previous stitches, but don't pull it all the way tight. Leave a small loop.
 Thread the needle through the loop and tighten to create a knot close to the base of the braid. Cut the thread with a pair of scissors, as close to the knot as possible.
 Repeat for each section of the mane. checking to make sure each section has roughly the same amount of hair.


See the Tips section for how to protect the braids overnight. When it comes time to remove them, snip off a stitch on the left side and a stitch on the right with a pair of scissors, carefully avoiding the braid itself. Brush the mane down with a wet brush after all braids are removed.

