 As its name suggests, one of the main causes of heat rash is exposure to hot weather that encourages sweating. The less you sweat, the less sweat will build up behind your blocked pores and the less irritated your rash will be. Thus, the more time you can spend out of hot weather, the better.If you have access to it, spending time in an air-conditioned area is a very good idea. Not only does air conditioning make the air cooler — it also makes it much less humid.This is a big help when it comes to fighting heat rash, as high humidity keeps sweat from evaporating, worsening heat rash.;
, If you're suffering from heat rash, it's wise to wear clothes that exposes your skin to fresh air. This gives the sweat and moisture on the skin a chance to evaporate and prevents moisture from building up around the rash like it would with tight clothing.


It's not just about the clothes you wear — it's also about what they're made of. Fabrics like cotton and more breathable, jersey-like exercise weaves tend to be best, while sheer artificial fabrics like nylon and polyester are least breathable.
If you're in hot weather, you may not want to wear clothes that outright expose your skin (like shorts, tank tops, etc.) These garments run the risk of sunburn, which will just make your skin more irritated and vulnerable to damage. Apply sunscreen generously or stick to loose but skin-covering clothes.
 Exercise raises your body temperature and makes you sweat — exactly what you don't want when you have a heat rash. Though physical activity is great for long-term health, in the short term, it can keep a heat rash from healing and even make it worse. Take the opportunity to avoid intense physical activities while you're waiting for your rash to get better, especially if you would be doing them in hot, humid environments. This includes:


Sports
Hiking
Running
Weightlifting/calisthenics
...and so on.
 Sometimes, especially in hot and humid climates, it can be difficult to keep heat rash-affected skin completely dry, even if you avoid exercise. In these cases, try applying a small amount of talcum powder, baby powder, or corn starch (in a pinch) to the affected area. These powders absorb moisture, keeping the skin dry.This can be a big help if, for whatever reason, you can't follow all of the directions above.


Don't use scented or perfumed powders, which can irritate rash-affected skin. You also will not want to apply any sort of powder to open wounds, as this can lead to infection.
 Keeping the skin clean is important when you have virtually any kind of rash. Dirt, grime, and bacteria can all make a heat rash worse by starting an infection, but regular bathing (at least once per day while you have a rash) can help keep your skin free of these contaminants. When you do bathe, don't use a towel on the rash-affected skin. Instead, let it gradually air dry.Towels can irritate the skin further and transfer infection-causing bacteria on to it.
 When you have a heat rash, remember — you don't have to wear the same clothes all day. If your work or other responsibilities keep you from wearing the sorts of breathable clothes that are best for heat rash, take them off when you get a chance to rest. This isn't an ideal situation, but giving the skin a chance to breathe some of the time is better than never giving it a chance to breathe at all.


For example, let's say you're in a hot, humid jungle and you have heat rash on your foot. However, your work requires you to wear thick rubber boots. In this case, you might try switching to a loose pair of sandals at the end of each day after your cool-off shower. Exposing your heat rash to fresh air as often as possible will only help your situation.

