 Be sure to properly identify and research each and every plant before you use them to find the right dosage and ensure that it isn’t toxic.Some of the most common herbs used in infusions include burdock root, comfrey leaf, nettle leaf, red clover, linden flowers, raspberry leaf, and oatstraw.For a more extensive catalog of nourishing herbs that are appropriate for infusions, see Superfoods for Superhealth’s list by usage: http://www.superfoods-for-superhealth.com/herbal-tea-alchemy.html

Each herb has different associated uses and properties. If you’re looking for an infusion that provides a specific medicinal or health benefit, do an online search for it; for instance, “herbal infusions for calcium” or “herbal infusions for menopause.”If you plan on making a lot of infusions, consider getting a reference book written by a herbalist, such as Rosemary Gladstar’s Herbal Recipes for Vibrant Health, Bartram’s Encyclopedia of Herbal Medicine, or Michael Castleman’s The Healing Herbs.
 As you look up each plant, you should also note which parts of a plant (such as the roots, seeds, leaves, flowers) should be used for herbal infusions so that you’re not adding toxic, distasteful, or superfluous parts.For instance, red clover leaves shouldn't be used for red clover infusions, as they offer barely any flavor or benefits. You only want to use the flowers. Whereas with a plant like comfrey, you should only use the leaves.
 Reputable suppliers will specialize in herbs and provide plant descriptions and information about the uses of each plant. They will also identify each herb with its botanical or scientific name.Any herbs you buy should be labeled with their scientific names, since there are often many different species associated with a given common name. For instance, “Marigold” can refer to a nourishing herb or an annual bedding flower. You want the one that’s called “Calendula officinalis.”
Many suppliers offer dried herbs that are especially prepared for the purpose of infusions. Purchasing them in bulk will cut your costs and your prep time.
If you grow your own, be sure to harvest each herb separately and create a fail-proof labeling system to identify each.