 Before you can become more than friends, you have to determine if your friend is open in general to being in a relationship with someone that is bisexual.Knowing how they feel about it will let you know whether you have a chance for more than friendship.


You can ask them directly by saying something like, “How do you feel about dating someone that is bisexual?”
Play a game like ‘Would You Rather’, ‘Truth or Dare’, or ‘What if’ to indirectly ask their feelings.
For instance, “Tell me what you truly think about bisexual relationships or, “What would you do if you found out I was bisexual?”

If your friend responds negatively, you may want to think about whether becoming more than friends is a good idea.;
, If your friend doesn’t already know, then you’ve got to tell them. As scary as the thought of this might be, the only way you are going to become more than friends is if you let them know you are bisexual.


You don’t have to make a big deal out of it, just mention it as part of normal conversation.
You can say it directly but casually with something like, “And since I’m bi, my mom tries to hook me up with double the people! She’s relentless”
You can get them to ask you by saying something like, “The Pride Parade seems like it’s going to be fun.”
They will probably ask if you are gay and you can respond, “I’m bi.”

, It’s one great way to flirt and show that you want to become more than friends without saying it.It’s also a way to tell how into you they might be without asking.


Touch their arm, hand, or knee briefly while you are talking. Look at them for just a moment longer than needed to indicate that you want to be more than friends.Pairing your gaze with a touch definitely sends the message that you have some interest in being more than friends.
For instance, when you compliment your friend on his haircut, keep looking into his eyes for a second or two. If you’re feeling bold, touch his hair teasingly, also.
Notice how they react. If they gaze back or smile, it may be a sign they want to be more than friends, too. If they shrink away from your touch, you may need to reconsider becoming more than friends.
 Even though you want to become more than friends and are flirting with your friend, take things slowly.It will be easier to become more than friends if your friend doesn’t feel pressured. Rushing things will only make it awkward for both of you.


Your friend may need to time to get used to you flirting with them. This might be even more true if they have never dated someone of the same (or opposite) sex.
They may also need to time to adjust to the fact that you are bisexual. Depending on their views, this may be easy or hard for them to accept.

