 Dachshunds will return the love you give them twice over, and in some cases four times. You have a job ahead of you that at times will be hard but most of the time will go better than you expect. If you are a single person who has a full-time job, you should consider finding a dog boarding facility that can take care of a dog with medical problems.


Keep in mind though that very few people can take as good of care of your dog as you personally will. If you are single, and can take care of your dog during his entire recovery, you have something that you can be proud of. If you are married, and have kids that are good with animals, you have a situation that the entire family can be proud of.
You may think that you know your Dachshund very well, but once the recovery is over, you will find that you have come to know your dog even better and, if you have a smart dog, he will come to know you better. Never underestimate the intelligence of a Dachshund. At the end of this situation, you and your dog will become more bonded, even if you thought it was not possible to love your dog more than you already did.;
, Don't get one that the dog will barely fit in because right after surgery there will be times that you will need to physically lift him out of the crate. This is hard to do in a small crate. Later, when your dog is able to move, he will appreciate the extra space.


The crate in the right hand picture is a bit too large, but this type can come with rollers. The all-wire types usually do not. (And yes, the dog in the picture looks like a lab ––the image is for the benefit of the crate). Note of caution: It's not a good idea to let a cat stay on a Dachshund's crate after surgery, even if they got along very well before. The dog may see the crate as "his" and only want humans around it.
 Even if your dog is house trained, it's very likely that right after surgery, he will have an accident in the crate. After a bit of time has passed, your dog will let you know when it's time to go out and potty. The blue liner in the right hand picture is a good choice.
 The bed on the right is a good choice because it is square and thick. You can also use the blankets you already have on hand to make your own bed crate to your satisfaction. Your goal is to ease your dog's pain and keep him warm too. Making your dog comfortable will speed up his recovery and reduce your workload.
 If your dog has a weight problem, it might be advisable to keep the food outside of the crate unless your veterinarian recommends otherwise. An overweight dog may not heal as quickly and will be more prone to re-injuring the hip. If you have to cut back on food, it would be a good idea to give your dog vitamins, but you'll need to clear this with your vet just to make sure that it does not interfere with whatever medications your dog is taking. There really are a surprising number of things that may interfere with medications. The food and water bowls on the right are a bit too big for a crate. The combined food and water bowls need frequent cleaning due to the fact that some pets scatter their food into the water.
 This is where the rollers come in handy. A Dachshund will recover faster if he can see you a majority of the time. This is also especially helpful right after surgery, as you will need to be able to monitor your pet for any changes.
 Your vet should have given you some pain medication for your dog. They may tell you to give the meds when you think your dog is in pain. The problem with this is that dogs will sometimes hide their pain from their owners - especially a Dachshund. Right after surgery you should give your dog the pain meds regardless of whether they look like they are in pain or not. After a few days you should be able to cut back gradually on the number of times per day you give the pain meds. If the surgery went well and you have taken good care of them, the need for pain meds will decrease. If your dog still appears to be hurting, you need to call your vet.
 This all depends on how severe the injury was and how extensive your Dachshund's surgery was. There is no one set of rules that applies to all situations. Some dogs with successful surgery may be able to walk short distances within a day or so after the procedure.
 Check for drainage, swelling, redness, or anything that looks unusual. If the drainage is clear in color there is little need for concern, but if it does not stop after a few days you need to call your vet.


Any drainage that is not clear needs to be reported.
Swelling can be caused by the surgery itself, but if it does not appear to be going away, or if it increases, you need to call your vet.
Redness can be caused by the surgery also, but if it does not go away, increases, or if you observe a new area, you need to call your vet. Keep the area as clean and dry as possible. A new infection will seriously hamper your dog's recovery time and increase your workload.
 Be sure to follow the instructions on the bottle. Keep notes on the times you gave your dog any medication. It's easy even for an experienced person to forget when they gave their dog his last dose of meds and how many times that day they gave them. Develop a new habit of writing the times down. It will come in handy.
 When your dog comes home it should be wearing a cone collar provided by your vet. Your dog will need to wear this at all times until the stitches are removed. This is to prevent him from biting at or licking his stitches. Your dog will hate it but it is a necessary evil. It can be removed sometime after the stitches are removed. If your dog starts licking the surgery site again, the collar will need to be put back on. A little bit of licking is okay––a lot of licking is not.


Don't throw the collar away. It's possible it can be used as a training tool once your dog has recovered. If, and only if, you catch your dog in the act of doing something that will cause him great harm, tell him "No" and put the collar back on again for a short period of time. If you have a smart dog, he will get the message that what he just did can be very harmful. Don't use the collar for minor everyday transgressions, and never use it unless you have caught the dog doing something right at that very time. Putting it on later or allowing the kids to put it on for fun sends a confusing message to the dog.
 When taking your Dachshund out of the crate to potty, you will need a belly sling to support his stomach. This takes weight off of the dog's hips. Finding one online or in a pet store is next to impossible. The sling in the picture was probably provided by a vet. Be sure to ask if they have one to spare.


You can rig one up yourself fairly easily and custom fit it to you and your Dachshund's liking. You can take a long towel, run it underneath your dog's belly, and tie it in a knot where you hold it.
The idea is to be able to walk comfortably and support your dog's weight. This is not a perfect system, but it does work. You may, using your own imagination, come up with something better. This system was used by an elderly man who walked with a cane and had his Dachshund on a leash at the same time. A younger, more able person should be able to use this until they come up with something better.

