 The weight of your vehicle will determine what types of permits and licenses you need to operate an intrastate carrier. The state and federal departments of transportation will rely on gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) and/or the combined license weight (CLW) when making a weight determination. Your GVWR is a value specified by the manufacturer of your vehicle as the loaded weight of a single vehicle. Your CLW is either the declared gross weight of the vehicle for registration purposes or the highest actual gross weight of the vehicle when operated during your current registration.


If your vehicle is less than 10,001 pounds GVWR, no special permits are needed.
If your vehicle is between 10,001 and 26,000 pounds GVWR, you need a US Department of Transportation (DOT) number unless you are farm certified.
If your vehicle is over 26,000 pounds CLW, you need a US DOT number and specified intrastate tax licenses. If you are farm certified, you only need the US DOT number.;
, A US DOT number is issued by the US DOT and acts as a unique identifier for commercial vehicles weighing over 10,001 pounds GVWR. If you are only traveling within a specific state, that state's DOT will be responsible for issuing the US DOT number. You can register for a US DOT number online by visiting the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration website.If you are having trouble with the online application, call your local motor carrier transportation division for help.


Once you obtain your US DOT number, display it on your vehicle before operating., Most states offer a farm certification process allowing you to obtain farm license plates for your vehicle. By obtaining farm certification, you can benefit from lower registration fees, exemptions from weight-mile taxes, exemptions from certain insurance requirements, exemptions from some safety requirements, exemptions from pollution control equipment and emissions testing, and lower International Fuel Tax Agreement (IFTA) fees.


In Oregon, for example, you will fill out a farm certification application asking for your personal information (including your US DOT number), the total number of acres you farm, the vehicles you want farm-certified, and the types and quantities of agricultural products and livestock you produce.If your application for farm certification is accepted, you will receive farm plates to put on your vehicle. If there is a delay in approval, your local DMV will issue you a temporary farm permit., If your vehicle exceeds certain weight allowances you might be required to meet intrastate fuel tax requirements. If this is the case you should obtain the required license application and submit it to your local motor carrier division. For example, in Kentucky, you can fill out a Kentucky Trucking Application in order to request a Kentucky Intrastate Fuel Tax license. The application will require you to provide personal as well as any business information you have. In addition, you will be required to list every vehicle identification number (VIN) for every vehicle you want licensed.Once you have your license for intrastate fuel taxes, you will need to file quarterly tax returns, which require you to reveal your gas usage for the licensed vehicles., Some states require you to get special permits if you are hauling specific agricultural commodities. Check with your state's DOT to determine if you need any special use permits. For example, in Minnesota, some transporters will need to obtain special permits for hauling baled materials (e.g., hay) and livestock.