 These may include change in timings, bus routes, schedule/class assignments, etc.;
, Set a proper budget and choose clothing that expresses you as an individual but are okay to wear to school (no strapless tops, etc). Also buy new accessories if needed like lip gloss and perfume.
 Collaborating information and feelings can help.
 If you have a supply list, stick to it. If not, try to stay near the necessary things such as binders, folders, notebooks, pencils, etc.
 Chances are, you have begun to sleep in over the summer, which is perfectly fine. However, it is now time to get back on track. Each day, go to bed/wake up one hour earlier. Stop when you have reached your normal timings. If you have trouble falling asleep, read a book or take a warm shower. For trouble on waking up, set multiple alarms!

, Doing so will greatly ease stress on the first day.
 You might need storage space to store extra items.
 Relax. School is important, but not worth your health.
 Read up on courses that you are taking this year. Make a plan of how you will utilize your time wisely and do well. Make sure you have finished any homework given over the summer like summer reading.
 Play out in the sun. When school starts, you may or may not be able to do so due to weather or time restrictions.



Start out by filling the bathtub full of warm water. Add any products (like bubble bath) to the water.
Give yourself a manicure.
Relax!

, Go to bed at, say, ten and be sure to wake up at about 6 or 7.
 You don't have to wash your hair, but it is always better to cleanse your body and keep it smelling great. Moreover, people will admire you if you have a pleasant smell. Comb your hair in the shower to avoid tangles. Brushing wet hair can damage it.
 Do not ever forget to do this because you need to have fresh breath and not have cavities. If you didn't floss your teeth last night, do it now. Nobody wants to talk to a person who has bad breath! To save some time, brush your teeth in the shower.
 Everyone should do this to prevent zits and infections.
 Before you brush your hair, use a conditioner as it could increase the ease of combing. Pick what looks best: straightening, curling, crimping, others. Warning! Straighteners, curlers, crimpers, and blow driers damage hair. Pick the look, make sure you have the right tools. Do it with care, and take your time, because these tools usually use heat to power themselves. Be careful!

, If your school allows you to wear home clothing, wear the clothing that works for you. Wear your style and what makes you feel comfortable and confident. If you are a little nervous because of your outfit, ask yourself why. Understand why you are so nervous and look into ways on how you can solve it.
 It helps to make a list on a white board in your room, or a note on your desk at night. Before leaving, look at it, and make sure you have everything.
 It must be a well-balanced and healthy one so that you can stay energized all the way until lunchtime. Toast, porridge or cereal is quick, easy and nutritious. Also have some milk if you can. It makes some people sick though so make sure you can have it. If you can, you should, because it gives you stronger teeth and bones. If you can't, try soy or almond milk. Moreover, breakfast is the most important meal of the day. You need it because you will perform worse in school if you were to skip it.

