 In the event of an accident, get treated right away. Do not wait to consider insurance coverage in the case of a life or death emergency., Even if the accident is not overly serious, you should call for a police car and get an officer to write a report. In case there is any dispute later on about the cause of the accident, the police report may be valuable., It is generally a required term in your insurance contracts that you notify the company immediately if you are involved in an accident. If you have an accident and do not notify your insurance company, they may not be required to protect your interest down the line if the other party files a claim.Call your own auto insurance company. This is usually required by your contract, whether you believe you are at fault or not. If you fail to submit a report, your company may not be required to cover you in case the other driver files a claim. Your company will ask you for information about the accident and will begin its own investigation into the fault of the accident. Do not automatically admit that anything was your fault.
Call your own medical insurance company. This is also usually required by your insurance contract, whether or not you believe you are at fault for the accident. If you have already visited the emergency room, your medical insurance company usually needs to know that, and they will usually instruct you to notify your primary care physician as well, depending on the terms of the insurance policy that you carry.
Call the other driver’s auto insurance company. Especially if you believe that the other driver is at fault, you will contact his or her company to begin the process of filing a claim. That company will not likely begin paying your bills right away, so you should save any receipts for auto repair or medical bills. Later in the process, you may be required to submit the receipts to receive payment., When you arrive at the hospital for treatment, whether to the emergency room or otherwise, the hospital will want your proof of insurance as part of the intake process. This is the start of filing your claim. The hospital will use the information you provide to file a claim on your behalf against the insurance company., Especially if you are travelling away from your ordinary doctor or hospital, you may incur additional out-of-pocket expenses. Keep receipts of any of these, so you can submit them to your insurance agency later., Generally, the auto insurance company will be responsible for paying for the claim first, up to the limit of the coverage.When the auto insurance coverage is exhausted, then the medical insurance will take over payments., Almost every auto insurance policy contains a “cooperation clause,” which requires you to cooperate with the insurance company, answer their questions and assist in any investigation regarding the accident. You will generally be asked to provide a statement about the accident, answer questions that the insurance adjuster will ask, and present your car for inspection., It is important that you keep copies of all bills, invoices and statements that you receive. These may include car repair, car rental, medical bills, etc. It may not even be clear to you at the time whether or not a particular charge will be covered. Save the receipt anyway., This is the step that becomes a bit confusing, because there are several options. Working with an attorney can help.


If the other driver is at fault for the accident, you will submit your claims to his or her auto insurance company.
If the at-fault driver is uninsured, or underinsured, you will begin by submitting your claim to his or her company, but then you may need to file the claim to your own auto insurance company. This is especially true if you carry protection against uninsured motorists.
If you are at fault, you will submit the claim to your own auto insurance company. The auto insurance will cover the costs of medical injuries, up to the extent that you carry personal medical insurance protection.
Finally, submit to your medical insurance company for any portions that are not covered by the other driver's auto insurance or by your auto insurance., If one of the parties was actually performing work-related duties at the time of the accident, another possible source for payment would be that person’s worker’s compensation insurance. A report should be filed at work for this to be considered., If it appears that the existing insurance coverage – either medical or automotive -- is not enough to pay all of the medical costs combined, then you may want to consider filing a law suit against the other driver. At this point, consulting with an attorney is important, to determine whether the suit should be against the driver alone or in combination with one of the insurance companies., In nearly every state, carrying some level of auto insurance is required for all drivers. This will include injury coverage for the driver and for others who may be injured in an accident., The state law usually sets a minimum level for the insurance that you have to purchase. You may, however, choose to purchase more. By paying a higher monthly premium amount, you will be able to increase your coverage or reduce the deductible that you would have to pay in case of an accident.
 Some car insurance policies offer additional types of coverage that you may buy, in addition to the required minimums:


Liability Coverage – this is the minimum coverage required by law in most states. Liability coverage is designed to cover the injuries of the innocent party, paid by the at-fault driver’s insurance company. Your own liability insurance usually will not pay your own injuries.
Personal Injury Protection (PIP) – this is available in states with “no-fault” insurance laws, to make sure that your injuries will be protected regardless of the cause of the accident. PIP can help pay for medical expenses, lost wages, and funeral expenses.
Medical Payments Coverage – this provides for additional coverage for medical expenses that may not be covered by the liability insurance.
Uninsured or Underinsured Motorist Coverage – in case the other driver does not carry adequate insurance to cover your losses, this additional coverage may help protect you., About once a year, you should call your insurance company and speak with a representative about your insurance policy. Make sure that you understand what coverage you have, and what you don’t have. Ask questions about how any hypothetical claims would be paid, and how your automobile insurance would work together with medical insurance. In the end, this is your responsibility.
 Quite often, you have fewer choices, because your medical insurance will be the company provided by your employer. But you still can ask about the level of coverage, the amount of deductibles, and so on.
 Most insurance policies are required to cover the same basic needs, but there can be some variations. Talk with your employer or the insurance representative before deciding on a policy., Health insurance is usually paid for as an amount deducted from your paycheck, but the cost is still just as real. In general, a higher monthly premium will mean either a higher level of care or lower co-payments required at the time of service, or both., Nearly every insurance policy will have some level of deductible and co-payment. The deductible is an amount that you are required to pay before the insurance starts paying. The co-payment is an out-of-pocket amount that you are required to pay for each doctor’s visit, service provided, etc.