 Therapy can be tricky for people with ASPD, because often they do not think that they have a problem or refuse to take responsibility for their actions. However, therapy can help with bringing self-awareness to someone with ASPD. Specific therapies like psychodynamic therapy can help bring awareness to underlying negative thoughts and behaviors while cognitive behavioral therapy can address negative thoughts and behaviors and replace them with more positive ones.It’s important to engage in therapy and not do it just to avoid jail time or other consequences. Therapy can be helpful, but also requires effort.;
, Bringing a spouse and/or family into treatment can help a person with ASPD realize the extent of his behaviors and how they affect those around him. Treatment can help the person address difficulties in being there for the spouse, problems in parenting, difficulties with responsibility, and aggression that can lead to domestic violence.Family therapy can help work on parenting skills or interpersonal skills with a spouse and children.
 While there are no medications specifically on the market to treat antisocial personality disorder, some medications can treat symptoms associated with ASPD. Medications such as antipsychotics, antidepressants, and mood stabilizers can be helpful in moderating associated features such as aggression, violence, or impulsivity.Talk to a psychiatrist in order to obtain medications and be followed while on medication.


It’s important to monitor medication and get medications prescribed through a psychiatrist, as some medications can be misused.
 It appears that people with ASPD show the most severe symptoms during the teen years through twenties; aggressive and harmful behaviors appear to decline in some people.During the teen years and twenties, it’s important to seek treatment, set boundaries, and address addiction problems.


Many people experience a remission of symptoms by the age of 50., It’s common for people with antisocial personality disorder to struggle with addiction to drugs or alcohol. Drugs and alcohol can increase risky behavior, and those who stop using tend to be less likely to engage in criminal behavior and conflicts.Depending on severity, outpatient and inpatient treatments are available. For struggles with alcohol or drugs, one can see a substance abuse specialist on a weekly basis. For a severe addiction, one may benefit from a treatment program, which monitors withdrawal as well as emotional, mental, and medical functioning.Talk to a therapist to see what treatment options best suit the person’s needs.
 Once treatment has been obtained, it’s important to follow up treatment with support groups. Groups like Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous can be helpful in treating and managing drug or alcohol addictions. Having the support of other people and attending weekly meetings can help with accountability.Many people with ASPD have a gambling problem. While specific treatment for gambling is minimal, individuals are encouraged to attend Gamblers Anonymous.
 It’s common for people who have ASPD to suffer from other mental health disorders, such as ADHD, anxiety, depression, and somatic disorders. While treating the symptoms of ASPD, it’s also important to treat accompanying disorders. Seek therapy to address any co-occurring psychological disorders and/or obtain medication from a psychiatrist.
 Those diagnosed with ASPD are at heightened risk for suicide. They may think impulsively or engage in reckless behavior, leading to premature death.Monitor suicidal tendencies, which may include talking about death or suicide, giving away all of one’s possessions, talking about not having a reason to live or feeling hopeless, and withdrawing socially.


If you are in crisis, call the toll-free National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255), or live chat online at http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/, available 24 hours each day, 7 days each week.
You can Call Emergency Services or check yourself into the Emergency Department at your local hospital.
 Adjust the self-talk and begin to decide whether it is true or not. While self-talk seems true, it’s often a reflection of one’s insecurities. When caught in negative thought traps, start asking questions. Ask, “Is it true? What is the evidence for or against my thinking?” Then ask, “are there other ways to approach this situation?” Then, put the situation in perspective and ask, “Will this matter in 5 years time? What’s the best thing that could occur if I go through with this outcome?” Lastly, ask, “ Will this action get me into trouble? Are there any negative outcomes for me?”Acknowledge that the current thinking patterns result in problems with friends or family, or with the law. To avoid negative consequences, start with the thoughts and behaviors and work to adjust them.
 People with ASPD often show impulsive and often dangerous behaviors. Using mindfulness means living fully in the present moment without attaching judgments to anything, but just observing. One can use this technique to observe and respond to impulsivity: simply observe the moments when impulsivity occurs by noticing the way the body, mind, and emotions feel right beforehand. While it may take some practice and impulsivity may only be noticed after the fact, one can read the signs before an impulsive act with practice.Name the impulse or urge. For instance, “This is anger and wanting hit something or someone.”
Respond to the urge through reason. Say, “It’s difficult to patient, but I have to wait right now” or “Right now, I need to calm myself and relax.”

, People with ASPD tend to struggle with interpersonal relationships through violence and aggression, and have run-ins with the law. An overwhelming number of people with ASPD end up in prison. While addressing all symptoms of ASPD may be challenging, one can learn basic skills to function in society without ending up in prison.Things like de-escalating anger, walking away, or not involving oneself in dangerous situations can all help avoid incarceration.
 Many people with ASPD end up in prison due to their violence, aggression, and impulsivity of actions. For some, prison is the safest place so that offenders do not have an opportunity to keep offending and decrease their social impact.However, avoid prison as best as one can by following treatment, addressing difficulties in emotions and behavior, and seeking support through treatment.

