 The proliferation of mobile phones and apps have given rise to all sorts of new ways of making money on your own terms. Part time jobs can be done through novel apps that make it easy to connect you with tasks, customers, and simple ways of getting payment. There are a multitude of options to fit your skills.


Drive people. You’ve probably already used ridesharing apps like Uber and Lyft. Using an app to connect people through mobile devices, these apps turn ordinary people with a car, into professional, part time drivers. The difference between working for a ride app and being a taxi driver is the ability to choose your own hours, and not having to ever handle cash; payment is processed through the app. Both Uber and Lyft offer sign on bonuses during promotion periods.
Sell your photos. Foap is an app which allows you to post your mobile phone pictures for sale. You would be surprised at the amount of people willing to pay for your cat photos.
Work odd jobs. Several apps such as TaskRabbit and Zaarly list jobs ranging from cleaning someone’s attic to help pulling a prank. You simply sign up for a job and get paid through the app when the task is complete., Temp agencies connect part time workers with employers. Any college town is sure to have a temp agency. They will be the ones to interview and hire you, taking away the need to look for individual positions and different company. Once the job at one company is finished, they will assign you to the next one. Temp agencies, like Shiftgig and Manpower, look for people who are organized, professional, and work well in an office setting.


Online temp agencies may have different focuses; some, like Shiftgig, focus mostly on the service industry. Temp agencies are different from full-time employment agencies in that once they hire you, you pick your own shifts, and you can work as much or as little as you want., Many websites and businesses are looking for contributors to their articles and blogs. Through the magic of the internet, you can work remotely and get paid by the task. The opportunities vary widely and can take a bit of sleuthing to find the right fit for you. Here are some examples of online, remote work:



Appen has many listing for online jobs, including a standing call for social media evaluators to report on the effectiveness of social media for other companies. If you are social media savvy, this could be a great opportunity for you.
Join a blogging service and get paid to write articles. Many websites look for people to write blog posts on topics of their choosing. Examples include Squidoo, Hubpages, and About.com.
Offer your services through websites like Fiverr. It’s a platform for writing, editing, video, and translation work. In reference to the name, you’ll get paid five bucks for completing a job. Build up a reputation and you can get more jobs.

