


Thieves are a very interesting class in MS. They can jump-attack with throwing stars and attack up close with daggers (although you will have to choose between those). They also have the coolest-looking equipment (debatable). Thieves don't get much defense, but they have high avoid-ability, making the enemies tend to miss. They get fast attacks instead of few strong blows, and as a 2nd class, they get one of the most fun skills in MS, Haste.
Pros:

Fast attacks
Range (for star-throwers or melee (knife-wielders) but can go hybrid
Can jump-attack
High accuracy (though not as high as Bowmen) and very avoid-ability
Triple Throw with Shadow Partner (Night Lord) speed rivals the Bow Master's Hurricane
Alchemist is very useful for Hermits (Heals 150% more from pots, and things like onyx apple last 15 minutes instead of 10)
Hermit's low survivability rate is made up for their good avoid-ability skills such as flash jump, although it takes some practice to get used to using it correctly. Also a good skill to get around faster.
Meso Guard greatly increases bandits survivability rate
Meso Explosion is a very powerful skill, but you have to use your own meso's for it.
Night Lords 4th job skill Ninja Storm knocks back all monster in range and stuns them so you have more room to attack (commonly achieved in much higher levels because of the difficulty acquiring the skill)
One of the best choices in parties for boss runs


Cons:

Mediocre HP
Assassins must be funded (to have good stars e.g. Ilbis, which cost around 15mill depending on the world)
Dagger thieves have the hardest time leveling in the 1st job (unless they use stars until level 30)
Assassins generally have less defense than Bandits because if the ability to wield shields
Assassins have nothing to protect their HP (But they can HP wash, requires a bit of nx)
Dagger thieves (Bandits) are harder to level until 3rd job
Daggers have short range, though fixed by Boomerang Step in 4th Job
Assassins tend to require more meso to maintain than other classes as well as the price of acquiring stars.
Thieves are very abundant, dagger and star alike (though much more of the latter).



