 The total file size is approximately 3.5 GB, so it might take a while to download. A good way to download it is to leave your computer on the entire night while you sleep, and when you wake up the file should be about finished.;
, You can install the ISO on a USB, or burn it to a disk. After doing following one of the steps below, restart your computer and boot off your media device.



Install via DVD. Download the image burning software of your choice and burn your ISO.

Install via USB. Download a program to create a live bootable USB drive in Linux. Here is a tutorial on how to do that.
 You can find a live installer shortcut directly on the desktop, or you can click the AV Linux system menu, then under the System tab, select Live Installer.
 A window will appear, asking you whether you would like to proceed in the installation. Just click Yes.
 AV Linux can offer you a different locale instead of English. However, to keep this tutorial short, we will just skip the locale selection and use English as the default locale. Click No. A new window will appear, notifying you that you need to create 1 root partition and one linux-swap partition. At this moment, if you wish to install AV Linux on a removable media device, it would be wise to attach it now. Then just click OK to continue., A list of hard drives will be displayed. It might be difficult to identify the exact hard drive you wish to use, so just determine the size of the hard disk you wish to use, then select the hard disk displayed with the same size (sizes are displayed as MBs). Then click OK.
 This is where the main system will be installed. You might need to unmount and delete the hard disk first. After doing so, right click the disk and create a new partition. You can drag the box's side toward the right or left to set the main partition size. Also, select the format of the new partition to be ext2 and feel free to give your partition a label. Don't forget to leave at least 1 GB for the linux-swap partition. Then click +Add.
 Near the top of the window, click the Apply icon in the toolbar and confirm. Depending on the size of your partition and hard disk, this process could take several minutes.
 If you wish, you can save the details; if not, then just click Close.
 Right click the 1 GB empty space you previously saved in step 8 and create another partition. Select the format to be linux-swap, then click +Add and confirm your change. Repeat step 9 and apply the changes you made on the linux-swap partition. Then close the GParted software window.
 A new window should appear, asking you to select the partition in which to install the root system. If you followed the above steps correctly, then you should see your disk you previously partitioned. Double click it.
 If you follow step 11 correctly, you should see your 1 GB partition. Double click it too.
 If you are using a newer computer, an ext4 filesystem will be best; if you are using an older computer (2005 and before), an ext2 filesystem will probably be best.
 If you're a newbie and just trying this out, then double-click the first option.
 The information includes a root password, which is need to modify the deepest parts of AV Linux. Also, fill in a password for your user. You will be required to type in a username and password when logging into AV Linux. None of this information can be left blank. When you're done, click OK.
 Again, if you're just a newbie trying out AV Linux, then just double click the first option.
 In this case, click No., If you're having difficulty finding your city, first locate which zone you're in, then search for your city. Everything is arranged in Alphabetical order., A last window will be displayed before the installation process. Read it carefully and check for mistakes. If you don't see any, continue with the installation.
 Depending on your computer speed, the installation could take as little as 20 minutes or as long as several hours.
 You have successfully install AV Linux. Reboot your computer before you begin to use it.

