 All cats are carnivores, meaning that they should only eat animal tissues. This means that any food you buy them should consist of predominately meat. Look at the packaging of potential cat foods and make sure that the first few ingredients are some sort of meat or meat byproducts.


Follow the directions on the packaging for meal size and frequency. This is usually based on your cat's size and age. If you are not sure that the portion size and frequency suggested is right for your cat, discuss it with your veterinarian.
If you are unsure about choosing a type and brand of food, consult with your veterinarian. They should have recommendations for your particular cat.
 Cats need constant access to water in order to stay properly hydrated. Make sure that their water is clean and cool. Be sure to change it daily so that it is fresh.


If your cat is interested in running water, consider getting it its own drinking fountain. There are a variety of cat drinking fountains available that recirculate water constantly, attracting your cat to come and drink, and maybe to play around in the water a little bit., A Devon rex needs to get both annual veterinary care and veterinary care if it is sick or injured. Your cat should have an annual exam every year to assess its overall health and to give it preventative veterinary care, such as administering vaccines.


Make sure that your cat is assessed for common genetic illnesses that occur in Devon rex cats. These include hereditary baldness, heart disease, malassezia dermatitis (a yeast infection in the ears or on the skin), hip dysplasia, urticaria pigmentosa (a skin infection that causes sores on the skin), and Devon rex myopathy, which causes the cat to become very weak and tired., All cats should be spayed or neutered. This usually occurs when the cat is between three and six months old. Spaying and neutering helps to limit pet populations in general, but it can also help the health and happiness of your cat.Male cats that are desexed don't spray and they are protected from the chance of testicular or prostate cancer.
Female cats that are fixed have a lower chance of uterine infections and mammary cancer later in life.

