 The reason for the rejection might just be that they aren't looking for an artist like you. They may want a different genre or a different styling. Sometimes it is just that you have brown hair or you are a man and they need a female singer. Put on a good front. Be a good sport. This is so important because they may like your next project or your revise and if you make a big deal about how upset the negative response made you, they may not want to work with you in the future.;
, After you receive the negative response thank the person for their honest opinion, and ask them how they think you can improve your work. This shows you care about your music and want to learn how to improve it.
 Don't go advertising that someone hated your music or song. This is one of the biggest mistakes artist and songwriters do.
 When you get home and you are feeling the blues because of the negative response, take some time and listen to the songs again with their advice in mind. Write down ways you can improve on the song or your voice. After you do this I advise you to take some time away from that song, not long, but enough time that you can get an objective viewpoint yourself.
 If you are having pitching issues on the song don't worry, call a voice teacher ASAP. Voice teachers are essential for all singers. Yes, even the good ones need voice teachers. The reason voice is taught is to help you learn how to build and maintain a solid voice. The voice teacher will work with your flaws and help you to improve. So they say you are tone deaf, this isn't a life sentence to never perform again. Go to a voice teacher and have them help you with finding tones. There is a way to learn this and a good voice teacher will be able to help you.
 Rather, take the rejection as a learning tool. When you evaluate your music and improve on the work it makes a better musician out of you. Many times new songwriters or singers and musicians present their work way too early in the creative process. Maybe your work is just not a finished product.
 Great musicians are always learning new ways to present their talent.
 Try to keep you head up, not everyone is truthful either. Maybe they have a reason for putting your talent or music down. Some people do this when they are jealous of others.
 The next step is to get another opinion after you improve on your project. The next answer may be a "yes"!

