 Consider adding volume to your hair while you sleep. Gently twist your hair in a bun on the top of your head to help lift the hair from the root. Secure it with a gentle hair band like a soft scrunchie or an elastic hair band so you do not break or damage your hair.Remove the band in the morning and run your fingers through your hair to loosen up your strands.


Let a half of an inch (1.27 cm) of your hair stick out beneath the hair tie so the tips of your hair will have a natural, relaxed look.Spray your locks with hairspray after removing the hair band.
 Hot rollers are a great way to style air dried hair to add volume. Pull a section of your hair taut and gently pull it up toward the ceiling. Leave the ends of your hair out, place the hot roller against your hair, and roll it gently toward your scalp. Place the ends of your hair beneath the roller once you have reached your scalp and secure it with the roller pin.The rollers should be left in your hair for 20 minutes.


After you have removed the rollers, gently work your fingers through your hair to loosen the curls, but don’t use a hairbrush. Brushing your hair can remove some of the volume. Secure your locks by using hairspray., Create voluminous hair by teasing your hair with a comb. Lift a 2 to 3 in (5 to 7.5 cm) wide section of your hair toward the ceiling with one hand as you hold the comb in the other. Place the comb in your hair about 2 in (5 cm) away from your roots and begin to comb in a downward motion. Continue moving from section to section until you have reached the desired volume, and gently smooth out your hair with your hands or a bristled brush.Spray your hair with hairspray to maintain the volume throughout the day.
Don’t vigorously tease back and forth. This can break and tangle your hair., A simple way to add volume to your air dried hair is to switch your part. If you typically part your hair in the middle, try a side part. If you usually part it on the left, flip it to the right. Changing the part will change how the roots lie on your head, giving your hair an immediate and lift., A new haircut can help add volume to your hair. Talk to your hairstylist about a cut that might work for you.Long layers can add more volume to your hair while a long or ruffled bob can help give your hair a fuller shape.