 If you want to be able to practice segmented sleep, you need to be on a regular sleep schedule. Establish a set sleep/wake time that allows you to get adequate sleep. From there, you will break your sleep time into segments.Aim for around 7 and a half hours of sleep per night and set a schedule that allows you to achieve this. For example, you can go to bed every night at 12:30 a.m and then wake up at 8 a.m.
Stick very strictly to this schedule. Eventually, you will begin feeling tired around 12:30 and energetic around 8 a.m. As time goes by, you will not even rely on an alarm clock to wake up in the morning.
Keep on your sleep schedule as long as it takes. Some people will adjust quicker than others. Once you're easily falling asleep at night and waking up in the morning, you can begin breaking your sleep into chunks.;
, Start small. If you try to break up your sleep too fast, you will not be able to maintain a segmented schedule. To start, break up your sleep into two segments.Aim for about a 90 minute break in between sleep segments. Do not attempt to alter the amount of sleep you're getting.
For example, go to sleep at 12:30 AM and then wake up at 4:30 AM. Stay awake until 6 AM and then sleep from 6 AM to 9:30 AM.
It will take time to adjust. Expect to feel slightly groggy and off at first. You may not get back to sleep exactly at 6 AM, but if you're strict about attempting to sleep at 6 and always getting up at 9, your body will eventually adjust.
 Eventually, you will want to further segment your sleep. Decrease your nighttime sleep in small intervals. Try to go from 7 and a half hours of nighttime sleep to six hours of nighttime sleep.For example, go to bed at 12:30 AM and then wake up at 3:30 AM. Stay up until 5:30 AM. Go back to sleep and then wake up at 8:30 AM.
 You will need to make up for the sleep during the day. If you've cut back to six hours of sleep at night, try to get 90 minutes to 2 hours of sleep in during the day. For example, take a nap at noon for an hour each day. Then, take another hour long nap at 4 PM.At first, it may be difficult to nod off during the day. Your body is likely not used to sleeping when it's light out. However, if you're strict your schedule your body will adapt. You will begin to feel sleepy when nap time arises.

