 This is for taking notes.;
, Examples are: Basic Personality, Family and Relationships, Health and Leisure, Career and Abilities, and Strengths and Weaknesses.
 But don't rely too much on the traditional interpretations of the cluster types.
 Just relying on the four elements' signs can be misleading so don't rely on this too heavily. But the modes are more accurate. Cardinal means initiative. Fixed signs mean stubbornness and rigidity, and passion. Mutable signs often indicate flexibility and a good mind.
 Start always with the ASC or Ascendant. Then the Sun in Sign, Sun in House, Sun's Aspects, the Moon, and so on.
 For example, a Moon in Taurus will have something to say about that person's basic character, family relations (the mother especially), emotional needs, talents and health.


For each Subject Heading, insert the relevant keywords from that placement. In the case of a Taurus Moon, keywords and phrases such as "emotional stability" for Basic Personality, "loyalty" and "constancy" for Relationships, "fertility" and "good singing voice" in Health and Leisure, etc.
, For example, "quick temper" and "self-centeredness" may be suggested by a Sun in Aries, a Sun Square Mars, a Stellium in Aries or Leo, and a Sun Conjunct Midheaven (MC). When this happens, you can be sure you have found a dominant trait in your subject's psyche.


On the other hand, if a trait is suggested only once, it may not be that strong unless it is a very close aspect or the planet involved is strong (personalized, ruling, dignified, etc.). Do not stress a trait too much if you are not sure it is that influential.
 Then think of the qualities of that planet, sign or house. Consider this when writing your interpretation.
 By now, you should see a picture of your client/subject in your mind. Proceed systematically, referring to your notes always.
 A long report is boring and repetitive; a short one is useless.
 Or email it to your client in DOC or PDF format. There are free PDF makers available online.
 Don't make the mistake of skipping dialogue with your client. You cannot learn from a one-sided reading. Ask him or her for feedback.

