 The tongue brush is most effective at loosening unwanted material from between the papillae and taste buds that cover the surface of your tongue.Because a tongue brush is best used to loosen material from the surface of your tongue, you will need to swish water in your mouth for approximately 10 seconds after brushing and spit it out to remove the material that was loosened from your tongue.You can also use a tongue scraper after a tongue brush for extra cleaning power.A study has shown that a tongue brush is just as effective as a tongue scraper, so have no reservations about using a tongue brush if it is most comfortable for you.;
, These will be less likely to trigger your gag reflex and are specifically designed to get the residue out of the grooves and crevices of your tongue.
 The tip of your tongue is self-cleaning because it rubs against your hard palate (the “roof” of your mouth); however, the back of your tongue doesn’t create enough friction against your soft palate to result in significant cleansing.Therefore, when you choose a tongue brush, be sure that it will reach to the back of your tongue.


The average human tongue is approximately four inches long.Therefore, you should make sure that the handle of your tongue brush is at least this long (preferably longer) so that it will reach the posterior of your tongue comfortably.
 If you wish, you can use a toothbrush as a tongue brush as well. If you decide to use a traditional toothbrush as a tongue cleaner, it has been shown that toothbrushes that have soft bristles work better to clean your tongue than toothbrushes with rigid bristles.Be aware that a regular toothbrush may not be as effective as a specialized tongue brush. Studies have shown that regular toothbrush bristles may not do a thorough job of cleaning your tongue when compared to a specialized tongue brush., If you have a strong gag reflex, a tongue brush may not be the best tongue cleaner for you; instead, you may want to try a tongue scraper.Even if you have an active gag reflex, you might find that it diminishes over time with consistent tongue brushing., Unlike a brush, which works to loosen food particles and bacteria from the crevices in your tongue, a scraper can actually be used to remove this unwanted material from your mouth. If you have a particularly strong gag reflex, a tongue scraper may be the right tongue cleaner for you.
 Check the size of your tongue in a mirror in order to find the right sized cleaner. A wide tongue scraper can clean the tongue in fewer strokes. A smaller scraper is suitable for older children and smaller tongues while a wider-angled scraper is ideal for adults. The average tongue is approximately four inches long, and chances are that your tongue is around that length.Because it has a lower profile, a tongue scraper is less likely to trigger a gag reflex, even if you have a small tongue or short tongue., Tongue scrapers can be made of plastic, or a more durable material such as stainless steel or copper. The type of material you choose for your tongue scraper will determine how long you should keep the scraper and how you should clean the scraper.


Tongue scrapers that are made out of plastic should be thrown away routinely because they are more likely to harbor germs.
Stainless steel tongue scrapers can be easily sterilized with boiling water or antibacterial solutions, but they can be more expensive. Stainless steel or copper tongue scrapers are relatively easy to keep germ free with the proper care.Pick a plastic tongue scraper if you have a sensitive tongue. They tend to be gentler on the tongue than metal scrapers.
 If you aren’t interested in buying a specialized tongue scraper, you can use an inverted spoon.Hold the spoon so that the tip is facing the back of your throat and the concave part of the spoon is facing toward the surface of your tongue.
Press the tip of the spoon into the back of your tongue, and drag it along the surface of your tongue until you reach the front.
Rinse any debris off the spoon and repeat the scraping motion across the rest of the surface of your tongue.
 Your dentist may have samples of various tongue cleaners that you can try out before making a purchase, or may be able to advise you regarding the tongue cleaner that may work best for you.


Ask your dentist if you have a geographical, hairy, or coated tongue. These tongue conditions may require more frequent cleaning to prevent bad breath and bacteria growth.
 If you are looking for a tongue cleaner online, a website such as Amazon or a pharmacy website may have opinions from people who used the product and can provide pros and cons.
 You may need to take your tongue cleaner for a “test drive” before finding the one that is best for you. Once you purchase a tongue cleaner, try it out for a few months and be willing to try another model if it does not adequately meet your needs.