 Cut out a 3-inch by 2-inch (7.6-cm by 5-cm) rectangle from yellow construction paper. Cut out another rectangle inside of it to create a hollow buckle shape.The remaining outline should be between 1/2 inch to 1 inch (1.25 cm to 2.5 cm) thick all the way around. Keep the remaining edge evenly wide at all points.
Do not cut through the edge when cutting out the center. Pierce the center of the rectangle with your scissors or, if necessary, cut the center out using a craft knife or utility knife.
To make things as even as possible, draw the outline using a pencil and ruler before cutting it out.
The center piece can be discarded after you cut it out. Only the outline needs to remain.
 Apply a thin coat of school glue to one side of the paper buckle. Shake gold glitter over the glue and let dry.


For an even coating, apply the glue using a glue stick. Alternatively, you could also apply dots or lines of liquid glue and spread the glue out evenly with an old paintbrush or the tip of your finger.
Shake off the excess glitter after you apply it.
 Use scissors to cut a standard sheet of green construction paper in half, creating two skinny rectangles.


If you are uncertain about where the halfway mark is, fold the paper in half lengthwise or “hotdog style” Unfold and cut along the crease mark.
Alternatively, if you want a taller hat, you can skip this step and use the entire sheet of construction paper for the body of the hat.
If you do divide the paper in half, set one half aside and only work with the other half from this point on.
 Carefully draw a straight line along the bottom of one of the green halves. Color this bottom portion in with black marker, crayon, or colored pencil.


If you want to create an even bad, use a ruler and a pencil to lightly draw a straight line across one entire long edge of the green rectangle. The bad should be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick all the way around.
 Apply glue along one short edge of the paper. Bring the other edge around so that it overlaps the glue-edge, forming a cylinder. Press the two edges in place and let dry.


The paper should face up, with the black band visible, when you apply the glue to one edge. The edge that overlaps this glue-edge should touch the glue from the backside of the paper, though.
 Place the cylinder on top of another sheet of green construction paper. Draw a circle around the cylinder that is roughly 2 inches (5 cm) wider than the cylinder itself. Cut this circle out with scissors.


If you need help making this first circle, you could trace the mouth of an upside-down bowl or similarly round surface. Just make sure that the diameter of the object you trace is larger than the diameter of the cylinder by about 2 inches (5 cm) or more.
 Place the cylinder on top of the circle again. Trace around it exactly this time, making sure that this second inside circle is the same size as the opening of the cylinder. Cut this circle out with scissors.


Avoid making the circumference of the circle smaller than that of the cylinder, since a circle that is too small will fall through when placed on the top of the cylinder.
Avoid making the circumference of the circle larger than that of the cylinder, as well, since doing so will cause the center of the ring to becomes too large, making it impossible to fit it onto the edge of the cylinder.
 Use glue or tape to attach the smaller green circle to the top of the hat.


Place circle on your work surface and set the cylinder on top of it. Tape the two pieces together, attaching the tape to the inside of the cylinder rather than the outside.
If using glue, you will need to lay the circle on your work surface and draw a thin line of glue around the edge. Set the cylinder on top so that it dips into the glue.
 Use glue or tape to attach the green ring to the bottom of the hat.


With the hat still upside-down, place the ring on top. Tape the two pieces together, attaching the tape to the inside of the cylinder and the bottom of the brim.
If using glue, place the ring on your work surface and carefully apply a line of glue around the inner edge. Set the cylinder on top so that it dips into the glue.
 Apply a thin coat of glue to the paper buckle. Press the buckle onto the black strip at the bottom of the hat and let dry.


Preferably, the seam of the hat should face the back, and the buckle should be directly across from the seam at the front of the hat.
This concludes the paper leprechaun hat.

