 Avoid getting in a moving vehicle when your stomach is too empty or too full. Do not consume a lot of alcohol, fatty foods, or foods that tend to irritate your stomach., People who suffer from motion sickness often find a place to sit where they can see what is going on around them. This is usually in the front of the vehicle with eyes facing forward and enjoying the view.In a car, sit in the front seat, face forward, and avoid altering your gaze too much.
On a boat, sit as close to the front as possible. It might be bumpy, but having full view of the scene ahead often keeps motion sickness at bay.
When riding on a train, sit so that you are facing in the direction that the train is going. That way you won’t see any backward motion when the train starts moving.
 Breathe slowly and deeply to help calm your stomach. If possible, move to place where you can get some fresh air.If you’re in a car, open the windows and take slow, deep breaths.
If you’re on a ship, move to the outdoor areas.
On a train it may be harder to get fresh air if you’re underground. If possible, open windows when you are above ground. It it is safe, move to the space between the cars where there are fewer people and more breathing room.
On an airplane, try getting up for a walk. On big planes there is often space in the back where the food is kept. It tends to be less stuffy back there since there are fewer people.
 Lean back and close your eyes. Closing your eyes will shut out the movement and give your body a rest from all the sensory input. Try to relax and get some sleep.
 Acupressure wristbands can be worn while on a long journey that might result in motion sickness. They put pressure on the inner point on your wrist to stop uncomfortable sensations of motion sickness.Bracelets can be purchased at drugstores and online. You can also make a bracelet or use your fingers to ease nausea.
 Though its efficacy is still debated, ginger has been found in some studies to be effective against nausea and vomiting. If you tend to feel nauseated while in the moving vehicle, try chewing on a piece of a raw ginger or sucking on a ginger candy., Several medications are available to ease the discomfort of motion sickness. Try taking Dramamine or Meclizine 30 to 60 minutes before you expect to experience sickness.Use medication as a last resort. Side effects of Dramamine include drowsiness, constipation, blurred vision and dry throat, nose, or mouth. Contact a doctor if you experience confusion, rapid heartbeat, or a tremor.A common side effect of Meclizine is drowsiness. More serious side effects include coughing, difficulty swallowing, and skin irritation like a rash, hives, or swelling. Contact a doctor if you experience serious side effects., If possible, take breaks from your ride in the moving vehicle. If you are on a long car ride, stop and take a short break to stretch your legs, take in some fresh air, and drink some cold water. Long train rides and bus rides also sometimes allow opportunities for short breaks. Take advantage of any stops, and put your feet on solid ground for few minutes.