 As an adrenaline addict, you may find yourself craving to participate in activities that are high-risk or of a more extreme nature — say, cliff jumping or skydiving. To beat adrenaline addiction, limit how often you partake in these thrill-seeking activities. Work with your therapist to determine the best way for you to deal with these cravings, such as going for a run or engaging in biofeedback.
 Stimulants exacerbate any type of addiction, including adrenaline addiction. If you are serious about overcoming your addiction you will need to wean yourself off of and eventually stop consuming chemical and food stimulants. Stimulants like coffee, energy drinks, sugary foods/candy, cocaine, Adderall, and other stimulating substances should be avoided.
 For adrenaline addicts, technology is also considered a stimulant. While it is not feasible to cut technology from your life completely, you can reduce the amount of time you spend using electronic devices. Therefore, significantly reduce the amount of time you spend on your phone and computer, watching TV, and playing video games.


Stop using your electronics one hour before your sleep so you can fall asleep without distractions.
 In order for your body to function properly, it is recommended that you get at least seven to eight hours of sleep per night. It is also important that you go to bed and wake up at a consistent time every day. Consistency allows your body to actually relax while you sleep.If you sleep for six hours or less every night, your cortisol and adrenaline levels will amplified throughout the day.
 Eat a balanced diet of protein, fruits and vegetables, and carbohydrates. Try to steer way from processed foods and choose more natural foods instead. A diet that mainly consists of carbohydrates can increase your cortisol and adrenaline levels.Your meal should consist of a third of fruits and vegetables, a third of protein, and a little under a third of carbohydrates. Try to eat at least two portions of fish per week.
 Drinking an adequate amount of water each day is also a part of maintaining a healthy diet. Keeping your body hydrated will help it process the adrenaline out of your body. It is recommended that men drink 13 cups (3 liters) and women drink 9 cups (2.2 liters) of water per day.