 Technology is the key to communication in any long distance relationship, given that it is the most convenient way of staying in touch.


You can use different social media apps like Facebook and Viber to send animated messages to your child and let him know that you are thinking about him.






You can also take advantage of Skype, which allows you to see your child as well as speak to him. You could consider eating meals together over Skype - it's the next best thing to actually eating together.
 Older kids may not think it's "cool" to talk to their parents everyday, so you might want to avoid constantly checking in. Younger children, on the other hand, will probably appreciate daily phone calls.


Ask your child about how his day was and update him about yours as well, so you both feel the connection and know what's going on in each others lives, even though you are far away from each other.
Do not expect your child to contact you by themselves. Children can be scatter-brained and easily distracted by their immediate surroundings.
 Nothing beats a handwritten letter. It is more special and personal than a text or email. Your child may feel you are closer to him when he sees your handwriting, since it is more tangible than words on a screen.


Send some care packages. These might include some clothes, toys, activity books, or things that you can buy from a dollar store. They don't need to be expensive.
 Distance should never be an excuse not to let your child know how he is important to you as often as possible. Be there for your child and support him no matter what.


For a younger child, asking him how he is doing in school and if you could give him any help with his homework is a great way to start. However, for a teenage child, you may ask him what's going on his life and if there's anything he needs.
Remind your child that you are interested and want to be involved in everything he is doing even if you’re far away from him.
 Try reading the same book or playing the same online game and plan to talk about it afterwards. This will lead your child to look forward to your next conversation.


Make sure that you also buy the book that your teenage child is currently reading, for yourself. Then the next time you talk to your child, he will absolutely be thrilled to find out that his own parent has read and enjoyed the same story as him.
 Experiment with sending your child small things like candies, chocolates, school supplies with his favorite cartoon character, mini action figures, etc. for younger child.


Even teenagers will love receiving some gifts. You can try sending some video games, books, baseball caps of his favorite sports teams, etc..






Remember that little surprises go a long way, so use your imagination when it comes to surprising your child.
 Every day that passes means you are another day closer to seeing each other again. When you do see each other, make sure that you make the most of it.


Enjoy every moment. Go out to your favorite places and make new memories. Ask him what he wants to do, as this shows him that you value his opinions and ideas.






Take lots of photos. Photos are great way to keep memories and feelings alive. You don’t want to let another special memory with your child be forgotten.
 Keep a scrapbook to organize your photos as this will help you document every fun moment you had with your child.


Then, whenever you long for your child while he is away, you can always go back and look at the photos you took with him. This may help you not to miss him as much.






You can also record some short video clips to add to your collection, then burn them onto a disc.







