 If a thought of action enters your mind, go for it. Try to adjust your brain’s filter and act more spontaneously on what you want to do. Make a snowball and throw it at your buddy if the idea pops up. Spook a coworker by hiding behind their door. Draw a mustache on a poster on the side of the road.One aspect of acting on impulses is to take a step outside of your comfort zone. For example, instead of taking the same route home, go a different route, even if you’re unclear about the directions. You’ll be forced into a new area and will rely on your instincts to direct you.
Try to spend a day channeling your inner-practical joker. You could pick up a whoopee cushion from the dollar store and test it out on people. Another easy joke is the fake gum pack: purchase a trick gum pack and offer a stick to your friends. Instead of a stick of gum, they’ll get a small pinch.
 Creating contests everyday between your friends or yourself can enhance your days.Competitions can add fun and even a sense of danger to typical routine. Here are some examples of easy competitions you can try out:


You and a colleague play a contest of who can say “meow” in professional conversations the most.
Play a game of who can get through a crowded hallway or sidewalk the fastest.
See how many high fives you can get in a day.
 Swearing is not appropriate in many situations and can even get you grounded. The act of swearing can be viewed as a common trait to being mischievous. When you’re feeling flustered and don’t know where to turn; say a ‘’bad’’ word. Swearing allows people to release pain or anger by activating the brain's circuitry that is linked to emotions.Don’t cross the societal boundaries by swearing at the bank or in school. Use swear words with caution.If you're uncomfortable cursing, you can use safer words that give off the cursing effect like: "dang," "frick," or "shoot."

, In today’s culture of instant gratification, slowing down can actually be mischievous. Slowing down in aspects of your life can have positive mental benefits. If you are asked to speak for a presentation, begin by stalling with a joke. It can be more effective for the audience and yourself to stall for comfort.


You can use this idea for any part of your life. For example, try walking as slow as you can on the sidewalk or into class.
Use it in your speech for fun. For example: during a conversation with a family or friend, start slowing down your words. It will add a small bit of mischief to an everyday event.
 Don’t live a messy life, but don’t be afraid to create a mess. Though it may be your ritual to make your bed every morning, try leaving it unmade one day. Kick your shoes off and leave your socks in the middle of the floor. Go see a movie instead of doing your laundry or washing the dishes.


Being untidy signifies a carefree mentality, which can be interpreted as mischievous.If you tuck in your shirt everyday, leave it loose one day and see how you feel.
 Turn up your speaker to 7, instead of 3, and rock out. One of the best feelings is playing your favorite music in the summer with the windows down. You can irritate those around you by blasting music out of your car.


The punk rocker is a classic icon of mischief. Be a punk who values loud music and has an in-your-face attitude.
To get inspired, try listening to classic punk bands like The Ramones, The New York Dolls, or The Clash.

