 This is while it's growing. You may move it to the fridge eventually, but if it's still gaining speed, keep it above the fridge or in the oven with the light on.
 If your starter is too thin, increase the amount of flour in each feeding by a couple of tablespoons. But know that thick starters are harder to work with and only experienced bakers generally see good results with them.


A thin starter works too quickly, so a few missed feedings can be catastrophic. Many bakers use a very thick starter and for good reason: These starters develop more flavor, seem to have more strength, are more active than their thinner counterparts and are much more tolerant of a missed feeding. However, a very thick starter can be very difficult for new bakers to work with and maintain. Get the basics down before you go thick.
 As the starter runs out of food, the gas production declines, and the starter begins to fall again, resulting in the drying and cracks. As the starter falls, you may see little ravine-like cracks form on the surface -- believe it or not, this is actually a good thing.


The starter is active and at its peak when it just barely has started to fall. If you're wondering when to use it, it's now.
 Don't be shy -- sourdough can be used for pretty much anything. To convert any recipe to sourdough, start by replacing each packet of yeast (about a teaspoon or 6 grams) with a cup (240 grams) of active sourdough starter. Adjust the recipe to accommodate for the water and flour in the starter already.


If the sourdough taste is too strong for the flavor the bread should be, use more starter next time. And if the bread isn't sourdough-y enough, use less sourdough starter in the future.

One of the best ways to get more flavor out of the starter is to use less of it. Definitely counter-intuitive. But the reason behind that is with less, it takes longer to raise the bread. If you use more starter, you'll get a fast rise, less time for the flavor to soak in, and therefore less sourdough flavor.



