 Whether you’re planning a wedding, a family reunion or a simple barbecue, you’ll want your lanterns to fit with a theme. White lanterns work well for weddings, while bright colors will brighten up a summer party. Search online for the perfect kind to fit your theme.


Pick a holiday-specific color scheme. Christmas events generally feature red and green, while Easter parties use pastel colors like light pink, light purple and light yellow.
Look for event-specific lanterns. Some paper lanterns have printed patterns specifically for holidays, like Menorahs for Hanukkah, hearts for Valentines day, or pumpkins for Halloween.
If you're having a party to celebrate a game day, use colors from the sports team your group favors., Parties can be held in a variety of different venues: tents, picnic shelters, even boats. You’ll need to find fasteners that work for your situation, and most importantly, they’ll have to be easy to remove. Think about using adhesive hooks, or try tying your lanterns directly to rafters or tent supports., Decide the placement of the lanterns and the heights at which they’ll hang. Look online for ideas to match the setup that you are planning for. Sites like Pinterest have many example photos to help your creativity along.Consider hanging them high up above your guests’ heads where they won’t be in anyone’s way.


Tie lanterns across beams or supports. If your event setting has a shelter or tent, hang lanterns across the supports to create a large canopy of lights.
Tie lanterns in bunches. Bunched lanterns hanging at different heights create great focal points at your party. Choose a point on a beam or support and tie five to ten lanterns in the same area, all at different heights. Try mixing the sizes of the lanterns to make your bunch even more eclectic feeling.
Light a path with lanterns. Hang the paper lanterns low to the ground on short poles to create a cool effect. Use poles made for hanging potted plants, or make your own small poles with hooks. Then place the poles along a path or sidewalk to light the way to your party.
 Once you’ve decided how high you want your lanterns to hang, it’s time to tie them up using twine or fishing line to create an “invisible” floating effect. Tie a sturdy loop at one end of the twine, then slip it over the lantern’s hanging device. Then, tie the other end directly to a beam or loop it over a hook.

