 Jesus fed the sick, poor, and downtrodden on his journey to spread the word of God. When you do acts of good like help at a shelter or soup kitchen, it's part of being a Christian.Search online for shelters in your area and give them a call during business hours to inquire about opportunities to volunteer.


In Proverbs 21:13 it says "Whoever shuts their ears to the cry of the poor will also cry out and not be answered.", The church that you go to will probably be involved in some programs in your town to help others. Some churches will take missions to go to poorer countries and help the people there and disaster response, while others concentrate on improving the neighborhood.Call your local church and inquire about any volunteer opportunities available.


The Bowery Mission in New York City is one example of a church with volunteer opportunities to help the homeless.Things that they might have you do is feed the poor, clean up a community space, or help fix up or repair things at the church itself.
 In Galatians 3:28 it says, "There is neither Jew nor Gentile, neither slave nor free, nor is there male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus."This can be interpreted to mean that regardless of their beliefs or nationalities, you should treat all people with dignity and respect. Instead of spreading messages of hate because your theologies differ, extend the olive branch and talk to those that don't share the same belief systems.


Treat those in the LGBT community with dignity and respect as they are also God's children.
Discrimination, racism, and sexism violate the word of God., You can help simply by listening to family or friends when they are going through rough times. Be understanding and caring to those that need the help, and try to refrain from judgment. Think of simple ways to improve the lives of those around you.


You can also help in other ways like stopping for someone who needs assistance on the road or helping an elderly person with their groceries.

