 Look for a browser’s icon on your computer’s taskbar, desktop, or in the Start menu. Once you find it, double-click to launch it.


Any browser will do.;
, You can search the web for DVD rippers compatible with your PC.


If you plan to rip a Blu-Ray DVD, make sure you get a Blu-Ray ripper.
Once you are on the download website of the DVD ripper, just click on “Download” to get the installer.
 Double-click on the downloaded DVD ripper software to begin the installation process.


Click on the “Next” button to signify that you agree to follow the instructions displayed on your screen.
Click on “OK,” when the message “Successfully Installed” appears on your screen.
 Open the DVD ripper (or Blu-Ray ripper) file by double-clicking on its icon after the downloading is completed. Unless you specified the location, the DVD ripper will be on your computer’s desktop.
 Just lightly press on the latch or button found on one side of your laptop or CPU. When the disc tray is out, place your DVD on it, and gently push the tray back in.


Skip this step if your movies are already stored and filed in your computer.
 Click on the “Load DVD” button on the DVD ripper home page. “Load DVD” is located just below the toolbar section (File, Edit, View, Help). This step loads the DVD file into the software for conversion.


For movies already saved in your computer, click on “Load File” to import the media file from your computer to the DVD ripper page.
 Choose “MP4” from the profile drop-down list, which is the second to the last option on the DVD ripper home page.


MP4 is a video file format that allows a mixture of audio, video, subtitles and still images to be assembled into a single file.
 Click on “Settings” found to the right of “Output Format,” and modify the resolution to 1024 x 600 PX, or smaller.


The Galaxy Tab does not support file sizes over 2 GB, which is why it’s important to choose a resolution that will not eat up too much space.
 Choose “Samsung” as your target device, of course, and look for “Galaxy Tab” on the drop-down list, and click on it.
 Click on the “Subtitle” drop-down menu, and Select the language of your choice.


The “Subtitle” drop-down menu is located at the center of the software window, under the “Output Setting” label.
 Choose the location of the converted file by clicking on the “Browse” button next to the “Output folder” field, located under “Output Setting.” Press the blue “Start” button (the one with the downward-pointing arrow) to begin the DVD-to-Galaxy-Tab conversion.


When the DVD media clip is converted into MP4 file format, it then needs to be transferred to the Samsung Galaxy Tab.
 Insert the wider end of a USB cable into your laptop or desktop computer, and the smaller end into your Galaxy Tab.
 To do this, choose the option “Open folder/device.”

, First, locate the file on your PC that you want to export to your Galaxy Tab. This would be in the folder you saved the converted file. Once you find it, drag the file icon from your PC to the Galaxy Tab window shown on your PC.


It might take a while for the transfer to be completed.
 Close all the folders and programs you have kept opened on your PC, particularly related to Tab’s storage.Disconnect the USB Cable. The movie should now be in your Galaxy Tab, ready for your viewing pleasure.