 Determine if the foreign phone number you are given is a landline or a mobile phone. This can affect the rates you are charged for calling it from the U.S. and may change how you place the call.


International calls to cell or mobile phones are often charged at higher rates than those to fixed or landline phones. You may want to determine what type of phone it is you are calling beforehand, and dial a landline phone if you have the option to.Some countries have a standard way to distinguish whether a given phone number is for a landline or a mobile phone, typically through the number or numbers that it starts with.
 Talk to the service provider for the phone you will use to make an international call before you dial. Ask both the provider for your landline and for your cell phone, if you have both, as the rates may differ.


If you plan to make calls abroad frequently, talk to the provider about their international calling plans. Otherwise, inquire about the one-time rates you would be charged to place a single call to another country.
Some phone service providers may give you other specific instructions for dialing an international number. You should also remember that when dialing from any internal business line, you may need to dial “9” to reach any external line.
 Investigate all the fees associated with international calling plans, prepaid calling cards, and other calling options. You should know exactly what you will be charged for an international call, especially if you plan to make them frequently.


Be wary of international calling plans from your current phone service provider. While these may advertise competitive rates per call, there are often additional fees or overage charges, and the package may only be cost-effective if you plan to make a certain number of calls per month.Consider an international calling card or online service for an option that is typically less expensive than calling plans for cell phones or landlines. Calling cards are prepaid, so you pay only for what you use. Internet-based services may be free or have other flexible pricing options. With any service, you should make sure you understand all of the charges and policies.

