 For example, you could revise for an hour before taking a 20 minute break. Any structure is good as long as you know that you are getting somewhere with your revision. Remember that your future partly depends on how well you do in your GCSEs.
 You have a very long summer to look forward to; there is no excuse to not put your mind to revision now.
 Make sure that you have all of your books and textbooks for each subject. If you can't find them, look to the other points.
,, There are many different examination boards, so make sure you are studying from the correct one - they differ slightly in their expectations. Everything that you have been learning in maths has been indirectly for GCSE. The information from the past two years of studying is more important as you learn more maths than you ever have in your life.;
, Look at websites which explain more difficult questions.
 You need to know the format of the exam before you take the exam for real, so that it doesn't come as a shock to you. Mark the past papers and go over each question so that you have a good understanding of where you went wrong. Do some practice of questions from the topics that you struggled with in the past papers.
 It may be awkward to ask the teacher for help, especially in front of your friends but remember, this is your life you are talking about. If you don't do well in your Maths GCSE, you may struggle in further education and in finding a job in the future.


Watch maths-help videos online - they are very useful as there is someone who talks you through the questions as they solve them.
Get a tutor. Although you will have to pay, this person may help you gain more confidence in maths and will help you to understand and solve maths questions.
,, If you're really stuck, ask your teacher to go over it with you.
, Read over the same notes a few times to really make sure that they get into your head.
, If you're having trouble then look up websites for quick notes. #Make sure that you have a copy of whatever book is required. Make sure that you do the right question, because the question paper that you are given contains the questions for all the different options!

, If it says do one question from that section, make sure to only do one question.
 You can try using mind maps or revision cards or writing everything onto one page.
, You don't want to realise you've forgotten your calculator when the exam is about to begin!

, Go to sleep relatively early.


Get to school early so that you don't have to stress about being late.
Take a bottle of water (with no label) if you are allowed to and feel you will need it.

