 Sometimes, friends won’t know if you’re not comfortable with their teasing until you say something. They might even think you enjoy it, since it gives you a chance to talk about your crush. Try simply telling them that you don't like to be teased about your crush. Express yourself and don’t give your friends the impression that you’re okay with their comments and remarks if you’re actually not.Don’t try to make your friends guess how you feel. If you smile and laugh on the outside, but secretly wish they'd stop, it's up to you to be more straightforward about the effect their teasing has on you.
If your friends usually treat you well and respect your feelings, they will be glad you said something, and they'll probably stop teasing you right away.;
, If you aren't used to confronting people, it can be difficult to get your point across clearly. You might be tempted to joke about it or act like it's no big deal. However, your friends might not understand how much you dislike the teasing unless you take a more serious approach.


When you bring up the teasing with your friends, use an assertive tone. Assertiveness helps with honest communication and helps cultivate genuine relationships. It allows you to be absolutely clear about your needs.Being assertive isn't the same as being condescending or rude. There is nothing rude about politely telling them how you feel.
Start your discussion with phrases such as “I don’t like it when you tease me because…” or “Your teasing make me feel…” Be honest and direct without any intentions of hurting or offending your friends.
 Wait for a time when everyone is feeling relaxed and has time for a full conversation. Ask your friends if they understand how their teasing makes you feel, and really listen to the answer. If you can create a dialogue of understanding, your friends will be much less likely to keep teasing you.


Communication is also a two-way street. Be receptive to getting feedback from your friends. They will be more willing to listen to you if you’re willing to listen to them in return. Ask follow-up questions such as “how does that make you feel?” in order to understand any feelings or reactions your friends may be going through.
Deep talks on subjects that feel personal can lead to even better friendships.
 If they just don't get it, even after you tried to have a serious discussion, you may want to stop talking about your crush with them. You may even want to reconsider whether they are really your friends if they decide to keep teasing you after you've asked them to stop.


When the subject of your crush comes up, don't reveal your feelings; you'll just give them more fodder for teasing.
Consider talking about your crush only with people you trust not to use the information to get laughs.

