 Since you’ll be syncing data over the internet, it’s best to do this over Wi-Fi rather than using your data plan.

Use this method if you’ve already completed the iPhone setup process.
 This ensures that your calendar details, contacts, and email messages can sync to your iPhone. Here’s how to do it:Tap the Apps button on your Xperia (it’s the round button with 6 dots at the bottom of the screen).
Tap Settings.
Scroll down and tap Accounts.
Tap Google.
Select your Google account name (your username with “@gmail.com” at the end).
Move the sliders next to Calendar, Contacts, and Gmail to the On position.
 Since you’ll be downloading the information you synced to your iPhone, it should also be online., As soon as you make these changes, the synced information will download to your iPhone.

Open your iPhone’s Settings. It’s the gray gear icon on your home screen.
Scroll down and tap Mail.
Tap Accounts.
Tap Add Account.
Select Google.
Sign in to your Google account.
Move the sliders beside Mail, Contacts, and Calendar to the On (green) position.
Tap Save.
 Use the cable that came with the device, or one that’s compatible.

If you don’t have iTunes set up on your computer, see Set Up iTunes.
 Here’s how:Create a folder on the desktop called “xperia.” To do this, right-click a blank area of the desktop, select “New Folder,” then type xperia. Press ↵ Enter or ⏎ Return.
Open your computer’s file explorer. On a PC, press ⊞ Win+E. In macOS, click the Finder icon in the Dock.
Select the device called Xperia (or it may say your name) on the left side of the screen.
Double-click the DCIM folder.
Double-click the Photos folder.
Drag the photos and videos you want to transfer to the Xperia folder on your desktop.
When the copying completes, you can disconnect your Xperia from the computer.
 Use the cable that came with your iPhone, or one that’s compatible., If you’re using a PC, you’ll find it in the Start menu. In macOS, click the multicolored note icon in the Dock or search for it in Spotlight.Depending on your settings, iTunes may launch automatically when you plug in your iPhone.
 Once this process is complete, you can remove your iPhone from the computer. Your photos will appear in the Photos app.

Click your iPhone at the top left corner of iTunes.
Click Photos in the left sidebar.
Place a checkmark next to “Sync Photos.”
Click the dropdown menu and select Choose Folder.
Select the Xperia folder you created on your desktop.
Place a checkmark next to “Include Videos” if you want to copy videos.
Click Sync at the bottom right corner of the screen.

