 Start by selecting the right food. Affenpinscher dogs are known for having dental problems later in life, so select a small, dry kibble. Look for a product with fresh ingredients and few preservatives, and choose a blend suitable for small dogs. Follow any packaging instructions, as well as any instructions from your vet.Select a dish for food and one for water. Stainless steel is best.
Place your dog’s food and water dishes in a regular location in your home. You may want to place them on a mat.
Measure your dog’s food. The exact measurements will vary based on the type of food, your dog’s exact weight, your dog’s age, and the recommendations of your vet. In general, an Affenpinscher will consumer 1.5 cups of dry food once per day.
Feed your dog at the same time each morning. Affenpinschers thrive on routine. Feeding your dog at the same time each day help establish a daily rhythm.
 Affenpinschers are an enthusiastic, high-energy breed. As such, they need to be walked every day. Plan on taking your Affenpinscher on a good long walk daily. Additionally, you can let them run and play indoors or in your yard.Include a long, daily walk in your routine. Walking for 30 minutes to 1 hour is great exercise for your Affenpinscher.
Try playing fetch or tug of war.
Because of their small size, Affenpinschers are well-suited for apartment living, although their frequent barking may disturb your neighbors.
 Small toy breeds, such as Affenpinschers, cannot survive outdoors. Affenpinschers can be left outside for several hours in warm weather, but during the winter, they can only venture outdoors for short periods. You may consider dressing your Affenpinscher in dog clothing during the winter months.If you absolutely must keep your Affenpinscher outdoors in the cold, be sure to provide a well-insulated and heated doghouse.
Some Affenpinschers like to sleep with a hot water bottle to stay warm.
 Affenpinschers have a rough coat that needs regular attention. You should comb your dog’s fur 2-3 times a week at home. You should also bathe your Affenpinscher and trim their fur approximately every 3 months.Using a wide-toothed comb, comb your Affenpinscher’s fur roughly every other day. Work out any tangles.
Every 3 months or so, give your Affenpinscher a bath using dog shampoo.
After the bath, use a sharp pair of scissors to trim away any fur that falls into your dog’s eyes.
You may consider bringing your Affenpinscher to a professional dog groomer.

