 It's unhelpful to waste energy on trying to pretend to be someone you aren't, whether it's faking masculinity or acting hyper-feminine even though you aren't. Find your own personal style. There are all types of girls in the world, and you get to choose the style that fits you.


It's okay to be a girl who has traditionally masculine interests, like sports or technology. You don't have to stifle yourself or your interests just to be a girl.
 Going from presenting as male to presenting as incredibly feminine can be jarring, and it's okay to feel that way. You don't need to rush to put on a wig, jewelry, heavy makeup, et cetera, if you don't feel ready for it. Go at the pace that suits you best.


Some trans girls do feel most comfortable with an immediate makeover, and that's okay, too. There's no "right" way to transition.
 You might start with an attractive pixie cut, and then grow it out to shoulder-length or longer. Make sure you wash it daily and take extra good care of it. Brush it and style it however you want. It's your hair, after all.


If you don't know how to take care of your hair, look it up online or in magazines. Checking out wikiHow's Healthy Hair Care articles can be a great place to start.
Some parents might be hesitant to let their kids grow out their hair. If your parents are these kinds of parents and don't want you to grow your hair, tell them that you feel that growing out your hair will help you be seen as more of an individual.
 Girls in books and movies always like to take good care of themselves, and doing so yourself could help you feel more feminine. Take care of your skin and nails, and shower every day. Taking good care of yourself will help you feel better about your body, which can also help you to feel more confident in yourself.


Caring for yourself can also make physically transitioning easier on you, if you choose to transition later on in life.
 Hair accessories, necklaces, and/or bracelets can help you feel girlier, and many girls wear nail polish to give their fingernails a fancier look. While not all girls enjoy feminine things, others find it fun and affirming of their femininity. Browse the aisles of stores and see what you can find.


You could also choose to get your ears pierced. Many girls have their ears pierced, and this provides a great opportunity to look for cute earrings. However, if you don't want your ears pierced or your parents won't let you, that's okay - there are plenty of girls with non-pierced ears, too.
While it's fun to go shopping and check out whatever you can find, don't buy any accessories that you aren't comfortable with or don't feel match your personality. There's no need to buy the flower crown if you feel that it doesn't suit you.
 Don't be afraid to check out the girl's section of your local department stores and malls. Wander between sections, and find clothes that suit your personal tastes. If you like frilly skirts, you should wear them. If you prefer skinny jeans and camo tops, wear them.


If you want to feel extra attractive, figure out what colors suit you, and how to dress to accentuate your body type.
It's okay to wear "boy clothes" if you can't find anything you like in the girl's section. For example, if girl's pants aren't comfortable for you, it's okay to wear boy's pants. Your comfort is important, too.
 Whether it's a best friend, sibling, support group, or even a doctor or psychiatrist, it's important to express your feelings and get a second opinion. If you need help with coming out, there are literally hundreds of resources online that offer tips, advice, or even personal help.
 You're making a big change in your life, and that will come with a lot of emotions and challenges. Who knows what it's like? Other trans people. They can help you through your transition, offering advice and support. Finding other transgender people to talk with and discuss issues with can be a great help - and who knows, maybe you'll even make some new friends!


Be careful about looking on some social media sites - there are some people online who like to tell people whether or not they're transgender, or tell people that their gender doesn't exist. Running into these people may make you doubt yourself or feel bad about yourself, so try to steer clear of them whenever possible.
 Teen years are difficult, especially for trans teens, who may face the challenges of transition and possible discrimination. Choosing a therapist can be a tough job, but it's worth it; seeing a therapist who you feel comfortable with can be a great support, especially on rough days.


You don't need to look for a gender therapist specifically. A therapist who understands transgender issues can be a great outlet, too. Gender therapists are a good source for if you want to physically transition, though.
A therapist should not try to force you into a gender role that you aren't comfortable with, tell you what gender you "are", or make you do anything relating to your gender that you aren't comfortable with. If your therapist does this, they're not a good therapist, and you should find a new one.
 No, don't go into your sister's bedroom and ransack her wardrobe. Dressing up for Halloween is one of the best ways to have fun as a girl without being judged. It also offers plenty of opportunities to bring up the subject of being a girl - permanently.
 Having friends is important, especially if they make you feel better about yourself. If you can find girls who want to be friends with you, hang out with them! Even if they're not the kinds of girls who would exchange fashion tips with you, just having friends who you're comfortable with can be a huge help in terms of self-acceptance and confidence.


Of course, it's okay to be friends with boys, too. Just consider trying to make your circle of friends consist of mostly girls. In school, most people hang out with those who are of their same gender. Hanging out with girls can help to make you feel more like a girl.
Some people may bully you for being a girl and hanging out with girls. These people just don't understand that there are people like you in the world. Tell them firmly to stop being mean to you, and take it to a trusted adult if it doesn't stop. Remember the phrase, "I'm okay, you're mean" if people are treating you badly.

