 No matter what has happened between you and your friend, it may be helpful to recall why you became friends in the first place. That individual may have similar values or experiences, or he or she may have helped you through difficult times. Recognize why you've remained friends, and think about what you value most in knowing that individual.Think about the costs and benefits of re-establishing your friendship.
You stand to gain a potentially valuable friend back in your life, but be aware that you may have to be the one to apologize and take responsibility for what happened (even if you don't feel like it was your fault).
Consider any long-standing problems in your friendship. Has that person had a tendency to say or do hurtful things to you over the course of your friendship?;
, Perhaps your friend is trying to give you space, or perhaps he or she feels too nervous to make the first move. If your friend doesn't reach out to you, you'll need to be the one who steps up and begins repairing the friendship.Depending on the nature of your friendship and the severity of your argument, you may decide to call, text, email, or have an in-person visit with that friend.
Meeting in person may facilitate more of a back-and-forth discussion. It may be best to meet in a mutual, public place so that neither of you feels intimidated or under pressure.
Be honest and up front with your friend. If you were hurt, let your friend know so, and if you hurt your friend let him or her know you're sorry right from the start.
 When you talk to your friend about trying to repair the friendship, it's important that you don't say or do anything hurtful. This will only further damage the friendship, and it may make things irreparable.Try to express your feelings without using inflammatory or accusatory words.
Use "I" statements rather than declaratives. For example, instead of saying "You were a selfish jerk," say something like, "I felt like you didn't care about my feelings, and I felt hurt by the things you said."
Ask questions rather than making accusations. For example, instead of saying, "You made a really dumb decision," ask your friend, "Why did you decide to do that? I'm having trouble understanding."

, Even if you feel like your friend was to blame, it will help repair the friendship if you acknowledge your own mistakes. Whether the mistakes are relevant to the situation at hand or have caused problems in the past, a mutual apology will help bridge the conflict and strengthen your friendship.


Friendships require mutual investment and a give-and-take dynamic.By acknowledging your mistakes, you're letting your friend know that this isn't a blame game.
Give a sincere apology. Saying "I'm sorry I hurt you" will go a lot farther than a non-apology like "I'm sorry you feel that way.", Once you and your friend move past the conflict you've resolved, you should try to avoid future conflicts. The best way to do this is by letting go of unrealistic or unfair expectations for your friend and recognizing that friend's value in your life.Take a genuine and sincere interest in your friend's well-being. Ask your friend about work, relationships, and other life events to show you care.
Don't take your friend for granted. Try to reflect on what makes that individual so special every time you interact.
 If you've said or done something hurtful to a friend, that individual may not be ready to talk just yet (let alone forgive you). Sometimes it takes time to stop feeling angry, and trying to force a conversation right away may make it difficult for your friend to forgive you.Tensions tend to be highest right after a fight, and depending on the individual and the nature of your argument you may need to wait a few days or a few weeks.
If you wait longer than a few days after a fight before talking, you may want to at least let your friend know that you're giving him or her some space. That way your friend won't think you've abandoned the friendship.
 While you're giving your friend space, take some time for yourself to calm down and think about what you could have done differently to avoid fighting. In the heat of a moment it may be difficult to consider other courses of action, but as you reflect on what you said or did you'll probably see that you could have behaved differently and avoided this conflict.Consider whether your argument was based on jealousy, malice, or forgetfulness/incompetence. If you acted out of jealousy or ill will, you'll need to analyze the situation and figure out why you behaved the way you did.
Ask yourself whether you would be hurt if your friend treated you the way you treated him or her.
Consider the possibility that you may have deep-seated issues with anger or insecurity. If this is the case, you may want to consider seeing a qualified therapist who can help you work through these issues.
 If you're serious about repairing your friendship and you can acknowledge that you were at fault, you will need to apologize. You will only be able to move forward as friends if you acknowledge those mistakes to your friend and ask him or her for forgiveness.Start the conversation by saying that you're sorry for the way you behaved.
List the specific things you said or did that were problematic and acknowledge to your friend how these behaviors have hurt his or her feelings.
Apologize again. By repeating your apology you'll let your friend know that you understand how you've hurt him or her and have taken it to heart.
Let your friend speak. He or she may want to vent at you or reiterate some of the things you've already said, and you'll need to be patient as your friend does so.
Acknowledge the things your friend says, apologize again, and let your friend know what you'll do differently next time. Then ask your friend if he or she can forgive you, and let him or her know how much you value your friendship.
 Apologies are meaningless if you don't correct the behavior you apologized for. If you're serious about making amends and repairing your friendship, you'll need to make some changes in the way you speak to and interact with your friend. This will take time and a lot of effort, but ultimately it's the best way to grow as a person and rebuild your friendship.


Consider asking your friend (and even other friends) to help you become more aware of bad habits that you can't recognize.
Carry a small notebook and write down any instance in which you feel like behaving badly towards a friend. Then write out the circumstances (where, when, why, and with whom) and try to figure out why you had that reaction.
If you've noticed that you have a consistent pattern of bad behavior, you may want to talk to a therapist about how to make meaningful changes in your life. You can find a therapist near you by searching online or checking your local phone book.
 Often times people hold onto anger in order to feel like they have some control over an unpleasant situation. Other times people simply can't let go of their hurt feelings. Whatever your situation may be, it's important to release the negative feelings you're having and open yourself up to the possibility of forgiving your friend.Recognize that holding onto anger doesn't solve anything. It won't make your friend feel any more remorseful; all it does is make you feel bitter and miserable.
Recognize that you can forgive someone and still have them take responsibility for their words and actions. You don't need to withhold forgiveness in the hope that someone will feel bad, because there's a good chance they already feel bad.
 Depending on the nature of your dispute, you may feel like you could never get over what happened. These feelings often fade with the passing of time, but sometimes they don't fade. If you try to force yourself to forgive someone before you're ready (or if you know you'll never really be ready), you may actually end up feeling more traumatized and/or angry in the long run.Perhaps not enough time has passed for you to feel ready to forgive. If this is the case, let your friend know that you aren't closing the door on him or her, you just need more time.
You're not obligated to forgive anyone. However, it's important to recognize that holding on to anger and resentment won't fix what happened.
Only you can decide if you're ready and able to forgive your friend. Think about the severity of what happened, how to move past it, and whether your friendship will ever be the same.
 If you've decided that you can move past your friend's wrongdoing, you'll need to mentally, emotionally, and verbally forgive your friend. Have a long, calm conversation about what happened and talk about ways to avoid a similar situation in the future.


Don't hold what happened over your friend's head. If your friend has apologized and you've forgiven him or her, it would be wrong of you to bring up past wrongdoings or shame your friend.
Recognize that forgiving doesn't necessarily mean forgetting. Rather, forgiveness means acknowledging the unbiased circumstances of what happened and finding a way to live with it., If you're feeling resentful of your friend, you may be stuck in your subjective interpretation of what happened. However, there may be other factors that you haven't considered, including things that you and others said or did. Even if your friend was at fault, he or she may have had other circumstances that you weren't aware of.Think about how your friend acted, how you reacted, and what circumstances led up to that encounter.
Ask yourself whether you or anyone else may have played a role in your friend's bad behavior.
Acknowledge that your friend may not have been acting out of malice. Many people behave poorly when they're hungry, angry, lonely, tired, or otherwise uncomfortable., Communication is vital in repairing a friendship. If you're serious about moving past your friend's transgression and letting go of your anger, you'll need to tell your friend why you're upset and listen to what he or she has to say.Count to 10 before speaking. Use those 10 seconds to process your feelings and to carefully choose your words before you say them.
Use "I" statements to convey how you feel. This will help you communicate why you're struggling to forgive your friend without inciting a new argument.
Be honest. If your friend hurt your feelings, let your friend know what you'd like him or her to do differently next time.
 If your friend decides to apologize, it's important that you listen actively to what he or she says. Your friend may have felt that he or she was justified at the time, or there may be other circumstances that you weren't aware of. Listen to your friend and trust that his or her apology is sincere.Repeat what your friend says back to him or her to register that you understand what's being said. This shouldn't be a word-for-word repetition, just a summary of how your friend feels.
If your friend says that he or she didn't realize that your feelings were hurt, say something like, "I understand you didn't know how I felt. I'll work on communicating better if you can work on trying to be more sensitive to my feelings."

, If your friend has apologized, you can either forgive that friend and move on or end the friendship. Even if you decide to end the friendship, you'll need to let go of resentment at a certain point.Ask yourself whether you're really mad at your friend over what happened. Often times people mentally confuse someone from their present life with someone from their past and project anger and resentment on current friends.
Even if your friend was at fault, holding a grudge won't change what happened. Resenting your friend may also impair that friend's ability to grow and change his or her behavior in the future.
If you can't forgive your friend, you at least owe it to yourself to let go of your resentment. Try to come to terms with what happened and move past it if you can.
 It's a difficult fact to come to terms with, but some friendships aren't worth repairing. If your friend consistently treated you poorly or made you feel bad about yourself, you may not want to keep that friend in your life.A toxic friend makes you compete for his or her friendship, whereas a good friend will accept you and make time for you without exception.
Toxic people tend to force you to abandon your own problems to deal with theirs.
A good friend would offer criticism with compassion, not with a self-righteous attitude or with any sense of smugness.
Healthy, mutual friendships involve a balance of both friends reaching out to the other. If your friend never calls or texts you, or if you are always the one who has to make plans, there may be an imbalance in the friendship.
A surefire sign of a toxic friendship is if you feel like you can't be yourself around that person. If you're forced to walk on eggshells, it's probably not a good friendship.
 Even if your friendship wasn't toxic, it may have simply been a bad arrangement. Think about how you felt around this person and ask yourself whether it was honestly supportive and comfortable to be friends with that individual.You should feel like you can generally trust your friend. You should also feel supported by one another.
Your friend should inspire you to grow, and you should do the same for your friend.
Your friend should show you kindness, encouragement, and empathy. If your friend is generally incapable of giving you these things, it may not be a healthy friendship.
 If you've decided that a friendship isn't worth saving, you'll need to cut off all ties with that person. Keeping that person in your life will be damaging and may make it difficult to move past this or other transgressions.Be firm and direct. Don't just block someone's phone number and avoid them forever - get some type of closure by verbally ending the friendship.
You can end a friendship in a polite, respectful way. For example, you might say something like, "I've been thinking about our friendship and I think I need to take a break. I don't like the way I feel when we're around each other - I think I need to sort some things out for myself."

