 If you have been planning to ask them for a while, don’t come on too strong. Keep yourself calm so that when you ask them to hang out it doesn’t come across as desperate. Take a breath and use your regular conversational tone.You’ll sound too eager if you say, “You are so cool and I really want to spend more time with you.”
Be casual when you ask a classmate by saying, “Man everytime we talk, this guy is droning on in the background. We should chill outside of class sometime.”
If you had fun with someone at a party, say, “It’s been a great meeting, do you want to catch up later on sometime?”;
, You may have a hard time asking someone to hang out without a specific reason. If you’re asking someone you know you have a common interest with, use that to your advantage. Tell them it would be fun to do the activity together sometime.If you always talk to a coworker about the Walking Dead, ask them if they want to come over and watch it with you. You know you’re both free when it’s on, and the hangout has a set time frame so they can split when it’s over.
You might meet someone that works out at your gym. Since you are probably there around the same time, ask them if they’d want to work out together. Say, “We could both have a spotter and push each other to work harder.”
Say to someone, “I’ve noticed we always seem to be painting in this studio at the same time, would you want to meet up and actually paint together sometime?”

, It’s no good to ask someone to hang out if you tell yourself they won’t want to. Get in the mindset that you are fun to hang out with and that the person you ask will say yes. If you are confident in yourself and make a direct ask, the person will be more open than if you seem timid when you ask.Don’t say, “You’re probably busy most of the time and have a lot of other friends already, but we could hang out sometime if you want to it. It’s okay if you would rather not.”
For an example, think about a co-worker you’d like to hang out with. Catch them in the break room and say, “We should find something cool to do outside of this place sometime.” It’s simple, shows your interest, and leaves things open to developing.
If you’re in a weekly club with someone, say, “You know, we meet up here every week. Let’s grab some food after the meeting sometime.” Again, it’s direct and shows that you are assuming they would be interested.

