 Federal law limits the amount of earnings that may be garnished to no more than 25% of the employee's weekly disposable earnings or the amount of disposable earnings greater than 30 times the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour, whichever is less.Your “disposable earnings” are what is left after deductions for taxes, Social Security, and State Unemployment Insurance.In practice, this means that if your weekly earnings are less than $217.50, then your wages cannot be garnished.If you make up to $290 a week, then subtract $217.50 from whatever you make. The amount left is how much you will pay.If you make more than $290 a week, then you will pay 25% of your weekly earnings.;
, State law may also limit the amount of money that may be garnished. If the state law allows even less to be garnished than federal law, then the state law amount will be the maximum you pay.In Wisconsin, only a maximum of 20% of your disposable income can be garnished.In Massachusetts, creditors may only garnish the lesser of: 15% of your gross wages, or your disposable wages less 50 times the state’s minimum wage ($8 an hour).To find your state’s law, visit Nolo’s website and click on your state.
 If you must pay child support, then the amount that can be garnished increases. Fifty percent of a worker's disposable earnings can be garnished for the collection of delinquent child or spousal support if the worker is supporting another child or spouse.If, however, the worker is not supporting another child or spouse, then up to 60% of disposable earnings may be garnished. If child or spousal support has been delinquent for 12 or more weeks, then an additional 5% may be garnished., Each state has a mechanism for challenging a wage garnishment by allowing workers the ability to claim an exemption. Exemptions allow you to hold onto your earnings because withholding them would pose a hardship.


To qualify for a hardship exemption, a court will have to find that all of your money is needed to support your family and nothing remains to satisfy your creditors., You will need to prove that paying the garnishment causes financial hardship. Accordingly, you should gather paystubs, as well as information about the present value of checking accounts, savings accounts, and credit union accounts. You may also need information about the current value of vehicles, real estate, and stocks or bonds.You should also gather information about your monthly expenses. Total up the amount you spend on rent or house payments, food, utilities, clothing, school, child care, and medical and dental expenses., The forms will be called different things in different states. For instance, in California you must complete a “Claim of Exemption” form and a “Financial Statement” form. In Florida, you must complete a “Claim of Exemption and Request for Hearing” form as well as an “Affidavit”. In Oklahoma, it is called a “Claim for Exemption and Request for Hearing.”You should be able to get the form from your local bank or from your employer. They should have received a copy when they received the notice of garnishment.Alternately, the court clerk should be able to give you a copy.
Be sure to pick up the worksheet for expenses.This may or may not be attached to the form. In this worksheet, you will list your income as well as your expenses. Ask the clerk or your employer for the sheet.
 Provide all of the necessary information, including your personal information and your financial condition. Each state’s forms will request slightly different information, but you will typically have to provide the following:


Your court case number.This was the number assigned to the garnishment proceeding.
Name and address of your creditor’s attorney.The court’s address., You will need to file the form with the appropriate authority. Depending on your state, this could be either the sheriff or the court clerk.The form should tell you where to file. If the form does not specify, call your courthouse clerk and ask.


Make 2 copies of all completed forms. One copy will be for your records and the other copy will be for the creditor.
 In states like California, your employer will keep the money that has been garnished for up to 10 days unless the creditor opposes your claim of exemption or the judge makes a decision regarding your claim of exemption. If the creditor does not oppose the claim, your money will be released to you.In Florida, if the facts in the affidavit are not denied, then the garnishment will be stopped.
 In many states, if the creditor opposes your claim, then you will receive a notice and a hearing will be scheduled for a judge to determine whether to allow you to claim an exemption.In states like Florida, if the facts stated in the Affidavit are denied, then a hearing will be scheduled.
Be sure to bring proof of financial condition to your hearing. Bring all documents you used to fill out the worksheet: proof of rent or mortgage payments, pay stubs, monthly expenses for food, health care, schooling, etc., As a general rule, alimony and child support are not dischargeable in either a Chapter 7 or a Chapter 13 bankruptcy.However, in a couple of situations alimony may be dischargeable.


If the former spouse assigned his right to alimony to a third party, then the assignment could be discharged in bankruptcy.If the money ordered to be paid wasn’t really “alimony” but was instead court-ordered payment on a debt, then that obligation could be discharged in bankruptcy proceedings., Your wages may have been garnished to pay a court judgment issued after losing a lawsuit. Some court judgments are dischargeable in bankruptcy.


If your wages are garnished because of debt owed for student loans, government taxes, or injuries caused by a DUI, then the garnishment cannot be cleared by bankruptcy.If you had a judgment entered against you because you committed fraud, embezzlement, or a willful and malicious act (such as assault), then the debt cannot be discharged if the creditor objects.However, judgments for anything else—breach of contract or negligence, for example—could be discharged in bankruptcy. If the debt is discharged, then the garnishment should end.
 The success rate of bankruptcy applicants without an attorney is much lower than those with an attorney. A 2011 report from a federal court found that only 61% of pro se litigants successfully filed for a Chapter 7 bankruptcy versus 95% of those with an attorney.You should meet with an attorney and discuss the benefits of filing a Chapter 7 or a Chapter 13.


Attorneys often charge a flat fee for bankruptcy filings. This can reduce the costs. You will know up-front how much your bankruptcy will cost you.
Prices often range from $1,000-3,000, depending on your area and the type of bankruptcy pursued.If you absolutely cannot afford an attorney, ask your local federal court whether they offer pro se clinics or if any handbooks are available.