 Say “Hi!” to the person who sits next to you in class. Sit with somebody new at lunch. As you get to know them, ask them how they’re doing or what’s new in their life. Always treat others the way you want to be treated. Be friendly to everyone you meet—even the unpopular kids., Pretending in order to make a fake you believable is exhausting because you have to be constantly on your guard. Be yourself to attract people you can actually talk to. You’ll never have to question whether these people genuinely like you. Being real could include:Not following trends just because everyone else thinks they're cool. Platform shoes might be all the rage, but you know you'd fall on your face if you tried to walk in them.
 This will allow you to call (and text) each other. Communicating by phone is an easy way to build relationships. You don’t need your own cell phone to do this. You won’t be “uncool” if you still use a landline phone.If you don’t have a phone in your room or if your parents won’t let you have a cell phone, ask them if you can have an hour or so of phone time each day. Offer to show them a finished homework assignment in exchange for this privilege.
Don’t obsessively call or text your new friends. Take it slow. You don’t want to come off as someone who only cares about how many friends they have.
 This will allow you to chat with your friends outside of school. Share pictures, funny videos, and interesting websites. Chances are, you’ll expand your social circle when friends of your friends follow you.


Stay safe online. Don’t chat with people you don’t know and avoid being a cyberbully.
If your parents won’t allow you to have a social media account, understand they’re only looking out for you. Find newspaper articles on the benefits of social media and show them to your parents. If you can’t convince them, respect their wishes., Don’t forget them, even if they’re unpopular. They’ve been there for you from the start. You can always be yourself around them. If the popular kids won’t accept them in your life, you should re-evaluate if popularity is worth it., Look for things around your school that you want to improve. Ask your classmates what they think your school could do to make life better for students or the community. Pick the top three things that you can do as a middle school student and make that your campaign platform. Your candidacy and your willingness to listen to your peers will gain you visibility and popularity points., Make a list of what you excel at and take advantage of opportunities to show it off to your peers. Sharing your talents might attract classmates with common interests. If you’re really good, your talent could also get you recognized as a leader.You could:


Enter school talent shows.
Join a sports team.
Write for the school newspaper, if you have one.
Volunteer as a peer tutor.
 Get involved in school spirit days, sports matches, and other fun activities. These events often happen outside of regular school hours. They’ll give you the chance to get to know your classmates in a more relaxed environment. You’ll also have the chance to show your pride in your school and in your classmates., If “nothing” ever happens at or after school, plan something. Recruit a few friends to pitch your ideas for a school activity or a new club to your teacher, principal, or parent-teacher organization. Always ask your friends for their input. This will show them that their opinions matter to you. Some good ideas are:Starting a recycling program if your school doesn't have one already. If it does, make recycling fun by having a competition between grades or homerooms. The class that recycles the most pounds/kilograms of material in a month wins a pizza party.
Holding a career week. Invite parents, older siblings, and community leaders to discuss their careers with students. If you get enough speakers, try highlighting a different career field each day.
 Even when you’re attracting a lot of attention from others, you still need to do well in school. It’s not cool to skip school, neglect your homework, and/or receive F’s on assignments. Good grades might help to win you the admiration of even more people.


Share your success by organizing study groups. It will show them that you care about how well your classmates do. As a bonus, you'll have the chance to get to know them better.
 If you disagree with something, don’t pretend to go along with it because everybody else does. Tell them you disagree. Do this in a pleasant way without upsetting others. People are more likely to consider your ideas if you speak with conviction and show that you’ve thought things through carefully. You could say:“I’m not trying to say you’re wrong, but I’m just not into that kind of thing.”
“But that’s not the only way of looking at it. Have you considered…?”

, If you don’t have to wear a uniform, you probably still can’t wear street clothes that fall out of school guidelines. Don’t try to disobey these rules. Your school board put them in place for your own good. If fashion is important at your school, read up on ways to be stylish without breaking the dress code. Setting a new trend could earn you some leadership points, which is good for any popular person.
 This includes alcohol and cigarettes. Drugs won’t make you more popular. They’re more likely to give you a bad reputation. Remember, you’re not an adult yet. Doing drugs will stunt your physical and mental growth. It will also ruin your appearance. If you don’t want to be confrontational to anyone who offers you drugs, you could say something like, “No thanks. It's not my style.”, Say something when you see an unpopular kid getting teased or tormented. If you believe you’d be in danger for stepping up, tell a teacher or other school authority about the situation. This will show others that you have the confidence to do the right thing. It will also show that you're concerned about your classmates.