 If the collection of blood under your fingernail is significant, which means it takes up more than 25% of your fingernail, see your doctor. You have a subungal hematoma, which is an area of broken small blood vessels under your fingernail. Your doctor will likely suggest that your nail get evacuated/lanced. When you react quickly enough you can do it yourself. If you notice severe throbbing, then push back the cuticle as far as it will go to gently slip in the sterilized needle. It will hurt less than your throbbing finger and the needle will go in easier at the nail base where it grows out. Let the blister drain a couple times until lymph flows (runs clear). This will prevent the black nail of dried blood under the nail.


If the blood under the fingernail only covers 25% or less of your nail, you don't have to do anything to it. The blood will work itself up your fingernail as it grows. Depending on how hard your thumb was hit will mean how much your fingernail becomes black as the blood dries. If the hematoma is bigger than 50% of the fingernail, your doctor will request a finger X-ray.
You should see a doctor to treat hematomas within 24-48 hours.
 The safest way to evacuate the nail is to let your doctor perform the evacuation through cauterization. During this procedure, your doctor melts a small hole through your fingernail with an electric cauterization tool. Once the cautery hits the hematoma under the fingernail, the tip automatically cools. This prevents you from getting burned by the tool.


After the hole is made, the blood oozes out of the fingernail until the pressure is relieved. Your doctor will then bandage your finger and send you home.
The doctor may use an 18-gauge needle instead, although cauterization is preferred.
This process is painless because your fingernail has no nerves in it.This process helps relieve pressure building up under the nail, which means you're less likely to need the nail removed.
 Your doctor may advise you that it is okay to evacuate the hematoma at home. For this procedure, get a paperclip and a lighter and wash your hands thoroughly. Prepare the paper clip by unbending it and holding the lighter to the straight end until it is red and hot, about 10 to 15 seconds. Take the paper clip and place it at the center of the area that has the hematoma at a 90 degree angle from the nail bed. Gently press down with the paper clip, slowly twisting the hot paper clip edge back and forth in the same place to dig into the fingernail. Once you get through the fingernail, the blood will begin to ooze out of the nail. Grab a cloth or bandage to clean up the blood as it comes out.


If you can't get through it at first, reheat the tip of the paper clip and retry, pressing down just a little bit harder to get through the fingernail.

Do not do this too hard because you don't want to puncture your nail bed.
You can take pain medication before you start if your finger is hurting you a lot.
If you can't do it yourself, as a trusted friend or loved one to help you out., Once all the blood has been drained, you need to clean the fingernail again. Clean the fingernail again with Betadine or some other cleansing solution. Bandage the finger in rolling gauze, making a ball out of the gauze at the top of your finger. This will provide better cushion and protection from outside irritants and trauma. Secure the gauze at the base with medical tape.You may want to anchor the gauze with a figure eight type maneuver that goes from your finger to the base of your hand. This will help the bandage stay on.

