 Have two small plates ready. Add enough kosher salt to cover the bottom of one plate and pour a little lime juice onto the other plate. Make sure the plate has a bit of a lip so the liquid doesn't run out. Dip the rims of your margarita glasses in the juice and immediately dip the juiced rims into the salt. The juice will help the salt stick to the glass.Consider chilling the glasses in the freezer before salting the rims and serving the margaritas. Cold glasses will make your margaritas stay cooler longer.
 If you don't want the salty-sweet taste of a margarita served with a salty rim, you may want to make a sugar rim. Keep in mind that this will add to the overall sweetness of your drink. To make a sugar rim, have two small rimmed plates ready. Pour a little water onto the bottom of one plate and add enough sugar to cover the bottom of the other plate. Dip the rims of your margarita glasses in the water and immediately dip them into the sugar.Different sugars will give different textures. Try demerara sugar if you want a lot of crunch and a rich flavor. For a light crunch, use granulated sugar. You probably don't want to use powdered sugar since it may dissolve too quickly.
 Since strawberry margaritas aren't as common as classic margaritas made with lime, garnish with strawberries. This way, if you're serving the cocktails to guests, they'll be able to tell what flavor the drinks are. Slice limes and strawberries thinly to float in the drinks.Since fruit won't easily float in the frozen margarita, you may want to leave the fruit whole or in larger slices. Simply cut a slit in a whole strawberry so you can set it in the rim of the glass.
 You can easily add different fruit flavors to your strawberry margarita. For example, you can add frozen sliced bananas for a strawberry banana margarita. Or for a strawberry lemonade margarita, replace the lime juice with lemon juice (or use frozen lemonade concentrate). To make a strawberry coconut margarita, add a little sweetened cream of coconut for an extra tropical flavor.To garnish, consider adding sliced banana, sliced lemons, or shredded coconut on the rim of the glass.
 If you'll be serving drinks to minors or those who can't drink alcohol, you may want to make a batch of non-alcoholic margaritas. Simply leave out the alcohol. You may need to adjust the consistency of the blended margarita by adding more lime juice or strawberry puree.


You can still make salt or sugar rims for serving virgin margaritas.

