 Regardless of how you feel about your professional reference situation, don’t let it stop you from applying to the jobs you want. If you do not have any professional references, you need to make sure your application, resume or CV, and interview are so exceptional that the potential employer will want to hire you regardless of your lack of references.Put all your effort into the job search, application, and interview process and try not to worry about your reference situation.
When a potential employer finally asks for references, discuss your various options with them. If you’ve impressed them to this point, they’ll work with you to find an alternative to a professional reference.
 You should always take extra time and care putting together your resume, but you should pay more attention to this step when you don’t have references. You want to be sure that your resume makes you stand out amongst the other applicants. Make sure your resume looks professional and is free from errors and misspellings.A Curriculum Vitae (CV) is a resume for academic or research jobs. A CV is normally much longer and much more detailed than a typical resume. Don’t submit a CV for a job that doesn’t require one. Due to its length, a hiring manager will not likely have time to read it and may overlook you altogether.
Resumes, like cover letters, can be customized to the job you’re applying for. For example, if you include an objective or goal statement at the top of your resume, you may want to alter it depending on what type of job you’re applying to.
In today’s computer-based world, make sure your resume is formatted in a way that can easily be scanned. Many large organizations have recruiting systems that scan resumes and enter the information from your resume into a database. Having your resume in their database increases your chances of getting a job.
Try to keep your resume to 2 pages, especially if you’re just starting your career.
 Most employers won’t ask for references until after they’ve reviewed your application and resume, and possibly not until after they’ve interviewed you. Don’t put the sentence ”References Available Upon Request” on your resume. If an employer wants or needs a reference, they’ll ask. There’s no reason you need to volunteer the information, or the fact that you do not have any references, up front.The words ”References Available Upon Request” can take up much needed space on your resume and ends up just stating the obvious.
 Cover letters may not always be asked for in a job posting, but if you do not have any references, you’ll always want to include a cover letter so you stand out. Cover letters are your opportunity to tell a potential employer how your skills and abilities relate specifically to the requirements of the job you’re applying for.You should write a different cover letter for each and every job you apply for. While you can re-use certain parts of a cover letter for more than one job, each letter should be customized for the job you’re applying to.
Be sure to use keywords from the job posting in your cover letter. Many employers use a cover letter to determine how well you read the job posting, how well you understood the organization, and how well you understood what they were looking for in an employee.
Make sure the formatting (e.g. font, margins, etc.) on your cover letter matches your resume.
 You need to do everything and anything you can to make up for the fact that you don’t have references. This means you need to take the time to research whatever you can about the company you’re applying to — especially if you have an interview. This research should also include anything you can find about the specific job you’ve applied for. Make notes as you do your research, and when you’re done, go back through your notes and come up with questions you can ask the hiring manager.The best place to start your research is the company’s website. If it’s a publicly-traded company you should be able to download the company’s annual and quarterly reports from their website. You can also read recent press releases to determine what the company feels is important for the public to know.
This is a great chance for you to use your network. Ask people from your network what they know about the company or the position. If you know someone who has worked at the company before, ask them about the organizational culture and hiring process.
 Getting an interview means you’ve passed the first step and your resume stood out to the potential employer. It also means you’re one step closer to needing to provide references. Use the interview as a chance to show this employer just how great you are in person. Take your time preparing for the interview and practicing your answers. You need to wow the hiring manager so much that they’ll make an exception to asking for references.You can find many standard interview questions online with a quick Google search.
Practice with another person who will give you honest feedback about your answers, posture, style, manner, etc.
Practice speaking without adding fillers like ‘um’ or ‘like.'
Bring notes and questions to the interview with you. And don’t be afraid to take notes during the interview.
Make sure you know where you need to go for the interview, especially if you’ve never been there before. Visit the location in advance if needed.
Plan to arrive at the interview location early. You don’t have to go in and announce you’ve arrived really early, but by being early you ensure you’re not late.
 Dress appropriately for each interview based on the job and the organization you’ve applied to. Unfortunately you lack one critical piece of information a hiring manager may need, so you need to look the part at the interview. If you’re unsure what the dress code is, don’t be afraid to ask in advance. While a business suit is most appropriate for most professional interviews, wearing a suit to a job interview as a truck driver or construction worker will likely send the wrong message.Even if the company has a casual dress code, avoid clothing such as: ripped jeans, shirts with offensive language or an unusual company logo, shorts, tank tops, really short skirts, and other items that may appear unprofessional.
 If you’re currently employed, your employer may provide career advice and help on their internal website. If your employer has unfortunately laid you off, they may offer career services as part of your severance package. If you have any type of career services available to you, make use of them to perfect your resume, cover letter, and interviewing skills. A career advisor, consultant, or coach will be able to provide you with some great advice on what to do when you don’t have references.If career services are not part of your severance packages, consider asking for them to be included.
 If you’re a current high school or college student, take advantage of the help your school’s career centre can provide. Many career centres offer workshops on writing a resume or preparing for an interview, as well as private consultations to review a resume or cover letter.Many college career centres also host networking events and career fairs on campus to help students find summer employment and full-time work.
 No matter how well or how badly the interview went, always send a thank you letter to the people who interviewed you. While sending an actual card would be nice, an email will work just as well, especially since it’ll arrive much faster. Customize the thank you note to include one or two specific things discussed in the interview.