 Within 15 minutes of coming into contact with poison ivy, wash the affected area of skin with warm water and mild soap.The plant oil enters the skin quickly, so you should wash the area as quickly as possible to reduce the severity of the rash.
Use a brush to scrub under the fingernails. Otherwise, plant oil trapped under your nails can spread to other parts of your body.
Remove any clothing that came into contact with the poison ivy plant. Change into fresh clothes after washing the area.
If you suspect that your pet came into contact with the plant, you should immediately bathe the animal to remove poison ivy oil from its fur.
 The rash can cause discomfort and sweating, but sweat and body heat can make the itching worse. Apply a cool compress to soothe the itching and keep yourself cool.


You should also wear loose, light clothing to prevent yourself from becoming too warm.
 Gently rub a thin layer of either product over the poison ivy rash as needed.


Calamine lotion and hydrocortisone cream can both reduce itching and blistering.
Follow the label instructions concerning how much to apply and how often.
 An over-the-counter antihistamine medication may be used if lotions and creams are unable to soothe or stop the itching.


The itchy rash produced after coming into contact with poison ivy is actually the result of an allergic reaction that most people have to the poison ivy plant. Antihistamines are used to treat allergies, so they often have an effect against allergy-related rashes like this.
Always follow the instructions on the label of the antihistamine concerning dosage.
 If the rash is especially bad and does not respond to home remedies, contact your health care provider.


In severe cases, a doctor will usually prescribe steroids. These may be administered by injection or in capsule form.
 Any clothing worn when you came into contact with the poison ivy must be washed to prevent the oil from spreading. Likewise, all tools used when treating yourself for a poison ivy rash must also be washed.


Wash clothes in hot water and detergent. Thoroughly rinse the washing machine when done.
Wash tools in a diluted bleach solution or with rubbing alcohol.

