 To educate your child on the Olympics and the wide array of physical activities available, you and your family can watch the Olympics together. Try watching the highlights each day for 15 to 30 minutes before venturing out to play at whatever you just watched. For instance, if you watched soccer, get a ball and go to the park or your backyard and practice running while controlling the ball, then passing the ball back and forth, and even setting up a target goal such as a tree trunk. Watch track and field before heading out to the park.


Don't spend too much time inside, watching TV. Avoid being an armchair athlete by limiting the amount of time you spend watching the Olympics.
It may be helpful to research what is available in your area first. For instance, if there's a pool nearby, then watch a swim or diving event before going to the pool. If you find that you have great bicycling trails in your area, watch some cycling events before hitting the trail with your child.
If you watched the Olympics two years prior, you can talk about the differences between winter and summer activities.
 Watching the Olympics opens up a good opportunity for you and your child to talk about health and fitness. Modeling good behaviors is an effective tool for educating children. At meal time you can talk about what athletes eat, to inspire your child's curiosity about performance and nutrition. Set a healthy example by being active yourself and providing meals and foods to fuel performance. Kids understand fun, and being active is fun. Games are fun. Learn by doing, not by talking about it. Experiential learning is often more valuable and engaging than discussion.


Use the sports and physical activity you watch on the Olympics to encourage your child to get fit. You may want to say, "Why don't we go outside and run like those athletes?"; or, "They looked like they were having so much fun. Let's go outside and see what kinds of sports we can have fun playing."
Point out how not all Olympians have the same body type, but a body type that works for their sport. This could be a good time to emphasize body positivity and the importance of all body shapes. For instance, if you or your child are predisposed to a certain body type that is strong and stocky, try activities that are more strength-oriented, such as shot put, javelin or power lifting.
Talk about the gender equality in Olympic sports. Females compete just like males, and there are just as many female sports as male sports.
 To get your child in the spirit of the Olympics, you can hold your own Olympic games at home or at school. You can separate the kids into teams, or have each child choose a country to represent as they compete. You can make medals to give out to the winners.You can set up mock Olympic games, like track events such as the 50 meter dash. You can have a basketball or ice hockey game.
You can choose your own games that are easier to do in a classroom or backyard, like dancing or kickball.
An Olympics theme may be good for a birthday party or other children's get together.
 World Fit is also known as Olympians for Worldwide Fitness. It's a program for schools to fight child obesity by educating children and working to improve their attitudes about health and fitness. Olympians and Paralympians adopt schools and become mentors to teach the kids about teamwork, sportsmanship, fitness, and health.World Fit is designed for grades three to eight.
World Fit is a walking-based exercise program that lasts for six weeks.

