 If you think that he is cheating, do not convince yourself that you are being paranoid. You do not have to act hastily, and you should not confront a possible cheater without more evidence than your instincts. However, be on the alert: you might be noticing subtle behavioral changes that indicate your partner is cheating., It is true that some men are simply unable to remain monogamous. However, the majority of cheaters seek out an affair because of an underlying issue in their primary relationship.Be honest with yourself about how healthy your relationship is. This is not to say that you deserve to be cheated on, but rather that you should think carefully about whether your relationship is a happy one.Common relationship issues that lead to cheating include:


Mismatched libidos
Strikingly different personalities and values
Chronic fights, miscommunications, and bickering
A lack of mutual kindness and support in the relationship

, If he is trying to keep an adulterous relationship secret, he might begin to keep more careful track of his phone, tablet, or laptop. He might also increase his password security. If your partner used to leave these items lying around but now guards them closely, that is a huge red flag.Do not try to break into these devices. It might be tempting, but such an act might cause a rift with your partner if he is innocent. If you seek a divorce, there might also be legal repercussions to hacking into his devices.
 If he is cheating, he will need to make time to pursue that adulterous relationship in addition to his work responsibilities and other commitments. Watch out for sudden changes in his schedule that do not make sense to you and that break usual patterns.These changes might include:


Working late, even during a calm time of the year
Being unavailable on weekends without a good reason
Leaving town for conferences that he never had to attend before, Sometimes your friends and colleagues might pick up signs of your partner's infidelity before you do. If your friends avoid discussing your partner, seem embarrassed, act suddenly annoyed with your partner, or tell you explicitly that they are suspicious of your partner, be sure that you pay attention. They might be a more objective judge of your partner's behavior than you and might notice changes in your relationship that you are in denial about.You can also directly ask your friends for their opinion if you begin to notice signs of cheating in your partner.
 If your partner is cheating, his friends might be aware of the affair. If your partner's friends begin ignoring you or treating you differently, it might be because they do not want to reveal the secret.A majority of cheating men spend a lot of time with a friend who has cheated. If your partner's friends are known cheaters, this is also a red flag that cheating might be accepted by your partner., About 2/3 of cheating men report feeling guilty about their affair.Men are more likely to feel guilty about sexual affairs than about strictly emotional affairs.These signs of guilt might manifest themselves in a variety of ways, including:


Buying you random gifts
Apologizing for unrelated things
Acting defensive, even when you don't accuse him of anything
Accusing you of cheating

, About 40% of cheating men met their affair partner at work. If your partner talks incessantly about a new coworker--especially if that coworker is a member of the sex your partner is attracted to--you should be especially careful.Work can create opportunities for cheating as well, such as conference travel, work dinners, and office parties. Be particularly on your toes during events outside of normal work hours., If you are having sex much less frequently or if he doesn't seem interested in sex, this is a warning sign that he might be getting sex elsewhere.He might not be interested in sex with you because he feels guilty or because he is being fully satisfied outside of your relationship.


Pay attention not only to sexual frequency but also to casual signs of physical intimacy, such as holding hands, kissing, cuddling, or stroking your hair.Other possible reasons for a sudden decline in sexual frequency include depression, physical ailments, age, or stress., Do you notice any lipstick stains that you didn't cause? Do you smell a scent that does not match your own perfume or cologne? Do his clothes smell like a laundry detergent different from your own? Has he recently upgraded his wardrobe? These are all signs that he might be engaged in an affair., If your partner changes his hairstyle, hair color, fitness routine, cologne, or facial hair without discussing it with you, it is possible that he is doing it for the sake of somebody else. These are not solid signs in and of themselves, but might be indications of cheating if you notice other odd behaviors as well., Unexplained credit card receipts, new clothing, or gift-like objects are all signs of an affair. If your partner is cheating, you might find receipts for hotel rooms, restaurants, or gifts that do not match with your partner's usual patterns. You might also notice that your partner has new clothing items or nice gifts that you haven't seen before., If you appear too suspicious before you have proof of infidelity, your partner might begin covering his tracks better. Before confronting your partner, you will have to gather more solid information.A majority of men who cheat lie when confronted with an accusation. Evidence will be the only way to ascertain the truth in this case.Do not act skittish or strange around your partner.
Refrain from acting passive-aggressive or hostile.
Do not grill him about his whereabouts.
 Whenever you come upon a sign of cheating, write down the specifics in a private diary. Make sure this diary is well hidden and locked away. This journal could be an invaluable source of evidence should you decide you confront your partner. If you are married and are seeking a divorce, having the specific dates of suspected infidelity might also be to your advantage. Write down things like:Dates when he came home late
Dates and times of bizarre phone calls
The friends/family/coworkers your partner claims to be meeting

, Installing full-blown surveillance equipment can sometimes lead to legal trouble. However, you are absolutely within your rights to keep close tabs on bills you share with your partner. Pay special attention to credit card statements and your phone bill. Take note of any odd expenses. These could include:Plane, bus, or train tickets you didn't know about
Higher than usual gas expenses
Bills for restaurants and jewelry stores
Repeated phone calls to or from the same number, especially at odd hours
Credit card transactions in unexpected cities

, Many men use digital or internet-based tools to engage in online affairs or to find potential affair partners. Do not hack your partner's computer, but do check your browser history if you share computers. Pay attention to frequent visits to social media sites or dating sites. Also beware if your browser history has been frequently cleared: that means your partner might be hiding his web history., Some men who are frequent cheaters use dating websites in order to find sexual partners. There are even several websites that are designed for cheating men specifically. Consider browsing these sites for profiles that match your partner's. If you find your partner on a dating site, that is very good evidence that an affair already has--or soon will--take place., If your partner is definitely cheating or simply acting bizarre, you might want to ask yourself whether the relationship is something you want to preserve. Ask yourself whether you can imagine staying with him, whether or not he has cheated. If you cannot imagine remaining with him, you might want to break up, even if you are not positively certain whether he has cheated on you., This step is not necessary or recommended for everybody. However, if you are in a committed relationship and if there is a lot at stake, you might want to hire a private detective. For example, if your money, home, or custody of children are on the line, it might be worth the expense and hassle of hiring an expert.
 If you do find good evidence that he is cheating, you have several options about what to do next. What you do next depends on how serious your relationship was, how entwined your lives are, and how happy you were in the relationship. You might:


Choose to confront him with the evidence. See whether he might have explanations for the evidence and whether he feels guilty about his actions.

Break up with him. This might be difficult, but it could be worthwhile if you don't think the relationship is worth repairing. Protect yourself and stand up for your own needs.
Bring up the possibility of reconciliation. Some relationships can be repaired after an affair with therapy, the rebuilding of trust, and honest communication. You have to decide for yourself whether the relationship is worth trying to save.
 No matter what happens, do not blame yourself for his actions. Seek out your friends and family members to support you during this difficult time. Consider treating yourself to something special, such as a trip with a sibling or good friend. Remember that you deserve happiness.

