 Old billing statements or any other documents that contain any personally identifying information (even if it's just your name and address) shouldn't be thrown away in the trash can.Keep in mind that there are "dumpster divers" who are willing to wade through old coffee grounds and rotten orange peels to get their hands on your data.
Invest in a cross-cut or diamond-cut shredder rather than one that shreds in strips that can easily be put back together.
If you don't have a shredder, at least tear the documents into small pieces and use the two-bag approach. Place part of the torn document in one bag and the rest in another bag.
Don't dispose of sensitive documents in public. Be aware of the information contained on items such as receipts. They can be dug out of the trash and used to steal your identity.If you don't want a receipt, tell the clerk you don't want one. Some cash registers won't print receipts unless requested. However, if the clerk has to print the receipt anyway, take it with you.
Don't throw away receipts or any other paper with any identifying information in public trash cans.
 Mail services are common sites for identity theft activity. One of the most frequently used non-technological methods for identity theft involves rerouting your mail using a false change-of-address card.If you have a mailbox that can be easily accessed by others, consider getting a high-security locking mailbox or a post office box for financial mail.
Check your mail frequently so no one gets to it before you do.
Opting into "paperless" statement programs with banks and credit cards can reduce the amount of sensitive financial information being sent to you through the mail.
 Many thieves will use offers to apply for credit in your name at a different address, or will try to use cash advance checks. In the US, you can eliminate this opportunity and help prevent identity theft by calling the opt-out number to stop receiving credit card offers.In other countries, check with your government's consumer protection agency to find out what options exist for reducing or eliminating your junk mail.
It can take some time for an opt-out notice to take effect. In the meantime, make sure you're shredding or otherwise securely disposing of any pre-screened offers you receive.
 Personal documents related to your identity, such as your Social Security or national insurance card, birth certificate, and passport, should ideally be stored in a fireproof safe.These documents are a potential gold mine for identity thieves, and should be treated as though they are more precious than anything you own.
Along with identity documents, you also should store financial documents and other paperwork, credit cards you're not using, and any other papers that include information related to your personal identification such as account numbers, identification numbers, or passwords.
 An open wireless network allows hackers to infiltrate your network and potentially gain access to your computer itself. Set up a network that requires a password for access, and change that password regularly.Most routers come with a default password to be used to set up the network. Once the network is set up, create your own password. The default passwords are not unique to your router and are commonly known.
If you don't feel comfortable setting up the network on your own, hire a licensed network technician to set up your home wireless network for you and walk you through the security settings.
 Even when you're at home, you still need to be cautious when discussing sensitive matters over the phone. This is particularly true if you live in a densely populated area.If you have to make a phone call related to employment, billing, or financial information, go to a quiet, secure area of your house. Don't make that phone call out in the parking lot of your apartment complex, on your front porch, or on your patio or balcony. You never know who might overhear.
Likewise, don't leave any documents with your personal information lying around outside. For example, if you decide to do some online banking out on the porch on a nice spring day, bring everything back inside when you're done or if you have to step away.
 If you're going to be gone away for more than a night or two, having someone stay at your house or check in on it regularly can keep it from being obvious that you are out of town.Burglars and identity thieves will see a house with mail piled up or advertising circulars littering the front door as an easy target because it is obvious you are out of town. This is also true if the lights are out for an extended period of time.
Another option, if available to you, is to set your house lights on a timer that would mimic the movement of people.

