 Skirt steak often comes in one long, thin strip. If your grill or pan is large enough to accommodate the whole piece, you can leave it whole. Otherwise, cut it into a few smaller pieces.;
, Skirt steak can be a little tough, and some cooks like to tenderize it with a meat tenderizer.


Cover the skirt steak with plastic wrap or place in a plastic bag.
Use a meat tenderizer, hammer, frying pan or equivalent to pound the steak to about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) thick.
 Skirt steak is often marinated or rubbed to enhance the flavor and make the meat more tender. Choose a marinade or rub with flavors that work with the dish you're concocting. If you don't want to use a marinade or rub, good old salt and pepper will work just fine.

Common marinades are citrus, vinegar, mustard or olive oil based. Any marinade made for beef will be delicious.Common rubs range from simple salt and pepper to more pungent spices such as cayenne pepper, cumin, lemon or garlic.
 Place it in a covered plastic food storage container. Refrigerate the steak for 1 to 24 hours to let the flavors enhance the meat.
 This is the most common method for cooking skirt steak, and it produces meat that tastes just right every time.Here's how to do it:

Preheat your grill on high heat.






Place your steak on the grill.
Cook your steak for 3 minutes on the first side, then flip it to the other side and cook for 3 more minutes for a medium steak. If you like your steak more rare, grill for 2 minutes per side. If you like your steak well done, grill for 4 minutes on each side.






Remove the steak from the grill and let it rest for 5 minutes before serving. This allows the juices to seep back into the steak, making it more tender.
 If you don't have time to light up your grill, this is a convenient method that produces tasty steak:

Heat 2 teaspoons of cooking oil in a cast iron skillet or frying pan on the stove.






Lay the skirt steak in the pan in one layer.
Cook steak for 3 to 4 minutes on each side.






Brush with extra marinade or the oil from the pan as the steak is cooking.






Remove the steak from the pan and let it rest for 5 minutes before serving.
 For a grilled taste without the trouble of lighting your grill, this is a great option:

Move your oven rack so that the steak will be about 5 inches (12.7 cm) from the flame.






Turn the oven to broil and let it preheat.






Place the skirt steak on a lightly greased broiler pan or equivalent.






Let the steak broil for 3 to 4 minutes, then flip it and broil it on the other side.






Remove the steak from the oven and let it rest for 5 minutes before serving.
 Skirt steak is usually sliced into strips, since it's a relatively tough cut of steak. Place the steak on a cutting board. Use a sharp knife to cut the meat against the grain into bite-sized strips.


Look carefully at the steak to identify what directions the fibers are running through the steak.
Cut the skirt steak in the opposite direction of the fibers.
 Consider serving your steak in the following ways:



Make a Philly Cheese Steak.

Make steak fajitas.

Make carne asada tacos.

Make steak salad.

