 Any PDF file attached to your email or found in your other apps, such as Dropbox, can be opened in Type on PDF.


From your email, touch and hold the PDF attachment and select "Open in Type on PDF."
From other apps, such as Dropbox, navigate through the menus to open in Type on PDF.;
, Launch the app to view the PDF file you just exported.
 Tap on the "Pen Mode" icon on the menu, at the top of the screen. A submenu will appear with several colored pens, a highlighter, an eraser, and an undo button.


Choose any of the colored pens, with colors varying from blue, black, red, and green. Tap on the colored pen and start writing on the PDF file.
You can use these pens to sign the document directly without an actual pen.
 From the Pen Mode submenu, tap on the "Highlighter" icon. Use this to highlight items on the PDF.
 If you made a mistake or would want to remove some of the markings you’ve just made, from the Pen Mode submenu, tap on the "Eraser" icon to use.
 If you made a mistake and would want to undo the last marking you did, just tap on the "Undo" icon from the Pen Mode submenu.
 If you would want to start over using the same PDF file, you can either use the "Eraser" and remove each of the markings you’ve made, or you can tap "Erase All Pen Marks" under the Pen Mode submenu to remove all markings you’ve made in one sweep.
 Tap on the "Image Mode" icon and tap anywhere on your screen.


A submenu would appear listing all options for your image source. Images can be retrieved from Clipboard, Camera, Photo Library, Signature, or Stamp.
 Tap on "Clipboard." Whatever is currently stored in the clipboard would be pasted.



Tap on "Camera." Your mobile device’s built-in camera will open.
Capture your photo and tap "Use Photo."

, Tap on "Photo Library"; photos stored in your mobile device would be displayed. Tap on the photo you want to use.
 Before you can paste your signature, you should create one first.


Tap on "Create Signature" and crop the area of the screen where you penned your signature.
Once your signature is saved, tap on "Signature" to paste your signature anywhere on the document.
 If you would want the same image to be pasted several times on your document, tap "Stamp." The last image you used would be pasted.
 Once you’ve added your image to your document, you can move it around until you find the proper place for it.


Once set, you can adjust its length, width, or both by tapping and dragging on the appropriate green arrows located on the edge of the image.
Tap the red box on the upper left of the image if you want to remove it.
 Tap on the "Typewriter Mode" icon. Tap anywhere on your document to bring up the on-screen keyboard.
 Tap on the area where you want your typewritten text to appear, and start typing.
 You can make your text smaller or larger by tapping the –A or +A icons from the Typewriter Mode submenu, respectively.
 You can adjust the location of your text by tapping and dragging the green arrows on the corners of the text boxes. This is useful if you need to situate the text on an exact location.
 If you want to remove all the texts you’ve just added to your document, tap on the "Delete All Text" icon.



Tap on the green ‘Send’ icon on the menu.
Select "Hi-Def." Your edited document would be processed for export.
 If you want your edited document to be sent via email, tap on "Email." Your mobile device’s email app would launch and attach your document. Tap on "Send" after you finish.
 If you want your edited document to be exported to another app for further processing, tap "Another App."


Scroll through the list of apps compatible with your PDF file and select the app. The other app would launch with your edited document.
 If you want to print your edited document, tap on "Print." Select your Printer and tap on "Print."