 Talk to your fiance about what kind of traditional and personal elements you'd like the reception to feature. Consult bridal or lifestyle magazines, either in print or online. Talk to your families about unique cultural traditions you might want to incorporate.Ask each other about how to organize cocktail hour, dinner, and dancing. Do you both want to include elements like cutting the cake, a first dance, bouquet and garter tosses, and a last dance? Do you both want a strict schedule of events, or should the reception be more about going with the flow?
Talk to each other about how important the exit is to you. Do both of you want to make a grand exit? Do you simply want a more relaxed, open-ended reception exit?;
, To ensure you have time to sort out all of the details, start planning your wedding and reception several months in advance. When planning your reception’s timeline, overestimate the amount of time it’ll take for the first dance, cake cutting, bouquet and garter tosses, and other portions of the event.Overestimating will ensure you have time for every activity without having to rush through anything.
Plan out the schedule, but be flexible. Don’t be upset if you have to deviate from the plan.
 Set a definite time to make your grand exit. Avoid having an indefinite end to the reception. Wedding receptions often feature lots of alcohol, and whether it’s open bar or not, a party that goes into the wee hours can be costly, put your guests at risk, and threaten your big day with drama.While you should set a time to make your exit, be prepared to make it earlier in the evening. For example, if your reception is on a Sunday night, your guests might start to leave before your scheduled exit. You’ll want to make your exit while you still have enough guests to give you a proper send-off.
 It’s vital to pick a person to keep an eye on the time, notice if people are preparing to leave earlier than planned, and handle all the logistics that you wouldn’t want to worry about on your big day. After all, you wouldn’t want to have to awkwardly announce your own exit to your guests.The emcee or stage manager can be a member of the wedding party, like the maid of honor or best man, or one of the newlywed couple’s parents. You can also choose the DJ, if you’ve hired one, to make any necessary announcements about the send-off.
 You or your wedding planner should check with your venue about all necessary details, from planning out the exit time to deciding what guests throw or wave when you exit. Ask the venue’s person of contact if there’s a time by which all guests must exit the building and if they allow throwing rice or confetti (or whatever material you have planned). If there’s no obvious grand staircase or other appropriate area for an exit, ask your contact if there’s a good spot they suggest.If everyone, from your guests to vendors, must be out at a certain time, be sure to give your vendors at least an hour to clean up and pack their equipment.
Sparklers are an increasingly popular send-off item, but some venues don’t allow them, even in outdoor areas. Double check with your venue’s person of contact if you’re planning on using sparklers.

