 As soon as you realize you have lost your credit cards, you should contact one of three major credit reporting agencies: Equifax, Experian and TransUnion. You ask one agency to put a fraud alert on your account, and they will share the request with the other two.Whenever someone wants to take out credit in your name, the lender will have to verify your identity by making a phone call. You can request the fraud alert at the following numbers:


Equifax: 1-800-525-6285
Experian: 1-888-397-3742
TransUnion: 1-800-680-7289;
, Avoid cancelling your credit cards, which could negatively affect your credit score. Instead, call the company for every credit card that was in your purse or wallet and report them as stolen.Here are the numbers for major credit cards:


MasterCard: 1-800-627-8372 (US) or 1-636-722-7111 (worldwide)
Visa: 1-800-847-2111 (US) or 1-303-967-1096 (worldwide)
American Express: 1-800-528-4800
Discover: 1-800-347-2683

, You might have debit cards from your bank or credit union, or you may have had a check or deposit slip in your purse or wallet. Call up your bank or credit union and report that you lost your purse or wallet.They should have a procedure in place for changing your account numbers.


You should also close your checking and savings accounts and reopen with new numbers. Discuss this with the bank manager., You should receive new cards with different account numbers from your credit card companies and your bank. Also make sure that everything else about your account is the same. For example, check the following:APR
credit limits
accrued miles

, You might use your credit or debit cards to make automatic bill payments. If you do, you need to update the accounts with your new numbers, otherwise your bills won’t be paid.At the same time, you’ll want to update direct deposit information, if you had checks deposited into an old account number.
 Some people keep their passwords in their purse or wallet. If you do, then go and change them immediately.Identity thieves can find out incredible amounts of personal information by accessing your email or other accounts.


Also change all passwords and PINs to any financial account, such as your online banking account and credit cards.
 You should call or visit the police and report the loss. Hold onto your copy of the police report, which you might need later if you do become a victim of identity theft. Gather helpful information ahead of time, such as the following:When you lost your wallet or purse.
Where you lost your wallet or purse.
What you were carrying, such as the amount of money, credit cards, and any valuables.
Description of the purse or wallet.
If you know the suspect, then a description of him or her.
 Go to the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) and report your driver’s license as stolen. Ask someone to drive you or take public transportation. You should go in person, which will make the process faster.Take your copy of your police report. The DMV will want to see that you have reported the loss.
Each state has different procedures for issuing a new license. You may have to pay fees.
Ask if you can get a new driver’s license number. The DMV might not agree, but you’ll enjoy greater protection if you get a new number and not just a replacement license., You may have carried your Social Security card in your purse or wallet. If so, then a thief can use your number to open new credit lines. Unfortunately, the Social Security Administration will not give you a new number. Nevertheless, they can still note in their records that your card was lost.Call 1-800-772-1213.


Be sure to request a new Social Security card at the same time.
Remember to memorize your number and store the card safely at home.You really don’t need to carry it with you.
 You should report a theft to many different federal agencies, which collect this information. In the United States, for example, you should call the following:


Report the theft to the IRS Identity Protection Unit at 1-800-908-4490.Call the Federal Trade Commission at 1-877-ID-THEFT.
 Medical identity theft is a growing problem. People will steal your identity to access prescription drugs, which they can sell to others. You should call your doctor and tell them you lost your purse or wallet.


Your doctor should take precautions to confirm your identity if someone shows up at the office claiming to be you.
 You may have had different insurance cards in your purse or wallet, such as your health insurance card or auto insurance. You’ll want to call all insurers and report the loss.


Some homeowners insurance policies have identity theft coverage, so you should call and check.Ask your insurers if you can get a new policy number and cancel the old one.This will provide the greatest protection.
 You are entitled to one free credit report from each of the three credit reporting agencies each year. You should request your report and check to see if there is anything you need to dispute, such as credit cards you didn’t open or loans you didn’t sign for. Don’t order the report from the agencies. Instead, order your reports in the following ways:Call 1-877-322-8228. Provide your name, address, date of birth, and Social Security Number.
Visit http://www.annualcreditreport.com. You can submit your information online and receive an electronic copy of your report.
 Even with a fraud alert in place and new bank account numbers, you can never be too careful. It’s a good idea to get in the habit of looking at your monthly statements. Review to make sure you made the purchase or withdrawal. If you use online banking, then you can check your accounts more often.


Be sure to dispute any purchase you didn’t authorize without delay. For example, if you reported the loss before someone used your ATM or debit card, then you aren’t liable for any purchases. However, if you report it within two days, then your maximum liability is $50. This amount increases to $500 when you report the loss between two and 60 days.If you wait more than 60 days to dispute a purchase, then you are on the hook for all purchases.
 These services vary by quality and cost, so research them extensively before signing up for one. Generally, these services will monitor your credit and look for potential fraud. They also tell you when someone has pulled your credit report.These monitoring services don’t do anything to stop fraud. Instead, they simply notify you of suspicious activity. It’s up to you to prevent the fraud or clean up any mess that has been made. However, credit monitoring can make sense if you are too busy to look at your credit reports regularly.
Credit monitoring typically can’t find fraud that doesn’t show up on a credit report. For example, they won’t know whether someone has applied for a job as you, gone to a doctor using your insurance, or obtained a cell phone in your name.
Be skeptical of promises to pay lost wages or expenses incurred by identity theft. Often, these payouts are severely limited.
 You might have five credit cards but only use the one that gives you the best rewards. In this situation, there’s no need to carry the cards you don’t use. Instead, carry your main card and then one card as back up.You’ll need your driver’s license and your health insurance card, in case you have a medical emergency.
However, you don’t really need other personal information, such as your birth certificate or passport (unless you are travelling).
Also leave out pay stubs and other proof of payment., It may be convenient to store your passwords, PINs, and other personal info in your purse or wallet. However, any identity thief also finds it convenient to have everything in one place. If possible, leave this information at home.If you struggle to remember your PINs or passwords, then you can store them on a phone that has a password. Remember not to store your phone in your purse.
You can increase your ability to remember your PIN by writing it down 10 or 20 times. Also, you might break down the PIN to two two-digit numbers.“24 and 45” is easier to remember than “2-4-4-5.”

, This app will copy everything in your wallet and then store the information. You can retrieve it only by using a secure password.Search for these apps online. Some are free.


If you don’t want to use an app, then photocopy the front and back of all items you keep in your purse or wallet. Store the copies safely at home.