 Dry the pieces in between a double layer of clean paper towels, blotting them dry.









Rinsing the chicken removes slime and ice crystals from the surface.;
, Place your non-dominant hand flat on top of one chicken breast. Hold a sharp knife with a smooth blade in your dominant hand, keeping the blade parallel to the cutting board.









To make the chicken easier to slice, start out with chicken that is mostly thawed but still partially frozen in the center. Fully thawed chicken can also be used, but it might be more difficult to slice.










The cutlets should each be about 1/4-in (6.35-mm) thick.
Not every slice needs to run the entire length of the chicken breast, but each slice should have the same thickness.
Repeat this procedure for all four chicken breasts.
 You can create larger cutlets that are just as thin by pounding the meat with a tenderizing mallet or rolling pin.









Place each chicken breast on top of a layer of wax paper spread out on the counter. Make sure that each piece is 2 in (5 cm) apart from the others.Cover the chicken with another sheet of wax paper.
Use a rolling pin or the flat end of a heavy meat tenderizer to pound the chicken in even strokes. Work from the center out.
Continue pounding the chicken until each cutlet is about 1/3-in (8.5-mm) thick.
 Use a fork to stir together these 5 ingredients in a medium bowl.









For best results, use a bowl with shallow sides. Doing so will make it easier for you to dip the chicken cutlets into the mixture later.
For a simplified version, you could use 1 cup (250 ml) of seasoned bread crumbs instead of the unseasoned bread crumbs, Parmesan, and parsley.
If using dried parsley instead of fresh, use 2 tsp (10 ml) instead of the full 1/4 cup (60 ml)., In a separate bowl, use a fork or whisk to beat together the egg and milk.









Beat the egg separately before you add the milk in order to make mixing the two easier to accomplish.
Use a shallow bowl or pie plate.
 Pour the flour onto a wide plate with a short lip.









Lightly shake the plate from side to side to create an even layer of flour.
 Coat each cutlet in flour, then the egg mixture, and then the crumb mixture.









Arrange your dishes in assembly-line fashion so that it is easier to transfer each cutlet from one dish to the next.
You can use your fingers to move the cutlets from dish to dish, but use a fork if you want to avoid making your hands messy.
After dredging both sides of the cutlet in flour, gently tap the cutlet against the side of the plate to knock off excess.
Dunk the cutlets in the egg mixture, making sure that both sides are well coated. Hold the cutlet above the bowl so that excess egg can drip off.
Coat both sides of the cutlet with the bread crumb mixture. Place the cutlet in the dish of crumbs so that the bottom gets coated. To coat the top, scoop additional mix over the cutlets and press it into the surface of the chicken.










You could also line the baking sheet with parchment paper or aluminum foil instead of greasing it.
 Place the breaded cutlets on the baking sheet in a single layer.









If you are unable to fit all the cutlets on a single baking sheet, use multiple baking sheets. Do not arrange the chicken in multiple layers.
Do not cover the baking sheet.
 Put the chicken in the oven and cook until firm to the touch.









The total baking time will vary depending on how thick it is and how thawed it is beforehand.
To check for doneness, cut into the middle of the thickest cutlet with a thin-bladed knife. The chicken is done if there is no pink inside.
 Transfer the chicken cutlets onto serving plates.









If desired, serve with a wedge of lemon on the side.
 Pour enough cooking oil into the skillet to coat the bottom and heat it over medium-high heat.









Use olive oil or vegetable oil.
Heat the oil for 2 to 3 minutes. Check the temperature of the oil by carefully sprinkling a few drops of water into the pan. If the water sizzles immediately upon contact, the oil is hot enough.
 Cook the chicken for 2 1








Flip the chicken in the middle of the cooking process so that both sides get browned.
Test the chicken for doneness by making a small cut with a thin-bladed knife in the center of the thickest cutlet. The chicken is done when no pink remains.
Do not overcrowd the pan. If you cannot fit all the cutlets into a single pan, cook them in batches, adding more oil to the pan as needed.
 Transfer the cooked cutlets to serving plates.









Serve with your choice of sauce, such as a honey mustard sauce or sweet and sour sauce.

