 They will schedule preoperative tests and give personalized instructions. Make sure that you feel sufficiently informed about the serious surgical procedure you’ll be undergoing.If you have any questions for the surgeon about what the operation entails or how long the recovery process will be, this is the time to ask.;
, This list of medications should include all prescription and over-the-counter medicines, and also any supplemental or herbal remedies you regularly take. Your doctor will decide whether the medications should be changed or stopped before surgery.Also let your surgeon know if you are allergic to any medications.


Be certain to mention any blood-thinning medications to your doctor. They may ask you to discontinue taking these medications at some point before surgery. Follow your doctor’s directions.
Coordinate with your surgeon and primary doctor about other medical conditions such as blood disorders or diabetes. Adjustments or special monitoring before surgery may be required.
 You’ll be unable to drive following the surgery, so you’ll need to find a friend or family member who can drive you to and from the hospital. You’ll also need help at home for four to six weeks following your surgery.After the four to six week period, you’ll be able to return to work, resume driving, and have a more normal daily life around your house. As you slowly heal during that time, the amount of in-home assistance you’ll need will decrease.
You may need to discuss in-home care with the hospital staff if no friends or family are available.
 It’s important to have your health monitored in the weeks before your surgery, and your doctor and surgeon can advise you about which specific tests you’ll need to undergo. These tests will likely include:A red blood cell count. If your blood cell count is too low, you may be anemic and may need to receive a blood transfusion during surgery.
Clotting tests. These measure the time that it takes for your blood to form a clot. You may need to take these tests if you have recently stopped taking any blood-thinning drugs.
Chest x-rays. This will give your surgeon an idea of the size and shape of your heart and aorta.
An electrocardiogram (ECG). This measures small electrical signals produced by your heart.
 If you smoke, quit smoking before you surgery. Smoking can increase your chances of developing a chest infection, and can increase your risk of developing dangerous blood clots.Continuing to smoke will cause damage to the new bypasses and further damage the heart.

When you go in for surgery, let your anesthesiologist know that you used to smoke and how long ago you quit. This will help them manage any complications related to smoking.Quit as soon as possible to give your body time to heal and recover from smoking-related health issues before surgery.
This includes both cigarettes and marijuana.
 You should have legal documents pertaining to these matters, including a living will, properly filed.Serious complications, including death, are rare from a coronary bypass, but can still occur.
 This is important to reduce the risk of nausea and vomiting from the anesthesia, which can have serious consequences if you aspirate the vomit. If you disobey the surgeon’s instructions, they will cancel the surgery.Do not drink any alcohol within the 24 hours preceding your surgery. It can cause serious reactions with medications given at the hospital.
 The hospital will provide personal care items, so you will not need to bring a toothbrush, toothpaste, shampoo, soap, etc. You should not bring any valuables to the hospital with you. Leave expensive electronics at home. Pack a bag that includes:Personal identification and insurance information.
Emergency contact information.
Comfortable, roomy clothes that you can wear both to and from the hospital.
Any necessary personal items, including glasses, hearing aids and/or dentures.
 Check with the person who will be taking you to the hospital, and make sure that they will arrive to pick you up on time. Also take this time to straighten and clean your home, as you will not have the energy to do this once you’ve returned from the surgery.Since you’ll be largely sedentary for the days following your surgery, put whatever you’ll need during that time (tissues, TV remote, laptop or tablet with charger, etc.) by your sofa or bed.
 It’s important that you clean yourself before you go in for surgery, and not just because it's good hygiene. Bacteria on your body can infect the surgeon’s incision, and lead to serious infection following the bypass surgery.If you enter the hospital without thoroughly showering first, you’ll also introduce bacteria into the hospital environment.
Your doctor may have given you a disinfectant solution specifically to clean your chest with. This solution will reduce the risk of post-surgery infection at the incision , You should plan to get to the hospital at least one or two hours before your surgery so final tests and paperwork can be done. You’ll likely be sent to a pre-admission area before you’re admitted for surgery.The pre-admission area will take your medical history and may also perform an ECG or other quick tests prior to your surgery.
Any hair on your chest will be shaved off the site where the operation will be performed. This makes it easier to clean the skin and will prevent adhesives from tugging painfully on chest hair when removed., Since you shouldn’t eat or drink during this time, you’ll need to take the medicines with only a sip of water.


Try to relax as much as possible during this time. Say goodbye to the family member or friend who drove you to the hospital, and ask the hospital staff any final questions you have about your upcoming surgery.

