
It is sunnah to eat before going to Eid ul-Fitr (end of Ramadan) but not do so on the occasion of Eid ul-Adha (commemorating Prophet Ibrahim's sacrifice).
Women can attend the Eid Salah as long as practices of women attending the mosque are followed (i.e. Hijab).;
,
There are six additional Takbeers in Eid Salah.
There is no Salah before or after the Eid Salah.
There is no Adhan or Iqamah for Eid Salah.
Make the intention for Salat, "I am performing Eid Salat for Allah (SWT) with six additional Takbeers."

, The Salat begins with the first Takbeer followed by the hands folded across your chest.
 The Imam will then recite three additional Takbeers. The followers will silently recite the Takbeers. The followers will raise their hands with each Takbeer and let them hang but on the last Takbeer fasten their hands as normal during salah.
 The Imam will then recite Surat ul-Fatihah, followed by another Surat.
 Bow down to the ruku position and say "Subhana Rabbiyal Adhim" three times.
 Rise up from the bowing position while saying "Sami Allah who Liman Hamidah" followed by "Rabbana Lakal Hamd".
 Prostrate to the sujood position and say "Subhana Rabbiyal A'la" three times.
 Sit up on the floor and while sitting, say "Rabbighfir li" twice.
, Rise up from the sujood position and stand straight while the rakat is repeated.
 The Imam will then recite three additional Takbeers. The followers will silently recite the Takbeers. The followers will raise their hands with each Takbeer and let them hang but on the fourth Takbeer bow down to the Ruku Position.
 Repeat the ruku and sujood steps; then return back to the sitting position.
 "Atta-hiyyatu lillahi was-salawatu wat-tayyibatu. As-salamu 'alaika ayyuh-an-Nabiyyu wa rahmat-ullahi wa barakatuhu. As-salamu 'alaina wa 'alaa 'Ibaadillah-is-salihin. Ash-hadu al-la illaha illAllah, wa ash-hadu anna Muhummadan abduhu wa Rasuluh"

, "Allah huma salli ala Muhammad wa ala Aali Muhummad kama sal lieta ala Ibrahim wa ala Aali Ibrahim innaka hameedum majeed; wa barik ala Muhummad wa ala Aali Muhummad kama barakta ala Ibrahim wa ala Aali Ibrahim innaka hameedum majeed"

, Turn your face to the right saying "Assalamu Alaikum wa Rahmatullah" and then to the left repeating the same words thus ending the Salat.
 The Imam will then recite the Khutbah after Salah and the followers listen to it.
 Everyone wishes each other happy Eid.

