 This will bring up a list of YouTube to MP3 converters that you can download to your computer.
 Your search should return a long list of conversion programs, many of which will be free. These programs will vary in ease of use, MP3 quality, and the level of privacy they provide. To ensure that you’re choosing a high-quality and reputable program, search its name plus “reviews” to see what other users have said about it.


Ultimately you’ll want something that will not slow down your computer or put anything harmful such as malware or viruses on it.

Signs that you’ve downloaded malware include pop-up ads and spam; your home page changing to a site you don’t recognize; and being redirected to unfamiliar pages., There will likely be several different versions of the software to suit different operating systems. Ensure that you download the correct version of the software for your operating system.


You’ll also want to make sure that the software is compatible with your operating system version. If you're unsure of how to check which operating system version you're using, type “how to check <operating system name> version” into your search engine.
For example, to check which Mac operating system you’re using, click on the apple icon in the upper left-hand corner of your desktop. This will open a drop-down menu, from which you will choose the first option: “About this Mac.” A small pop-up window will then open that lists details about your computer, including which operating system (OS X) and version you’re using.
 Clicking “download” on the software website will start the installation process. Each program will have a different installation process, so just follow the installation wizard.


During the download process you may be prompted to download other software or toolbars that are not part of the conversion software. You likely don’t want these on your computer. Usually you can avoid downloading them by simply unchecking the checkboxes during installation.
You may need to restart your computer once you’ve finished installing the conversion software, so ensure that you’ve saved everything you want to save before beginning the installation.
, To copy the video’s URL, go to the address bar (at the top center of your browser window), highlight the url, and right click your mouse and choose “copy”, or hit ctrl+c (on a PC) or command+c (on a Mac).
 Open your new conversion program and paste the URL into the appropriate box (it will likely say “paste URL” or something similar). To paste, right click your mouse and select “paste”, or hit ctrl+v (on a PC) or command+v (on a Mac).
 The conversion software will likely offer you a few options for your download. The higher the quality, the larger the file, meaning it will take up more space on your computer’s hard drive — on the other hand, it will also likely sound better.


You can always go back and download a higher-quality version of the file by simply repeating the download process and selecting a higher quality. Don’t be afraid to experiment with file sizes to find what works best for you.
 Some conversion programs will automatically fill in song details such as artist, song title, album, and release date. Check to ensure that these are correct before you click the “download” or “convert” button on your conversion program.
 MP3 files will generally be downloaded by default into your “Music” folder. Double-check that the MP3 file will go where you want it to go by viewing the conversion program’s “preferences” or “tools > options” folder, and ensuring that the “output” is saved to a folder of your choosing.
 Once you’ve chosen your file, quality settings, and download folder you're ready to download the video. The conversion program will download the video from YouTube and then convert it to an MP3 file. The whole process shouldn’t take more than a few minutes, unless you’re downloading something much longer than a single song — for example, an hour-long presentation.
 Once it’s been downloaded, you’ll be able to find your MP3 file in your previously specified folder. You can then play the file using a media player (for example, Windows Media Player or iTunes) and/or add it to your music library.

