 The delicate crunch of the leaves make it a perfect addition to salads filled with fresh, organic ingredients. Pile just-picked lamb’s quarters with sliced bell peppers, grape tomatoes, broccoli florets and other healthy veggies, or keep it simple with a handful of pine nuts, some crumbled feta cheese and a drizzle of olive oil and balsamic vinegar.The flavor of the raw greens is subtle enough to make it suitable for sweeter salad varieties as well, with ingredients like strawberries, mandarin oranges, cottage cheese and candied nuts.Slice the leaves into thin strips using a mandoline or herb scissors and incorporate them into a colorful slaw.;
, Blanch the greens in a pot of boiling water for 2-3 minutes to soften them, then drain the excess water, season with salt, butter and cracked pepper and serve. Alternately, lamb’s quarters can be steamed to make them more tender. When cooked, the starchy leaves should relax while retaining a bit of their firmness and crunch.You can also sauté lamb’s quarters with oil and minced aromatics after lightly heating them to infuse even more flavor.Be careful not to overcook the greens, as this can make them limp and soggy. A couple of minutes should do the trick.
 Tear the leaves into bite-sized morsels and stir them into a hearty broth. Feel free to incorporate a few of your other favorite ingredients, like roasted corn, wild rice or fresh herbs. Lamb’s quarters pairs especially well with rich cream and cheese-based soups, so it can even be used to fill out a chowder.Try simmering a traditional offering like minestrone or posole using lamb’s quarters as a special ingredient.Soups and stews are a good way to put stored lamb’s quarters to use during the cold winter months when the plant tends to die off.
 Combine fresh, rinsed lamb’s quarters leaves with fruits and veggies like kale, avocado, cucumber and kiwi to mix up a nourishing and all-natural green concoction. Enjoy a smoothie for breakfast, after tough workout, as a meal replacement or anytime you need an extra boost of clean energy.For a smoother, sweeter flavor, include a few slices of banana or a scoop of matcha powder.Raw lamb’s quarters are naturally high in essential nutrients like calcium, magnesium and vitamin C., Since lamb’s quarters is so much like spinach in terms of flavor and texture, the leaves of the plant make it a fine substitute in recipes like omelettes, quiche and pasta.Plan on adding a couple extra minutes to the cook time for older plants, which may have a slightly tougher consistency.
Make lamb’s quarters a part of a traditional spinach and artichoke dip the next time you host a get together or throw a Superbowl party.