 If there’s a switch that controls the light, turn the switch off. Similarly, if the light is battery operated, remove the batteries. If the light fixture is plugged into the wall, unplug it.;
, Grasp the bulb, keeping your hand as close to the base as you can. Gently twist the lightbulb counterclockwise. If you feel too much resistance you may need to put on heavy duty work gloves before unscrewing. If the bulb breaks your hand will be protected from the sharp glass shards. Then you can try to remove the base of the bulb by hand.If the bulb breaks and you can’t get the base out with the gloves, dispose of the shards properly and clean the area. Next, use needle nose pliers to grasp the base of the light and turn it.
 Be sure that the lightbulb has really gone out. Usually a bulb goes out because it’s old. However, sometimes there may be problems with the light fixture. To test this, put the bulb in another light fixture and see if it turns on. When in doubt, get a new light bulb.


If the bulb has a black spot, you’re using a bulb with higher wattage than recommended for the light fixture. Buy a lower wattage bulb.
If the lightbulb was flickering or burns out too quickly, the old bulb was screwed in too tightly., Gently screw the new lightbulb into the socket using a clockwise motion. Don’t stop turning until you encounter resistance. If you encounter a lot of resistance and the bulb isn’t completely screwed in yet, double check that you have the right bulb size. The base of the bulb should perfectly match the base of the old bulb.If you bought the wrong size bulb, don’t try to make it work. Go back to the store and get the right bulb.
Once the bulb is in place, test the bulb by turning the light back on. If it doesn’t work, unscrew the bulb, blow on the socket to remove debris, and try again.
 Most standard lightbulbs are incandescent. However, if you’d like to use energy efficient bulbs, you can usually find a Light Emitting Diode (LED) or Compact Fluorescent (CFL) option in your bulb size. These kinds of lightbulbs use less energy and save you money in the long run.A CFL bulb can use up to 75% less energy than an incandescent bulb and can last up to nine years.
An LED bulb can use up to 80% less energy than an incandescent bulb and can last up to twenty years.

