 Most false eyelash kits come with eyelash glue, but they don’t often contain glue remover. However, you can find many brands of eyelash glue remover in the beauty department of your local department store. Choose a brand that meets your specific skin requirements; when possible, choose glue remover made by the same company that made the eyelash glue you used.


Always check to make sure you’re not allergic to any of the ingredients.;
, It’s best to take off your eye makeup prior to using the lash glue remover, as the buildup of makeup on your eyelid can make it more difficult to take off your lashes. Use makeup remover or baby oil to gently wash off your eye makeup. Put a bit of the remover on a cotton pad, and wipe at your eyelid until the majority of the makeup is gone.









Don’t try removing your mascara at this point, if you’re wearing it. This can rip at the false lashes and pull the skin on your eyelids uncomfortably.
Don’t wash your face with soap and water to take off your eye makeup though, as this can damage both your false and natural lashes.
 Position yourself in front of a mirror, and get out the glue remover and a cotton swab. Put a small dab of the glue remover onto the cotton swab, so that the cotton is completely moistened. The remover may smell faintly like acetone, but this is normal.
 Gently rub your lash line with the cotton swab covered in glue remover. Brush the base of the false eyelashes with the swab several times, to remove as much of the glue as possible. Do this to both eyes, and let it set for 20-30 seconds.
 If you plan on throwing out your false eyelashes, you can use your fingers to pull them off. If you want to save your false eyelashes and reuse them later on, use tweezers to remove them. Grab the false eyelashes as close to your eyelid as possible, starting at the inner corner of your eye. Gently tug upwards on them to pull them away from the eyelid. They should remove easily; if there is tension when you try to pull them off, apply more glue remover and wait 30 seconds before trying again.
 Set aside your false eyelashes, and examine your eyelids. It is likely that there is some residual glue left on your natural lash line which needs to be removed. To do this, put a bit more of the glue remover on the cotton swab, and spread it over the glue that’s remaining. Then, use the dry end of the cotton swab to gently rub off the glue, cleaning your eyelid. Use a bit of warm water and your face wash of choice to finish off the job.







