 If you have a name that you like, you might fiddle with the spelling to see if alternate letters will make it more interesting. The band Gotye, pronounced “Go-tee-ay,” is a respelling of the French surname Gaultier.Sometimes this isn’t a good idea, especially if you’re adding an extra letter where it is really unnecessary. You might just risk confusing people and making it difficult to pronounce your name.
 While it may be a hot thing to replace an S in your name with a $ or an I with a !, these just add confusion and likely mistakes in spelling your name. Even though Ke$ha and others have done it, you should skip this.


The singer Prince changed his name to a symbol in order to get out of his contract with Warner Bros. in 1993. Since the symbol was unpronounceable, he was called The Artist Formerly Known as Prince. This really only works if you already have a well-established reputation and fan following, and ultimately would make things too complicated anyway. Prince reverted to being called Prince after his contract with Warner Bros. expired., Some stage names may benefit from exoticizing them. This happens frequently for burlesque and pinup performers. Adding words such as “von,” “de,” or “la” can make your name more exotic or exciting., If you have a very unique name, you may find that people have a lot of trouble pronouncing it. Think about actors Quvenzhané Wallis, Saoirse Ronan or Ralph Fiennes. These are difficult names to pronounce and often require pronunciation guides in news articles. Think of alternative spellings of your name that will facilitate people pronouncing it correctly.
Once you are well-known, however, you will likely overcome this problem.
 Will your name travel well with you if you start performing overseas? Since the internet has enabled fans from all over the world to connect with performers, think about how your name resonates with different cultures around the world.
 If you do choose to use alternative spelling or unique formatting of your name, keep it consistent. Do not fluctuate between using an S and a $. Choose one and stick to it.

