 Between classes, it's only natural to say hi to any friends you might meet. This is perfectly acceptable for a well-behaved student. However, don't let yourself get distracted talking or goofing off. Keep track of your time and always allow yourself enough time to get to class before the bell. Passing periods can be deceptively short and teachers hate it when a student is late. If you're tardy repeatedly, you might even be subject to detention or other discipline.


If you've got a timer function on your watch or cell phone, use it. Designate a set amount of time - three minutes, for example - that you're allowed to talk with friends. When your timer goes off, wrap up what you're doing and get to class!

, Presidents, deans, and provosts: these school figures aren't teachers, but that doesn't mean you can ignore them and other people in the administration. Anyone who works in an office in the school probably has the ear of the principal or someone else who can discipline you. Be respectful to these people - a good reputation among the members of the administration can be a godsend if you get in real trouble.


Here's one example: many schools have a secretary in the school's office who you need to talk to if you arrive at school late for some reason. Sometimes, this person is annoying, and, because they don't have the power to discipline you, it's tempting to give them sass. Don't do it. They probably talk to the principal every day. Even if they don't rat you out to the principal, they'll make life difficult for you the next time you show up with a poorly-forged doctor's note.
 This one's sometimes very difficult, but it's always very important. Many schools have zero-tolerance policies on fighting - throw a punch and you can easily find yourself suspended or expelled. Spare your permanent record from the threat of black ink. Don't get into fights unless it's absolutely necessary to protect yourself. Even in desperate cases where you have to fight, you run the risk of serious trouble. Teachers and administrators won't necessarily know who started the fight. If it's your word against the bully's words, then there's a good chance you'll both be punished. The best policy is to avoid fights entirely. Here are some tips:



Know how to deal with bullies. Bullies are weak, insecure people who hurt you to feel better about themselves. Try to thwart them without fighting.
Ignore your aggressors. Sometimes, people pick fights for attention or because they're bored or unfulfilled. Ignore these people to make them look like idiots. Headphones can be a great tool for this - just turn your music up.
Tell a teacher or administrator. If you feel like you're being picked on, tell your school's staff, especially if you're worried that your bully will eventually start a fight. If s/he does, you'll be able to say that you tried to warn them about the danger beforehand.
Never instigate a fight. No matter how disrespectful someone is to you, you'll bear the brunt of the blame if you throw the first punch. If you're fuming mad at another student, do whatever you need to do to control your temper - listen to some calming music, eat a big meal, or perform some vigorous exercise, for starters.
 Gossip, especially juicy gossip, can be hard to resist spreading, but you definitely should avoid doing so. Word gets around schools quickly, and if someone hears you've said something nasty behind their back, you'll quickly get an untrustworthy reputation. This goes double for teachers or administrators. Vicious rumors about staff members can put their jobs in jeopardy. If you're caught for starting a rumor about one of the school's employees, your punishment will be severe.


It goes without saying, but spreading gossip is also just a mean thing to do. Before you say something mean about someone, reflect on whether the statement is true or just a rumor. If it's true, think about how it would make this person feel if s/he heard it.

