 Lots of people feel intimidated at first to start training outdoors but actually cold weather is ideal for running in. The colder the weather, the less heat stress the body has to go through, which is why so many marathons are held in October and November.Boosting your morale and actually looking forward to your run will make you much more likely to stick with your new running routine.


Think about what some of your main motivations are for running in the snow. For example, you may have some personal goals, such as preparing for a race or wanting to lose weight. Keep these goals in mind as inspiration.
Exercise has been shown to help beat the winter blues, particularly for those suffering from Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD). Running outside helps even more (regardless of the presence of clouds) than indoor light treatments in less time.If you have a hectic work or family schedule, think of the time you spend running outside as your “me-time.” We all need alone time and so running outside can be a great ritual for you to temporarily get away from it all.
Another potential motivator could be staying healthy through the holiday season. The snowy season is packed with gluttonous holidays filled with alcohol, heavy traditional foods, and sugar-laden desserts. You can offset those calories and stick to a healthier regime by scheduling time to run outdoors.;
, Always check the weather before going out on your run. Just because it’s snowy, doesn’t mean that it’s cold enough that you risk getting frostbite and you don’t want to overdress or underdress. Generally you should check the wind chill, which is a calculated estimate using the temperature and wind speed of what the cold feels like to the human body.If it is extremely cold and/or windy, that doesn’t mean you can’t run outside. Just be sure to cover up your extremities in particular, such as your fingers, ears, nose, cheeks, chin, wrists and toes, as these are far from moving muscles that generate warmth and therefore have a higher risk of frostbite.Always wear socks, mittens, hats, and whatever else you need to ensure you don’t expose your skin to the harsh weather.
Watch the wind. Wind protective gear is very important if it’s windy and you can easily check online or on a weather app to see what the windchill is for the day. High winds can cause frostbite which burns very quickly if you haven't taken precautions. Use Vaseline or a similar barrier cream to protect your face and use clothing to keep the wind off extremities. Wear goggles or glasses if needed.
If you plan to run outside regularly and live in an extremely cold area, you may want to invest in some running specific gear, such as running gloves or thermal headbands.
 During the cold season, it’s important to be intentional about your clothing choices. If you don’t know where to start or don’t have any specialized running clothes, you may want to visit your local running supplies store for good gear. Otherwise, the most important thing to keep in mind is that layers are your key to success.


Don’t overdress. Many runners assume they need to bundle up to protect themselves against the cold and while you should make sure none of your skin is exposed, don’t wear too much clothing as the heat and sweat can really build up and trapping the water underneath all that clothing can actually increase your risk of hypothermia.Be sure to wear several, light layers and expect a bit of trial and error until you find the right amount of clothing that protects and warms you through the snowy season.
You may want to invest in winter sports gear made of wicking materials that don’t trap in sweat and allow your skin to breathe while still protecting it from the elements. Some of these specialized clothing pieces and materials include fleece, dri-fit running leggings, light wool, and vests.As a general rule of thumb, you should feel cold when you first leave the house and expect your body to warm up within the first few minutes of running. If after running awhile, you realize you are drastically under-dressed, head back home for another layer before you expose yourself too much to the elements.
 Most runners elect to wear their everyday running shoes but, depending on weather conditions, you may want to add some protective gear.


For example, if there is a lot of snow outside, you may want to add some rubber outsoles or traction devices, such as Yaktrax.
You should also take care in selecting your socks before you go out to run. Toe socks should be avoided as they make your individual toes more sensitive to the cold. Wool or other “wicking” fabrics are preferable to cotton as they are less likely to keep in the chill.With all that being said, stay alert throughout your run and avoid slush puddles and ice whenever possible as no shoes will completely protect you from the lack of traction or the cold water.
 When you first start out running outdoors in the cold, you may want to plan routes that stay relatively near your home so that you can get back quickly if there’s anything you need (such as adding or removing a layer of clothing). Once you start getting the hang of it, however, you can plan routes that are more scenic or exciting to keep yourself motivated.
 Warming up before running is always a smart idea to prevent injury and doing so indoors will help warm your body before exposing yourself to the elements.


Try doing some jumping jacks, lunges, squats, or other cardio exercises until you feel your muscles warming up and your heart rate quickening.
 Stick to cleared sidewalks, groomed running trails and places where you are certain that there is no ice or likelihood of drops under snow cover, such as covered drains, holes or hollows. Sticking to routes that are regularly maintained will lessen your chances of injury.
 This is especially crucial in the winter months as there are potential dangers that are more difficult to see, given the snow and meager daylight.


Watch out for other snow sports enthusiasts. If you are sharing your running space with skiers, sledders and snowshoers, be aware of their trail areas and keep out of their way - do not run or jog on ski and sled trails. Skiers and sledders will move faster than you and generally do not expect to see runners on trails during snow season.
Also be wary of tree roots in parks that might be barely covered in snow, especially as the season begins to thaw.
 One of the benefits of running during snow season is that you’ll be motivated to keep moving to stay warm. Don’t overdo it, but do your best to keep a steady, constant pace while you are outdoors to stay warm and keep your muscles loose and limber.If you are running on icy roads or sidewalks, shorten your stride to improve your footing.If you are running in a lot of snow, keep an upright posture and run with long, aggressive strides. This will help keep you upright and lessen the chance of sliding or falling.
 Cooling down is important in any exercise regimen, but doing so outdoors is not a good idea. Instead, gradually decrease your pace as you near the end of your run and then wait until you are indoors to properly stretch.During your run, the air will feel much warmer than it really is but as soon as you stop, you are likely to start shivering especially as the accumulated sweat will further rapidly chill your body. Having a drastic drop in your body temperature is unhealthy and can also cause your muscles to tighten, which may lead to injury., When you have finished running or jogging, do not hang around outside in sweaty clothing. Doing so can bring on hypothermia. Go inside for that well earned spa, sauna or bath and change into fresh clothes!


Your core body temperature drops as soon as you stop running, so change as soon as you get indoors and finish with your cool down. Change any clothes that are damp and put on clean, dry clothes to avoid getting sick., Running during snow season is very different from other times of the year. Your body will become exhausted far more quickly and will use up its energy reserves very quickly. Drink a lot of water to keep hydrated and carry some snack bars or nuts to keep you sustained.
 Seeing as there’s much less daylight during the winter, it’s more likely that you will be running in the dark. Snow further reduces the visibility of drivers and reflective patches or stripes on your clothing will help drivers to see you.


An additional precautionary measure you could take is wearing a headlamp or other lighting.
 Hopefully you will never suffer an injury or accident while running, but it’s always a possibility so do your best to prepare ahead of time.


Let someone know you are going out and when to expect your return. If you live with a family or have roommates, check in with them so that they know to start worrying if you don’t return when you say you will.Always carry some sort of identification and money. If you do have an accident and have to be transported to the hospital, it will be much easier for the staff to identify you and contact your relatives should anything happen.
Carry your cell phone with you. If you do slip on ice or have another type of accident, you will be able to quickly call for assistance and lessen the risks of getting hypothermia.
 Not only will having a running partner provide you with extra motivation on those days when your bed just feels too cozy to leave, but you two will be able to look out for each other and call for help if either of you suffer an injury.
 If none of your friends are up for the challenges of running outdoors in snow and sleet, look to see if there are any local running clubs. It's a lot more fun and safer to run with an organized running club during winter. Health clubs, gyms and sports stores often organize such groups.

