 Online word art generators are easy to find by searching “word art generator” in a search engine. Word art generators are often free and offer a variety of word art styles that you can apply to any text.Some word art generators offer more elaborate styles for a small fee. You can decide if you are happy to use the free styles offered or want to pay a little more for a particular style.;
, Most online word art generators will have a gallery of word art styles that you can choose from to create your word art. Look through the gallery and click on different styles so you can see which one you like.You may be given a variety of word art styles, from text that flashes to text in an elaborate font or a bright color.
Some generators require you to type in the text you want to make into word art. For example, you may type in “Happy Birthday” into the text field. You can then click on a style to see how the style looks on the text.
 Some online word art generators let you make your own custom word art. You may be given the option of selecting the color, font, and animation of the text. You can choose to make the text a certain size and color as well as determine the shape of the text.Click through the custom options for the text to select the ones you like. Have fun with the custom options and play around with different styles until you create a style that you like.
 Once you have a word art style that you like, type out the text and apply the style. Most online word art generators will have a text box where you can type the text and then click on a word art style to apply it.


Look over the text once you have applied the word art. Make sure you are happy with it. If not, you can always switch to a different word art style in the gallery or adjust the custom word art style as you see fit.
 Many online word art generators allow you to create a word art cloud, where you cluster or arrange text together in a shape. Look for the word art cloud option on the generator. Often, the generator will create the cloud for you once you put in your preferences.


You may choose a shape that reflects the intent of the word art. For example, if you are creating word art as a gift for a friend's baby shower, you may choose a shape like a stork or a baby rattle for the word art cloud.
You can also choose a shape that you like or that looks appealing to you. For example, you may choose a heart shape or an oval shape for the word art cloud.
 Some online word art generators give you the option of putting your word art on an object or item, such as a t-shirt or a mug. You can also make the word art into a print that you can give as a gift or frame in your home.This option will likely cost you, as you will be paying for the cost of printing the word art on the object or item plus shipping.

