 A fun way to embrace women's history is to share your passion on social media. If you have a Facebook, change your profile picture of a woman who inspires you. This can be someone famous or a woman you know in your personal life, such as an inspirational teacher of family member.Make sure you let others know why you're changing your profile picture. Caption it with something about how your new picture is in honor of Women's History Month.
 Many towns and cities have local events regarding women and women's history. You can stop by a local community center and pick up any fliers that may advertise local events. You can also google your city's name followed by "Women's history month events" to find events.Universities often bring in speakers to give lectures for Women's History Month. If you live near a university, see if there are any speeches or lectures open to the public.
Sometimes, there may be protests surrounding women's history. Attending a protest can show your support for women and their contribution to culture throughout history.
 Volunteering at a local woman's shelter or health clinic can be a great way to celebrate with others. Some organizations may even host specific events for women's history and take volunteers for them. Check for volunteer information and opportunities in your area.For example, you can volunteer at a local Planned Parenthood or a branch of your local League or Women Voters.
Some organizations may have training for volunteers, so make sure to sign up for an orientation if necessary.
Organizations are always in need of volunteers. Instead of thinking of volunteering as a one time thing for women's history month, consider volunteering longterm.
 Get together with some female friends to watch movies about women. You can watch documentaries about women's history or watch films by female directors.Choose movies about the lives of famous women, such as Elizabeth and Frida.

Opt for documentaries about famous women such as The Life and Times of Rosie the Riveter and MAKERS.Look for films by female directors like Katherine Bigelow and Sophia Coppola.

