 Use the "Play" button as shown here. Select "PVP" to play against other human players or "Co-op Vs. AI" to play against computer players. If playing PVP mode, select "Classic" as the game mode, "Summoner's Rift" as the Game Map and the Game Type is up to you (though blind pick is recommended for beginners, and ranked is not available until level 30).;
, Once you're in the champion selection screen, type "Marksman" into the Search bar. This will show you all of the champions labeled as marksman. These champions are almost all considered ADC champions with the exception of a few. It is not recommended to play Teemo, Urgot, Kindred or Quinn for ADC. Great ADCs include Varus, Draven, Ashe, Jinx and Caitlyn. These champions can be played as ADC in the Bottom Lane; however, most commonly they are played else where in other roles.


Also note: there is a timer used to pick your champion. If you fail to select a champion before the time runs out you will be removed from the game.
 These are very crucial to ADC champions and are generally survival tools. Most commonly Flash and Heal are taken on ADCs.
 Runes should be made before game and are unlocked using Influence Points that you receive after playing matches. You get Mastery Points to put into Masteries by leveling up your account. You will get XP for playing every match, which you level up with. Guides can be found online on sites like Mobafire.com for this type of thing.
 Purchase the starting items highlighted. Typically ADC's buy Doran's Blade and a health potion first, however there are variations. Buy a "Warding Trinket."


Also remember to buy more items from the shop when you return to base.
 The map is mirrored along the river in a diagonal. Bottom lane is the bottom/right side of the map. Walk to lane and wait by your tower for the minions to spawn and walk to lane. Generally you will share this lane with your Support player. Strategizing together and working as a team will greatly improve your gameplay.
 When you deal the final hit on a minion (known as last hitting) you will gain a small amount of gold. This is your primary source of income so getting good at this step will ultimately help you succeed.
 You will not be alone in lane, so you must use your abilities (Q,W,E,R keys) to hit enemy champions. Be careful not to take more damage than you deal and always remember that enemy minions will attack you if you attack an enemy champion. If your support has abilities that stun or slow enemies, follow them up to safely attack for a short period of time. Focus on killing minions and attacking enemies when your support attacks.
 This trinket places a Ward that lasts for a short amount of time and reveals the area around it. Use this trinket to ward bushes and protect yourself from enemies! Good warding locations include the 2 brushes by the lane and the river. Many times the enemy jungler will come in from the river to try to kill you, and you can spot him by putting a ward in the river.
 Your objective during this time is to kill minions, not die and hopefully kill the enemy tower. The enemy tower is very strong and will attack you if you are the first thing to enter it's attack range or if you hit an enemy champion while near the tower. Killing a tower grants you gold and generally allows you to leave your lane and participate in group fights. If you destroy the first turret of the game, you'll earn your team bonus gold and a better game/map position.
 There are quite a few indicators that you should leave your lane and help your team. If any of these conditions are met, it is generally a good idea to move in a group with your team as this ensures you will be safe. As an ADC, your champion is generally susceptible to being killed but you also do a lot of damage in return.

You kill the enemy tower.
The enemy kills your tower and then leaves.
No towers in your lane have died but your teammates are wanting to group up at an objective.
 On the bottom side of the map is Dragon Pit and on the top side is Baron Pit. These pits are home to fearsome dragons and the giant Monster Baron Nashor. When killed, these monsters give a bonus to your team in a variety of ways. These monsters are also very strong and usually require multiple people to effectively kill them. As a primary damage dealer, it is your job to to help your team kill these monsters.
 When moving as a group, if you encounter grouped enemies, it is important that you stay as far away from the enemies as you can, without being so far that you cannot attack., If there are more than champions near you, attempt to attack the other damage dealers. Always attempt to be behind your teammates. Notice in the picture Ashe (green arrow) is behind Darius (blue arrow) while hitting multiple enemies (red arrow.)

