 Some believe a clay mask can help penetrate the skin, removing oil and bacteria. This can help clear your skin fast, leaving your face with a fresher look. To make a clay mask, you will need cocoa powder, kaolin powder clay, and distilled water. You may be able to get these ingredients fast at a local health food store. Kaolin clay can be hard to find, so you may have to order it online.Place the one tablespoon of clay and and one tablespoon of cocoa powder in a bowl and blend well. Add a tablespoon of water and blend into a paste.
Use your fingers to apply a thin layer of the paste onto your face. Use your fingers to push the mask around your face in upward motions. Avoid getting too close to the eyes and lips.
Keep the mask on for 15 minutes. Once the mask is slightly dry, wash it off of your face and pat your face dry with a clean, dry towel.;
, Gel containing 50% aloe vera has been shown to make over-the-counter skin products more effective. These studies were conducted over the course of 8 weeks, so this will not necessarily clear your skin in a day.However, some advocates of home remedies and holistic medicine feel dabbing aloe vera gel on problems spots can cure acne fast. It's recommended you dab the gel on acne and blemishes, let it sit for an hour, and then wash it off., When it comes to clearing skin, over-the-counter options can help. While they do not promise clear skin in a day, they are effective for many people who want clear skin.It's a good idea to wash with over-the-counter products when you're trying masks and creams, as this can potentially make more natural approaches work faster, which can speed up the skin clearing process.


Go for products containing benzoyl peroxide as an active ingredient. You should also try products containing sulfur, resorcinol, or salicylic acid.
Be careful with over-the-counter products if you're tying to clear your skin in a day. Side effects of these products may include things like redness and scaling. It may be a good idea to only use over-the-counter products you've tried before in conjunction with other treatments.

