 Chakras are the energy centers in your body. Essentially, that are wheels of energy that align along your spine. There are seven chakras, and each corresponds to a different part of your physical, mental, and spiritual well-being. Your third eye chakra is the sixth chakra.The third eye chakra is located at the forefront of your brain, between your two eyes. It is right above the bridge of your nose.
When you meditate, try to focus your mind on this chakra. It is responsible for helping you to see the world more clearly.;
, Meditation is one of the most effective tools for helping you to open your third eye. By bringing more awareness to your thoughts, you will be able to better access the mental clarity that is associated with the third eye. The core goal of meditation is to bring the mind to rest on one thought or object. It is important to choose surroundings where you feel comfortable when you are beginning to meditate.Some people feel more peaceful and open-minded when they are out in nature. If this sounds like you, you might consider meditating outdoors. Find a space that is the right temperature and where you can sit without being disturbed by others.
Indoor meditation is also perfectly fine. Many people have a designated meditation space in their home. This generally includes a cushion that makes it more comfortable to sit on the floor, and perhaps some candles and soothing music.
Remember that meditation is a very personal process. You should choose the surroundings that are right for you.
 The mind-body connection is very important in meditation. The more comfortable you are physically, the easier it will be to focus on you meditation object or thought. The most effective meditation posture is generally thought to be some variation of sitting cross-legged on the ground.If you are used to sitting in a chair, take some time each day to get used to sitting on the floor. In time, it will feel more natural it will be easier to focus on your meditation.
Most people choose to use at least one cushion to make sitting on the ground more comfortable. Feel free to use two or three sturdy cushions if you find this works better for you.
If you simply cannot be comfortable sitting, don't worry. You can try what is known as walking meditation. For some people, the rhythmic sounds of their footfalls can be very soothing. Walk slowly, and have a clear path so that you don't have to think too much about where you are going.
 A meditation object can be a thought or a physical object. The point of choosing one is to make it easier for your brain to focus. This will keep your thoughts from wandering and will make your meditation more effective.Candles are a popular meditation object. The flickering flame is easy to look at and are comforting to many people.
Your meditation object does not have to be nearby physically. Feel free to picture the ocean or a beautiful tree that you once saw. Just make sure you can clearly see the object in your mind's eye.
 A mantra is a word or phrase that you will repeat during your meditation practice. You might say the mantra internally or out loud--that is a personal preference. Your mantra should be something that is personal and meaningful to you.Your mantra should be something that you want to integrate into your mind, or your awareness. For example, you might choose to repeat, "I choose happiness". This will help reinforce the idea that you are going to focus on feeling joy throughout the day.
Another mantra idea is to choose just one word. For example, you could repeat the word "peace".
 Meditation is a practice. That means that the first time to sit down to meditate, it might not be a big success. Your mind might wander, or you might even fall asleep. Learning to successfully meditate is a process and it takes time.Make meditation a part of your every day life. Begin with very small increments, maybe five minutes or even just two. Soon you will feel more comfortable with the process and be able to devote more time to meditation each day.
 Being mindful means that you are more actively aware of what is going on around you. You are consciously paying attention to your emotions and physical sensations. Being more mindful will help you to get in tune with yourself and the world around you.As you are becoming more observant, avoid being judgemental. Just observe and acknowledge without forming an opinion about whether something is "right" or "wrong".
For example, if you are feeling stressed out, do not judge yourself for feeling that way. Simply observe and acknowledge your emotions.
 Spending some time outside can be very helpful in becoming more mindful. Being more mindful can help you to open your third eye because you will be more aware of it. Therefore, it's a good idea to try to take a short walk each day, in an effort to spend more time in nature.In today's culture, we are "plugged in" for much of our day. This means that we are almost always looking at some sort of electronic or communication device. Going outside reminds us to actively take a break from all of the stimuli.
 Being mindful can allow you to get more in touch with your creative side. Research suggests that mindful meditation is a great cure for writer's blocks and for blocks that artists and other creative types experience. Being more mindful can allow you to open up your creative pathways.Try experimenting with your creative side. Take up painting, sketching, or learning a new musical instrument. Letting your creativity flow will help you to feel more in-tune with yourself, and help you to open your third eye.
 Day to day life can feel very hectic and overwhelming. Being more mindful can help you to feel calmer and better able to utilize your third eye. Pay attention to each aspect of your surroundings and your routine.For example, when you are taking a shower, consciously observe the physical sensations. Take note of how the warm water feels on your shoulders. Appreciate the refreshing scent of your shampoo.
 Once you learn to open your third eye, you will be able to experience the benefits that go along with it. Many people report feeling more at peace after opening their third eye. Part of this is due to achieving a greater sense of self-compassion. Being more aware of yourself generally causes you to practice more self-kindness.Being kinder to yourself offers many benefits. You will feel more self-confident and less anxious.
 One of the reasons many people want to open their third eye is because it is thought to make you more knowledgeable. Since it increases your perception of the world around you, it makes sense that you will be able to learn more about the world around you. People who have opened their third eye report that they feel like they have more wisdom.You will also become more knowledgeable about yourself. Meditation and mindfulness are great ways to get in touch with yourself. When you better understand your emotions, you will feel more capable of dealing with them.
 Opening your third eye is very likely to reduce your stress levels. You will feel more peaceful and self-aware. There are many physical benefits from reduced levels of stress. People with less stress are less likely to have high blood pressure and symptoms of depression.Experiencing less stress can also mean a reduction in things such as headaches and upset stomachs. It can even help you have younger looking skin.

