 This may be a no-brainer, but you'd be surprised by how many guys spend so much time trying to plan their special promposal that they don't even consider that the girl in question already has a date. So, either just find a clever way of asking her if she has a date herself, or ask her friends. If her friends say no, then who knows, maybe one of them can even help you stage the perfect prom proposal.;
, Sure, you've been with your high school girlfriend for over a year, and it's pretty obvious that you'll be going to prom together. Still, your girlfriend will like you even more if you make the special effort to ask her to prom in a romantic, funny, or just a creative way. This will make her more excited to go to prom with you and will keep your relationship fresh.
 If you're asking a girl to prom as a way of declaring that you have special feelings for her, then you can make her feel special by promposing in a romantic way, or letting her see that you like her as more than a friend after you prompose in a funny or creative way. But if you're asking a girl to go just as a friend, don't do anything too romantic or she may think that you're also asking her out.
 Not every girl wants a crazy, over-the-top prom proposal. On the other hand, some girls are dying for one. Before you make your prom game plan, you should consider the personality of the girl you're asking. Is she shy, not fond of public displays, and does she generally like to keep her feelings to herself? Or is she more outgoing, dramatic, and public with her emotions? Make sure you tailor your proposal plan to the girl you're asking -- not to the crowd that may be watching.
 Don't overthink it -- if you just want to ask the girl casually, do it. Don't do something that doesn't feel like you and that makes you feel nervous. Remember that you're promposing, not proposing, and that it won't be the end of the world if she says no. Just tell the girl that you have something you want to ask her and arrange a quick meet-up.


If you want to just ask the girl casually, find a time when the two of you can be alone, make eye contact, and say, "I think you'd be a really great prom date and that it would a lot of fun to go to prom together. Would you like to go with me?"






Don't worry so much about looking incredibly creative, romantic, or funny. The girl will appreciate your honesty and may even prefer the privacy of being asked when you're alone.







