 Take a few minutes to think about your situation and what you can control in it. Just know that you may not be able to control the major stressor, but you may be able to control the smaller ones that are contributing to the situation. When you do this, you'll be able to feel some relief from the pressure you've had on you. You may not be able to control where you move to, but you can control what you do in the new location.
You may not be able to lose weight, but you can eat well and exercise more to be in better health. You may not be able to get back together with your significant other, but you can look through photos or read old letters.
 When people get into a crisis situation, they may become frozen. They don't know what to do or say because they are just too anxious. If this sounds like you right now, it's only making you feel worse. You can start to feel better by taking action. Devise a plan of how you'll act, so you have a better chance of your action being effective.


You may not be able to control where you move to, but you can make the best of it by joining a group in the community to make new friends.
You may miss your friends, so you look up flights, hotels, and you're going to take time out of work to visit them.
 When you change your perception, you change the situation you're in, which means you may have more control.You can do this by considering your situation in a different way. You may want to look at it positively versus negatively.


You may not be able to buy a new car right now, but you have a car that runs to get to work every morning.
You may have broken up with significant other, but you also don't have to deal with the arguments anymore.
You may not be able to see your children right now, but you will be able to see them in the near future.
 You will need to take a step back to see the big picture to be able to benefit from what it is teaching you. When you know what you're supposed to learn from the situation, you'll be much calmer and not feel so out of control because you'll have more knowledge.

