 Strikes are most common when the ball hits the "pocket," the space between the front center pin and the next pin behind it, directly. For right handed bowlers this means curving the ball so it strikes right between the front pin and the second pin on the right. This scatters the front set of pins, cascading them into all of the pins behind them.More power means the pins scatter faster, potentially knocking over more pins.
Curving the ball is essential to hit consistent strikes. Remember to work on snapping your fingers and wrist as you follow through.
Left-handers want to hit between the front pin and the left pin in the second row.
 An unknown secret of bowling is that every lane is a little different. Lanes are oiled up so that the ball glides straight over the wood without hooking constantly. When the ball is in less oiled, or "dry" areas, it tends to hook more, taking it off the line you threw it on. To make matters even more complicated, the lane patterns will change throughout the game. But bowling your best game ever requires you to read the lane and adjust your shots accordingly, not throwing the same shot 23 times.The most common pattern is wet in the front and middle, and dry on the outsides and back, like a big triangle of oil pointing into the center of the lane. This means a throw to the outside will curve back to the middle, where a throw in the middle might not curve until the last second. This is why you aim out to the side, instead of down the center -- it cause the ball to move out, then curve back in right to the pocket.
As the day goes on, oil gets picked up by the balls, making the lane drier and causing the shots to hook more.
Many tournaments have "alternate" oil patterns that force you to change your shots to get strikes. Ask to see an oil pattern or warm-up with different angles and starting positions to find your strike mark., Starting in the center and throwing for the arrow just to the right of center (right-handers) is a great starting place to learn strikes, but you need to adjust it for your personal thrown. Make sure you watch the arrow you throw at, not the pins. If you are hitting your mark, but still missing the pocket, you should move your starting position.If your ball is going too far to the left, move 2-3 boards to the left. This means your throw will angle more to the right, giving it more time to curve back to the left.
If your ball is moving too far to the right, move your feet 2-3 boards to the right. This will get your ball out of the oil, allowing it to curve more back to the center.
If you still have trouble, or the ball is hooking a ton, move your mark to the right or left. The closer to center your mark is, the less the ball will hook. However, you should move your starting position first.
 Near the end of a game, especially with a big group, you may notice your normal shots are hooking more to the center and you're missing the pocket. As you notice your shots curving more to the center, move 1-2 boards to the left (right-handed throwers) and keep throwing at your normal mark, the arrow just to the right of the center arrow. Focus, again, on having the center of the ball hit this mark, not on the pins. If you're hitting your mark but still missing pins, move your feet starting position to accommodate.This extra hook happens because the balls pick up oil throughout the game, removing it from the lane and causing it to dry out. A dry lane hooks more.

