 Choose an area with a good bit of flat space that you can work with and a good counter. A bathroom is a good place. You'll also want an area that is easy to sterilize and clean up all the blood when you're done.
 First of all, make a solution of 1 part bleach and four parts water. Clean the bathroom thoroughly. Scrub any area that you think you might touch during the procedure. Clean every inch of the counter. The cleaner this place is, the safer you are.
 If you bought sterile clamps and jewelry, then great, but if not, it might be a good idea to boil these in a pot of water, then wipe them down with some of your bleach and water solutions. It's probably a good idea to sterilize these regardless since you don't know what they may have come into contact with since you got them.
 Once everything is clean, put on a pair of gloves and lay out all your supplies. Extra gloves, sterile needle, sterile clamps, sterile jewelry, alcohol wipes, a marker, and a small blob of A&D ointment. Remove your gloves and throw them away.
 Now, put on a pair of fresh, clean rubber gloves. Use an alcohol wipe to clean off the area where you want to pierce yourself.
 Use a marker to make two dots, one where you want the needle to go in, and one where you want the needle to come out. Make sure that these dots are a suitable distance apart for your jewelry. Take a step back and imagine it with jewelry in it. Make very sure that it is straight and just how you want it because it is a pain to have to take it out and redo it all over again.


Realize that marking these dots does not guarantee that this is where the jewelry will go. If you move (due to, for example, serious pain), you might shift the needle and end up with a crooked piercing. A good reason to have someone else do this for you.
 Put on a fresh pair.
 Now take your clamps (if you have them) and stretch out the skin in the place you have marked. Line up the two dots on either side of the skin and gently let the clamps close on the skin. You should be able to see one dot on each side of the clamp, and each dot should be centered so that a straight line(a needle) could pass through both of them correctly.


This method is better suited to only certain types of penis piercings. For PA's, you'll need to use a different method. They are harder to do and really should be done by a professional.
 If you didn't buy a clamp, this would be a little trickier. You must use one hand to stretch the skin and line it up like above so that a straight line could pass through both. It can be tough to hold the skin like this when you are coming at it with a needle in the other hand (another reason to have it professionally done).

