 You'll want to give yourself ample time to prepare for the test, so when signing up for your Mensa assessment, choose a date that meets your study needs. Comparable academic tests, like the GRE (Graduate Record Examination), generally takes well-studied students one month of study to adequately prepare, but can require as many as six months for those who are out of practice with the material or test taking., Practice tests are available in many countries, and these will inform you of the main areas the actual test will target.Take note of these areas so that you can direct your studies later more effectively. You can also get a general evaluation of how well you will do by taking the online Mensa evaluation at:


https://www.mensa.org/workout

NOTE: in many countries, practice testing is available both online and in print. This will, however, depend on your home country, and should be further investigated at the Mensa international homepage., You can improve your long term recall and hopefully your Mensa test score by taking short breaks between periods of intensive study.Try to spend about 20 minutes focused on the thing you are studying and then allow your mind to rest for 5 - 10 minutes. During your break you might:


Juggle
Play Basketball
Play Soccer

, The first portion of the test, the Wonderlic, will require you to answer 50 questions in 12 minutes or less. The second test, the Mensa Admission Test, has multiple sections totaling in over 100 questions. Knowing how long you have on each section and what to expect will prevent you from wasting precious seconds puzzling out directions or reading unnecessary information. Generally, your test will include:


Determining whether the definition of two words is similar, contradictory, or unrelated.
Word scrambles, where you have to make a sentence from words provided and state whether it is true or false.
Identifying the word in a set that doesn't belong.
Geometric patterns., If, after the practice test and Mensa workout, you notice that your mathematics scores are solid but your linguistic skills wanting, you should arrange your study schedule to buff up your weak subjects.As an example, you might study for an hour and a half every morning, spending your time accordingly:



First round of study (20 minutes): language practice
10 minute break

Second round (20 minutes): language practice continued
5 minute break

Third round (10 minute): math review
5 minute break

Fourth round (20 minutes): science review

, Cramming for a test last minute can contribute to your overall anxiety which, in turn, can lead to less restful sleep. If you plan on reviewing your trouble areas the night before your test, be sure you get plenty of sleep, as sleep deprivation will impeded your learning., Mnemonic devices are word associations, rhymes, or initialisms/acronyms that help you to remember something.An example of this that you may have learned is the name "Roy G Biv," which stands for the color spectrum: Red orange yellow Green Blue indigo violet.

