 You can use the pre-made invitations sold in stores, or make your own. I suggest creating your own in power point. I made the invitations to the birthday party as if it was Elsa's coronation banquet, and addressed them to each child as if they were a citizen of Arendelle.;
, You can really decorate however you and your daughter wishes. We transformed our living room into a wintry wonderland by hanging many paper snowflakes that we had made from the ceiling at different lengths (using clear string and tape). Also, we took some Christmas lights out and strung them around the border of the room. We also had the traditional party balloons and streamers.
 For our banquet we served pizza with melted snow (water). After pizza, we served of course chocolate cake with chocolate ice-cream because Elsa and Anna both love chocolate. All throughout dinner the adults pretended to be cooks from the castle of Arendelle serving the royal princesses. The girls really got into it and made up their own princess names and what kingdoms they had come from.
 One Elsa and Anna team. We gave each girl a necklace with either Anna or Elsa's picture on it as a party favor.
 He then proceeded to usher the girls into our decorated living room "outside". One of the adults had already cued up our apple T.V. to show the scene of Frozen where Elsa is outside shrinking away from everyone when her powers are exposed.
 For a game, we had the girls on the Elsa team separately hide somewhere upstairs. Then the girls on the Anna team had to go find one girl on the Elsa team and bring her back to the living room. Luckily we had an even number. Once they came back downstairs, they had to pick up a white balloon off the ground (snowball) and pop it between them. We put the balloons on the ground while the Anna's were still looking to avoid popping them early.
 Whenever a girl was caught moving when the music stopped, she fell down from a "frozen heart". The last girl left was the only one that could unfreeze her friends (which she did by tapping them on the head with her hand)

, When it is on dvd you could watch it that way if you want.
