 If there is an available syllabus for the Biology class, read it carefully to know the rules, materials needed, and any other important information before going to the first Biology class. It is a good idea to review it before going to class each day to make sure nothing is forgotten. One way of remembering the syllabus is to highlight, underline, and take notes on it.


Use different note-taking methods such as underlining, highlighting, drawing a symbol such as a star next to something important, drawing a box around important sentences/paragraphs, and taking notes either on a separate sheet of paper or the back of the syllabus. These tips will insure everything is remembered.
Make sure it is okay with the teacher before marking up the syllabus. If needed, make a copy with a scanner so there are multiple copies. It is a good idea to keep one unmarked and the other with notes so if anything changes, new notes can be made on the second copy.
Students without scanners at home have a few different options of scanning the syllabus. One is to go to the nearest library that has a scanner and bring the syllabus along. Usually is costs no more than $0.20 per page to scan. Another option is for students with smartphones or tablets with a camera built into the device. Install an app made for scanning documents. These type of apps allow users to take a picture of a document and it will convert it to PDF, DOC, and other various document formats. If these options are not available, do not hesitate to ask the school if they have a scanner of if the Biology teacher can scan the syllabus. They will be happy to help.;
, Most science classes including Biology will require students to pay a lab fee. This fee goes towards supplying the students with lab materials needed for experiments. Usually the teacher will give students at least the first week of class to pay this fee. Most of the time it is refundable, meaning when students have completed the course the money is refunded by to them. If anything has been damaged by a student, most likely this fee will not be refunded to them. Be careful of lab materials, both dangerous and safe ones.


Usually pencils/pens and paper to take notes are required in most classes. Even if it is not required by the teacher, it is an excellent idea to bring them and take notes anyways. This will help retain information and allow students to review what they learned in class.
Learn good note-taking skills to be even more successful. Refer to "Part 2 of 3: Taking Notes" for more information.
 This gets students ready for class faster and so they are not digging around in their school bag when it is actually time to use them. Only skip this if the teacher instructs the students not to take anything out until they say so. This is also a good time to quickly review yesterday's homework and notes to be sure nothing is missing.

