 Does taking a breath feel difficult or painful? Do you feel that, when breathing, you are not getting enough oxygen? These sensations are not a guarantee of lung hyperinflation. They are, however, warning signs when experienced with other symptoms., Coughing is a common side-effect of certain pulmonary illnesses as well as smoking. Lung hyperinflation leads to a chronic, wheezing cough that interrupts normal daily functions.


If you have hyper-inflated lungs, you may have difficulty walking up hills and succumb to coughing easily. If you have a chronic cough that does not go away for two weeks, you should see a doctor for a diagnosis.Listen for a whistling sound when air is drawn into the lung. This can indicate reduced elasticity of the lung, a symptom of lung hyperinflation., Other changes in the body, when combined with the above symptoms, may point to lung hyperinflation. Watch for the following symptoms: Frequent bouts of sicknesses like bronchitis
Weight loss
Waking up at night
Swollen ankles
Fatigue

, Your doctor will make an initial assessment of your condition by gathering information about your past and present health history. Significant factors that can indicate lung hyperinflation are:


A family history of lung conditions, like lung cancer, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Present habits, like vigorous exercise or smoking
Living environment, such as living in a polluted city or with a smoker
Active medical conditions like asthma or mental health conditions like chronic anxiety, A chest x-ray generates an image of the lungs, air passages, the heart, blood vessels, and the bones of your chest and spine. A chest x-ray can be used to gauge whether lungs are hyperinflated.


An x-ray can show fluid and air around the lungs, signifying an underlying problem like COPD or cancer. This can be the cause of lung hyperinflation and the sooner you get the disease diagnosed the better.Lung hyperinflation is present when the x-ray shows the front of the fifth or sixth rib meeting the middle of your diaphragm. More than six front ribs touching your diaphragm is consistent with hyperinflation., CT scans are an imaging method that uses x-rays to produce a three-dimensional representation of the body.The pictures generated by the machine illustrate the scope of lung damage and hyperinflation.


A CT scan can show an increase in lung size and may even show air trapped in one or both lungs. Trapped air usually appears as black on an x-ray screen.
A special dye is sometimes used in CT scans to highlight the areas x-rayed. This is usually given by mouth, by enema, or by injection but is fairly rare for a CT scan focusing on the chest. During the scan, you'll have to wear a hospital gown and remove any items, like jewelry and eyeglasses, that may interfere with the scan.During a CT scan, you'll lie on a motorized table and your body will be inserted into a donut-shaped machine. A technologist will communicate with you from another room. He or she may ask you to hold your breath at certain points during the scan. The procedure is painless and usually takes around 30 minutes., Pulmonary function tests are tests that measure breathing capacity and overall pulmonary function.To confirm a diagnosis of lung hyperinflation, two numerical values are assessed during a pulmonary function test.


FEV1 (Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 second): This is the amount of air that can be blown out of your lungs in the first 1 second.
FVC (Forced Vital Capacity): This reflect the total amount of air that you can exhale.
The normal results of FEV1/FVC ratio should be more than 70 percent. Less than this percentage indicates lung hyperinflation, since a patient with this condition cannot blow air out as fast as a healthy person does.
During the test, a doctor will use medical instruments to measure your breath. While usually painless, you may experience some shortness of breath as it involves forced, rapid breathing. Do not smoke four to six hours before the test and do not eat a heavy meal beforehand., COPD is present when there is an obstruction in your lungs that disrupts airflow. COPD is usually treated by monitoring and controlling symptoms through a combination of medical assistance and lifestyle changes. Hyperinflation of the lungs is frequently caused by COPD. If you've previously been diagnosed with COPD, this could increase your risk for lung hyperinflation.To treat COPD, your doctor will recommend a combination of lifestyle changes and prescription medications. If you are a smoker, it's important you quit. Making symptoms of COPD worse by neglecting medication or continuing to smoke can increase your risk of lung hyperinflation., Asthma is caused by inflammation of the airways. Depending on the severity of an asthma attack, swelling can disrupt air flow to the lungs. Over time, this can result in lung hyperinflation. Treatment of asthma usually involves building an action plan with your doctor about medication, lifestyle changes, and how to manage asthma attacks when they occur. Talk to your doctor about better managing your asthma as to avoid lung hyperinflation., Cystic fibrosis is a chronic disease that may affect several organs and systems in your body. It is an inherited disorder of the exocrine gland, characterized by an abnormal production of mucus that tends to be much thicker and stickier than usual, which can plug your airways. As with anything that blocks airways, cystic fibrosis can lead to lung hyperinflation. If you have cystic fibrosis, you are at an increased risk of lung hyperinflation.

