 One of the worst things you can do for your friend if he or she is suffering from anxiety is say, “Calm down.” People with anxiety can’t calm down, or they wouldn’t have an anxiety disorder.Telling your friend to calm down can be interpreted as you dismissing his or her feelings, implying that your friend is irrational, or saying that the feelings aren’t valid.
 Though you may be concerned when your friend has an anxiety attack, sharing your concern, being freaked out, or panicking yourself can increase your friend’s anxiety. Instead, be there for your friend and tell them you are sorry he or she is going through this. This can help your friend stay calm.Asking questions like, “Are you alright? Are you okay? Can you breathe?” or similar things can cause more anxiety since you are not calm.
Instead, tell your friend, “I’m sorry you are going through this. This must be really difficult. This is an awful way to feel.”

, When your friend goes through an anxiety attack, try to be as positive and encouraging as you can. Help your friend remember that he or she is safe where he or she is at the moment.For example, you may tell your friend, “You can do this. It’s only your anxiety. The feelings are quite frightening, but you are safe. I am here. You can get through this, and I am proud of you.
 A lot of anxiety stems from feeling like a person’s anxiety is his or her fault or that something is wrong or broken inside him or her. When your friend faces anxiety, tell him or her, “This is not your fault. It is okay.” This helps calm your friend and not put added anxiety onto him or her.Being supportive and letting your friend know that it is not his or her fault does not mean that you enable your friend’s anxiety. Don’t accommodate your friend's fear and enable the anxiety.
For example, you should never give up doing things because of your friend's anxiety. You shouldn't pressure your friend, but you also shouldn't change your plans and life around the anxiety all the time. Either decide to go to the event by yourself or you and your friend can take steps to help reduce the stress of the event.
Enabling means you make excuses for your friend, stop doing things because of your friend, and do things for your friend when he or she doesn't. Don't make excuses, lie, or try to take the responsibility away from your friend. Instead, help your friend accept the consequences of his or her anxiety., Some people think that finding common ground can help their friend. You may think it’s a good idea to say, “I know how you feel” or “I’m stressed out/anxious, too.” Unless you also suffer from an anxiety disorder, you do not feel the same kind of anxiety or panic your friend feels.Saying these things to your friend may trivialize his or her feelings.

