 You should be able to find a suitable model for less than $10. Run a web search for "cheap webcam".


Pick a basic, compact webcam. The camera must be small enough to escape detection. You may choose to hide it inside a household object like a pencil sharpener or a tissue box; bear this in mind as you're choosing a camera.
If you want to set up the camera as soon as possible, you should be able to find a webcam at a large electronics store (BestBuy, Circuit City, etc.) Ask for their cheapest, smallest model.
If you're trying to capture a serious crime, consider installing a professional-grade security camera.Homemade hidden cameras are fun, and they will work in a pinch--but the video quality will be much higher on a more expensive setup.;
, You should be able to see the circuit board upon which the lens is mounted. This will make the camera considerably smaller, and thus much easier to hide., Get creative! Your camera will not be so easily spotted if you hide it inside a nondescript household object. Make sure to use something that you would usually keep in your room or office; an out-of-place object may arouse suspicion.For example: Find an old electric pencil sharpener that no-one is using. You can take out the insides and point the camera out of the pencil-sharpening hole. Unscrew the shell and remove the motor, the wires, and the power cord from the inside. Make sure that the sharpener is unplugged!
Try using a cardboard shoe-box or tissue box.Cut a small hole in the side of the box so that the camera can "see" out. Make sure that the hole isn't too big: you don't want anyone to get suspicious!
Consider using a shopping bag or gift bag. Again, cut a small hole in the side of the bag. The hole will be harder to spot if the outside of the bag is textured or patterned. A black or dark-colored bag will make the hole even harder to notice.
Consider hiding the camera in the leaves of a potted plant or deep in the recesses of a bookshelf--anywhere that someone will be unlikely to look closely. Make sure that the camera lens is pointing where you need it to point.
 Point the lens facing out of the hole in the object. Make sure that the camera fits, and that it doesn't look obvious.


If you think that the object will be moved around at all, consider using superglue to hold the camera in place. Glue the outer rim of the camera lens such that it's facing out of the hole. Be careful to keep glue away from the lens glass--this will blur the video quality, and it is very difficult to remove.
 This is most important when hiding a camera inside machines--pencil sharpeners, clocks, and the like--that usually feel heavy.


If you don't have fishing weights, any heavy, flat piece of metal should do the trick. Be careful when handling jagged metal.
 You may need to place the hidden camera near your computer if the cable isn't very long.


Cover the USB cord with something. Loose papers or a jacket will do--but make it look natural. If a "pencil sharpener" is obviously connected to your computer, the snooper may become suspicious.
 If someone tries to turn it on, they might find your camera.


Keep in mind, however, that an "Out of Order" sign may call attention to the object. People may be more likely to ignore the "appliance" if you don't label it--especially if you place it out of the way., Think of yourself as a film director setting up a scene: think about what you are trying to prove with the footage, and think about how important it is that you can see the culprit's face.


If you just want someone to stay out of your space--say, a sibling sneaking into your room--point the camera toward the door so that you can catch them coming in.
If you are trying to stop someone from messing with a specific thing--say, you want to keep a sibling from taking your clothes, or a coworker from stealing your stapler--point the camera toward that thing so that you can see what they do.
If you want to capture several different crimes, set the camera back far enough that the lens catches a wide swath of the room. Consider setting up two cameras, though be sure to vary your hiding spots.

