 Most people who work at record labels have a passion for music of all types, which helps them to converse and deal with people in the music industry. This background will be called upon during interviews, meetings and everyday work as you converse with artists, managers, the media and colleagues.


To increase your credibility in the music industry, try not to focus on a certain style of music too much. You may have a few favorite styles in which you are an expert, but you should try to research and listen to as many different styles of music as you can. Music labels often sign artists of varying music genres.;
, Many music label employees played music before switching to the business side of music. Through playing, song-writing, touring and more, you meet excellent contacts that can help you to get a job with a music label.


It is not imperative that you become a musician to work for a record label. Trying your hand at music proves your passion and technical expertise to music labels.
 In order to work successfully in most positions, you will need to network and develop relationships with artists, promoters, venues and more. Since many record label jobs involve attending gigs 4 to 5 nights per week, you will need to have a desire to socialize with other music lovers.
 Although some jobs, such as band management and promotion may not require a college degree if you have exceptional industry knowledge and sales skills, some jobs in finance, business administration and programming require a full 4-year degree in order to be hired.


Some colleges, such as Minnesota State University, offer a Bachelor of Science degree in their music industry program. This 4-year degree will teach you elements of sales, merchandising, manufacturing, recording, publication and arts management.
If you want to work with music events or recording, you can seek a technical degree in sound engineering. Music technology and audio engineering degrees are available in both 2-year and 4-year programs through community colleges, technical colleges and universities.
If you want to work in finance or accounting, seek a degree in those disciplines. Although a love of the music industry is not as crucial, industry knowledge is highly valued. If you are interested in sales, merchandising or marketing, you may find a business administration degree with a minor in music to be an excellent path into those specialized jobs.
Other applicable degrees include a degree in public relations for a job in publicity, a degree in graphic design to work on art for the marketing department or album posters and covers.
Training for a job in the A and R department (Artist and Repertoire), does not have a specific degree. Although a music industry program will be helpful, you must also prove that you have music savvy that meshes well with that of the label. You will need to prove your worth through experience in this department.
 Another element of music knowledge is an overall intelligence about the pressures, legislation and innovations that are common. Read books, magazines, journals and blogs to get a good basis before any interview.


You may consider getting subscriptions to Blender, Billboard, The Source, Spin, Vibe and Rolling Stone. You should also read label blogs and industry websites, such as gavin.com, musicconnection.com, musicweek.com and mixonline.com.
 While you are working as a musician or while you are a student, apply for an internship with a record label. Go online or call record labels to inquire about their internship programs.


During an internship or "work experience" period, you will be asked to work part-time, as much as 25 hours per week, plus events. If you impress the record label during a 1 to 6 month internship, you may be considered for permanent employment.
 For a music label, an entry-level position can mean being a personal assistant, doing data entry or applying directly for a specialized assistant position. Look on online job boards, in music magazines and on music label websites.
 An interview is a chance to show your passion for music, as well as your industry knowledge. Before you go, research the label and its competition extensively, so you can show that you are motivated during the interview.
 Every music label employee is required to prove their worth. This means working many nights and weekends for little pay, doing relatively non-specialized jobs.
 Despite the hard work required to make it in the industry, music labels are often keen to promote someone from a low-level job, over hiring someone new, for a promotion. Volunteer to take on or lead projects in order to make yourself a better candidate for promotions.

