 Any time you get into future-telling, a lot lingo starts getting tossed around. It can get confusing. Keeping terms straight can untangle a lot of mystical mumbo-jumbo and make the techniques and the simple tricks a little more fun for the beginner.Precognition means awareness of the future, through direct knowledge or some other kind of perception, like dreams. Most precognitive experiences occur in dreams, and most occur 24-48 hours before the occurrence.

Premonition involves the feeling that something might happen, but not the knowledge of what it is exactly. Premonitions might include feelings of foreboding or "hunches" that something "feels right." These can be just as significant as precognition, and much more reliable.

Prophecy refers back to the ancient Greek sense of time, with the future being fixed and immutable. A prophecy is a knowledge of a future that will definitely happen, without question. For something to be prophecies means that it cannot be changed.;
, Scans show that humans only use a tiny fraction of the brain's capacity. But are those dormant abilities really useless and dormant? Not necessarily. Flexing your unconscious muscles is possible through practicing deep meditation, letting your unconscious mind overwhelm your conscious mind, and take over. This is where future telling happens.


Start by making yourself comfortable, in a room with soft natural light. Sitting in a comfortable upright position, preferably on the floor, calm your mind and focus on your breathing. Feel the breath go into your body. Feel the breath go out of your body. Feel the oxygen nourishing your body, and going back out into the world. Just focus on your breath, nothing else.
Gradually, start focusing on relaxing your body as you breathe. With every breath, focus on relaxing one arm, first. Feel the breath going into your arm and relax your arm. Then move to your other arm, then down your chest, and throughout the rest of your body. Calm your head and your mind, as well. Focus on relaxation.
 There's no big secret to meditation. Zazen–the type of meditation done by Zen monastics–is loosely translated as "just sitting." The goal is nothingness, letting your subconscious mind take over, with its extrasensory powers of perception. By learning to do this, you'll open yourself up to a wider array of signs and portents, making the future more visible.


As your trance deepens, you should gradually start losing your sense of time, quieting your thinking mind and allowing your subconscious to become more perceptive. Some diviners find it effective to visualize climbing or descending a ladder, or walking into a cave to symbolize diving deeper into your subconscious and deepening the trance state.
 As you begin entering your trances and deepening your meditation, stop trying to force things to happen and begin allowing things to happen. Pay attention to images that arise during your meditations and then seek out these images during the day. Pay attention to faces and people that come up in your meditations and keep an eye out for them. They may be precognitions.


Use all your senses. It might sound silly, but you can think of your body as a "psychic eye," or something that's always gathering information. Temperatures, certain smells, even feelings can all be signs of the future. If you notice feelings of anxiety when you see owls, feelings you've never experienced before, take it as significant. If every time you hear Katy Perry sing, you feel coolness, take it as a significant premonition of something.
 Signs and portents are all around us, but it's up to us to find them. If you're lucky enough to have been gifted with some observation skills and extrasensory perceptions, learning to tell the future still takes a lot of work, but you'll be a better future teller if you work out your extrasensory muscles. If you want to open your perceptions and expand your abilities, stop seeing events and images as “random” and start seeing them as part of a plan.


Pay attention to "hair on the back of the neck" moments. When something happens that pricks the little hairs on the back of your neck, making you feel just slightly "off," stop what you're doing and focus. What do you notice? What seems to have startled you? What seems significant?
Pay attention to deja vu. Ever have the feeling something has happened before, and everything feels weird and reverberating? Start paying attention to what seems off about these moments. What do you notice? Where are you? What sense memories are being evoked?
Pay attention to coincidences. Maybe you wake up some morning and see moths on your porch, then the cute barista will be wearing a t-shirt with a furry moth across the back. Mere coincidence? To some, there is no such thing–what matters is that it happened. Take coincidences as symbols, signs, and portents, rather than unexplainable randomness.
 So, you meditated and couldn’t get the image of a fleet of crabs drinking gasoline on a beach at nighttime out of your mind. Weird! What does this mean? It might mean different things for different people, so learning to interrogate your symbols and subconscious portents and apply them to your own experience will be up to you.


Think of it like dream interpretation or poetry analysis. These images should give you impressions, so start simple. Does it seem positive or negative? Powerful or weak? Daytime or nighttime?
Research the individual symbols you find recurring in your life and in your meditations. Crabs, for example, are significant in all kinds of fortune telling, appear on the "Moon" Tarot card, and is part of the Zodiac. A significant vision.
The Dream Bible, can be an excellent resource for quick reading about the symbols that appear in your dreams. It's a good place to start.
 If you don't know your yarrow stick from your elbow, telling the future's going to be a tough climb. If you've got an interest in developing your extrasensory muscles and telling the future, it's a good idea to do some research on your own and learn about the collective unconscious, and the important myths and symbols of your culture.


The writings of Carl Jung are deeply influential in the way we understand our minds and the connection we have with our subconscious or "unthinking" mind. Joseph Campbell's The Hero With a Thousand Faces is an excellent resource for finding patterns that recur across cultures and mythologies, suggesting that certain symbols, signs, and portents might be ingrained in us as humans, somehow.

