 Australia has a number of different visas available depending on the reason for your visit.For example, if you are planning on being in the country for less than three months, you can apply for a visitor visa. If you're planning on conducting business in Australia, but will be in the country less than three months, you may need a short validity business visa.If you get a visitor visa, you may visit Australia as many times as you want during a 12 month period from the date your visa is granted. However, you cannot stay any longer than three months on each visit. You can't get a job while on a visitor visa, or study for more than three months, but you can conduct business activities such as negotiating contracts or attending conferences.Generally, the visitor visas are available for people coming to Australia as tourists. While visiting, holders of visitor visas may participate in certain business activities.Visitors to Australia from certain European countries may be eligible for the eVisitor visa, which is available free of charge and allows the holder to visit Australia for up to three months at a time over the course of a year.If you want to stay for more than three months, you might be eligible for a long-stay visitor visa, which allows you to stay in Australia up to 12 months.You must be a passport holder from an eligible country. Eligible countries include the U.S. and Canada as well as many South American, African, Asian and European countries.Australia has other specific visas that may be more appropriate for you if, for example, you are traveling to Australia to seek medical treatment or to visit family.;
, The easiest way to get a visa application is to visit the Australia Electronic Travel Authority webpage.


The ETA system only can be used if you are outside Australia. In addition, you can only use the ETA system if you do not have tuberculosis and have not been convicted of any crimes for which you were sentenced for a total combined period of 12 months or more.You can apply for a visa online if you live in the United States, Canada, or a few other countries.If you hold a passport from another country, you can get a visa application through a travel agent, airline, or Australian visa office., If you are applying online, you must have your passport, email address, and a credit card to complete the application., Once you've completed your application, you must submit it and pay the processing fee.


The online ETA system costs AUD $20, and accepts all major credit cards.The service charge is non-refundable, so you won't get your money back even if Australia refuses to grant your visa.If you aren't eligible to use the ETA or eVisitor system, expect to pay fees of around AUD $135 for a visitor's visa application., When you submit your application, you will receive a reference code to use in any follow-ups.


If you are using the online ETA system, you will receive a reference number as soon as you submit your application. It typically takes around 30 seconds for your application to be approved after you complete the submission process and enter your credit card information.The longest it will take to process your application if you're using the ETA system is 12 hours.