 Before sending your poetry off to a publisher, revise it carefully. You do not want to send in a manuscript that has typos or other errors. You should also revise poems for content. You want your poems as high quality as possible before sending into the world.


Comb over your manuscript and scrutinize each poem. Does it convey what you're trying to convey? Is the language effective? Does it help you adequately express your central theme or idea?
Watch out for typos and basic errors as well. You should only send out a manuscript that has been thoroughly proofread.
 From here, you'll want to organize your poems. A poetry anthology should function like a novel. It should progress naturally, moving between themes and ideas. You should not just assemble your poems haphazardly.Think of your book as the final poem in your manuscript. Just as a poem progresses logically based on theme and meter, your poetry book should have a flow to it. Figure out a rhythm that works for you. Should shorter poems come first, with longer ones in the middle, and finishing off with shorter ones? Or do you want a beat that varies, moving from a short poem to a long one?
See if you notice any relationships between poems. Do certain poems speak to one another? A poem about life, for example, may pair well with a poem about death and rebirth. You could try pairing these poems together in your manuscript.
 Many poetry books are organized by theme. Linda Pastan's The Five Stages of Grief, for example, is organized by themes like anger, denial, bargaining, and so forth.Do your poems seem to have different themes throughout? Are there certain poems that are all about nature and its decay? Are a handful of poems about rebirth?
If your poems seem to be easily divided based on theme, think about dividing your poetry book into different sections. Think of each section as a separate poem, and try to organize sections based on things like rhythm, meaning, poems that speak to each other, and so forth.
 Once you've assembled your manuscript, give it a read through. Make sure it flows together nicely. You should be able to feel a certain rhythm in your manuscript, and trace a logical trajectory of ideas and themes.It may be helpful to print your manuscript out for this process. If you dislike the organization in one section, you can easily switch a few poems around and reread. See if you like the new section better.
If you find any weak poems, simply remove them, especially if they are unnecessary to the thematic progression of your work. You want your manuscript to reflect the best version of yourself and your poetry. There is no room for weak work.
 Once your manuscript is ready, make sure to follow all instructions on how to send to your chosen publisher. Presses and publishing houses have a variety of guidelines when it comes to mailing in a manuscript. Less is generally more with poetry. Most publishers want a manuscript around 48 to 64 pages in length.Some publishing houses accept electronic submissions. If this is the case, make sure you send your files in the proper form. Many publishers will want a PDF file over a word document. If you're mailing your poems in, make sure you follow guidelines for binding. A publisher may also want a self addressed stamped envelope included with your manuscript.
You will probably have to write a cover letter explaining your credentials as an author, and giving a brief overview of your collection. Here, mention anything that would give you an edge over potential competition. For example, mention if you attended a prestigious MFA program or won any literary awards.

