 When strengthening a friendship, self-disclosure is key to making it a deep friendship. It’s that vulnerability that allows you to get to know them, and for them to know you. Any lasting friendship with your best friend should include some of this. It’s okay to have boundaries, but being vulnerable deepens friendships.Let them know your struggles. You might say, "I'm really struggling with my body image." You might be surprised by what you both share.;
, They are always growing, as are you. And however similar the two of you are, it is important to remember that they are different from you. Supporting those differences is as important as reveling in the things you share. As you grow, the dynamics of the friendship may change. If you are open to those changes, you are well on your way to making the friendship last., Quality time is very important for maintaining a friendship. Whether it’s online or in person (or on the phone), it’s very important to check in with your best friend regularly. Whether you talk about your day, your work, or your love life, meaningful conversation on a regular basis between you two will strengthen the relationship., Trust is one of the most important aspects of any relationship. Trust is built on more than simply telling the truth. It is about being there when your friend needs you, keeping secrets, and respecting your friend’s identity., By sharing things you love, you will find new ways to interact with each other. And you will also deepen the friendship. Shared interests are key to lasting friendships. Sharing more important the interests is more likely to deepen the friendship. For instance, sharing similar world views will be more important than having the same taste in clothing or coffee., Whether it's a community ball game in which they are participating or a huge project at work, it's important to support your best friend in their accomplishments, as well as in their trials. Even good things, like winning a huge award, can be stressful. It's important to recognize that you both might not handle the situation the same. Listening to them during a crisis can be the most important thing.

One important way to support your best friend is through verbal affirmations. You might say, "I'm so glad that you got the award," or "It's great that you are making the most of a bad situation." Affirmations can also be simply letting them know you're there for them.