 The default hotkeys are H for town center and C to create a villager (only after selecting the town center). Thus, the fastest way to do this is to press H and then press shift-C. The shift selects 5 at a time. This pattern is perhaps the most important hotkey pattern in the game.

Have two villagers build two houses. This will temporarily increase the population to 15, allowing more villagers to be created. Do not have one villager build one house each - both villagers build one house at a time in order to keep the steady flow of villager creation. Once the two houses are completed, have the two villagers build a lumber camp near a forest (your scout should have already found at least one by now).

Select your scout and scout around what is currently visible to you. Finding the 4 initial sheep is critical in the Dark Age - the earlier they are sighted, the better. Occasionally, one of the sheep may already be visible in the fog. If this occurs, have the scout go to where the sheep is. The 4 sheep will be converted to your colors and you can continue scouting for the other 4 sheep (in pairs) that are farther away, the berries, two boars, deer (not available on some maps), gold mines, and stone mines.
Have the other villager chop wood near the town center.
 Have the newly created villagers gather food on one sheep at a time (divide the shepherds roughly in half if you run out of room, which will be inevitable). Also, deposit the wood the other villager has chopped and have him gather sheep as well.
 Loom allows villagers to survive a wolf on its own (essential at higher difficulties, as the wolves become very aggressive) and to have greater health during a boar lure. Your goal is 1:40 when you click Loom (1:45 on multiplayer due to lag).


During this time, the villagers may eventually exhaust one sheep's food. Simply select all of them and gather the one that is at the town center, not the other two right outside it. Make sure that you are keeping exactly two sheep at the town center so that the villagers do not have to walk in order to deposit.
After Loom is researched, keep creating more villagers. You may have to brute force the shepherds (selecting all of them and deposit) in order to reach the 50 food requirement. Make sure that you keep an eye out for your population reaching 13 - you'll need to build another house.
 This will satisfy the two Dark Age building requirement for the Feudal Age and will provide your civilization with a secondary, slower but steadier food source. Eventually, as more villagers are created, more can be allocated to the berries.
Once the other 4 sheep (in pairs) are found, repeat the procedure with the 4 initial sheep.
 Boar luring should be done when the sheep are almost exhausted of their food. Select one villager and attack a boar. Once the boar is running towards the villager, have him walk back to the town center. Once the boar is near the town center, have the villagers still gathering sheep (If there are any sheep left. The villagers should be idle if not.) deposit, and attack the boar.


Keep an eye out as the villager may die. There is also a risk of the boar returning to its initial location. Beware of this as time will have been wasted.
There are two boars to hunt. When the food count for the first boar reaches about 130-150, send one villager (NOT the one used for the first lure) and repeat the luring process.
When the two boars' food run out, hunt for deer. 3 villagers should hunt one deer. They are easily killed, but cannot be lured.
 Keep building houses until you can support 35 population. Some new villagers should be allocated to wood, which is very important from the Feudal Age on. You should have about 10-12 villagers on wood.


Build a mining camp next to your gold pile located near your town center. While you don't need gold to advance to the Feudal Age, it is important to start in the Dark Age (or at least while researching Feudal) because you won't be in the Feudal Age for very long. Some civilizations start out with -100 gold, and it is highly recommended to get a head-start on gold. No more than 3 villagers should be allocated to gold.
Farms are the primary source of food later on, but can be made in the Dark Age. 60 wood is the requirement, and you'll need to create some farms because your deer and berries will be exhausted of food. Farms are based on wood, and you may even need to allocate food-gathering villagers to chopping wood. Farms, ideally, should be located around the town center, as they can garrison, but if you run out of room, farms can be located around the mill.
 To wrap up, your population should be 30.

