 Choose Create a Guild.;
, Type in the name you want your Guild to have.
 Also, the character used in creating the guild must be level 20 or above

, The more members in the guild, the better. Simply press G to bring up your guild window and then choose Recruit. Afterward, type in the name of the player you wish to invite.
 Another way to recruit people is through your friends list. The Friends List button can be seen at the upper right-hand side of your screen, right next to your mini map. After opening the friend list, right click on the name of the person and then choose Recruit.
 To recruit the person within your screen, simply right-click on their character to see the options and then choose Recruit.
 In order for you to obtain guild EXP, members, including you, must do daily guild quests, which can be found in the towns and cities of Aura Kingdom.
 Each quest you finish will reward you with guild EXP, character EXP, fragments, and even boxes that contain items.


You have probably noticed the EXP bar found in your guild window. This indicates the amount of EXP you need in order for your guild to advance to the next level. The higher the level of the guild, the more benefits you get.
As the guild Levels, the member capacity will also increase. This also increase the number of officers you can assign.
The number of announcements or notes that can be added under the Affairs tab will also increase.
 This is the required level that your guild must be to create an emblem.
 The size of a small emblem is 32x32 pixels, with 24-bit depth, and saved in .bmp (bitmap) file format.


Most players used pre-made ones that can be found over their Internet, especially to already-existing games such as Ragnarok Online, as they have the very same emblem size and format.
For your emblem to have a transparent background, color the part you want to have transparent with pink (use RGB 255 for red and blue while green is 0).
 The Guild Hall will be available as soon as the guild reached level 5. Guild members are able to enter the Guild Hall; they can find the following in the Guild Hall:


NPCs selling special items from crafting materials to alchemy.
An auction NPC.
The guild storage; this is where everyone can put the items they want to donate for lower-level guild members.
Members can enter the Guild Hall with any level, but new recruits need to wait 24 hours before they can use the Guild Hall.
To enter the hall, press G to open the guild window and then choose Guild Hall at the bottom part. You will be automatically teleported inside the Guild Hall.
 Inside the Guild Hall, you can find a summoning NPC in the middle of the map. Use the NPC to summon Eidolons. After summoning, guild members can enter the Guild Hall to kill the Eidolon together to obtain keys.


A summon costs 100 pieces of Eidolon Energy.
 Nearly every day, the Guild Hall summons certain Eidolons without the need of Eidolon Energy.


Anyone can kill the Eidolon for drops, whether in party or solo. You get to pick up Eidolon keys, which is used to create a Summoning Key for you to own your very own Eidolons.
 In the guild, you can assign ranks to any members, which gives them the authority to either recruit, expel, and add new announcements in Guild Affairs. Basically, officers are the guild leader's trusted members who will take care of the group while the leader is away.