 Some little league coaches offer complicated and confusing directions. However, at its core, baseball is about catching, hitting, and throwing the ball. Keep your directions and guidance simple by employing that terminology.For instance, instead of saying, “I want to see a double when they get bases loaded,” you might say, “I want you to hit the ball, run to first base, and then run to second base."
Using clear and straightforward directions, you can gradually teach more complex plays as your players master the simpler ones.
 All your players are different. Get to know each player on your team as an individual. This will allow you to identify when and how you should push your players to improve their performance.Some players, for instance, might respond best to an aggressive delivery such as, “Come on, step it up!”
Other players might respond best to a more gentle and comforting suggestion like, “You’re doing great, but I want you to work a little harder out there.”

, Nothing is worse for the kids than a coach who yells after every error. If you see a player doing something wrong consistently, pull them aside and explain what they are doing wrong. If necessary, work with them to adjust their technique., Let all the parents know when the games are, when they need to bring snacks to practice, when they need to pay equipment fees, and any other information that they might need to know. Use a variety of methods to keep parents in the loop.If you have specific concerns for a single parent, it’s best to call or meet them face-to-face.
If you have general information you want to share with all the parents, you can email them or send a handbill home with the kids on your team. For quick messages (“See you at tonight’s game at Barton Field!”) you could send a text message.
Don’t expect your players to communicate information directly to their parents.
 Disciplinary issues are likely addressed in your league handbook. Consult this guidebook in the event you need to discipline your players. Hold all your players to the same disciplinary standard and, when necessary, apply disciplinary actions equally. In most cases, a verbal warning is enough to correct a player's foul attitude or misbehavior.Let your players know at the outset of the season that they should demonstrate a positive attitude. Inform them of the consequences of poor discipline.
During practice, warn any troublemakers that they will be running laps or performing pushups if they continue to cause problems.
During games, warn any troublemakers that they will be removed from play if they continue to cause problems.

