 Often times the fun you have at an event or party depends on the way you prepare mentally for it. If you dread what’s coming and fret anxiously about not drinking at the party, chances are that you won’t have much fun. In the same way, you can increase the odds of having a good experience by getting yourself in a good headspace and elevating your energy level before leaving the house.


Take a moment and visualize the party going well, with you having a good time, eating, dancing, mingling, etc. This will help get you excited for the event.
If you have networking or professional goals for the party, review your intentions while you're getting ready or driving over. This mini-prep session can set the tone of your interactions at the party before you even get to the party.For example, invite some friends over to chat and listen to music together before you all leave. Or, if none of your friends can make it, put on your favorite record while you get dressed.;
, Many people drink alcohol at parties because they feel they need it to make them more comfortable and less socially awkward. You can do a lot of this legwork without alcohol, though, by making yourself as comfortable as possible before entering the social arena. This doesn’t mean you have to look like a boring person if you’re not drinking, though. Just be sure to wear something you love and feel comfortable in, be it a sequined dress or your dad’s old flannel shirt.


Decide what you will wear ahead of time and try it on to make sure you're comfortable with it. This can help avoid last minute panicking!
Depending on the nature of the party you’re attending, you might not have total sartorial freedom. If the invitation indicates a dress code, make sure you adhere to it. If you’re unsure as to the expected ensemble, call your host ahead of time to be sure you show up in appropriate attire., One of the best ways to be social without relying on alcohol as an interactive lubricant is to play games. The common activity will unite diverse and often unacquainted partygoers while focusing the conversation and encouraging enthusiasm. Use this opportunity to get to know the new people you are meeting and bond with them! Some games are more popular than others—for example, saucy games Cards Against Humanity and Say Anything are touted as some of the most reliably party-revving games available—but you can choose from a variety of games and platforms, including classic board games, video games, card games, and improvised games such as charades.If you’re not sure your host will provide games for the guests, bring your own! You might want to ask your host as you enter if they mind your contribution, but chances are that they will be more than happy to have your party-pumping activity added to the mix.
 Dancing isn’t contingent on alcohol consumption, but many people feel uncomfortable doing it without some kind of boozy encouragement. If you’re one of these people, you can get involved in the music and dancing without putting yourself out on the dance floor by playing the DJ for an hour or two. Take requests from your friends and other partygoers while adding your own musical know-how to the mix in order to create a fun and energizing party playlist.
 If you own a karaoke machine or know someone who has one, ask the host if you can bring it along! Many cultures rely on karaoke to liven up parties, create new social bonds, and strengthen existing ones. Some studies have posited that the reason for this popularity is that communal singing creates a powerfully positive experience like a drug- or activity-induced high.Whatever the cause, keep in mind that karaoke is a jolly, alcohol-independent way of brightening the mood and encouraging conviviality.


Karaoke can be a loud and boisterous activity, so be aware of local noise ordinances. Keep an eye on the clock and turn off the tunes at a reasonable hour in order to avoid unwanted visits from the police or irritated neighbors.
 If you’re not shy about busting a move without an alcoholic beverage, take full advantage of the dance floor! You’ll have more fun, time will go by faster, and you can work off some of the calories you’ve consumed from sweet and salty treats at the party.Perhaps more than anything, though, you’ll earn the gratitude of the host by leading by example and encouraging others to get moving.


Not in the mood to dance? No problem! You can still participate in the festivities by watching your friends get down, singing along to your favorite songs, and even just bobbing your head to the music.
Most importantly, just keep a smile on your face. This simple gesture shows you’re a good sport and that you’re enthusiastic about the party, even without an alcoholic wing-man assisting you.
 Many people think that meeting strangers at a party when you’re not drinking is more difficult, but this isn’t necessarily the case. After all, one benefit of alcohol is that it eases people’s social hang-ups and makes them more talkative.So, while over-indulgence can lead to some obnoxious moments, people who are just a bit tipsy are often fun, outgoing conversationalists.


This can be a blessing if you're feeling awkward and tongue-tied in your sobriety. Since your new acquaintance will feel loosened-up from their drink, they'll probably feel more comfortable leading the conversation. You can encourage this impulse by asking leading and follow-up questions such as, "I never knew you could take classes in that! How would one get started if they were interested? How did you get started?"

, Depending on the tone and crowd of the party you’re attending, you might find that your host or hostess quickly becomes overwhelmed, whether it be from too many drunk revelers, snack bar cleanup, or game oversight. Helping out your struggling host will provide you an excellent, productive way to stay busy and involved without drinking alcohol. Just remember to offer your help explicitly and sincerely, as many hosts might feel like they need to refuse help automatically as a matter of decorum.Some specific things you could ask to help out with include coat check, cleanup, drink duty, noise monitoring, and designated driving.

