 Low-impact aerobics avoid movements that put a lot of pressure on joints, including movements like jumping, running in place, and the like. Low-impact aerobics is designed to minimize the risk of leg injuries, and is recommended for seniors, pregnant women, and overweight people.If you fall into one of those categories or have joint problems you should not attempt high-impact aerobics at all, unless you doctor approves it for you. If you’re out of shape and want to ease your way into a workout regimen, low-impact aerobics is a great way to get your body used to a range of motions before you start pushing yourself.









Low-impact aerobics are not only for people with "issues". Many workouts designed for minimizing impact are just as effective as high impact, without as much risk of injury.
Not all "low-impact aerobics" are appropriate for everyone. It is not risk-free. A very overweight or out of shape person may still get injured if he or she is working out at too high a level. Using improper form or incorrect movement patterns may also cause injury.
Cycle through a variety of different motions. It doesn’t matter what order you go in, but stay in each motion for at least one or two minutes before moving on to the next motion.
You should repeat the same motions repeatedly throughout your workout. If you are having difficulty with a more advanced move, return to more basic movements, such as stepping back and forth. Once your muscles stop burning, go back to the more difficult motions.
 Don't begin your workout in earnest until you've warmed up your body. In warming up, you gradually increase blood flow throughout your body and loosen up the muscle groups you'll be using, reducing the risk of muscle stress.Use the rhythm of the music you’re playing to guide your steps, but the music should be fairly fast-paced to make sure you’re moving fast enough to get your heart rate up.









Your arms can hang naturally at your sides, or you can swing them in a sharp, but controlled motion to work out your arm muscles as well.
Make sure to lift your knees enough to cause your legs to burn over a period of time. Simply shuffling in place will not make you sweat!
Do this for at least two minutes to warm your body up in preparation for a wider range of more demanding movements.
Get into the music! Clap your hands if you feel like it. The more fun you’re having, the more likely you’ll be to continue exercising.
 Walk forward three steps, swinging your arms energetically at your sides; on the fourth count, tap your foot on the ground and clap your hands. Repeat this motion moving backwards, so you end up where you began. Remember to change which leg you being with.









Repeat motion for as long as you’d like, until you get bored of it and want to move on to a new movement.
 Lift your hands to shoulder or chest level every time you draw a foot back, and fully extend your arms downward with every foot extension. Keep your motions controlled and deliberate to make sure that you’re engaging your muscles instead of letting gravity do all the work for you.
), then bring your left foot to your right foot and touch the ground with it. Move your left foot back out to your original position, then touch your right foot to the ground by your left foot.









You can combine this with any number of arm movements, from controlled arm swings to shoulder rolls.
A shoulder roll is simply when you pull one shoulder forward slightly, then roll it up and back. Alternate shoulders to the beat of the music, working out your shoulder and back muscles.
 Lower your body into a squat, and start taking small steps forward. Continue walking forward for thirty to sixty seconds. This increases the burn in your thighs. You can pump your arms in a controlled manner at your sides.









It’s important to keep a straight back during this step to prevent back pain.
 Then repeat the process to the right side.









Kick your leg out to the front on the last beat (when you would normally simply tap one foot to the other) to increase your activity rate.
Begin the movement to the left with your arms down, and slowly lift them out to your sides and up over your head in a deliberate, wide motion, with your hands meeting over your head on the fourth beat.
Bring your arms down during your movement to the right so the return to their beginning position.
 Don’t swing your entire leg, just bend your heel back toward your bottom. Bring your foot back down, then repeat the motion on the left side, alternating sides to the rhythm of the music.









You can push your arms forward as though pushing the air away from your chest on the leg curl, then pull your arms back into your chest when you return your foot to the ground.
You can also do bow-and-arrows with your arms: extend one arm out directly to the side and tuck the other into your chest while keeping your elbow pointed out to the side. Alternate sides to match your feet movement. The motion should look a little bit like using a bow and arrow.
To increase the muscle exertion, you can double or triple up on the curls you do on each side before moving on to the other leg. This way, you muscle doesn’t get to relax immediately, and the workout is a little more difficult.
 There are many styles of low impact aerobic exercise, so you should be able to find a class that works for you. Keep an eye out for:









Low impact step aerobics
Low impact Zumba classes: though Zumba, a dance exercise that incorporates Latin and world music, usually involves a good amount of jumping and bouncing that can be stressful on joints, look for a class that offers a low-impact alternative.
Power yoga: power yoga is a more athletic form of yoga that was invented in the United States. It's a rigorous exercise that will increase your heart rate without stressing your joints, but make sure to look for a beginner's class.
A spinning class: these classes involve riding a stationary bike, but are often set to workout music chosen by the class's instructorWater aerobics: these classes take place in a pool. The water's natural buoyancy protects your joints, but also provides greater resistance to your movements, resulting in a safe and vigorous workout.