 Pavlova has very few ingredients, but each one is very important. Don't make substitutions for any of the ingredients, since the texture of the dessert depends on the precise chemistry of each one.;
, Arrange a rack in the lower third of the oven.
 Tear off a large sheet of parchment paper and place it on a baking sheet. Trace around the bottom of a 9-inch cake pan to draw a circle on the parchment paper. You'll spread the meringue mixture inside the circle to bake it., If you'd like, add a pinch of salt as well.
 It's very important to make sure the egg whites don't get tainted by bits of yolk; this will prevent your meringue from stiffening.


Make sure you pour the whites into a very clean, dry metal mixing bowl. Water or bits of oil will affect the texture of your meringue.
Keep the yolks for a different recipe, or make an omelette later.
 Use with a hand mixer on high speed for about 5 minutes, or beat with an egg whisk, until soft peaks form.
 Keep beating the egg whites and add the sugar mixture teaspoon by teaspoon. Continue until you run out of sugar and the whites have formed stiff, glossy peaks.
 Pour the vinegar and vanilla over the peaks and keep beating until everything is mixed together. The vinegar will help the meringue stay crispy around the edges and soft in the middle as it bakes.
 Use the back of the spoon to spread it evenly. It should be approximately dinner plate roundness in size.
 Pavlovas should be round with a little hollow that takes the cream and topping, so it helps to imagine that you're making a nest shape with slightly raised edges.


If your shape is on the oblong side of circular, don't worry too much about how accurate the circular shape is - creative misshapes are permissible as long as the topping stays put.
 Place it in the oven and cook for 60-70 minutes, or until crisp. Don't let the meringue over-brown; it should be an off-white color on the outside when it's ready.
 Place it on a wire rack to cool. Transfer it to a serving dish and prepare to add the toppings. Allow the meringue to cool completely before finishing the dish.


There's a tradition to turn the pavlova over and decorate the base because it is said that this side is less crisp. Sometimes this reason is actually a nifty cover-up trick for little cooking mistakes like over-browning the top. Either way, the pavlova centre will quickly lose its initial crispness anyway because of the whipped cream and topping.
 Whip the cream and sugar until the cream forms soft peaks. Slice the strawberries and kiwis or other fruit toppings. If there's time left, research the origins of the pavlova and make up your own mind about who invented it.
 Spread it evenly to the edges of the meringue. Use the cream to fill in cracks and cover other imperfections.


You can also flavor the cream if you'd like - try a teaspoon of vanilla extract, rosewater, orange water, lemon extract, or almond extract.
Although whipped cream is traditional, you might like to vary the whipped cream with other soft creamy like substances such as custard. This would be frowned upon by traditionalists but experimental cooks have creative license.
 Another popular tradition is to drizzle freshly opened passionfruit over the top of the pavlova.


Other topping ideas include a mixture of berries, sliced cherries, apricots, mangoes or peaches, grated dark chocolate, or a mixture of chocolate and raspberries.
 The beauty of a pavlova is in the eye of the creator; everyone else just wants to eat it. Don't be surprised at how quickly your creation disappears.
