 This means a salon-quality shampoo made with high-quality active ingredients. Spend some time looking at the list of ingredients and choose one based on the contents, not just the name brand.


Avoid ingredients like sulfates (ammonium lauryl sulfate, ammonium laureth sulfate, and sodium lauryl sulfate), isopropyl alcohol, formaldehyde, and propylene glycol. These ingredients will dry out your hair, break down healthy hair proteins, and leave your hair prone to more damage in the future.Look for ingredients like sodium cocoyl isethionate, sodium lauroyl methyl isethionate, and disodium laureth sulfosuccinate. These compounds are gentler than the sulfates used in many cheaper shampoos and are derived from more natural ingredients like coconut oil.You can also choose shampoos that contain glycerin and panthenol. Glycerin helps fortify your hair by creating a protective barrier and panthenol allows your hair to retain more moisture and thickens the hair follicles.;
, This kind of shampoo will help fortify your hair by creating a barrier between the hair and any heat you may apply to your hair (through blow drying, straightening, etc.). Leave it in your hair for five minutes and then rinse it out.


Alternate between using this shampoo and your other high quality shampoo. Don’t use both during the same shower. Over-washing your hair can leave it more dry and damaged in the long run.
 You want to make sure you allow your hair to fully absorb the products in each of these steps. Towel drying your hair will help it soak up the benefits of the shampoo treatments before moving on to the conditioning steps.
 These kinds of conditioners will work to restore the hydrolipidic barrier and prevent future dehydration in your hair.Normally, these are not leave-in conditioners. You will typically apply the conditioner to your hair while it’s wet, massage the conditioner into your scalp, and then rinse it out.
 These kinds of treatments can help your hair regain some its original shine and moisture. But using too much oil in your hair can make your hair look greasy, so be careful not to overdo it. Usually 1-3 times a month is enough for this kind of treatment.Heat up ½ cup of olive oil so that it is warm to the touch, but not boiling, and massage it into your hair.
Cover your hair with a plastic wrap (or even a shower cap if you don’t have a plastic wrap) and leave it in for 30-45 minutes, depending on the severity of your hair’s damage.
When you are finished, rinse the oil out of your hair with lukewarm water.
 Mix together one tablespoon of a protein-enriching shampoo, on tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil, and one tablespoon of a moisturizing conditioner.Massage the mixture into your scalp and leave in as a mask for your hair.
Cover your hair with a plastic bag, then wrap it all up in a towel.
Leave the mixture in for twenty minutes, then rinse your hair clean.
 Combine two tablespoons of honey with three tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil. Apply the mixture to your damp hair, making sure to rub it into your scalp completely and pull it down towards the ends of your hair.After you have saturated your hair with the mixture, wrap it in a towel.
Leave it in for 30 minutes to one hour, depending on the amount of damage your hair has. Then rinse with warm water.
Wash out any remnants with a mild shampoo.
You can adjust the measurements of the ingredients based on the length of your hair. For example, if you have longer hair you may want to use four tablespoons of honey and six tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil.
 This particular mask will work to restore dry and damaged hair and is mild enough to use twice a week.In a bowl, mix together the following ingredients: one mashed banana, one raw egg, three tablespoons of milk, three tablespoons of honey, and five tablespoons of olive oil.
Apply the mixture to your hair thoroughly and leave it in for 15-30 minutes.
Rinse your hair with a mild shampoo.
 Switching it up can help your hair recover from existing damage and prevent future damage. Try using products that hydrate your hair – like a moisturizing shampoo and conditioner.You can also try products with a protein or keratin reconstructor to help fortify your hair.
 If you are serious about preventing future damage to your hair from harmful chemicals, you should avoid them altogether when possible. While they may look nice for a while, they only cause damage in the end. Avoid using these damaging chemical treatments to help prevent future trouble for your hair.If you have to dye your hair, try using a more natural dye like henna or tea. This will cause much less damage.
 Getting frequent trims for your hair can help prevent future damage and minimize or restore existing damage. Take the time to maintain your hair’s health by trimming it regularly, usually every six to eight weeks.