 Mayonnaise is made of emulsified egg yolks and oil, which can provide your hair with oils to make it soft and shiny. Completely coat your hair in mayonnaise and leave it on for about 30 minutes. Once the mayo has soaked into your hair, rinse it out with warm water followed by a regular wash of shampoo and conditioner.Use full-fat mayonnaise for the best results.
Do not use mayonnaise if you are allergic to eggs.;
, Gelatin can also help to make your hair soft and silky. To restore protein to your hair, mix one tablespoon of unflavored gelatin and one tablespoon of warm water. Then apply the mixture to your hair. Leave the mixture on your hair for about 10 minutes, and then rinse it out.Follow this treatment up by shampooing and conditioning your hair.
 Aloe vera gel may also help to make your hair soft and silky.You can use aloe that you get directly from a plant or purchase a bottle of 100% aloe vera gel. Apply the gel to your hair, massaging it in around the roots and working towards the tips. Use enough aloe to coat your hair from root to tip. Let the aloe gel sit on your hair for about 30 minutes, and then rinse it out.Follow up this treatment with a regular hair wash using shampoo and conditioner.
 Avocados and banana may also help to give you soft, silky hair. Mash one avocado and one banana together to form a paste. Massage the paste into your hair, making sure to cover all of your strands. Allow the mask to set for an hour, and then rinse out.The combination of avocado and banana may also help to reduce the appearance of split ends and add elasticity to your locks.
 You can also mix an avocado with an egg yolk for a hair softening mask. Mix the avocado and egg yolk together in a bowl until they form a paste. Then apply the mixture to your hair and leave it on for about 30 minutes. Then, rinse the mixture out of your hair with lukewarm water.









You may also want to shampoo your hair to remove all traces of the egg yolks.
 Get a cup of applesauce or make your own applesauce by boiling a couple of apples (core and peel removed) in water until they are soften and then draining the water and mashing them. If you make your own applesauce, then make sure that you let it cool down to room temperature before you apply it to your hair. Then, apply the applesauce to your hair from the roots to the tips. Leave it for 30 minutes and then rinse it out.Finish the treatment by shampooing and conditioning your hair.
 Combine three egg yolks with one tablespoon of olive oil and one tablespoon of honey. Beat the ingredients together until they are well combined. Then, apply the mixture to all of your hair. Let this sit on your hair under a shower cap for 30 minutes. Then, rinse your hair and use shampoo and conditioner to completely remove all traces of the egg.


Shower with warm but not too hot water as it may cook the egg yolks in your hair making it difficult to remove.
If you do not like the smell or mess of raw eggs, you can also buy a ready egg oil. This also eliminates the risk of salmonella infection or allergy coming from raw eggs.