 The most common way to rig plastic worms for fishing is to use a self-weedless rig, where the hook is threaded through and buried in the body of the worm so that it won't foul on weeds, timber, or rocks. (The most popular version of this rig is the Texas rig, which will be the main focus of this section.) Hooks for this type of rigging feature a dogleg bend about 1 inch (2.5 cm) down from the eye and a wide curve at the barb end, with the point of the hook parallel to the eye. The hook you use should be proportionate to the size of the worm you fish with, as follows:


Use a size 1 or 1/0 hook with finesse worms of 4 inches (10 cm) or shorter.
Use a size 2/0 hook for worms of 5 to 6 inches (12.5 to 15 cm) in length.
Use a size 3/0 or 4/0 hook for worms of 7 to 8 inches (17.5 to 20 cm) in length.
 The most common way to weight the line when using the Texas version of the self-weedless rig is to use a bullet-shaped slip sinker, although a needle-nosed weight can be substituted when fishing around weeds. This sinker is threaded with the point end toward the rod and the cup end toward the hook, so that the worm head will rest in the cup when the line is cast. If a very light weight is necessary, you can substitute a split shot or slip shot.

Choose the lightest weight of sinker you can get away with for the depth of the water you're fishing in: 1/16- to 1/8-ounce (3.54 to 7.08 g) for water less than 6 feet (1.8 m) deep, 1/8- to 1/4-ounce (7.08 to 14.15 g) for water 6 to 12 feet (1.8 to 3.6 m) deep, 1/4- to 3/8-ounce (14.15 to 21.23 g) for water 12 to 18 feet (3.6 to 5.4 m) deep, and 3/8- to 1/2-ounce (21.23 to 28.35 g) for water deeper than 18 feet (5.4 m).






When fishing in heavy cover, some anglers choose to "peg" their slip sinkers at the end of their lines by inserting a toothpick in the hole on the side that touches the worm and breaking it off, effectively turning it into a jig head. Other anglers choose to use self-weedless jig heads; one variety of such features a barbed wire attached to the jig eye that is threaded through the worm head while the hook is threaded into the body of the worm.






A Texas rigged plastic worm can also be fished on the surface by using no sinker at all. If you need additional weight to cast, tie a swivel 8 inches (20 cm) ahead of the worm. You may also want to use an offset hook in place of the hook normally used for a self-weedless rig.
 Most versions of the self-weedless rig require you to tie the hook directly to your line without using an intervening leader, snap, or swivel. This allows the cup of the bullet sinker to rest directly against the worm head once the worm is threaded on.


One version of the self-weedless rig, the Carolina rig, does use a swivel and length of leader between the worm and sinker, which is usually a heavy, egg-shaped sinker. This rig is set up this way to allow the worm to float up some distance from the sinker in an attempt to attract fish suspended off the bottom.
 Push the point of the hook through the tip of the worm's head and slide the worm gently up the hook.
 Exit the worm so that the tail is perpendicular to the hook if the worm is a straight tail, paddle-tail, or fork-tail worm, or so the curve of a ribbon or ripple tail worm is parallel to the bend of the hook.
 Push the point of the hook so that it almost completely goes through the worm body, but not quite. This will make it easier to set the hook if and when a fish takes the lure. The worm should hang straight on the hook when rigged this way.

