 Having cash on hand means that you will rarely come up short when paying for the pizza, tipping at the restaurant, or paying for a cup of coffee. Although many money clips nowadays enable you to carry a credit card or two, you will always know that you have cash in your pocket.There is always a need for cash on hand and it is convenient when a buddy needs to borrow a few bucks or when you can cover the tip at the bar. It is always better to be the lender than the borrower.
Since you have to organize and place cash into the money clip, you are always aware of how much you have. In other words, you know what you can afford and what you cannot compared to paying with credit cards.
 Modern society seemingly allows you to pay for services with any kind of credit card. Cash is still king, however, as it is accepted everywhere and is oftentimes the preferred payment among local businesses and restaurants. Carrying cash in a money clip will not only sure your business everywhere but also help you avoid paying extra because of credit card charges.Carrying cash will save you the embarrassment of getting your credit card declined at the register or restaurant.
No extras paid on cash. Credit cards, however, always incur a fee for both the customer and the merchant. No late fees, overuse fees, or limits.
 Carrying cash in your pocket reminds you how much you can spend and sets boundaries so that you don’t overspend. Using a money clip will help you manage your cash better than using credit cards.With a money clip you can physically see and touch how much money you have in your hand and in your pocket. Perhaps this will remind you to pick up one less round of drinks or choose a less extravagant dinner selection.
There is a big difference watching five twenty dollar bills leave your hands than it is to simply swipe a card and think about it later. This will help you think about what you really need and what you don’t.
Lots of love. Taxi drivers, servers, and bartenders everywhere will appreciate that you chose to carry a money clip.

