 There are numerous preparations from kitchen items:


Use lemon and pineapple juice to get rid of large pores and blemishes.
Apply ice to reduce swelling and redness, leave on blemishes for 15 minutes at a time.
Cleanse your face using lemon.
Make an exfoliant from sugar paste, or fruit seeds. Exfoliate your legs with salt.

Make tonic from rosewater.

Make goat's milk lotion to nourish healthy skin.

Make an avocado and honey skin softener to soften your skin.
Make a facial or face pack from ripe mangoes and almonds, chocolate and honey, carrots, cucumber, milk, and honey, or orange and yogurt.
Make a sugar and coffee scrub to moisturize your skin overnight.
Spread vodka over dull skin to brighten it.
Spread egg whites over your face for a brightening, firming mask.
Boil some water with either a teaspoon of salt or half a teaspoon of baking soda in it (you can also do both if you DO NOT have sensitive skin). Hold your face over the steam for about 30 min with a towel over your head. (Baking soda has exfoliating properties; salt disinfects and cleanses your skin, the sweating will help get rid of toxins and open pores). Make sure you are doing this on a clean face, afterward is a good time to exfoliate because your pores are open, make sure to do so gently.;
, There are many kitchen products suitable for boosting, moisturizing, and shining your hair. Shampoo and other hair care products are relatively recent inventions and people have "made do" with natural products for centuries, all to great benefit! Here are some for you to try:



Make a banana hair mask to add moisture to hair with damage from dryness.
Condition your hair with fenugreek seeds.

Wash your hair in salad dressing to make it glossy!

Pour leftover beer with chamomile through your hair for a fantastic conditioning. Try making your own conditioner from avocados.
Repair frizzy, damaged hair with olive oil.
Get out the lemons, limes, and coconut to make a hair bar to help your hair shine again with restored nutrients. Or use parsley and lemon for added shine.
Lighten your hair with rhubarb and chamomile or a rosemary rinse. Or try the well-known lemon juice fix to lighten hair (lime works too). Tea also helps to bring out highlights.
Darken your hair with walnuts. And eliminate gray hair using sage or rosemary.
Dye your hair with Kool Aid.
Smooth your hair with milk and eggs.
Make hairspray using lemons and oranges.
Straighten your hair using only coconut milk and lime juice.
Use baking soda on oily hair to soak up the oil.

Use eggs as a natural shampoo. There are several different ways to do this. You can either mix the egg in with something else, like a bit of honey or 1 teaspoon of olive oil and 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, or you can just use the blended egg on its own.
Rub vitamin E oil into the roots of your hair and scalp. This strengthens your hair and helps with hair loss. Keep it in your hair for as long as you can. Remember healthy hair starts at the roots!

, There are some gentle and easy eye solutions waiting in your kitchen:



Use cucumbers to reduce puffy eyes.

Use teabags to remove black circles from under your eyes.
Put two cotton balls into 1/4 a cup of cold milk. Place the milk-dipped cotton balls over your eyes for five minutes.
 When adding nail polish to your nails, dry them quickly by dipping them straight into ice cold water, or spray with cooking oil.


To strengthen, soak nails in olive oil for 15 min to an hour. You will be surprised at how much this helps.
 There are some excellent kitchen fixes for bad breath!


Use ginger, basil, mint, or parsley leaves, or have an apple to fix bad breath on the spot.
Use a teaspoon of baking soda on your toothbrush, a dab of water, and brush as usual.
Gargle and rinse with warm salt water.




Make oat soap bags for a refreshing bath.

Make coconut rose body whip to heal and soothe skin in need of a moisturizing lift.
Refresh and revitalize tired feet with a rosemary and mint foot scrub.

Make an oatmeal scrub for soothing or refreshing your skin.
Make green tea bath bombs to spritz up your bath.
Relax in a bath of mango and lime, honey, strawberries or rose milk.
Have a bubble bath made from chocolate or vanilla.

