 A small aquarium, between 3-10 gallons, is suitable for raising crystal red shrimp. It’s better to get a smaller tank, so you can handle them better and keep track of their whereabouts more easily.A smaller aquarium is better for smaller numbers of shrimp. In case your crystal red shrimp get sick or go missing, a smaller aquarium makes it easier to care for them individually or to count the shrimp from outside the aquarium.
You should get a larger tank if you plan to have a shrimp colony. This will make it harder to manage the shrimp individually, but will give them enough room to spread out.;
, Moss is great to include in your crystal red shrimp’s aquarium since it contains microorganism that they eat. Additionally, these shrimp do better in a planted aquarium where there is plenty of vegetation for them.For the most part, crystal red shrimp won’t eat healthy plants. They snack on mosses, but usually only eat debris, since plants are sometimes too firmly rooted for them to eat.Planted vegetation gives them places to hide as well. However, if your shrimp are hiding often and not swimming in the open water, this may be a sign that they are unhealthy and need to be cared for.
 Crystal red shrimp don’t like being exposed in the open water, since it may make them feel unsafe. You can provide a number of hiding spots, including driftwood, stones, and other shrimp products.Rocks and stones can create a natural environment for your shrimp. They can also grow algae to help feed your shrimp. Some stones you can include are the Ohko, ryuoh, seiryu, yamaya, and manten stone.
Driftwood is another especially good hiding place for shrimp, since it can also grow fungus for your shrimp to eat. Additionally, driftwood lowers the PH level of your water, which is necessary for your sensitive crystal red shrimp.
Cholla wood and ceramic shrimp tubes can also be useful hiding places for shrimp. When they become anxious due to outside predators, these environments give them a safe place to hide.
 Crystal red shrimp can easily become swept up in the current of your aquarium. This can be especially dangerous, since they can become sucked up into the filter.The water current in your tank should provide circulation, but not sweep up your crystal red shrimp. If you notice them floating along on the current, it’s likely your water current is too strong for them.
Avoiding things like flow accelerators is probably a good idea when keeping crystal red shrimp. For the most part, the natural flow of the water should be enough for your shrimp., Filters can be potentially dangerous for these shrimp due to their small size. Choose a filter that will not suck your shrimp into the intakes and potentially kill them.Sponge filters are the best filters for most shrimp, especially crystal red shrimp. It will not suck them into the intakes and is relatively inexpensive.
If you choose a more conventional filter make sure to cover the filter intake with a sponge or stocking. This will help to prevent the baby shrimp from being sucked up and killed.
 This is essential for keeping crystal red shrimp because any amount of ammonia or nitrite will kill them. They need to have nearly perfect water to stay healthy in your aquarium.


Before you begin cycling, check your tap water parameters. Crystal Red Shrimp prefer a pH between 6.2 and 7.2 and a tank temperature of around 70-78 degrees Fahrenheit.Ammonium and nitrate levels should be as close to 0 as possible before putting in your crystal red shrimp. Additionally, you should only change less than 1/3 of your total water each week, since they are very sensitive to changes in the water.

