 This won’t work on from your iPhone, you’ll definitely need a computer. You can follow these instructions on a PC or a Mac, as long as you have music in your iTunes library. , The maximum length of a ringtone is 30 seconds, so you’ll really just be choosing a great 30 second segment of a song based on your personal preference.


When you’ve found it, write down (on paper or in another window) the time your chosen segment begins. The exact time is right beneath the song information at the top of the screen. If the part you like begins when the timer is at 1:40, that’s the number you’ll write down.
Now, decide where the segment will end. Keeping the 30-second limitation in mind, start your song at the time you wrote down previously and press the pause button where you want to stop. Write down the stop point timer number. For example, you may want to end the song at 2 minutes and 5 seconds in. In that case, write 2:05.
 ⌘ Cmd+Click (right-click on a PC) the song and select “Get Info.”

, Click the “Options” tab and type the time your segment begins next to “Start” and where it ends next to “Stop.” Make sure the two boxes next to the numbers have checkmarks inside of them. Click OK to create your ringtone.
 ⌘ Cmd+Click (right-click on a PC) the song and select “Create AAC version.” This will create a new version of the song that consists of only the segment you’ve chosen. It will show up as a duplicate in the library, right above or below the original song. The only difference will be the length—the ringtone you just made will be much shorter.
 ⌘ Cmd+Click (right-click on a PC) the original (longer) song and choose “Get Info.” Go to the “Options” tab and remove the checks and numbers next to Start and Stop.
 Click and drag right from the library in iTunes. You can do this on a Mac or PC.
 ⌘ Cmd+Click (right-click on a PC) the file on the desktop and select “Rename.” You will now change the file name—type the name of the song (or whatever you’d like your ringtone to be called) followed by .m4r. For example, “UnclePhranc.m4r” if the name of your song is “Uncle Phranc.” The extension .m4r will convert your file to a ringtone. , Double-click on the .m4r file and it will be added to iTunes as a ringtone. If you’re using iTunes 11 or earlier, click the “Tones” button on the top right of iTunes and make sure “Sync Tones” and “All Tones” are selected. Click apply.
 This is a little different between versions of iTunes.


If you’re using iTunes 11 or earlier, click the “Tones” button on the top right of iTunes and make sure “Sync Tones” and “All Tones” are selected. Select “Apply” and the sync will begin.
If you’re using iTunes 12, click the “Tones” button at the top left of iTunes and then drag your ringtone over to your iPhone to sync.
 On your iPhone, open the Settings menu and select “Sounds.” Tap “Ringtone” and select the name of the song you just created.Enjoy your new ringtone.

