 To start, you need to prepare your tomatoes so they can be used in the kitchen. You will have to cut them into small chunks and also remove the stems.To remove the stems from either side of the tomato, simply use a fork to pry out each stem.Cut into the bottom of the tomato to create a flat surface. From there, cut around the core, cutting small strips of tomato. Discard the core when you're done.Cut your strips into dices.;
, You do not want any seeds in your ketchup. Before adding the red peppers to the mixture, you should seed them. Then, you can cut them into small chunks as well.To start, make a small incision using a knife around the stem of your red pepper. Gently pull the stem out.
Cut the pepper in half and slice out the thin white portions.
Use a spoon to scoop out any seeds in the pepper.
Once the seeds are removed, cut the pepper into small chunks.
 Take a baking sheet and spread the tomatoes, onions, peppers, and garlic evenly over the sheet. Then, bake them for 20 to 30 minutes at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (about 177 degrees Celsius). You should bake them until the onions and tomatoes are soft to the touch and slightly caramelized., In a small mixing bowl, combine the vinegar with the sugar, salt, crushed cinnamon stick, mustard seeds, celery seeds, allspice and peppercorns. Do not add the paprika. Transfer the mixture to a saucepan.Over medium heat, bring the mixture to a simmer. Allow it to simmer for about a minute.
After bringing the mixture to a simmer, turn off the heat and set it aside. Allow it to sit for 20 to 30 minutes.
 Add the roasted vegetables from earlier to a food processor. Blend until your vegetables make a liquid-like mixture.You should strain this mixture, using a mesh strainer, to remove any remaining chunks of vegetables.
 Add your puree to the vinegar and spice mixture. Add the paprika. Cook the mixture over medium heat and bring it to a simmer. Stir the mixture frequently as it simmers.Cook the mixture until it reduces in size by one half. It should also be thick when it's done, having the texture of ketchup.
 Salt can help bring out the taste of the spices in your food. Once your ketchup is cooked, add salt until it is at your desired taste.Add your salt about 10 to 12 inches above your ketchup so you get a sense of how much you're adding. Add a little bit of a salt at a time and then taste.
Remember, you want to salt your mixture until you can taste the ingredients better. You do not want to taste the salt itself.
 Once your ketchup is done, you can store it in jars with sealable lids. Seal the lids tightly to prevent the ketchup from spoiling. Keep your ketchup in the refrigerator., Homemade ketchup lasts about a month. Make sure to discard ketchup after a month has passed. Write down the date on your jar after your make your ketchup so you tell when it's expired.