 Home remedies can be helpful, but they're usually intended to treat mild burns. If you are experiencing blistering, dizziness, fever, or possible infection (draining pus, red streaks, increased tenderness),you should contact your doctor before treating the sunburn yourself.


If you or a friend are feeling weak and unable to stand, confused, or passes out, you should call an ambulance.
Skin that is waxy and white, very dark brown, or raised and leathery are signs of a third degree burn. It is very rare, but it is sometimes possible to suffer a burn this severe from the sun. Seek medical help immediately.;
, Vinegar is a weak acid that is sometimes used as an antiseptic. It balances your skin's pH, which in turn promotes faster healing and can relieve itchiness.Vinegar does have a strong smell, but it should dissipate after a few minutes.


Fill a clean spray bottle with apple cider vinegar. Test it by first spraying it on a small area of sunburned skin and wait to see if you experience pain or any kind of reaction.
Spray the vinegar on the sunburned skin, allowing it to drip-dry. Do not rub it into your skin.
Reapply if your skin begins to itch again.
If you don't have a spray bottle, pour a few drops on a cotton ball or washcloth and dab it on the sunburn.Some claim regular white vinegar as the same effect as apple cider, so you can try using that instead of apple cider vinegar if none is available., Oatmeal moisturizes dry skin and will normalize the skin’s pH, which is often at a high level when skin is dry and itchy.You can use colloidal oatmeal, which is ground and will float in the bathwater, increasing the exposure to your skin. Otherwise you can put 3/4 cup uncooked oatmeal in a clean pair of panty hose and tie or knot it.Run a lukewarm bath (hot water may dry out your skin and cause more itching).Add the colloidal oatmeal to the running water so it mixes completely. If you are using the stocking, toss it into the bath at this time.Soak for about 10 minutes. If you feel sticky afterwards, rinse with lukewarm water. You can take an oatmeal bath up to three times a day.Make sure you pat dry with a towel—do not rub. This can cause further irritation to your skin., Available in most health stores, peppermint oil has a cooling and calming effect on skin.Do not use peppermint extract--it is not the same as peppermint oil.


Dilute the peppermint oil in a carrier oil (a vegetable oil like jojoba or coconut). Add 10-12 drops per ounce of oil for adults. For children, pregnant women, or those with sensitive skin, add 5-6 drops.Test the oil on a small area of your sunburn to make sure you don’t have an allergic reaction.
Rub the oil into the sunburn. You skin should feel a cold/hot sensation, and the itching should subside temporarily., Witch hazel contains tannis, which may reduce swelling, pain, and itching.It is a good alternative if you don’t want to use hydrocortisone cream.


Rub a small amount of witch hazel cream into your sunburn (after patch testing for allergic reaction).
Use a cotton ball to apply witch hazel water to your skin.
Use witch hazel up to six times a day to relieve pain and itching.