 Vanilla orchids require a tropical environment, so you will need sunlight, heat, space and humidity for it to grow. If you live in the South of the United States, Australia or another warm climate you may be able to cultivate vanilla outside.


Your environment should be 65 degrees (18 Celsius) or warmer all year to successfully cultivate an orchid. Warmer temperatures are preferable.;
, You can improve the greenhouse conditions until they are ideal for this type of orchid that requires heat, humidity and partial shade.
 If you don’t have a local florist or garden center that sells these, you may need to order them online. Ensure each cutting is at least one foot (30 cm) long.


If you are ordering cuttings online, you may want to purchase several to improve your chances of having a vanilla crop.
Cuttings are usually taken from mature plants that are 20 feet (6 m) or more in length.
, The ends should remain immersed for five days. Notice which end is the top and which is the bottom.

Add a pinch of liquid fertilizer to improve results.
The top is the direction in which the plant has been growing. The leaves will point down toward the bottom of the cutting., It will need shade 50 percent of the time, as well as constant support to grow vines. If you are using a trellis, you will need to create a shaded area above the plant.
 Lay the bottom two nodes of the plant horizontally on the top of the soil. Nodes are vine intersections.


Orchid soil is usually a combination of pine bark, perlite and mulch.
, It must be trained to grow vertically. You can purchase ties or clips online or at a gardening store.
, Never allow the soil to dry out, yet don’t allow it to get too saturated or it can rot.
 The mulch is its food so it should be rich in organic matter.
, Air roots will attach upward to the support and others will reach down to the soil. It will take between two and seven years for the plant to grow large enough to bloom.
 It will encourage roots to grow and the plant to grow larger., It only flowers for a six week period per year and the flowers only last approximately one day.During this time, you will need to hand pollinate the flower in order to grow the vanilla beans.
 Consider asking a local orchid grower to help you hand-pollinate the first few times. It is a very delicate process.
 Push the pollen mass out and hold it up with your right thumb and index finger. Use your middle finger to push the anther back and expose the cam underneath it, which serves as a shield.


Place the pollen on the ridge. Push the ridge back into place with your left hand and pull the cap back down.
Repeat with all the flowers.
Pollinate in the morning. Some sources suggest 11 am is the best time., If it begins to elongate instead of point up, it is pollinated.
 Pods should appear within two months; however, they take nine months to mature.
, Spread your beans on trays and place them in direct sunlight for three hours. Fold them inside cloth to sweat overnight.


Repeat each day until the pods turn a deep brown.
Hang them or place them in drying rooms for two to four weeks.

