 Even if you can't get help from law enforcement, there are many nonprofit organizations dedicated to animal rights and taking action to stop animal cruelty.You can search online for animal rights organizations and find out if they have a hotline or online form through which you can report farm animal abuse.
The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) has a national hotline you can use to report farm animal abuse and cruelty. The Society offers a reward of $5,000 for information leading to the arrest and conviction of anyone who commits farm animal abuse.
To report farm animal abuse to the HSUS, call 1-888-209-7177.
 Most local news stations have an investigative reporter who looks into situations in the area based on tips from viewers like you. Watch a broadcast or visit your local broadcast news affiliate's website to find out how to submit information.Typically you can call the station's hotline, or send a story through email. If you submit your tip online, you may be able to upload any documents or photos that support your statements. #*Keep in mind that the station has absolute discretion over which stories it pursues, and you typically won't receive any response if the station decides to pass on your story.
You may be able to send an email or call to follow up on your tip and ask if the station intends to investigate the situation, but don't be a pest. If the station tells you it has declined to investigate the tip you sent, try again with a different station or news outlet.
 If you were unable to do anything about the farm animal abuse you've observed because there's no law that prohibits it, you can advocate for a change in the law to end farm animal cruelty.You can find contact information for local or state representatives on the government's website.
Keep your letter short and to the point. Describe the situation you've observed, and tell the elected official exactly what he or she can do to help the animals.
You may be able to find a form letter on the website of a nonprofit animal rights organization to use as a guide, but make sure you personalize your letter and tailor it to the specific situation you've observed – don't just parrot the language in the form letter.
If there's legislation currently pending that would result in stiffer penalties for the abuse you've observed, mention it specifically and ask the elected official to vote for it.
 Coordinating a public event requires significant time and effort, but if you're up to the task you can stage your own protest or rally to speak out against farm animal abuse and raise community awareness about the issue.Plan ahead and choose your location carefully. Find out the rules for public demonstrations and whether you need to get a permit.
You may want to meet with others before the event is scheduled to take place. Make sure everyone participating has an understanding of the goals of the protest.
When choosing a location, you might do some research to find out if there are local restaurants or grocery stores that sell or use products from the farm engaging in animal abuse.
Staging a protest at one of these locations can be very effective in raising awareness of farm animal abuse, and if you get the restaurant or grocery store to stop using or selling those products, you cut into the abusive owner's profits.

