 After melting the glycerin, pour it into a large metal or plastic bowl. Add a few drops of the essential oil of your choice. Dip a length of rope into the liquid, then remove it from the bowl and let the liquid cool and harden. Dip it again to add a second coating, then remove it from the liquid and let the second layer cool and harden. Continue dipping the soap in this manner until the soap has reached your desired thickness.









Get creative with the material you use for your rope. Rather than dipping a straight length of rope into the glycerin, try tying it into a loop or a knot to create soap in different shapes.
Hang the rope from your shower head so it's handy to use each time you take a shower.
 You can buy a block of clear glycerin and color it yourself using cosmetic-grade coloring, available at craft stores. After melting the glycerin, separate it into a few different containers and add a few drops of coloring to each one before pouring the liquid into the soap molds.
 You can add solid objects to the soaps if you want to give them extra flair. This is a great way to personalize soaps to make favors for baby showers or kids' birthday parties, or to match your bathroom décor. Consider the following options:


Make floral soaps by suspending dried flower petals in the liquid glycerin before you pour it into the molds.
Make birthday party soaps by filling the molds halfway and then inserting a small toy, like a tiny plastic animal or other gadget, in the center of the soap. Pour more liquid soap over the toy to cover it completely.
Make baby shower soaps by pouring soap into the molds and then inserting small plastic rattles or other baby items into the soap.
 If you can't find a mold you like at the craft store, try making your own. Any hard plastic item can serve as a mold. If you use an item that's usually used to make food, be sure to wash it carefully before you use it again.


Ice cube trays make excellent soap molds. Use simple square trays or buy trays with interesting shapes, like fish, shells or skulls.
To make larger soaps, use small plastic bowls or cups. You could also use a recycled plastic container, like a yogurt cup.

