 Do this either by clicking on the program's icon on your dock or by finding the program in the "Applications" menu in "Finder.";
, Do this by first clicking on the "Tools" button on the menu bar, and then from the drop-down menu that appears choose "Signatures." Click on the button that reads "New" to build a new signature.
 In the editing window that appears after you click the "New" button, you can build your new signature.


Give the signature a descriptive title. In the text box labeled "Name," type the name by which you want to refer to this signature. Example names might be "Company Contact Info" or "Witty Quotation 1." If you only plan to use 1 signature, you could simply name it "Signature."
Create the text of your signature. Type what you want your signature to say in the white text field. Good things to include are your name, your company title, your company's name and a phone number.
Format the text of your signature. Do this by using the formatting buttons located directly above the text field.
 The signature you just created should be saved automatically when you close the editing window. You should see your new signature in the main "Signatures" menu.


If desired, create additional signatures. Repeat the process above to create as many signatures as you need. If you plan to use the option to randomly choose a signature, check the "random" check box in front of the appropriate signatures to include them in the selection.
 Displaying a signature automatically keeps you from having to choose your signature for every email you compose. The process is simple.


Click on "Tools" in the menu bar, and then click on "Accounts."
Double-click your email account to open the "Settings" menu.
Click on the "Options" tab.
In the drop-down menu that reads "Signature," select the signature you want to insert automatically. You can now close the window.
 There is an option in the composition window for choosing which signature to add. Choose the appropriate one and it will be inserted when you send the email.

