 In order to unlock all content areas and make your character the best it can be, you need to have membership. It will be easier if you can pay with real money, but you can also buy bonds off of the Grand Exchange. Bonds are items that were purchased by a real person and put into the game economy by trading it. One bond redeems for 14 days of membership and costs about 10M gp. This means you'll need to earn around 20M per month, which can be easily done if you have a good moneymaking technique. You'll have even more techniques as a member.;
, This means attaining level 99 in all skills except Dungeoneering, which maxes out at 120.


To learn quicker ways of training and more places to train, look for guides on YouTube or RuneScape Wiki

It's impossible to get access to all content in RuneScape without maxing out every skill, so if your account is intended to be a skill pure, be aware that you won't be able to complete all the quests and access many things.
 You should make a goal of completing them all so that you can unlock access to all content areas in RuneScape as well as training areas and moneymaking methods. It's important to stay on top of questing so that you don't lose sight of the story line and don't have to rely on guides as much.
 These achievements give small rewards that will enable you to reach mastery much more quickly and in general make gameplay easier. They also familiarize you with aspects of the game you might not have otherwise looked at.
 The trimmed completionist cape is the best in the game and shows to others that you have finished all major content by maxing out skills, completing all quests, unlocking all the music, and much more. You can access the remaining requirements by opening the Hero interface and clicking the Completionist tab.
 Minigames can be very fun and you will learn a lot by playing them with other players. Minigames such as Fist of Guthix, Clan Wars, Castle Wars, Mobilising Armies, Stealing Creation, Trouble Brewing, Mage Arena, etc. are all fun to play and some of them can give XP in other skills besides combat.
 Most of the time, recruiters will come looking for you if you're the right person for them. However, you can also find potential clans in the official RuneScape forums. Participating in clan events makes the game more fun and enjoyable, and having people around you to give you the motivation to meet your goals can help tremendously.

