 If your decide your files are too important to risk, you will want to find a flash drive data recovery company.

These companies have special hardware and tools designed to repair circuit boards. The more advanced companies have the tools to remove the NAND memory chip from the circuit board in order to extract and unscramble the raw data stored inside.
The prices for data recovery can vary from $20 - $850 based on the severity of damage done to the drive, and the type of recovery required.
Some data recovery companies offer solutions for minor to moderate physical/internal damage costing under $200.;
, If you decide you are comfortable risking your files, you will need:

A soldering iron with solder and flux
An old USB cable
Wire cutters/strippers
A small flathead screwdriver
A magnifying glass or jeweler's loop
Note: These steps only apply if your flash drive has a broken connector.
, If the PCB itself is damaged or the solder pads are lifted, you will probably need the help of a professional.

Note: Solder pads are the 4 bits of solder that connect the prongs of the USB connector to the copper lines in the circuit board. If the connector has broken away without causing damage to the PCB or solder pads, continue to the next step.
, Cut the female end if it's not male-to-male., Or, if you do not have a spare USB cable to use, you may solder pieces of small gauge electrical wire to each of the prongs on the broken USB connector; this will create your own mini USB cable., The colors from left to right are black, green, white, red. They should attach to the solder pads in that order, from left to right, when you're holding the USB so that the two cutout rectangles are facing up and away from you.Do not mix these up or your flash drive (and files) are toast.
If you used your own individual wires instead of a cable, simply solder each wire straight across to the corresponding pad regardless of what color the wire is.


If it registers, great! Just save your files to your computer.
If it's still not being recognized, it's likely that there is a different underlying problem that can't be seen with the naked eye. Either consider sending it to a professional recovery company, or use it as a Christmas Tree ornament that reminds you to always back up your important files.

