 YouTube (youtube.com) is the Pandora's Box of online entertainment. If you can't find something on here to tickle your fancy, it's likely you have no fancy to tickle.


You can try searching a word or idea that appeals to you, such as "silly kittens," or you can start with a video you know and see what else the YouTube deity recommends.
If you find a video you like, check out the Channel and view their Playlist for similar videos.
Sometimes you can find movies and TV shows on YouTube. They might be broken into "parts.";
, There are a lot of sites online that allow you to listen to your favorite music and even some that suggest other music you may like. Here are some sites that let you listen for free:


Pandora Radio (pandora.com). You have to sign up for it, but it introduces you to music based on your taste.
iTunes Radio. This is similar to Pandora, but if you have iTunes already you don't have to sign up for anything.
Spotify (spotify.com). You'll have to sign up for this, too, but you can listen to whole albums on here.
YouTube (youtube.com). And, of course, there's always YouTube to listen to your music.
Watching your favorite musical artist's music video or live performance can be fun, too.
 A movie will occupy you for a good 90 minutes, and a good TV show will have you binging until your boredom is but a faint memory.


If you don't have a membership to a movie/TV show website, the best ones offer free trials: Amazon Prime (amazon.com/prime); Netflix (netflix.com); Hulu (hulu.com); HBO NOW (hbonow.com).
 If you can't find the movie/TV show you want to watch, browsing movie trailers on IMDB (imdb.com) or iTunes is a fun way to excite you for the future.
 On websites like Facebook, Instagram and Twitter you can look at old pictures of your friends, creep on what everyone else is doing, and see what's trending.
 Online games range from mind puzzles to mind-less, and there's a lot of them out there, so there's at least one that will fit your mood.


Armor Games (armorgames.com). Known for its good selection of action games.
Miniclip (miniclip.com). Offers a wide-array of games, but has a distinctly childish feel.
Addicting Games (addictinggames.com). Also offers a wide-array of games, but has a distinctly mature feel.
Kongregate (kongregate.com). Known for its great selection of MMOs (Massive Multiplayer Online s). This site also allows game developers to easily post their games, so you're likely to find some cutting-edge games on here.
 A "meme," generally defined, is a humorous picture or video to which users may add witty text for greater humorous effect. You can find memes all across the Internet -- and even create your own! Here are some meme sites to check out:


Quickmeme (quickmeme.com). Your standard meme site with popular meme images and hilarious captions.
Cheezburger (memebase.cheezburger.com). This site offers memes and more, such as Geek culture and even explanations of popular memes.
There are a lot of others. A quick search will find you more!

, Many websites make it their specialty to compile lists of funny websites and inane images for the express purpose of curing your boredom. Here are a few:


Bored (Bored.com). This site is designed to tackle boredom from all different, fun angles.
Bored.OverNow (bored.overnow.com). This site links you to some of the funniest sites on the Internet.
Pointless Sites (pointlessSites.com). Don't let the name mislead you, the point of these sites is to cure your boredom!
eBaum's World (ebaumsworld.com). This site has it all, from videos to pictures, to just plain funny stuff. Warning, though, some material is graphic and may not be suitable for children.
StumbleUpon (stumble upon.com). Although you have to sign up to use, this site takes your interests and then directs you to sites that would appeal to you.

