 A Chapter 7 case discharges any obligation you may have to pay unsecured debts. If you get in financial trouble again after obtaining a Chapter 7 discharge, you are not eligible for another Chapter 7 discharge for eight years. However, you could file a Chapter 13 case in only half that time, but you will be required to make some payments to your creditors.
 You first will file a Chapter 7 case. Use the ordinary petition and schedules. Work with the Chapter 7 trustee, attend the meeting of creditors, and obtain a Chapter 7 discharge.


For a more detailed review of a Chapter 7 case, see File for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy.
Make note of the date that you filed your Chapter 7 petition. This date is important, because it measures the time before you are eligible to file again.Obtain your Chapter 7 discharge. As long as your petition and schedules are in order and the trustee and creditors do not take any action against you, your Chapter 7 discharge should enter within about 90-120 days after you file your petition., You are not eligible for a Chapter 13 discharge until at least four years after the filing date of your Chapter 7 case. This assumes, of course, that you earned a discharge in your Chapter 7 case. If the first case was closed or dismissed without a discharge, this time limit does not apply.Ordinarily, a debtor who files a Chapter 13 bankruptcy has the right to convert it to Chapter 7 if he or she is unable to keep up with the monthly plan payments. However, if you file a Chapter 13 petition between four and eight years after an earlier Chapter 7 petition, you will not have this ability, because you will not yet be eligible for a Chapter 7 discharge. Therefore, you must make sure that your Chapter 13 plan is one you can stick to.
 When you file the Chapter 13 case, you are required to prepare the petition, all schedules, and the Chapter 13 plan. The date of filing must be at least four years after the date of your prior Chapter 7 case. If you file too soon, you will not be eligible to earn a discharge in the second case.For example, suppose you filed a Chapter 7 petition on July 1, 2010. Then, regardless of the length of time that the Chapter 7 case stays open, you are eligible to file a Chapter 13 petition anytime after July 1, 2014.
 As in any other bankruptcy case, the trustee will review your paperwork and will schedule a meeting of creditors. You must cooperate with the trustee and answer any questions the creditors ask about your paperwork, in order to earn the discharge.Be prepared, in a second bankruptcy case, for the trustee and creditors to ask more probing questions about your ability to maintain payments and keep up with the requirements of you Chapter 13 plan.
 You are required in Chapter 13 to make monthly payments to satisfy the debts you owe. These payments are based on the amount of your total debt and the amount of disposable monthly income that you have. You must make all payments on time in order to earn your Chapter 13 discharge.