 Food photographers often prefer a single light source – it's cooler and quick to work with.Aim for natural light wherever possible. If you can position the ice cream near a large window with a white gauze curtain or thin white sheet across it, this will create suitable, adequate indoor natural lighting.Dappled light (sun filtering through trees) can be an effective look but you will need to work quickly as the sun will move, as well as melt the ice cream.Avoid using a flash unless you are really sure about what you're doing. A flash will often be too harsh for the delicacy of ice cream and can cast unflattering shadows.Try off-camera flash with a diffuser or reflector, balancing flash with ambient light (preferably sunlight to avoid color balance problems), or multiple flashes.
Avoid having too little light (or too little exposure). Underexposed ice cream will appear insipid, failing to capture the delicious subtleties of the ice cream flavors.Set the white balance setting on your camera, particularly if not using natural light. The ice cream can take on yellow or blue hues otherwise.Automatic white balance rarely gets things quite right.
Consider using a reflector to bounce back light and increase the brilliance of the ice cream.Plain mirrors or white card can also do the trick.Practice the positioning until you get a sense for good placement (perhaps try with a prop to give yourself time!). Reflectors, white card, or mirrors can be held in place with clamps and supported against any item that is solid and able to be covered by a background cloth.
 Look to see how the light and shade fall across the ice cream to find the best angle for bringing out its texture and color to the best advantage. You might need to shift the positioning of the ice cream, or more likely, the position in which you are standing.
 Getting the color right matters with ice cream, to accurately portray the wide array of ice cream colors from the brightest to the most subtle, each color conveying the flavor and taste of the ice cream to the viewer. Some of the things to think about with color include:


If you are photographing a trio of ice cream flavors, be sure to select colors that match well. Scale them according to their contrast. Be careful that no color will simply fade into the background or be overwhelming against the other colors.
Use asymmetry. Angle the photo so that the darkest color resides in the most illuminated area, and the brightest color resides in the least illuminated area.
Check that accompanying props or food are neither stealing the limelight from the ice cream nor creating an overall dullness. For example, accompanying fruit, plates, packaging, and backdrops should be a good contrasting or compatible color.
A cheat that you can consider is recoloring or touching up the ice cream post photography. Use a good digital photo program for coloring in the ice cream shades differently until you're satisfied with the end result. This is a trick often used with plain vanilla, to provide a more exciting array of colors!

, Macro is ideal for food shots because it captures the appealing nature of the food by zooming right into the detail. If your ice cream has a lot of special features, such as chocolate chips, sprinkles, or glistening crystals, using macro will ensure that these details are brought out clearly.


Note that the current fashion in food photography (2010) is to use minimum focus; namely, to only have part of the food appearing sharp, and then the rest blurs off gently. To achieve this, use a wide aperture or long lens (with an extension tube if needed). As with all styles, this camera angle style for food may well come and go., Take a lot of pictures of the ice cream within the few minutes you have. Try it from various angles and heights to be sure of getting the best angle in the limited time that you have.
 There is always room for the ice cream disaster shot!

