 You will need to be able to focus in order to make a connection with the spirit world. It will be a lot easier to do this someplace peaceful. Here are some ideas:Places in nature, such as next to ponds, rivers, or lakes. You could also hold a session inside a cave.
Places with happy memories, especially for you, such as: gardens, gazebos, or where you got married.
Places where you feel safe and comfortable, aside from a living room, den, or kitchen.;
, If you connect with an evil spirit, you may get negative energy in your home. This will affect your dreams and day-to-day life.
 Haunted places, or places where someone has died, are also a bad idea. You might think it "cool" or "spooky," but you'll only be asking for trouble. You will be more likely to contact an evil spirit in these sorts of places. This is something you want to avoid., This will help get rid of any negative energy that might attract bad spirits. Here are some ideas to get you started:Place quartz crystals around the board. They help cleanse and maintain energy. You can also use hematite, obsidian, or kyanite for protection.
Light black candles to absorb bad energy. You can also light white candles to attract good energy.
Burn lavender incense. This will help attract nicer spirits. You can also burn frankincense, myrrh, or dragon's blood incense for protection from the not-so-nice ones. Sage bundles are also commonly used in magic rituals for protection.
Draw a circle around you and the board using some sea salt.
 There are several ways you can do this. Most people will cleanse their boards before and after using it, especially if they met a bad spirit. Here are some ideas to get you started:Light some incense or a bundle of sage. Let the smoke cover the board and pointer. Draw a circle around the board using your finger or wand, then light a black candle. The candle will absorb the negative energy. Next, close your eyes and imagine a bright light. After a moment, open your eyes and blow out the candle. Discard it or bury it. Draw a circle around the board again using your finger or wand.
Sprinkle some rosewater over the board, while saying a simple, protective prayer. You can even make up your own. Here's an example of a protection prayer: I clear this space of all negativity. I clear this space of the energy of people or things that have no purpose in this household. I ask that this clearing be gentle, and that all of this energy be returned to its source."

, Don't try to use it when you are feeling angry, annoyed, or depressed. Spirits can feed off of energy. If you try to use your board while you are in a bad mood, you might end up getting a bad spirit.


You might also want to avoid using the board if you are feeling anxious or scared. An evil spirit may try to use your fears against you.
 This will make it harder for you to focus. It will also make you an easy target for bad spirits, who may try to take advantage of the situation and possess you.
 Don't use the board in order to spy on someone or learning his/her weakness. Also, don't use the board to ask the spirit to possess someone or make his/her life miserable. Revenge may sound like a good idea now, but it will bring serious harm to both you and your victim.
 They will make you less aware of your surroundings. This can be very dangerous. When dealing with spirits and the spirit world, you want to be focused at all times.
 This may help dispel any negative energies that might be plaguing you. It might also help you feel relaxed. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Meditate. Try envisioning yourself surrounded by a bright light.
Say a prayer of protection. You can make up a prayer if you like. It can be something as simple as: Let nothing but good energies surround me. Let nothing but good intentions fill me. Let my mind and body be calm and at peace."
Take an herbal or salt bath. The best herb to use is lavender, and the best salt to use is sea salt., This is for safety reasons, in case something happens to you and you are unable to end the session. It is also for practical reasons; you will need other people to help channel and build the energy. Plan on having a group of three to five people. Here's what an ideal group should look like:


One person to handle the pointer and ask the spirit questions.
One to three people who are also touching the pointer. They are focusing the energy, but not asking any questions.
One person to take notes or record the session. This will allow the group to analyze the spirit's answers later.
 The pointer is very important. It helps the spirits talk with you. Usually, it will move to a number or letter, but sometimes, it may start to do other things. Here are some things you should watch out for:If the pointer starts to move through the alphabet or numbers in sequence, the spirit is counting down. Once it finishes, it can escape through the board. You want to end the session before this happens.
If the pointer travels to each corner of the board, you have reached an evil spirit. End the session immediately.
If the pointer starts to make figure eights, it means that an evil spirit has taken control of the board. Flip the pointer over and end the session.
Never let the pointer fall to the floor. This will release the spirit that is moving it.
Never leave the pointer on the board once you have finished a session. Always put it back into its bag and store it on the other side of the room. If you see the pointer on the board and no one is using it, flip it over, and end the session. Then, store the pointer on the opposite side of the room.
 There are some things you shouldn't talk about when using a Ouija board. Also, read the spirit's replies carefully. If he or she appears annoyed by a question, change the subject. In general, you should avoid any of the following topics:God and religion
Your death
Where to find buried treasure
Your name or any of your group members' names

, Most people ask the spirit questions about itself, such as its name and its gender. Some people also ask the spirit about its death, such as: what it died, how old it was when it died, the year it died in, and how it died. You don't have to ask the spirit these questions; you can also ask the spirit if it has a message for anyone, or if there's something it would like you (or a group member) to do. Here are some other topics you can bring up:What the spirit's hobbies where, or what the spirit likes to do
Whether or not the spirit always lives in the realm of the living
Where the spirit used to live
The spirit's family and home

, You should not believe everything a spirit tells you, especially if the spirit seems to be mischievous or malicious., Sometimes, the spirit will end the session first. If it doesn't, you will need to move the pointer to the word GOODBYE. This is important. If you don't do this, you will leave the doorway to the spirit world open. Other spirits might use this to enter your house.


Remember to thank the spirit for his or her time before saying goodbye.
Respect the spirits. Try not to annoy, anger, or irritate them.
 Sometimes, you may need to end the session early, especially if you, any of your friends, or the space around you starts to feel strange. When this happens, you must move the pointer to the word GOODBYE, flip it upside down, and take it off the board. This will break any spiritual connections. Here are other things to keep in mind:


Remain calm at all times. If you start to panic, you may forget what to do. The spirit may also sense it, and use it to his or her advantage.
If the spirit starts to get angry or swear, apologize to the spirit and end the session. An angry spirit is a dangerous spirit.
If a spirit uses your name in any way, it is getting dangerous. You should finish the session right away.
 Keep your board someplace clean. Make sure that no one can mess with it. Keep the pointer in a cloth bag, and store it separately from the board. Do not store the pointer on top of the board, or you will risk leaving a portal to the spirit world open.

