 There is no point of you not knowing where your clothes came from and why they look like the way they do and one of the most things that you have got to remember that fashion does change though out time.;
,, Look at the pictures of how their style of fashion. read the articles of hair, make up, and fashion notes and most of all make sure you have your own unique look.
,, When you buy clothes make sure that they are not to TIGHT or BAGGIE and ITCHY or UNCOMFORTABLE. when you buy clothes be confident in them and also be content in your self

, Cut out words, clothes and hair styles that you like, put them in your book/folder write down a fave few outfits and say how you feel in it.
 No, you don't have to go to a glamorous movie premiere, or live in a Hollywood neighbourhood, just flick through the pages of any glossy magazine. Celebrities such as Kate Winslet, Dita Von Teese, Goldie Hawn and even Victoria Beckham know how to look modern yet sophisticated. Many high-street stores have "copycat" outfits and accessories available at much cheaper prices.
 Perhaps purchase a pair of shoes (such as high heels, or ballet flats) and buy matching dresses and color-coordinated accessories.
 Whether it's a fancy party or wedding night, you need a good reason to dress a certain way. Maybe you don't, and you just want to add a touch of modern glamour to your wardrobe. This is perfectly fine, but make sure you have some upcoming events to show off your new outfits.
 Purchase glamorous frocks in bold colors. Reds, blacks, whites and yellows help you stand out and be noticed. Heads will turn if you try diamonds, glitter and sequins. Perfect the art of buying shoes by purchasing elegant footwear. Heels, pumps and a stunning pair of flip-flops for casual occasions are must-haves when it comes to shoes.
 Splash out on silver diamond earrings, expensive necklaces, and high-brow watches. Handbags are must-haves, so purchase bags from your local high street, or Rodeo Drive Copycat.
 Elegance is often just someone with a good taste in clothes and is brimming with self-confidence. Don't worry if your baubles are hanging just so; just smile and look confident.
!

