 If you’re simply trying to protect your dog from cold temperatures or taking them out for short outdoor sessions of less than a half hour, a sweater is probably sufficient. If you’re taking your dog out into snowy conditions, wind, precipitation, or extreme cold (like below-zero F or below -15 degrees C), then it’s better to dress them in a waterproof coat since they offer more substantial protection.If it’s at all wet or snowy outside, it’s best to go for a waterproof jacket. Wet sweaters can make your dog colder instead of keeping them warm.
 If your primary objective is trying to protect your dog from the cold rather than making a fashion statement, you should go for outdoor apparel that’s constructed from durable and breathable fabrics, like nylon, a wool blend, or fleece. Make sure that the gear is also machine washable for easy cleaning.If you’re going for a coat, select one that has a waterproof or water-resistant exterior so that it can withstand the elements.
 Each product and brand will have different sizing guidelines. Whether you’re shopping online or at a pet store, be sure to check the specific sizing charts associated with a particular product before purchasing it.Prepare yourself to find the right size for your dog by taking some key measurements. Use a tape measure to take the circumferences of your dog’s neck, chest (around their biggest rib), and waist. You should also measure the distances between the base of their neck and their waist, and between the base of their neck and the base of their tail.
Some garments may have sizing charts that are determined by your dog’s weight.
 Sweaters and coats should fit snugly but comfortably. If they’re too big, they’ll drag and compromise the warmth of the garment. If they’re too small, they’ll constrict your dog’s blood flow, irritate their skin, and/or restrict their movement.Dog apparel should be easy to take on and off. Once it’s on, you should allow your dog to move around in it to see if their range of motion or natural gait is at all affected.
You should also check that you can fit two fingers (one finger for small dogs) under the neckline or any other constrictive openings to be sure that they won’t chafe your dog’s skin.
 Many dogs are not in love with wearing clothing, and may try to remove it. If your dog is wary of clothing or prone to chewing, avoid getting garments that have decorations or accessories, like pom-poms or ribbons, that could easily be clawed or chewed off. You don’t want your pooch eating their apparel!, The dark sets in early during the winter months. Ensure that you and your dog can be seen by wearing lights and/or dressing them up in reflective or bright clothing.Consider attaching clip-on lights to your dog’s collar or getting a light-up collar so that you don’t lose your pet and so that they’re obviously visible to other people, pets, and motorists.
You could also go for a coat that has reflective strips or material as part of the design.
 You may want to put your dog in a hat and scarf because it’s adorable, but these accessories are not necessary winter gear for canines in most conditions. If you are preparing your dog for prolonged exposure to temperatures that are well below freezing, gale-force winds, or an active snowstorm, then adding a hat to their jacket would be a good idea.Keep in mind that the wisest thing to do in extreme winter conditions is to keep yourself and your dog inside.
If you do need to venture out, the most practical hats for dogs will be bands that tuck under their chins and wrap over their ears.
Neck warmers designed for humans also make good hats for dogs.

