 It's a yellow app with the outline of a white ghost. It will open to your camera’s view.,

You can also tap the Chat icon in the lower left-hand corner.
 This opens a list of your Snapchat contacts.

You can also search for a name in the search field at the top of the page.
 A blue button will appear towards the bottom of your screen., This will open the chat screen., It will appear in the text field above your keyboard. You can use the buttons above the keyboard to add to your messages. Any type of interaction counts toward becoming Best Friends, so you can use any of the available options:

Tap the photo button to open your phone’s camera roll and send photos.
Tap the phone button to place a call. The friend will be notified that you’re calling.
Press and hold the phone button to record an audio note. You can record up to 10 seconds of audio that the recipient can listen to.
Tap the circle button to open the camera screen. You’ll be able to create a snap and send it in the Chat window.
Press and hold the video button to record a video note. You can record up to ten seconds of video that the recipient can view.
Tap the smiley button to send stickers, Bitmojis, and emojis. Scroll down to see all available stickers.
 It’s the blue button at the lower right-hand corner of the keyboard., The more chats you send to them, the more likely you’ll become Best Friends.

This is also true if your friend sends you chats frequently.
 You can check your Best Friends statuses in Chat by looking at the top of your list of contacts when you hit the "Send To" arrow after taking a snap. When you're Best Friends with someone, you might see an emoji next to their name in your friends list.

A yellow heart stands for new BFF. When you haven’t sent a lot of snaps yet, this emoji means that you’re someone’s #1 best friend and they’re yours.
A red heart stands for BFF. You’ve been each other’s #1 best friend for at least two weeks.
Two pink hearts stands for Super BFF. You’ve been each other’s #1 best friend for at least two months.

