 Teach children to put their toys away, take a nap, or transition to a new activity through repetition of songs or rhymes. A quick song can signal to a child that it’s time to transition and do something different. Especially if the child struggles to leave one activity and start another, having a transition song can help them learn to do this more easily and with less fuss.For example, have a song for cleaning up and a song for nap time.;
, Babies and toddlers can learn to recognize patterns and begin learning introductory math skills through the use of songs or chants. Sing songs and do movements to the lyrics. Think about what songs or rhymes use counting, patterns, and accompanying movements. The children will learn to sing along and do the movements on their own.For example, check out the songs and movements to “Roll Over, Roll Over,” “Monkeys on the Bed,” and “Open, Shut Them.”

, If children are familiar with “Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star,” substitute new words into the song, then explain their meaning. For example, sing, “Twinkle, twinkle brilliant star” or, “Twinkle, twinkle giant star.” Because the children already know the repetition in the song, they can sing along and learn new words. For example, when singing about a giant star, sing in a giant voice, or sing about a silent star in a very small voice.Allow the children to get creative and introduce new words, too!

, Get kids actively engaged in music by going beyond just listening to it. Use repetition in movements to teach kids to clap, stomp, rock, march, or move to the beat. Use hand motions and movements or include instruments. Skills in keeping a beat and making coordinated movements can help them throughout their development and build skills for school.Participate in music by joining in on an instrument or singing along. Do hand motions and movements to encourage children to do them, too.
 Some songs rely on memory. For example, “The 12 Days of Christmas” and “There Was an Old Lady Who Swallowed a Fly” rely on remembering the other items previously mentioned in the song. These songs rely on repetition to remember words and build memory skills.Create songs around lists to help children remember things to do.
For example, instead of “The 12 Days of Christmas,” change the lyrics to “The 12 Steps of My Day” for a morning routine song.
 Make rhyming a fun activity by turning it into a game. For example, play rhyming “Bingo” by either purchasing or creating the game at home. Make or buy rhyming “Memory” by matching rhyming words instead of exact pairs. Create a rhyming scavenger hunt for a group of children. Assign children to small groups and have them be on the lookout for hidden objects in the classroom that rhyme. Give them a list of items to find to make it easier.There are lots of ways to include rhyming activities into your day. For example, if you’re driving your children to school, play rhyming “I spy” by saying, “I spy a car!” Then, have your child come up with something that rhymes with car.
 Find ways to rhyme your child’s name with things. Call them “Silly Milly” or “Tall Paul.” Play fun games that use name rhyming such as “If your name rhymes with Chariot, stand on one foot. If your name rhymes with Ziego, touch the table.”Create a “mirror twin” for your child each time they look in the mirror. For a child named Ethan, his mirror twin may be named Bethan. Have them play games with their mirror twin and make sure they know it’s a silly game, not real.
 Children are often drawn to pictures and illustrations which can aid in their learning. Find rhyming books that have bright, colorful pictures and interact with them. Use flashcards to identify which two pictures show rhyming words. Making visual associations with rhyming can help create a stronger connection of the similarities.Get children to draw rhyming words. For example, draw a picture of a bear, then have them draw a picture of something that rhymes with bear such as chair, hair, or whatever else they come up with.
 Read lots and lots of rhyming books to the children. When reading rhyming words, read them in the same tone so that children can pick them up. Have children say or guess the second rhyming word, or begin creating their own rhyming word to complete the story.Some common books that include rhyming include “Chicka Chicka Boom Boom,” “How Big is a Pig?”and, “Moo, Baa, La La La!” Dr. Suess also wrote many rhyming books that children enjoy.
 Rhyming stories can help children learn to anticipate words, build their vocabulary, and practice using the rhythm of speech. Allow children to complete rhyming stanzas of books and learn how speech can be rhythmic and predictable. Let them fill in words during songs or poems or make up their own words that rhyme into a song.Regularly let children complete the verse or poem when reading aloud.
 Introduce new vocabulary words and practice known words through stories that use the word in repetition. Repeating a word can help the child learn the pronunciation and meaning of the word while enjoying a story or song. This is especially helpful for toddlers so that they can practice how to say their words in a fun way.Use contextual clues from the story to help children learn new words. Explain new words to them if they ask.
 Even young children can ‘read’ books that are repetitive and use rhythm and rhyme. This allows them to pick up on speech patterns and memorize the story. When children memorize books it allows them to familiarize themselves with the story and begin early reading skills.Begin to point at the words as they ‘read’ so that they learn to recognize words individually and begin to build their reading skills.
 When a child learns to memorize a story, start to build their skills. When you read a book together, ask what two words rhyme or sound the same. Repeat the words or pause and have the child say the rhyming words. Rhyming can help with reading skills and teach children to listen to words and their sounds.Say, “Which two words sounded the same?” or, “Point to the objects on the page that sound the same in the story.”

