 Put a banana, figs, papayas, or another fruit into a food processor and pulse until you have a somewhat smooth consistency. You can bake the fruits for a bit beforehand, if you choose. Add this fruit puree into your recipes as a replacement for sugar. If a recipe calls for 1 cup of sugar, you can use ½ cup puree., Get an assortment of dried fruits and then use a sharp knife to dice them into tiny bits. Add these pieces into a baked recipe or sprinkle them on top of a non-sweet food, such as oatmeal, in place of a few tablespoons of sugar. They will provide a punch of sweetness with more nutrients., You can press your own juice or you can buy a 100% juice from a store. If you buy from a store, make sure that your product contains no added sweeteners. Be careful when adding juice to a recipe as it can impact the cooking time and consistency of the final product. A ratio of ¾ cup juice for every 1 cup of sugar is usually a good place to start.You can also use juice concentrate directly from a can. If you are looking for a more syrupy texture, try boiling the juice until it loses around 30% of its water content.If you like to drink fruit juice, limit intake to 4 ounces a day to moderate your sugar intake.
 If you squeeze your own fresh juice, then make sure to save the leftover pulp. Or, get a zester and run a few oranges or limes over it, creating some aromatic shavings. You can think sprinkle the pulp or shaving on top of bland foods, such as yogurts. Adding pulp or shavings into a baked good will also enhance the flavor without requiring any baking or liquid modifications., Purchase or make your own jam or jelly. Take a knife and spread it on top of foods that taste good with a bit of additional sugar, such as waffles or whole-grain toast. Make sure to use jelly sparingly, however, as it will still have a high sugar content. To avoid this, you can also simply mash a fruit, such as a ripe banana, until it becomes spreadable.To give your jam or jelly an extra kick, mix in a spice, such as vanilla or cinnamon.
 If you enjoy sweet drinks, but are avoiding them due to their sugar content, then you might use fruit as an alternative sweetener. Slice up watermelon or lemons and place them into your water glass. Mash up some berries and put them in a pitcher, letting this mixture sit overnight.Try sparkling water for a refreshing twist, too.

