 When you present the idea that you want a dog, your parents will ask a lot of questions. However, by having your answers prepared beforehand, you can make a more persuasive case. Being prepared for their questions may also be another way to show your parents that you are ready to take on the responsibility of having a dog. Questions your parents might ask are:“What kind of dog do you want?” and “Is that breed the right breed for our family’s lifestyle?”
“Who will take care of the dog?”
“What are the costs of having a dog?” and “Who will pay for these costs?”
“Will a dog distract you from your school work and other responsibilities?”
“What will happen to the dog if your grades begin to slip, or if you stop taking care of it?”
“Who will train the dog?”

, Before approaching your parents, make sure they are not busy with things like working, cooking, or taking care of a sibling. Additionally, do not approach your parents when they are in a bad mood, for example, if they are stressed or angry. Instead, wait for your parents to be in a better mood before bringing up the topic of getting a dog.Examples of appropriate times to ask are while you are out walking, while driving in the car, or after dinner.
If you want to ask, but your parents are busy, you can say, “I have something to talk about with you guys, when is a good time to talk?” or “Mom (or Dad), do have a minute? I have something to ask you.”
Additionally, you can ask for a delayed response where you give your parents time to think before they make a decision. You can say, for example, “You do not need to decide right now. Think about what I said and review the information before you decide on a yes or no.”

, If your parents are leaning towards no or are undecided, offer to make a compromise. Perhaps they are worried that you will not have time for schoolwork or other responsibilities, or that they will end up having to take care of the dog if you stop. Figure out why they are undecided and negotiate with them instead of arguing with them.If they are worried about your grades slipping, or you shirking your dog responsibilities you can say, “If my grades begin to drop, or if I cannot take care of the dog, then we can put the dog up for adoption.”

, If your parents decide on a definitive no, do not get angry and begin to yell, whine, or cry. By becoming angry, you are only proving to them that you are immature and not ready to take on the responsibility of having a dog. Instead, remain calm, and attempt to figure out why they said no.In the meantime, work on making their no a yes. For example, if they think you are immature, take on more responsibilities around the house or obtain a part-time job.
Remember, if you leave a good impression, they are more likely to say yes if you ask them in the future.

