 The drop-set technique sounds easy, but it is a very intense workout method that not only helps you save time, but can put you past any plateau you've reached in your strength training.One way to do drop sets with strength training is to perform your first set normally, remove 5 to 10 pounds, and then immediately do a second set. Then remove more weight and do a third set.
Take a brief rest, then move on to your next exercise. Depending on how many exercises you normally do, you can shorten your workout tremendously with this technique. While it normally would take you between seven and eight minutes to complete three sets, with the drop-set technique you can complete three sets in two minutes or less.
For example, if you normally do shoulder presses with 30 pounds of weight, you would do your first set with 30 pounds. Do your second set immediately after your first set, but with 20 pounds of weight. Then you would do your third set with 10 pounds.
 Working out your whole body at once is perhaps the easiest way to shorten your workouts effectively. This method is particularly beneficial if you previously had longer routines that focused on isolated muscle groups.You may want to continue doing your more focused strength training, but leave it for a day when you have more time. For example, if you have plenty of time to workout on Saturdays, but have trouble fitting it in during the week, you might do a whole-body routine on weekdays and a longer strength-training session on the weekend.
Taking a class at a gym is another way to get a whole-body workout in a shorter period of time. Look for a 15- or 20-minute high intensity class.
 If you no longer have a solid block of time during your day to work out, you can still get similar effects by splitting up your exercise into a series of micro-workouts.For example, you can do a six-minute workout using body-weight exercises. The biggest benefit of this routine is that you can do it anywhere. Start with a high-knee exercise for 20 seconds, rest 10 seconds, then do bear crawls for 20 seconds followed by a 10-second rest. Repeat that circuit three times for a three-minute workout. Then do cross mountain climbers and crab crawls, repeating the same circuit format as before to get in your full six minutes.
Doing this or similar circuits several times a day enables you to shorten your workout by spacing the time out over the course of the day. This is assuming that you can more easily find five or six minutes in between tasks during your day than you can carve out a full half-hour or 45 minutes for a dedicated workout.
Keep in mind that while micro-workouts can be great for your cardiovascular health and help you maintain your strength, they aren't a complete substitute for more extended workout sessions, and may not really help you lose weight (if that's one of your exercise goals).
 Working out with intensity won't do much to shorten your workout if your attention is repeatedly pulled from your exercise toward something else. Exercising alone, or going to the gym during non-peak hours can help you shorten your workout effectively.Working out at home rather than going to the gym at all is one way to save time. Even if you don't have weights or equipment at home, you can still do body-weight exercises and get an effective workout if you up the intensity (for example, by doing them faster).
If you're working out at a gym or around other people, you may lose time waiting for machines, finding a good space to work out, talking to others, or even waiting for a shower when you're done for the day.
Build a playlist that's exactly 15 or 20 minutes long, and use it as a timer. Wear headphones and focus on your exercises rather than anything else. If you listen to music on your phone, you may want to turn your notifications off while you're exercising.

