 During a manic episode, a person with bipolar disorder may become over stimulated or irritated by long conversations or certain topics. Try to talk to the person in a calming way and avoid engaging in an argument or lengthy discussion about something.Try not to bring up anything that might trigger the person’s mania. For example, you might want to avoid asking about something that is stressful for the individual or a goal that the person has been trying to accomplish. Instead, talk about the weather, a TV show, or something else that is unlikely to stress the person.
 During a manic phase, the person may feel like he or she only needs a few hours of sleep to feel rested.However, not getting enough sleep may make matters worse.


Try to encourage the person to sleep as much as possible at night and to take naps during the day if needed.
 Taking walks with your the person during manic episodes can be a good way to help him or her use excess energy and provide a good opportunity for the two of you to talk as well. Try to invite the person to go on a walk with you once per day or at least a few times per week.Regular exercise can also help when someone is having symptoms of depression, so try to encourage exercise no matter what the person’s mood is like.
 During manic episodes, the person may be prone to impulsive behavior such as drug use, shopping in excess, or going on a long trip. Try to encourage the person to think a bit longer before making any major purchases or starting a new project when he or she is in the midst of a manic episode.If overspending is often an issue, then you might encourage the person to leave credit cards and extra cash at home when these episodes strike.
If drinking or using drugs seems to intensify the situation, then you might encourage the person to avoid using alcohol or other substances., When someone is in the middle of a manic period, he or she may say hurtful things or try to start arguments with you. Try not to take these comments personally and do not engage in arguments with the person.Remind yourself that these comments are due to the illness and do not represent how the person really feels.

