 If you're going to smoke indoors and want to ease up on the aftermath, smoke near open windows. Blowing the smoke out the window and keeping your burning cigarettes as close as possible to the window is the best way to cut down on the lingering smell of the smoke.


To ensure that the smoke doesn't drift back through the open window, consider using a small desk fan aimed toward the window. Keep the smoke going outward and you won't have to worry much about masking the smell later.
 Sometimes called a rasta tube, all you need to create nice-smelling smoke on your exhales is a toilet paper tube, some dryer sheets, and a rubber band. Stuff as many dryer sheets as you can into the TP tube and fix one sheet over the end, holding it in place using the rubber band. When you smoke, blow the smoke through the other end of the tube. It'll smell much less strongly.


Doing this won't completely eliminate the smell of the smoke, but it will make it smell much less strong. The smoke coming off the cigarette as it burns is still a major issue, though, so combine this with other methods, like smoking out the window and using masking scents.
 Keeping a good supply of scented candles and strong incense to burn while you smoke is a good idea in masking the smell of the cigarettes. Incense is a particularly good option, especially if you already burn it regularly, because it smells like smoke already. Suspicious parents or roommates might not recognize the undertone of cigarette funk underneath the Nag Champa., If you're in a carpeted room, there's that much more opportunity for smoke to become embedded in the room. If you want to get rid of the smoke smell, consider getting out the vacuum and giving the carpet a once-over. Vacuuming won't be enough by itself, but just agitating the carpet some can help air it out a little bit.
 Febreeze is a smoker's best friend. Its odor-eliminating properties and clean scent do wonders for masking the smell of cigarettes indoors. Keep a bottle handy and regularly treat fabric surfaces (as well as clothes) that you won't to remove the clinging smell of smoke from.