 Instead of using the "black object" method, tell your assistant that the seventh object you point to will always be the right answer. Of course, you can do this for any number, but choosing something higher than five to make it less obvious to your audience.
 To really impress your audience, let a volunteer point at objects instead. Arrange a signal in advance with your assistant to let him know when the right object was selected. For instance, tap your foot lightly, blink rapidly, or scratch your arm when the volunteer points at the right object.


Suspicious audience members might look at you during the game, so this is a difficult method to pull off. Stand behind the audience members if possible, and make other small motions that aren't part of the code to mislead your audience.
An assistant who can distract the audience's attention is even better for pulling off this version of the game. Have him crack jokes, stretch, or pretend to think hard about each question, all while looking for your signal out of the corner of his eye., Come up with a "rule" for which words are "good," but don't let anyone else know the rule. The rule can be "words that end with T are good," "words with two vowels in a row are good," "words with a SH sound are good" – anything you can think of. All other words are "bad." Have your audience say words aloud, then tell them whether each word is good or bad. Your audience members should try to guess just by naming words; ask them not to guess at the rule aloud, so that other people who haven't figured it out yet can keep guessing.
 Even if you don't believe in actual "psychic" abilities, you might be able to guess when someone is lying or telling the truth through their tone of voice or body language. Pick a close family member or friend, since you are more familiar with talking to him, and watch him closely. Have him say "I'm thinking of __." while looking at you, and try to figure out when he is lying based on his facial expressions, movements, and tone of voice.


Most psychologists and other researchers do not believe in the existence of "Extra-Sensory Perception" or other mysterious abilities that transmit thoughts, but there are plenty of studies on that topic if you're interested in learning more.