 You probably don't want to get wrapped up in an illegal operation, so if you are buying anything other than whole, unprocessed tobacco leaves, make sure the person who grew the tobacco has a valid Manufacturer of Tobacco Products permit from the United States Alcohol and Tobacco Trade and Tax Bureau.If you are ever in doubt about the legitimacy of a source, contact the United States Alcohol and Tobacco Trade and Tax Bureau to check for the existence of a manufacturer's license.
In general, you should avoid tobacco products that are not sold in stores. There are a variety of heirloom and additive-free tobacco products on the market that may offer the benefits you are seeking from homegrown tobacco. You may also be able to find small companies that sell directly to consumers in your local area, but you should check to make sure they are licensed before purchasing from them.
If you have a friend that gets homegrown tobacco, ask him where he gets it, but remember to always verify that the source is legal. You can legally buy whole, unprocessed tobacco leaves from anyone, but you will most likely have to have some kind of a connection to find a source, as these individuals are unlikely to have stores or websites.
Finding a legitimate source will also help protect you against sellers who may be selling tainted products.
Avoid getting ripped off by educating yourself about the different strains of tobacco and the going rate in your area. You can also look online to see what whole, unprocessed tobacco leaves are going for.
 If homegrown tobacco is appealing to you because it is more natural than commercially produced products, you may be able to find the same benefits in whole, unprocessed tobacco leaves that are offered for sale online. You can choose from a wide variety of strains from many online retailers.


If you are not very knowledgeable about tobacco, it may be difficult to tell if a product is high quality or if the price is fair. Before buying, always check online reviews for the retailer and look at other sources to compare prices for the strain that is being offered. Be wary of any retailer whose prices seem unusually high or unusually low.
If you buy whole tobacco leaves, you will have to process them yourself, which involves washing, drying, separating, and shredding the leaves., If you have decided that you definitely want to smoke homegrown tobacco, but you can't find a legal and reliable source, consider growing it yourself. It will take some hard work and dedication, but it will save you a lot of money.In order to grow your own tobacco, you will need a well-equipped indoor growing area, an outdoor garden, and space indoors for drying leaves. You will also have to tend to your plants every day.
Don't sell processed tobacco! You will get into a lot of trouble if you are caught.
There are risks associated with growing tobacco, including the potential for nicotine poisoning if you handle wet tobacco leaves. Make sure you understand how to properly handle the crop before you start growing it.