 It’s common for PUPs to be associated with programs for video players and video conversion programs, but they can also lurk in other software like antivirus programs and games. Whatever you are downloading to your computer, it’s important that you don't get tricked by the false sense of security these install wizards tend to emit. During the beginning of the installation, everything seems pretty harmless, making you trigger happy as the process moves along, and it is this lull in your awareness that can be exploited.;
, One way to avoid falling victim to the presets of installing wizards that exploit users via its free downloads is to do a custom installation. Using the standard installation option seems like the way to go, especially when you aren’t familiar with installation processes. However, this is where PUPs infiltrate your PC. This option may also be called express installation or default installation. It’s easy to fall for this, especially when you only see the program you’re trying to install.  


Note the problematic add-ons. After choosing the custom installation selection, you may see options appear beneath it that ask about installing toolbars or setting homepages – all of which you didn’t see before and wouldn’t have until they were already installed on your PC. The funny thing is that the add-ons that are featured on these wizards have nothing to do with what you’re downloading.  
Be wise to the trick leading you to use what they recommend. Another way people are tricked into using standard installation settings is because next to it, it says "recommended", while next to custom, it says advanced. By believing that the custom installation is for advanced people, it scares you away from selecting that option. But in reality, the process is rather simple.
 As you’re moving along your installation of the software, you may notice a window that asks you to either accept or not accept an offer; however, the “do not accept” option is gray. This automatically leads you to think that you can’t select it. But don’t fall for this trick because it is indeed clickable. The programmers simply grayed it out, so that people would think they had no choice.
 Read the fine print! Another way these PUPs bombard their way onto your PC is by leaving you with no option. As in in the previous step, windows appear during the installation process that ask you whether you want to install a certain program. But there’s nowhere to say no or you’re unable to uncheck the option to install it. However, when you get to the window that asks you to accept the terms and conditions, you can uncheck this box and the program will not install. By reading the fine print, you will see any hidden agendas that come with this free software. Here, you will find other programs that are attached to the installation. This could help you to see what’s lurking in the software before you install it.

