 A good way to come up with your own idea for a new comic character is to begin by identifying the ones you like and thinking about their characteristics.


For example, are your favorite characters all heroes? Do you always root for the under-dog? Do you sympathize with the villains? Do you love animal characters?;
, What are your favorite sports and hobbies? What kinds of movies, books, and stories do you like best? Finding the answers to these questions could point you in a fruitful direction.


For example, if your ideal weekend is spent catching up on reruns of Dr. Who, then you may want to think about creating a sci-fi cartoon character.
If, on the other hand, you prefer to spend your free-time outdoors skateboarding, swimming, or exploring the woods, then you may want to come up with a character who is at home in these environments and who shares your interest.
 If you'd like to come up with an awesome cartoon character but have no real solid ideas, begin by free-writing or free-drawing for a short period of time. Allow yourself 15-30 minutes to jot down any and ever idea you have.


Refrain from censoring yourself or judging your ideas at this stage. Instead, just capture any idea that passes through mind and get it down on paper.
You can write character descriptions, or if you feel inspired, you can draw or sketch the beginnings of your ideas., If your well of ideas is currently dry (or if there's only a drop or two in it), you may benefit from brainstorming with a creative friend who is also interested in comic characters.


Take turns being the recorder, and bounce ideas off each other. Write down everything, no matter how ridiculous or boring your ideas might seem. This isn't the stage for judging or tossing out ideas.
 Place a series of random words in a hat. For example, you could choose nouns like “candy,” “lollipop,” or “fax machine,” or you could include adjectives like “purple,” “powerful,” or “innocent”.


Draw a word from the hat, and then challenge yourself to create a character based on that word. You can create a character out of the object itself (for example, an animated fax machine or toaster), or a character which is characterized by that thing.Repeat the exercise several times until you get good at coming up with ideas quickly and until you stumble upon something intriguing that you think you can develop further.
 Many of the best characters are based upon real people, and you could already be in close contact with next great character. Think about your circle of friends: is anyone particularly hilarious or unique? You may be able to create a character based on your friend's persona.
 You don't want to cause embarrassment, offense, or hurt feelings if that person sees your character and thinks you are making fun of them. Thus, you may want to base your character on just one aspect of your friend and disguise the character in other ways.


For example, you might find your friend Molly's clumsiness a source of humor, but you might want to switch up the gender of your character to protect the real Molly's feelings.
Of course, if your character is going to be a hero or heroine, then your friend may be flattered to be represented in your character!

, Do you have (or have you had) a terrible boss? Are you a server? If so, who was the worst customer you ever had? Think about the people who have really stood out to you, and you may find that you've got a new character idea in front of you.
 If you've got a free hour or two, plant yourself on bench in the park or grab a seat on the bus. Get out your notebook, and then discreetly sketch (or just describe) the interesting people you see. You may be able to turn one or more of them into a promising comic character.
 You might not think that you are interesting enough to serve as the model for a cartoon character, but don't sell yourself so short. This is the chance for you to reinvent yourself or (literally!) draw yourself in your best light.


You can model your cartoon character on you as you are now, as you hope to be in the future, or you can draw yourself as a kid.
Think about what your best, worst, funniest, most embarrassing, or memorable experiences are. You can draw yourself in those moments, and you can take liberties: for example, do you wish you had reacted differently when you were bullied in the second grade? If so, draw the eight-year-old you as the champion of the bullied.
 Once you have a good list of ideas to work with, it's time to sort through it to find the most promising character idea. Consider the following questions to help you out:


Are any of your ideas too similar to current cartoon characters? If you want to create something truly original, you will want to avoid copying someone else's character and ideas.
Which of your ideas really pop out at you as being interesting or intriguing? Do any of the characters already suggest a story-line? If so, consider starting with them.
Would you prefer to work with a character that is realistic or modeled on someone you know?Do you think you'd have more fun with a fantasy-based character. Select the characters that match up with your answers to these questions.
 Once you've made your selection, you should spend some time fleshing out the back-story of your character. This is sometimes referred to as finding your character's “motivation”. For example, Bruce Wayne became Batman because his parents were murdered in front of him. Ask yourself:


What drives your character? What does your character care about? Your character should have goals and dreams, and it should also have character strengths and flaws.Having an idea of all of this will help you as you begin to try to give your character a form and shape.
 While you might not be ready to fully develop or draw these other secondary characters, your character's persona will be influenced and created in part by the other people or characters in their world. This will then be reflected in how you draw your character.


For example, do you think your character have a family or is she an orphan? Does your character have an enemy? Thinking about that now will help you visualize your character more fully., You may already have an initial sketch of your character, but before you flesh out your drawing completely, it may help to study other comic characters that you admire or that you'd like your character to resemble. Pay attention to the following:


How would you describe the character's personality? How is the artist able to express this through their artwork? Has the artist given the character any distinguishing features?
For example, if the character is heroic or brave, see if you observe the use of strong lines. Perhaps the artist has given the hero a square jaw, or has chosen strong, bright colors for the hero's outfit. , As you begin to develop and draw your character, you will want to think about your eventual audience. Your lines, shapes, and color choices will be affected by your intended audience.


For example, if you are drawing for children, you'll want to keep your shapes simpler, use stronger lines, and select a brighter color palette (perhaps all primary colors).If you are drawing for adults, or if you are drawing political commentary or satire, you may want to create more complex, darker, “uglier” characters.
 When you begin to draw, you'll most likely have better success if you draw with clean lines and create easily readable features.Don't allow yourself to become overwhelmed by trying to capture all of the details of your character in this early stage of making him or her come to life.
 The best way to portray a character's personality is through their facial expressions and body language.


For example, if your character is naive and innocent, you may want to give him large, round, imploring eyes.If, on the other hand, your character is malicious and evil, you can portray this by giving her a hunched figure, thin lips, and squinty eyes.
 You want your character to stand out and be memorable. Think of ways that you can make your character unique. For example, the Simpsons cartoon characters are immediately recognizable by their bright yellow color (or think particularly of Marge Simpson's crazy high blue hair).Experiment with unexpected color or proportion choices, or by giving your character unusual-looking facial features.
 As your character starts to come to life, play around with different styles of lines to portray different character traits.


For example, using thicker softer lines when you draw will help you convey to your audience that your character is approachable and trustworthy.If, on the other hand, your character is highly energetic on perhaps untrustworthy, then you should work with uneven, sketchy lines., If you choose to use color in your drawing, you'll want to think carefully about your color choices and what emotions or attributes they suggest.


For example, dark, murky colors are usually associated with villains or with characters who have something to hide, whereas softer, lighter colors can suggest innocence. Additionally, bright primary colors are often associated with heroes or with characters aimed at children., Small changes in your character's expression can portray big differences in his or hers emotions or reactions.As you draw your character, experiment with drawing different versions of the same character with different facial expressions.


For example, try to capture your character in a sad moment, and then again in a hopeful moment, changing only the facial expressions in the different drawings.
 We express ourselves through our clothes, our toys, our accessories, and our gadgets, and comic characters are no different. Once you have a basic picture in mind, don't forget to focus on the details of what sets your character apart.


Does she have a distinguishing outfit or favorite color to wear? Does your hero need a disguise? Does your hero carry a back-pack or carry any tools or weapons?Sort out the answers to these questions and then get drawing!

, As you begin to draw, make sure to pay attention to real-life models of both people and objects.For example, if your character is wearing a skirt, then either wear one yourself and study yourself in the mirror or have a friend model one for you. Pay careful attention to how it hangs and shifts as you move.
As another example, if your character will wield a sword then find a toy sword (or something with the basic shape, such as a bat), and study how your hand looks as you grip it, note the angle of your arm as you raise the “sword,” etc.
 Once you are satisfied with your drawing, share it with others and get their input. Instead of asking them just whether they like it or not, seek out specific input. For example, ask them to describe the character to you as they see it.Are they picking up on the attributes and personality that you were hoping to capture? For example, if they read the character as being timid, when you were going for quietly strong, ask them what about the drawing in particular led them to think that.
 If you're not able to recreate the picture you have in your mind on paper (or on the computer screen) at first, or if you think that your final result is boring or looks amateurish, don't get too down on yourself. The creative process only progresses by making lots of false starts, and learning to draw and develop nuanced characters is a skill that takes practice., Even if you're convinced that your first (or first few) attempts at creating a cartoon character are abysmal failures, stash them away in a drawer or in a computer file, and revisit them in a few days or weeks.


You can then study them with a more careful eye to see what you don't like about them, or you may find that something about the drawing was a success, in which case you build upon it in your next attempt.

