 A plain white t-shirt is the most versatile option, but color t-shirts can have a vibrant effect. Graphic t-shirts create a super-casual look and give you the opportunity to express more of your personality. This look goes great when paired with the right jeans.;
, You need a looser fitting blazer for this look. Wear a cardigan over a simple t-shirt, then layer your blazer over your cardigan. Wearing this ensemble with khakis can make it borderline business casual, but wearing it with jeans brings it down to a strictly casual level.
 This extremely casual style also requires a looser fitting blazer. Throw a pull-over hoodie over your t-shirt and shrug your blazer on over the hoodie. Make sure that the hood hangs over the back of your blazer and the drawstrings hang down in front.
 This creates a dressier appearance than a t-shirt does, but when paired with jeans or shorts, it still looks fairly casual. Moreover, pairing your polo shirt and blazer with khaki cargo shorts gives the look a nautical ambiance.Image:Make a Blazer Casual Step 4.jpg
, Tucking in your shirt makes you look a little well put together, which works great for business casual settings and luncheons. For an everyday casual appearance, however, let your shirt hang out.
 A dark wash jean may give your blazer business casual appeal, but medium or light wash jeans can work just as well for a day out with friends. Either way, your jeans should fit properly and must not sag or look sloppy. You should look casual without looking frumpy.Image:Make a Blazer Casual Step 6.jpg
, Both khaki and denim shorts can work, but just like jeans, they must fit properly at your waist without sagging.
 Oxfords, loafers, and other dress shoes may make your ensemble too formal or professional. Stick with a clean pair of sneakers. White sneakers look clean-cut and leave a nice impression, but colorful sneakers may help achieve a more casual look.
 Leather walking sandals paired with a blazer, shirt, and cargo shorts creates a supremely casual summer look.

