 Smoking increases your risk of developing some eye conditions, such as cataracts and macular degeneration. If you quit smoking, then your risk of developing these conditions is nearly as low as someone who has never smoked.Talk to your doctor for help with quitting smoking if you are a smoker. There are medications, smoking cessation programs, and other options that can help you to quit.
 Being obese puts you at a notably higher risk of developing eye diseases such as cataracts, glaucoma, and diabetic retinopathy.To minimize these risks, it is important to maintain a healthy weight. If you are obese, then do what you can to lose weight and maintain a healthy weight.Talk to your doctor if you are struggling to lose weight. You may benefit from certain weight loss programs, aids, or other interventions.
 Getting regular exercise is good for your overall health, but it can also help to reduce your risk of developing certain eye diseases.Try to get at least 150 minutes of cardiovascular activity per week, or 30 minutes five days per week.Try going for walks on your lunch break, taking the stairs instead of the elevator, and parking further away from store entrances to get more steps in throughout the day.
Find an activity that you enjoy to help make exercise something you want to do. For example, you might try swimming, biking, dancing, running, or playing soccer.
 Exposing your eyes to the sun too often can increase your risk of developing certain eye diseases, such as cancer, eye growths, and cataracts.To protect your eyes from the sun when you are outside, you can wear sunglasses and a wide-brimmed hat.Some other precautions you can take to protect your eyes from the sun include:


Never looking directly into the sun. The sun’s radiation can damage your retinas.
Not expecting clouds to provide sun protection. The sun’s rays can still affect your eyes even when it is cloudy.
Avoiding looking at the sun’s glare off of snow in winter. Looking at the glare on snow can lead to a condition called snow blindness.
 When you work with power tools, chemicals, or in another environment where harmful substances might come into contact with your eyes accidentally, then it is important to protect yourself by wearing protective eyewear.Use safety goggles that provide eye protection from all sides, not just in front of your eyes.
 Drinking in excess is not good for your general health or your eye health. Heavy drinking may even lead to developing macular degeneration earlier;however, drinking in moderation may offer you some eye health benefits.Try having a glass of wine a couple times per week to gain some of these benefits.


Moderate drinking means that men should have no more than two drinks per day, while women should have no more than one drink per day.
If you drink more than the recommended limits and you cannot cut back on your own, then speak with your doctor for help managing your drinking.

