 You will see a number between 1 and 7. This will tell you what kind of plastic the bottle is made out of. It may also determine whether or not it can be recycled by your local recycling center.


If your bottle can't be recycled by your local recycling center, try reusing it or turning it into a craft project. Click here to get some ideas.;
, Some recycling centers won't accept bottle caps. If this is the case, you can either discard it, find a place that does accept bottle caps, or turn the bottle cap into a craft project. If the recycling center does accept bottle caps, set it aside for later; you will need to clean the bottle first before you put the cap back on.Most recycling centers don't accept bottle caps because they are made out of a different type of plastic that the bottle is made out of. This may result in contamination during the recycling process., Fill the bottle partway with water, and put the cap on. Shake the bottle to slosh the water around. Open the bottle again, and pour the water out. If the bottle is still dirty inside, you may need to do this a second or third time. The bottle doesn't need to be perfectly clean, but there should be no residue inside it.


If this is a water bottle, then you can skip this step.
If your recycling center accepts bottle caps, then put the cap back on the bottle.
 Some places don't care if there is a label or plastic seal on the bottle, while others do care (especially if they are buying the bottles back based on weight). If you plan on reusing the bottle for a craft project, you may want to remove the label as well for a cleaner finish.
 It is usually a good idea to recycle several bottles all at once, especially if you are planning on taking them to a recycling center. This will save you a few trips.
 This will help save space in the recycling container, or in the bag if you are taking them to a center.If your bottle has a cap on it, be sure to take the cap off first. To crush the bottle, simple crumple it between your hands, or stomp on it.
 The bag can be made out of paper of plastic. You won't be recycling the bag, but it will make it a lot easier to carry the bottles to a recycling bin or recycling center.
 Some places require you to take the bottles to a recycling center while others will ask you to leave the bottles in a blue bin. Some places will even give you money back for your plastic bottles. If you are interested in selling your bottles back to your community for money, click here.
 When you moved into your home, the city might have supplied you with a blue or black recycling bin. Most people keep their bin in their garage or backyard. Be sure to check with your city to see what day the recycling truck comes to empty these bins. You will need to take your bin out the night before, and leave it by the curb.If you go to college and live in a dorm, see if there is a recycling bin on campus that you can use.
 You will need to check with your state or city to see where the closest one to you is located. Most should be reachable by bus, or be within driving distance.
 Some states offer you money in return for plastic bottles. Most of the bottles in these states will be stamped with "CASH REFUND" or "CRV." If you live in one of these states, visit your city's website to find out where the nearest buy back center is. Click here to find out more about this.

