 There is a lot of information about using your diet to cure and manage hypothyroidism. However, there is no evidence that a specific diet can improve your thyroid function.Focus on eating an overall healthy diet and taking care of yourself.
 If you are interested in using alternative medicine, find a Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) Practitioner and let your primary care physician know that you are trying alternative treatments.Your regular doctor may not be supportive of you using alternative treatments, but you still need to let her know any additional treatments that you begin taking because some may interact with your prescribed medications. Some common natural treatments may, in fact, make hypothyroidism worse.Visit the American Association of Naturopathic Physicians website to find a certified doctor.These doctors have special training in using nutrition to heal the body.
 Too much iodine can worsen hypothyroidism in some people.Your doctor may recommend that patients with hypothyroidism avoid certain foods — be sure to ask before making any dietary changes.Iodine is found in fish, dairy products, and seaweed. Your daily iodine intake should not exceed 600 mcg/day.Talk to your doctor about the appropriate amount of iodine for your diet.
Organic milk may have less iodine than non-organic milk.
This is not, however, true in developing countries. In fact, in these countries, a lack of iodine is actually a common cause of hypothyroidism.
 It is unclear whether people who have hypothyroidism should avoid soy. Soy may interfere with your body's ability to absorb synthetic thyroid medication.Current recommendations state that you do not have to avoid soy foods if you have hypothyroidism, but if you are taking synthetic thyroid medication, then you should wait four hours after taking thyroid medication before consuming any products that contain soy.It is important that you have an adequate intake of iodine if you eat soy foods.Most people in the United States get enough iodine in their diet. There is no need for you to supplement your iodine intake.
If you have questions or concerns about consuming soy, speak with your doctor.
 If your hypothyroidism is caused by an autoimmune reaction, fatty acids can help reduce inflammation in your body. High doses of fish oil can be used to decrease inflammation. Your doctor should help you determine the proper dosage and monitor your intake because high doses of fish oil affects your body's blood clotting ability.Vitamin B-12 supplementation can help reduce your hypothyroid symptoms and give you more energy.
 L-tyrosine is a supplement that is thought to help your hypothyroidism. People with hypothyroidism have low levels of tyrosine, so some people think that increasing your levels of tyrosine may help treat hypothyroidism, though this has not been proven. You must talk to your doctor before you begin taking L-tyrosine especially if you are taking a prescribed hypothyroid medication, or you risk worsening your condition.The recommended dose is 500 mg, two to three times a day.Be aware that there is no scientific evidence to support that the use of L-tyrosine helps with hypothyroidism.You should not take this supplement if you have high blood pressure or symptoms of mania (e.g. racing thoughts, fast talking, irritability, high energy, overly good mood). In addition, it can interact with the drug Levodopa., Herbs that have been studied for treating hypothyroidism are Coleus (Coleus forskohlii), Guggul (Commiphora mukul), and Bladderwrack (Fucus vesiculosus). These herbs can be taken as capsules, powders, teas, glycerine extracts, or alcohol extracts.Do not take alcohol extracts if you have a history of alcoholism.
Put 1 tsp of herb in 1 cup of hot water and allow it to steep for 5-10 minutes if using a leaf or 10 - 20 minutes if it is in root form. You will need to drink two to four cups per day.
Speak with your doctor before you try any of these herbs as they may interact with your other medications or medical conditions.
 Both alcoholand tobaccohave a negative effect on thyroid function. However, moderate alcohol consumption has been shown to protect against hypothyroidism.Speak with your doctor about your alcohol consumption habits. Smoking is harmful for your health overall and should be avoided. However, if you quit smoking after you have been diagnosed with hypothyroidism, make sure your doctor monitors your TSH levels. Smoking cessation is associated with increased risk of hypothyroidism.Although hypothyroidism risk increases after you quit smoking, you should still try to quit smoking. This will be best for you in the long term.
Moderate alcohol consumption is one drink a day for women, and up to two drinks per day for men. One drink is 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of distilled spirits.