 Aside from eating gassy foods and being lactose intolerant, there are many medical conditions that cause bloating and abdominal pain. As such, if you have frequent gas pains, make an appointment with your family physician and get a physical examination in order to rule out anything serious. Medical conditions that typically cause bloating and stomach pain include gastrointestinal infections (viral, bacterial and parasitic), stomach ulcers, intestinal blockage, irritable bowel syndrome, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, food allergies, intestinal or stomach cancer, gallbladder disease and acid reflux.








If your gas pains are caused by an infection or food poisoning, your doctor might recommend short-term antibiotics. However, over-use of antibiotics kills friendly intestinal bacteria and can actually lead to more GI symptoms.Certain medications often lead to bloating and flatulence such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, naproxen), laxatives, antifungal medicines and statins (for high cholesterol), so talk to your doctor about your prescriptions drugs.Your doctor may want a stool sample and may check the blood for celiac disease and do a breath test for lactose intolerance. An X-ray or colonoscopy may be necessary in some cases.
 Normal food digestion, especially of protein-rich meals, takes lots of stomach acid, which is concentrated hydrochloric (HCl) acid.A lack of stomach acid production (a common condition of aging) can lead to inadequate protein digestion, which can ferment in the intestines and produce gas. As such, ask your doctor about testing for stomach acid production and then consider taking supplemental HCl if you no longer produce enough naturally.









To help with protein digestion, eat your meat, poultry or fish course at the beginning of a meal instead of starting with bread and/or salad. The stomach tends to dump the hydrochloric acid in as soon as you start eating, but carbohydrates need very little (compared to protein) to digest.
Betaine hydrochloride is a popular supplemental form of HCl that you can get at most health food stores. Remember to take the tablets after you eat, not before or during your meal.
 As noted above, a common reason some foods cause intestinal gas is because the human body can't digest certain complex sugar compounds (such as insoluble fiber and sugars called oligosaccharides). Taking over-the-counter products with alpha-galactosidase (Beano, Suntaqzyme, Bean-zyme) can help correct this problem because the enzyme breaks down complex sugars before they reach your intestines and start to ferment.Take a tablet containing alpha-galactosidase right before you start eating foods high in fiber (most veggies, fruit and legumes) to help prevent gas formation and abdominal pain.









The sugar enzyme is derived from food-grade mold called Aspergillus niger, which can cause an allergic reaction in people sensitive to molds and penicillin.
Alpha-galactosidase breaks down galactose into glucose effectively, but it may interfere with diabetic medication. Consult with your doctor if you're diabetic and thinking of taking products that contain it.
 Probiotic supplements contain strains of healthy bacteria that are normally found in your large intestine. These "friendly" bacteria can be destroyed by over-using antibiotics, taking laxatives, drinking too much alcohol, consuming heavy metals and getting colonoscopies. An imbalance of healthy intestinal bacteria leads to digestive problems and GI symptoms. If you think you're at risk for bacterial imbalance in your intestines, then consider taking probiotic supplements to get relief from gas pain.Probiotics are safe and commonly found in health food stores.









Probiotics are available as tablets, capsules or powders and must be taken on a regular basis in order to maintain effective concentrations/colonies in your large intestine. Whichever supplement you choose should be enteric coated or microencapsulated to survive being digested by stomach acid, so it can make it to the intestines and still be viable.Fermented foods are also a good source of friendly bacteria and include natural yogurt, buttermilk, kefir, fermented soy products (natto, miso, soy sauce, tofu), sauerkraut and even unpasteurized beer.
 Constipation is infrequent bowel movements or difficult passage of stools, which can happen from eating way too much fiber (or almost none at all) or not drinking enough fluids.Chronic constipation is usually defined as fewer than 3 bowel movements a week for many weeks or months, but most cases of constipation last for just a few days. Constipation can lead to intestinal pain and cramping that's similar to gassy pain, but the cause of the discomfort is often very different. Medicinal treatment for constipation involves taking laxatives, which promote bowel movements. Laxatives work by either bulking up your stool (FiberCon, Metamucil, Citrucel), softening your stool, helping fluids move through your colon (milk of magnesia) or lubricating your colon (mineral oil, cod liver oil).








Elderly people with poor diets usually get constipation from not consuming enough fiber, which is why eating prunes or drinking prune juice is often recommended.
Constipation in children and younger adults is more often caused by eating too much fiber at a time, such as carrots or apples.
If constipation is caused by eating way too much fiber, then gas production and bloating from bacterial fermentation is possible too. As such, much of the advice above for getting rid of gas pains would apply.

