 When allocating your backpacking budget, boots should be your first priority. A good pair of boots is expensive, but there are a few reasons you should spend money on them.


First off, a good pair of boots is usable in many situations other than backpacking. If you decide at some point that backpacking isn't for you, you can still use them for tramping through snow to work or school, yard work, wood working, construction, camping, hiking, or any time your feet need protecting. A good pair of boots allows you to do a wide range of things safely, and it's good to have one around. Secondly, if you take care of them and don't lose them, a good pair of boots will last you 10+ years.
The most important quality of a backpacking boot is that it fit well. When walking downhill your feet shouldn't slide forward much. If they do, the tips of your toes are going to be hurting from banging into the front of your boots. When walking uphill, your heels shouldn't slide up much. If they do, you are likely to end up with blistered heels from the rubbing back and forth. Secondly, the boots should cover your ankles with stiff material. You should still be able to make circles with your foot, but it should be nearly impossible for you to roll your ankles. Some people prefer a lower top boot, but unless you are also investing in trekking poles this is probably not safe. Thirdly, the boot should have a thick sole that will keep you from feeling bumps underneath it and will grip rocks.
Look for boots with very few seams. This is for two reasons: waterproofing and durability. Treated leather repels water well on its own, but more seams make more opportunities for water to get in, and make it more difficult to waterproof the boot. You'll inevitably slip into a stream at some point, and a well waxed boot with a high top will minimize the amount of water sloshing around your feet for the rest of the day. The two things that wear out first on a boot are the seams and the soles. Boots can be resoled, and seams can be glued, but the boot will last longer if there are fewer seams to begin with.
Break in your new pair of boots. When you buy a new pair of boots, don't immediately take them out on the trail. The boots will take some time to conform to your feet even if they fit well, so break them in ahead of time. Wear them instead of your normal shoes for the week prior to the trip. If you are going on a long trip with them, take them out for a weekend trip beforehand. This helps to prevent blisters and can also catch any manufacturing flaws early.;
, Don't wear cotton. The wool and polypropylene will keep your feet dry and cushioned. The liners will absorb most of the friction of your foot moving around and help prevent blisters. You'll need 2 pairs each of these for a weekend, 3-4 for a longer trip. If you hike a day in cotton socks they'll end up as a moist, pulpy, off-white, smelly mass, and you'll probably have blisters.
 The evenings can get much colder in the countryside than in the cities, and much colder than that when you are up in the mountains. As such, it's good to have a pair of long pants with you even in the middle of summer if you are going to be at any elevation. For shorts, a pair of mesh running shorts will do. Shorts are there mostly to provide a little bit of sun protection. Don't bring jeans. They are heavy, bulky, and they will never dry.
 Avoid cotton. It dries slowly, and is useless for warmth when it is wet. Fleece, wool, polypropylene, or any synthetic fabric work great. For colder weather, the key for warmth is to dress in layers. This allows you to regulate your temperature over the course of the day. The clothes that make you comfortable when you are standing still will be too warm when you are walking. The clothes that keep you comfortable at camp in the afternoon will be too cold once the sun goes down.
 Under rain or wind, the most economical option is a nylon poncho. They are effective, lightweight, and very cheap. For summer backpacking, you probably don't need to use anything else. Ponchos are not as useful in wind, so find one with snaps along the side. For winter backpacking you're better off with a raincoat and rain pants. With a poncho your arms and calves will get wet, and this is more of an issue in the winter.

