 In order to keep your muscles from getting sore after an intense workout, it is important that you stretch them. Stretching helps to get rid of lactic acid that can build up in your muscles when you work out. This lactic acid can make your muscles sore if it is not released through stretching. The following steps are some stretches you can try to keep your muscles from getting sore.


You should also try to do 10 or 15 minutes of light cardio after an intense workout to loosen your muscles up and keep your blood flowing. After your cardio, move into your stretches.
 To do a hamstring stretch, sit on the floor with your back straight. Extend your right leg straight out in front of your and bend your left leg so that the sole of your left foot is flat on the inside of your right leg. Slowly bend forward with your arms stretched in front of your. Try to touch your extended right foot. You should feel a stretch in your hamstrings.Hold this stretch for 15 seconds and then release. Repeat this stretch on your other leg.
 Lie on the floor with your back flat. Extend your right leg so that it is straight and bend your left leg so that it is bent towards your knee. Use your right arm to pull your left leg towards the right side of your chest. Turn your head so that it is facing your left side while you hold the pose.Hold the stretch for 10 seconds. When the time is up, repeat the stretch on your other leg.
 Lie on the floor with your back flat. Bend your knees with your soles of your feet on the ground. Use your hands to pull your knees towards your chest, keeping your feet flat on the ground. Raise your head and shoulders as much as you can.Hold this stretch for 30 seconds, then let your head and shoulders slowly drop to the ground. Repeat this stretch five times.
 Lie on your right side and bend your right leg so that it is making a 90 degree angle. Bend your left leg backward so that you can hold your ankle with your left hand. Pull your left ankle toward your lower back until you feel a stretch in your quads. Lower the left knee to the floor so that it is behind the right one.Hold this stretch for 15 seconds and then repeat the same stretch on your right leg.

