 You can make better choices in the packaged food aisle that are healthy and easy to prepare by going for frozen vegetables that are plain with no additives or seasonings. Look for frozen vegetables like spinach, broccoli, peas, corn, and carrots. Pick up frozen fruits like blueberries, strawberries, mango, and pineapple.Make sure the label does not list any added sodium, sugar, or seasonings to the vegetables or fruits. Getting plain frozen produce will ensure it is healthy. You can always add seasonings of your choice when you prepare the packaged foods based on your dietary needs.
 Go for canned goods that are low sodium. Items like carrots, beans, corn, tomatoes, tuna, and salmon can be found at your grocery store in the canned goods section. They are a healthier option than other packaged foods and are easy to prepare.You should also check the label of the canned goods to make sure it is Bisphenol A (BPA) free. BPA has been linked to cancer and other health issues.If possible, try to go for packaged foods that are in glass containers as glass does not contain BPA.
If you buy canned fruits, make sure they are packaged in water or their own juices and not syrup.
 You can go healthier in the packaged food aisle by picking up bagged fresh fruits and vegetables. Go for packaged salads or packaged sliced fruit. Make sure you check the date the fresh items were bagged, often noted on the front of the package. You want bagged produce that is fresh so it tastes good and is good for you.You should also inspect the bagged fresh produce to make sure it looks fresh and appetizing. Avoid salads that appear soggy or moldy in the bag. Make sure the sliced fruit looks vibrant and fresh in the package.
 If you are on the go, such as at the airport, and need to grab food fast, you may opt for healthy packaged food. Choose packaged nuts like almonds, cashews, or walnuts. Go for packaged dry fruit or dark chocolate covered nuts or fruit. You can also get a healthy packaged to go meal like yogurt and granola or a packaged salad.


If you are not sure if the packaged item is healthy, check the label quickly and note the fat, sodium, and cholesterol content.
 You can still go for other packaged foods like chicken nuggets or hamburger patties on occasion, as well as healthier options like produce or canned goods. Try to vary your packaged food choices so you get enough vegetables, fruit, and protein on your plate. Look at how to have a balanced meal based on portion size so you are getting enough of each food group at every meal.


Be smart about reading the ingredients list and the nutrition label so you know exactly what is in your packaged food. Having a varied diet that is high in nutrients will ensure you are eating healthy, even when you are eating packaged foods.

