 Before taking any herbal supplements, talk to your doctor in order to avoid any adverse side-effects. Your physician may advise you against taking certain herbal supplements due to known complications. Remember that there is little evidence supporting the supposed benefits of herbal supplements, so consider them with some skepticism. Treat herbal supplements like any other medication and get a professional opinion before taking them.
 There are multiple varieties of ginseng that may provide a boost to your immune system.The most common variety, Korean ginseng, may contain anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties, as well as strengthen other immune system functions. American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius) is thought to prevent upper-respiratory infections. Ginseng supplements can be found at most grocery stores and pharmacies.There are multiple products, so be sure to follow the manufacturers’ guidelines.
 This herbal supplement is believed to stimulate infection-fighting cells and stimulate the body’s production of other immune system compounds. There is limited evidence that it may also protect against respiratory infections. Echinacea is considered an effective aid in preventing and treating colds, flu and other infections. Take echinacea regularly at the first signs of infection.At the first signs of infection, take 30 to 60 drops of liquid extract or 1 to 2 capsules every two hours for the first 24 to 48 hours. Once the symptoms disappear, take the same dosage four times a day for three days.
 Astragalus root has been a staple of traditional Chinese medicine for centuries. It is believed to boost the production and activity of immune cells. This can translate into an increase in your white blood cell count. You can take astragalus as a capsule supplement, but it is recommended that you ingest it as a tonic soup.Simply boil astragalus root or extract in hot water with other herbs and drink it. You can also add it to your soup.
 The dark blue-black berry is believed to strengthen the defenses of healthy cells against being taken over by viruses. Although evidence is limited, it may also offer significant protection against viral infections of the upper-respiratory system.Elderberry extract or syrup can be taken on its own or boiled in a tea.As a preventative, take ½ teaspoon of liquid extract or 1 teaspoon of syrup twice a day.
Double the dosage to hasten the recovery from the cold or flu.
 This herb is well known for its purported ability to prevent memory loss and improve brain function.However, there are some who believe the herb has benefits for the immune system as well. The leaves of gingko biloba contain high levels of antioxidants that are believed to boost your body’s immune system. It is also used as a remedy for inflammation, particularly in the joints. Gingko bilboa supplements can be found in most grocery stores and pharmacies.


Because of the variety of supplements, follow the manufacturers’ guidelines on dosage.

