 The first step with any fresh blood stain is to flush the stain with cold water. If it is a minimal amount of blood, you may be able to remove the majority of the stain with just cold water. Run the fabric under a cold tap, gently rubbing the stain with the water. Soak your fabric in cold water in your sink to loosen any remaining stain. Wash the material in cold water afterward.


Make sure you do not use hot water. This will set the blood into the fabric and make the stain harder to remove.If you don't have access to a tap, you can also put cold water in a bowl or bucket and dunk the fabric in the water. Keep dunking, rubbing and rinsing until the stain is removed. Wash the fabric in cold water afterward.
This method works on all kinds of fabrics, such as denim, cotton and linen.;
, If your stain is too tough for cold water alone, try using dishwashing liquid. Pour 1 tablespoon of liquid directly onto the fabric. Make sure it saturates the fabric. Let the liquid sit on the stain for 15 to 30 minutes. The stain should loosen. Rub cold water over the stain to remove the soap. Wash in cold water.If the stain persists, you may need to repeat this method or try an alternative method.
 You can use bar soap for more concentrated stains. Rinse the fabric with cold water. Then, rub the bar of soap into the stain until the fabric lathers. Rub the fabric together to help scrub in the soap and loosen the stain. Rinse the soap and loosened blood out of the fabric. If the stain is still there, reapply the soap. Wash in cold water., You can also try hydrogen peroxide on light-colored or white fabrics. After you rinse with cold water, pour a generous amount of peroxide directly onto the fabric. Rub the peroxide into the fabric to saturate it. Let the peroxide sit on the stain for 30 minutes to 1 hour. Wash the material in cold water. If the stain persists, you can repeat the process.If the peroxide bubbles when it hits the fabric, don't be alarmed. This is a normal response. It means that the peroxide is dissolving the proteins in the blood and lifting out the stain., Instead of buying a stain remover, you can make one at home. Rinse as much blood out as you can with cold water. Next, soak the fabric in cold water for 15 minutes. Ring out the excess water from the fabric. Rub a tablespoon of table salt into the stain on the damp fabric. Pour a tablespoon of shampoo onto the salt and rub the fabric together. Once the shampoo starts to lather, add another tablespoon of salt. Rub the combination into the fabric. Rinse the fabric completely in cold water. Wash the fabric in cold water.


This works only on fabrics that do not need special care. Do not use this method on clothes that you would wash on the gentle cycle in your clothes washer.
This also works on set-in stains., If you have a blood stain on a delicate garment, you need to use a different kind of stain remover. Soak the garment in cold water for 15 to 30 minutes. Pour a small amount of baking soda onto the fabric. Rub it into the stained area with a nail brush or soft toothbrush. Wash the garment on the delicate cycle in cold water.