 Dresses are a popular option. Don't pick one of the simple or everyday dresses that he has seen several times before. Pay attention to it. If you choose to wear a top, find a nice skirt, pair of jeans or trousers or shorts too. Try the outfit out beforehand and wear it around the house for a little while to make sure it's comfortable and looks good even after walking, sitting down and standing up a few times. If you don't buy a new outfit (you don't need to buy new outfit for a date, you don’t know if he is worth it or not) pick the dress that you have been complimented on before. It is better, it makes you confident and you don't have to worry about how you may look. Don't wear something he would have seen several times before, either in real life or in photographs online.;
, You may think "He has been seeing me all the time at school, here’s the chance to change my look". A change of look is fine but don't show too much skin. If the guy doesn't like that kind of girl, it might give him the impression that he has misjudged you and diminish his attraction to you. He won't relax with you because all he thinks about is the proportion of your unprotected skin. A lot of guys want to get to know their dates a little and find too much bare skin a little too attractive or a bit embarrassing. He may also read the signs wrong. Either show off your legs or your cleavage. If the relationship goes well you can show a little more skin. Show him that you will only show skin for someone special, not just anyone you go on a date with, and then use it to show you like him and you think he is special.
 You may have your own favorite color. Choose a shade that flatters your skin tone and eye colour. People say pink makes people approachable and kind-hearted and makes women look more feminine so it might be a good choice for a first date. Black is slimming, easy to dress up with some special, personal jewellery and, being a blank canvas, draws attention to your face. Red conveys excitement and passion - but also danger. Use it sparingly for the first date. White and cream suggest purity and cleanliness but also that you are an uncomplicated person and have an approachable and straightforward personality. Blues and yellows are in turn too relaxing and anxiety-inducing so you might want to limit them to the accessories!

, Guys like them. Earrings, bracelets and necklaces do well. It shouldn't be too big or too bright. Just make sure it won't annoy anybody. You should position them so they bring attention to your best features. Got a slim waist? Pin a flower at a gathered waist.
 Some people like to wear their usual make up but others put on a little extra to show they have made a special effort and to make sure they look their best. Bring attention to your best features. Got lovely blue eyes? Try terracotta, purple, orange, neutral smokey eyes or bronze to make them pop. Your makeup has to look good with the dress. Choose colours that compliment each other or contrast. If the dress is loud, tone down the make up and vice versa.
 Paint your nails, even if you are not the girl who pay a lot of time to care your beauty, make it perfect on the first date at least. Shave well. Clean well. Clean your feet and the toes too. Take a bath and shampoo your hair. Check your teeth and make your mouth smell good.
 If you know how your hair looks its best, keep that look on the date. Loose curls, straight hair or a simple up do are all easy to do and compliment most face shapes. Find the hairstyle that best suits your face shape.Messy buns and ponytails are beautiful- but that doesn't mean the ponytail you do with an elastic band when you're pulling your hair out of your face as you study. Spend at least fifteen minutes on your hair.  Treat your hair with a mask or conditioner to make sure it's shy and co-operative. Hair is the best way to make you look young and thin, use it well!

, You can change it to attractive or powerful next time, whatever you like. On the first date, cute is the one and only definitely way to get a guy like you. Put on a smile all the time, and act like you are impressed by him, try to be innocent, guys do fall for that look. Don't bring your claws out. Be the innocent one! That doesn't mean you have to have a complete personality change but let down your guard just enough that he can get to know you a little.
 That’s the smooth part. It is as important as how you look! Prepare the topics; if you really care about this first date and you think he is not an active type, think about the topics to talk earlier. Chat about hobbies, school, work, ambitions, music, sports or just take cues from your surroundings- what is your favourite food? do you like the movie? Let him lead the conversation and let him talk. Ask him simple questions and engage with what he is saying. People do like to talk and they go for the good listeners. Remember, if you have good chemistry the conversation should flow naturally once the ice has been broken so don't beat yourself up if it's not working out too well initially.
 Break the silence by saying something sweet. Don't start asking every time you are in silence. Say something that you care about him. Say something about you too, but you should have prepared what to tell about yourself at home. If not, you are not sure where to stop.
 Keep an open mind and have a habit of turning simple things into fun way of talking. The more you make him laugh, the more you win him. Some girls don't naturally have that ability so don't be depressed if you are not a fun person. He might like your sense of humour and he might not. Be safe rather than sorry and avoid any smutty or potentially offensive jokes.
 If he admits to mistakes, be understanding. Even if he turns out not the one you thought who he was, don’t look disappointed. You don't have to go beyond this date and you can go home right away if you really want. Even if he does say things that make you upset, don't show it and put a smile. You could gently say that you'd prefer not to talk about something or change the topic. If he doesn't take the hint you can be blunt and say he offended you. He can't change if he doesn't know what to change, right?

, It makes people remember that time and value it too. "It’s my first kiss; it’s my first time going to this lake." If it is not your first time of anything, think of happy memories you have of the place from childhood, without mentioning other dates or talking too much about your friends.
 Sometimes we think if we show how we feel, it will make us feel more, but it also makes him feel more. Say "I am happy to be with you." But don't come too strong. And make is subtle and let some mystery that it would be just a tradition or you really mean it.

