 Many job seekers focus on skills and ignore their achievements. If possible, quantify the funding, increase in membership, donor involvement, community impact and more.


Revise your chronological or functional descriptions to include any time you were singled out for your success, given a promotion or even given more responsibility.
 Make sure each bulleted skill or accomplishment leads with an action verb, so revise each section of your resume to include the verbs with the most meaning. Action verbs qualify your experience in a positive, results-oriented way.


Consider using these verbs, if they apply to your experience: initiated, created, developed, organized, coordinated, inspired, established, planned, standardized, collaborated, negotiated, raised, volunteered, evaluated, optimized, solved, tested, built, invented, decreased, enhanced, increased and maximized.
 Return to your organization and job description research. Insert stressed or frequently used words into your resume in appropriate places, such as descriptions of your skills, experience, education or accomplishments.
 Many non-profits rely heavily on volunteer workers, so they value this experience more than other sectors. Include any board or committee positions, responsibilities and programs you may have started.


If you are just graduating from college, and you don't have much volunteer experience, then you should apply for volunteer positions or internships. This is a wonderful way to gain the necessary skills to be a standout applicant for a non-profit job. When you volunteer, ask to take on more responsibility.
 The more experience you have, the shorter this section can be. Highlight your majors, GPA and any volunteer or organizational accomplishments you gained.
 Include people who are able to attest to your value to an organization. Choose non-profit leaders over for-profit leaders, although managers from any company should be able to provide this kind of analysis.
 After you have settled on a good draft, also ask professional friends and family members to inspect the resume and suggest changes. Keep your final draft in both electronic format, rich text, word or portable document format (PDF), and paper copies.

