 If you feel like you're going to be overwhelmed when the breakup occurs, you will want to make sure you have a plan in place to make the stress as low as possible for you. This is especially important if your impending break up involves someone you live with.


Enlist a support network of friends and family members you trust. Make sure to give them a heads up about what's going on. Let them know you may need their help and keep their numbers accessible.
Have someone be responsible for gathering any items your soon-to-be-ex has of yours and vice versa.
Make an no-contact agreement with yourself in regards to your partner for after the break up occurs and try to stick to it.
Have a plan for where you will stay and who will stay with you for a little while afterwards.
 You will want to give yourself some time to be upset, but you should also plan for some comfort and distraction during that time as well. Set aside some movies you've been wanting to check out, or books you have been meaning to read. Binge-watch the latest season of a favorite show. Stock your refrigerator with one favorite comfort food you love.
 If you have been preparing for the end of the relationship and you feel strong and at peace with your decision, consider ending it yourself.There's no need to drag something out that you are not interested in working on or isn't meant to be any longer. Instead of waiting around, unhappy, for your partner to open up the topic, take control of the situation.


Speak to your partner face to face. Don't end the relationship over the phone or over text message.
Talk about the relationship and how it has affected you. Try to avoid blame or judgment.Let them know why you are ending it and try to avoid cliché phrases such as “It's not you, it's me.”, As you are preparing for this break up, take the time to reconnect with friends you may have lost touch with. It will not only help ease any stress you might be having about the break up, but will also help you move on post-break up, when you are ready. Trust your friends and let them help you through this. Whether it is hanging out with you eating ice cream and watching a movie, playing a game of basketball at the park, or going together to a party, allow them to support you and help you heal., Avoid looking for that type of comfort before your current relationship has been declared over. Even if your relationship is ending from a cheating partner, don't stoop to their level. Additionally after the break up give yourself some time to recover before looking for the stability of a new relationship.Be open-minded, meet new people, or check out a new scene, but honor yourself by not running to the next available relationship.

