 You'll find this along the top edge of the SP while the screen is closed. It is rectangular and is located towards the right side.;
, The charging cable can only be inserted in one direction. Make sure not to force it in.
 Make sure that the prongs are fully extended.
 The charging light on the side of the Game Boy will stay lit while the device is charging. It will turn off once it is fully charged.


You can play while the Game Boy is charging, but it will charge much slower.
 It's good practice to close the screen when manipulating the Game Boy to increase stability.
 The labels should be facing up so that you can read them.
 You'll find this slot on the back of the Game Boy, along the bottom edge. When you're holding the system as if to play it, the cartridge is upside down on the back.
 The label should be facing away from the Game Boy system.


You can play Game Boy Advance, Game Boy Color, and Game Boy games. Game Boy and Game Boy Color cartridges will stick out further than Game Boy Advance cartridges, which are flush when inserted.
 Don't force the cartridge in, you should just need some firm pressure to lock it into place.
, This will turn the Game Boy Advance SP on. The Power switch can be found along the right edge.
 Each game controls differently, but there are only a few buttons so you can likely figure out the controls if you don't have access to the manual.


Besides the A and B buttons on the face, you also have the L and R shoulder buttons.
Most games use the Start and Select buttons for pausing and menus, but won't use them as controls during gameplay.
 This small button is directly below the screen. Pressing it will turn the backlight on or off. The backlight is useful in low-light conditions to help you see the screen, but will reduce battery life.
 In order to use headphones on the Game Boy Advance SP, you'll need to connect the headphone adapter to the EXT2 port along the top edge. This is the same port as the charging cable.


After connecting the adapter, you can plug headphones into the 3.5mm jack on the other end.
 Slide the switch back towards you to turn the system off.


The Game Boy Advance SP will not turn off automatically when the screen is closed.
 You may have to apply a little pressure while sliding to pop it out.


Never remove a cartridge while the system is turned on.
 Keeping the screen closed will help prevent damage to the Game Boy when being stored or during travel. Remember, the system does not turn off automatically when the screen is closed.

