 Once you are settled in and ready to date, work on visiting or hanging out in places where you might meet people like you. Bars and nightclubs are usually obvious first options to check out, but you may not like these places normally. Only spend your time looking for dates in those places if you enjoy activities like that. Otherwise, you may end up finding someone to date who will then want to go to bars or nightclubs all the time. Date more selectively by considering the following.


If you love coffee, find the local cafes or gourmet coffee shops.
If you like art, history, or science, spend time at the local museums.
If you like spending time outdoors, visit the local parks or hiking trails.
Be open to checking out other options, but try not to spend a lot of your time there if you are uncomfortable or uninterested in those activities.
 If that is the case, now is a perfect time to pick up new interests or hobbies.Meeting people while doing an activity you both enjoy can take some of the pressure off of first encounters and initial conversations. It also gives you both something immediate to talk about.


Look for local organizations or meet-ups in new things you'd like to try.
Attend a class, workshop, or club and introduce yourself to others.
Be open with the people you meet, that you are new to the area and new to this hobby, but excited about both.
 Especially if you enjoy working out, you may find it easy to meet someone at your gym.Part of meeting people out in a new city is visiting the same places regularly. It gives you the chance to see and become interested in other regulars and gives you both the time to build up the courage to talk to one another.


If you are looking to meet someone while you are working out at the gym, try not to lose focus on why you are there in the first place. Just be you, and if someone notices and is interested in you or you are interesting in them, make a move.
 A great way to meet a potential date is to volunteer. Look for local causes or events that you would like to support. Maybe there is a chapter of an organization that you used to work with in your new city.Volunteering allows you to be doing something you enjoy which will show to potential dates. You will also be assured that your potential date has some of the same interests and values as you do as well.

