 Put it in the simplest of terms: Why do bisexuals bother you? Why do you care how they live their lives? Instead of relying on simplistic justifications like “it’s unnatural,” “it’s just wrong,” “it’s impossible,” or “it’s disgusting,” work to identify the deeper reasons why you harbor feelings of biphobia.


As mentioned elsewhere in this article, bisexuality often causes discomfort because it challenges binary notions of gender and sexuality, which are often connected to the binaries of “right” and “wrong” or “good” and “bad.” Many people tend to prefer simple, clearly-defined categorizations.This desire for "either / or" clarity can lead some people to question what makes someone bisexual — do they have to be attracted to men and women at a “50/50” split? Does “80/20” still count? — instead of accepting another person’s self-identification., Perhaps you are biphobic because you believe it goes against “traditional values,” or threatens the “social order.” If you set aside your fears, however, and examine the issue rationally, does it seem all that likely that the romantic predilections of 3% — or even 10% — the population is likely to really throw everything into ruin? And why does “different” have to equal “worse”?Even if you cannot, for religious or other reasons, bring yourself to approve of bisexuality, should this necessarily be an issue that makes you fear for our future? On the long list of problems in this world, should this really rank high enough to trigger active discrimination on your part? Perhaps you can reconsider your "fear priorities."

, People can be uncomfortable with or disapproving of bisexuality for a host of reasons. Active biphobia, whether revealed as bullying or discriminatory actions, though, often contains an internal component that has at least as much to do with the biphobic as his or her target(s).The idea that someone might be “protesting too much” — actively discriminating in order to deny or hide their own proclivities toward that way of life — can be true in some cases. More often, though, an aggressive person who has to deal with Biphobia may be dealing with an unrelated personal fear, trauma, or disappointment.
If you want to understand and deal with your biphobia, you may need to refocus your energies from the question “What is it about bisexuals that causes me problems?” to “What is going on in my life that is causing me to target bisexuals for discrimination?” Identifying and addressing your own issues may be the first step to a change in perspective towards bisexuality.
 Bisexuals have been blamed for everything from causing the spread of AIDS, to breaking up solid marriages, to interfering with the progress of gay and lesbian rights. The fact is that bisexuals are no more or less to blame for society’s problems than anyone else.Yes, there are promiscuous bisexuals, for instance, but how is that any different from any other group? Beyond the focus of their sexual attractions, how are bisexuals fundamentally different from anyone else? They deserve the same blame and the same praise as everyone.
Instead of trying to figure out who to blame for the problems you perceive in society, focus your energies on trying to make things better for everyone.
 It’s such a simple idea, and yet so true. Think about how you would feel if you were treated as “confused,” “lying,” or “perverted,” and consequently as somehow a lesser person, simply because of the nature of your attraction to other people.Even if you can’t bring yourself to approve of bisexuality, you should be able to treat bisexuals with the respect and dignity you would want from someone who disapproved of some aspect of your life.

