 An email can be found in your inbox. It will explain a bit about how Animal Jam works and what verifying your email will do. By verifying you email, your Parent Dashboard account will be activated and you will be able to access the chat options.;
, At the top of the page, there will be a few tabs. Click the Parent tab to access the Parent Dashboard. The Parent Dashboard page will appear and on the right-hand side of the screen should be a box displaying a big, green tick with the word "verified" next to it.
 The middle column of the box should have "interactions" written on the top. This is the section where you are able to change the chat options. There will also be a question mark next to this label. When you click on the question mark, a small box will appear explaining the different chat options.
 You may be wondering "how can I turn chat off completely?". Unfortunately, this isn't an option, however, the option "bubble chat" will only allow your child to choose from some phrases provided. By selecting this option, your child will not be able to type in messages themselves. The other two options are:

Safe Chat. This is the default setting of chat. Your child can choose what they want to type but they can only type words that are included in the Animal Jam dictionary. The words in this dictionary are moderated and reviewed by Animal Jam HQ. Profanity and other rude words are not included in the dictionary. Numerals are also not included in the dictionary -- this is because numbers can be used to spell unacceptable words. Numbers (e.g. one; two; three etc.) are also not included in the Animal Jam dictionary, however, many of the children on Animal Jam write words that rhyme with the numbers (e.g. hive-five; fine-nine etc.) or are homophones (e.g. won-one; too-two etc.).






Safe Chat Plus. This is only available to people who purchased a membership. This allows your child to say whatever they want but their message is carefully reviewed by Animal Jam HQ. Rude messages are deleted and cannot be seen by others. When your message is deleted, this will appear in red text: "Your message was blocked because it may not be appropriate". Your child will be able to type numbers. If your child types a rude message, Animal Jam HQ will send you a message on your Parent Dashboard.
 Try talking with your child to see how the chat options affect the game. Remember that you are always able to change the chat options whenever you want.

