 Portion-control feeding means to measure out the exact amount of food your dog should have per meal, and only giving your dog that amount. If you’re feeding based on meals, you should feed your dog twice per day, about 8-12 hours apart. Timed feeding means that you put out your dog’s meal for a certain period of time, and then take the food away once that time is up, even if there’s some left over. Over time your dog will realize it has limited time to eat, and will consume its entire meal during that time.Either method will help ensure there isn’t left over dog food sitting in a bowl that may attract flies.


If you decide to use a method whereby your dog can graze on food throughout the day, you may wish to keep the food and waters bowls quite separate to prevent dry dog food from getting wet. The dampness of the food may attract flies.;
, Flies are attracted to dog poop like they are to dog food. Obviously the dog food has to stay, but there’s no reason why the dog poop has to be left in the yard for any period of time. Clean-up and dispose of dog waste immediately after your dog has done its business and you should start to see the number of flies in the area decrease., Flies breed in moist or semi-liquid areas where they have access to vegetable or animal waste, including garbage, feces, compost piles and more. It only takes a maggot about 2-3 weeks to become a fly, and once hatched, flies tend to stick close to where they were born. Therefore cleaning up any breeding areas, and keeping them clean, will help ensure no new flies are born in the area.For dogs that are primarily outdoors, such as working dogs, another possibly breeding place for flies is the dog itself. Keeping your dog clean and dry, and making sure any open wounds are taken care of immediately, will also help remove possible fly breeding areas., Most flies that you find inside your house got there because they found an opening somewhere - such as a rip in a screen. The best way to keep flies out of the house is to make sure they don’t have a way to get inside. Fixing or replacing screens with holes or rips in them is a great start.When entering and exiting your home, be sure to open and close doors quickly to prevent any flies from getting inside. It is also a good idea not to prop doors open if at all possible, as that would create an open invitation to any flies, and other insects, to go right in.

