


The circle should also be placed over the general area of your face. To make sure that it is located in the right spot, place the bag over your head and have a second person trace the circle onto the bag, directly over your face.;
, Remove the bag from your head and cut out the circle using a pair of scissors.


You should also consider cutting a half-circle into the bottom left and right sides of the bag. Doing so is not strictly necessary, but it may help the bag sit on your shoulders more comfortably.
 Trace the shape of the tube onto the lid using a marker.


Repeat this step with the second oatmeal box lid, as well.
You can leave the lids on or take them off during this step. Note, however, that you will need to temporarily remove the the lids when you cut these circles out.
 Use your scissors to cut the two traced circles out of each lid. Put the lids back on their containers.You might need to use the point of a nail or the sharp tip of your scissors to punch a starting hole into the lid somewhere along the outline of the circle. After creating a starting hole, slide the scissors into this hole and cut around the circle as you usually would.
 Position the oatmeal boxes side by side at the back (uncut) side of your paper bag, near the bottom half. Use tape or staples to secure these boxes to the bag.Make sure that the lidded sides of the oatmeal boxes face up.
The bottom of each oatmeal box should extend below the bottom of the paper bag. You can make them extend however far you like, but make sure they are high enough up on the bag so that they can be securely attached.
 Slide one end of a paper towel tube through the top of one oatmeal box. Tape or staple the top of the tube to the paper bag.Repeat this step with the second paper towel tube and the second oatmeal box.
These cardboard tubes should mimic the appearance of oxygen tank hoses, and the oatmeal boxes should mimic the appearance of oxygen tanks.
 Use markers, crayons, or colored pencils to draw on and color the helmet in whatever way you wish.Also consider decorating the helmet with lightweight embellishments, like stickers or aluminum foil shapes.
 At this point, your space helmet should be ready to wear. Slip the bag onto your head so that the hole is in the front and the oatmeal boxes are in the back.

