 Calculating FTE is an important thing that you need to make sure gets done correctly. If you make a mistake in your calculations, it can negatively impact many aspects of your business including anticipating profits, taxes, and other issues. So if you don’t feel confident in your ability to calculate your business’s FTE perfectly, pay an accountant with experience in this field to do it for you.


You will need to provide this person with important information about your business so that they can gather all the information they’ll need to calculate your FTE.
They will need access to your employee files, previous tax documents, and other similar types of documents.
 Certain types of lawyers will have experience in this area and will be able to help you with your calculations to ensure they are done correctly. Seek out advice from corporate or tax lawyers for help calculating your FTE.
 FTE analysis can be a useful tool for assessing how many employees are needed in a certain part of a business or in total. Business owners can also track how overall employee growth has trended over the years in a clearer way by analyzing FTE changes. FTEs can be compared to other metrics to assess how much additional employees contribute to the business's profitability or revenues.If your business uses part-time employees, you might want to convert their hours worked into full-time equivalents.
You can also use FTE to compare headcount to revenues or square footage, which may be useful for making decisions about budgeting and hiring/laying off.
 One use of FTE is in calculating the size of a small business for health insurance purposes. Specifically, the Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) marketplace requires that business have fewer than 50 FTEs to qualify. This program offers affordable and high-quality employee insurance policies to business owners. Businesses also have to meet other standards to qualify., FTE is also used to mean "full time equivalent enrollment" and is used by universities and other educational institutions in a similar fashion to track enrollment of full and part-time students. Rather than work hours, class hours are used, with full-time students being those with a full credit load (often 12 hours per week) and part-time students being those taking fewer than 12. However, other schools may use different credit hour calculations for FTE.