 This is not going to be fun -- manipulative relationships never are. But you have to wade deep into your crappy feelings and personal worries or you're never going to understand things. Is this relationship healthy, or is it unhealthy? Try to be objective as you analyze how things have changed since this relationship began.


Let's be honest: sex clouds your judgment. Remove sex from the equation immediately. It should never be the only reason you're with someone. It doesn't matter how hot they are.
 You are the most important person in your own life, aren't you? Don't disregard your feelings as worthless, biased, or over reactionary. If you feel like crap in this relationship, then you're being treated like crap. End of story -- get out of there. This is especially true if you:


Feel scared of how your partner will act, or react.
Feel responsible for your partner's feelings.
Make excuses to other people for your partner’s behavior.
Believe it's all your fault.
Avoid anything that causes conflict or makes your partner angry.
Feel like your partner is never happy with you.
Always do what your partner wants you to do instead of what you want.
Stay with your partner because you are afraid of what your partner would do if you broke up.
 Are your family relationships and friendships increasingly filled with tension every time your partner's name comes up, or with your partner when their names come up? Red flags should go up if everyone who cares about you is becoming worried or being pushed away by your partner.


Does this person bring out your best or worst traits? You want to love yourself at all times -- because you're awesome. If you don't feel great, it's likely because their negative energy is sucking you down to their manipulative level.
Be aware of the way he/she behaves with your family and friends, especially if she/he antagonizes them, argues with them, or talks crap about them constantly.
If you decided it is just "easier" to ignore your friends and family, you've let the manipulating monster win. It's time to break this toxic relationship off.
 Falling head over heels isn't necessarily a bad thing, but you can't leave your head in the sand for too long. Your starry-eyed affection can make you willfully close your eyes to warning signals, even as friends and family tell you to wake up. You need to have some "you time" to find out what's what. Step aside from the relationship for a few days, however you can, and ask yourself:


Do you find yourself apologizing or defending your significant other's behavior toward you? You shouldn't have to defend a relationship with someone -- they should be good enough for you that it is obvious why you're together.
Are you hiding things from people? You should have privacy, of course, but you shouldn't be hiding a monster under the bed. The problem isn't keeping it a secret, its' that you are dating someone so terrible you have to keep a secret in the first place.
Do you always do what he or she wants, instead of you? You don't date someone because you want another boss in your life, do you? You have a right to your opinion, and you have a right to have your opinion respected -- forget about people who don't oblige.
Have you lost touch with your old friends and family? No matter how in love you are, you should never feel like you're cut off from old pals because of your new flame. They're trying to isolate you because you're easier to control -- especially if they're always throwing shade on your friends and family.
 Realize that they're amazing — on the surface — and you shouldn't beat yourself up for being attracted to that. Manipulators are often an odd mix of intelligence and charm-- it's how they get so manipulative. The best thing to do is just drop them from your life. These people are shallow and unworthy of your time, and it is their fault, not yours. The only reason they are manipulating you is because you're better than them -- so rock it and get the heck out of their life.


You have to acknowledge that they are using your love for them against you to keep you trapped in the relationship. You are not at fault for loving them. They are at fault for using your love as leverage.

