 While it may seem mean or callous to limit the information your parents have about what you’re doing, you may need to do so to stop them from turning into ever-present and overbearing figures in your daily life. If you have ruled out a medical cause as the reason for increased "neediness," or this has been an ongoing issue, you may need need to set very clear limits, or boundaries, with your parents.


All contacts should be mutually-agreeable. Don’t let your parents dictate what or where you do something.
Don’t let your parents know every detail of your daily schedule. If they do, there is a chance they could be present much more than you’re comfortable with.
If you’re an adult, make it clear that you don’t want to micromanaged.
Let them know that it is not okay to stop by your house, apartment, or dorm randomly. For instance, say “Mom, I love you, but I’m an independent person with my own life and responsibilities. I’d appreciate it if you’d give me some personal space.”, If your parents have a long history of being needy and interfering in your life, then you may need to simply accept that this is who they are. Instead of trying to change them, focus on how to protect yourself. Decide what you will and will not accept from them, and let them know that there are consequences for violating those boundaries.For instance, you might say, “Mom, I'm happy to go shopping with you once a month, but I don't have time to do it every weekend.” Or you might say, “Dad, I love seeing you, but you cannot continue to let yourself into my house whenever you feel like it. You need to call first and we can agree on a time and place to meet. If you do it again, I am going to ask for my emergency key back.”
If your parents try to draw you into arguments, set a boundary by walking away. Say, “I'm not willing to discuss this any further.”

, There may come the time when you need to sit down with your parents and have a serious and prolonged conversation about their emotional needs and your life. If this happens, you need to explain how their actions and neediness interfere with your need to be an independent person.


Schedule a time to talk with them, like over a coffee or a meal.
Explain to them that while you love and care for them, their neediness or behavior is causing problems for you. For example, say “Mom, while I love you, the amount of time you want to spend together is causing me to neglect my own duties as a parent and a professional.”
Allow them to explain how they feel. For instance, say something like “Mom, am I misunderstanding your needs?”
Ask your parent if there is any underlying problem they want to talk about. You might discover that there is something like a recently diagnosed medical issue that has been influencing their behavior.
Make sure to explain to them the importance of your personal boundaries., At some point you may need to limit contact with your parents. Ultimately, this is a final and extreme step if communication and other ways of interacting with them have failed.


Limiting contact may be necessary when you have parents that are mentally ill or abusive.

If your parents are ill, then this may require an initial period of increased contact. For instance, as you work out their care (for instance, dividing the work between family members, hiring a nurse or other outside help, or moving them to a nursing home). You want to make sure their basic needs (including company and human contact) are being met and that they are getting the necessary medical care for their illness.
If your parents are simply overbearing and refuse to honor your boundaries, then you may need to call them and explain that their actions have driven a wedge between you. For instance, say "Mom, I've explained to you how your actions are negatively impacting my life. I think we need to both take a step back.
Limiting contact needs to be a unilateral step — you take it on your own without input from your parents. Don't allow them to try to negotiate with you.
Explain that limiting contact will last a certain amount of time, or until you think they will permanently change their behavior. For instance, say "Dad, I'm very busy over the next month. If you can respect my autonomy, I'd like to get together next month."
As part of limiting contact, you may need to recommend that your parents seek psychological help or support from a therapist, psychologist, or psychiatrist.