 Plan beyond "tomorrow" and the "day-after-tomorrow"... but the most urgent day where you live is always today but it points to your tomorrow. Your life today has to be on or the path -- and it is necessary to work on success (that means progress), including getting the best advice if you need it, or school counseling, the help of others to reach the thrill of victory.;
, So you are getting lined-up to make it happen each day as you follow the path that you chose.
, Stop Excuses: Get your big plan and your nuggets as objectives (most important goals) and your best idea into first place for working in and around your daily life and schedule. Your schedule may be necessary, but your goals should not be sliding back or off the path because of routine, daily troubles., Think about your family -- about handling life's short term and long term goals with them -- and with your friends and colleagues -- whatever applies. Some people along the way are helpful and some are less worthy, but treat them well.
 Pick your 3 or 4 Things to Do (ToDo's or TD's) early. Set priorities of which to do first, second, third,... early each day before spending time on tasks that matter so much less.
 It's an emergency. Maybe you want to write, read, work out, pray or plan at the break of dawn. Do it. Making your allotted 16 waking hours work for you each day. This way every day begins and stays positively aligned, if you start early toward your future and living the minutes, moment by moment.
 Make a two column list of your important or favorite ideas and skills and your less favorite ideas and memories, people and events -- and you’ll see how and why you became the person who reached where you are today.,, Maintain relationships today as part of life’s purpose and which help in achieving your life’s urgent mission.
, Make that urgent to straighten it out., There are never enough hours in a day for everything.
, Let it go. Check the possible consequences of not doing some goal -- of it not happening – but how much do those consequences matter to you. Look at the pay-off, rewards, and even if they sound impressive – but as an accomplishment they have little real meaning to you -- do you need that? You won't be satisfied with doing what doesn't matter to you. You don't care about it; regardless of how important it is to siblings parents, and greater family and others, or how impressive it may be to yourself -- or how important it was before, it may be time to:

Can you let go of getting a new/newer car every 2 years?
Can you let go of signing up for 30 years of payments for a more expensive house?

, It’s a commitment to your life -- the future.
 First things are critical: urgent.
 It must not backslide. Your routine can pause and stop; let those routine things fall, slide down, and make time to rise and climb into your future that matters.
 Time spent on what doesn’t matter is time you lose forever – and that is a tragedy for your hope in life, and your future. It is not someone's future; it's your urgent life. Walk it out, hurry to do what matters.

