 A forwards number-one goal at all times is to put the ball on target. Even if they don't score, shooting on target creates corners, deflections, and rebounds that lead to goals and put defenses under pressure. Your mindset should always be to create the space needed to pull a shoot off for either you or your teammates.


Note that you want your team to shoot, not just you. Some forwards will get lots of direct chances, others will feed their partner forwards with good chances and take only a few themselves.
 A mobile striker is the most dangerous. Even if you don't get the ball every time, good forwards know that they need to keep the defense on their toes for 90 minutes, as this is when they make mistakes and reveal the sorts of gaps that create goals. When your team has the ball, look up for the open space and make a run.


Always be on a light jog, or on the balls of your toes, to get the jump on defenders when space opens up. They'll be looking to close down space as you try to fill it.
Keep your eye on your other forward(s). Timing runs to weave and criss-cross with them will throw the defense for an enormous loop., If you're simply standing in the box, waiting for the ball to arrive, you're incredibly easy to mark up. Instead, time your runs so that you get to the ball as it is arriving, allowing you to cut it out before the ball reaches a defender and get a running start for any jumping header. Keep your eye on the ball and reach it just as it becomes available to play and you'll win many more headers, volleys, and long balls.


This is also the best strategy to avoid offside traps, letting you go from jogging to sprinting once the ball is played instead of trying to hit full speed from standing.
Curling runs are great for making time and space. Instead of sprinting into the box straight on, take a curving path as the ball is coming down the wings, then cut straight in once the ball is in the air. Your curling run lets you approach the box on the run while still letting you change directions quickly.
 Checking means running towards the teammate with the ball, opening up space and making the pass shorter. This is particularly important when working with another striker, as the space you just ran away from is now open for him if your defender follows your check. If you don't get the ball and a defender is on you still, keep moving. If you do get the ball, try to turn to face the goal -- greatly pressuring the defense.


Always look over your shoulder quickly as you check. If you caught your defender sleeping you may have more time with the ball than you think., A striker can't be selfish, but they also can't be passive. You need to be able to run at a defender with the ball, throwing a move to beat him, sprinting around with a big touch, or sucking in the defense to make a last-second pass. Great forwards force the defense to react to them, which creates space for the rest of your team. The best times to attack are when you have the defense in motion, particularly as they track backward. Go at them, forcing them to make a decision.The wings are a good place to really challenge defenders. They usually have little support, and a turnover is much easier to win back with the sideline to your advantage.
Don't take on defenders in near the half-field unless you're sure you can beat them -- a turnover here is particularly dangerous.
Even if you lose the ball, no defender wants to be under pressure all game. They will start to break down and make mistakes -- and all you need is one goal.
 This is especially important for younger players, as inexperienced defenders and goalies will make mistakes that lead to easy goals. When you or a teammate shoots, run after the ball towards goal, ready to quickly re-shoot any rebounds, deflections, or partial saves.


It is very, very difficult to clear the ball on defense when facing your own goal. Make this job even harder and you'll pick up a few easy goals a season., You're no good to your team on defense or offense if you just sit up top and wait. Come back to midfield to keep the defenders from settling the ball and playing easy crosses in without pressure. Most importantly, be ready to check or sprint on counter-attacks. If the ball is being crossed or cleared, it is your job to hold onto possession until your team gets into offensive position.