 Close the waffle iron and preheat it to the highest setting, following the manufacturer's instructions.


You should be able to use nearly any standard-sized waffle iron for this procedure. Usage instructions will vary based on the manufacturer and model, however, so you need to be familiar with the machine you're using before embarking on this recipe.
After the waffle iron preheats, consider spraying the grate with a light coating of nonstick cooking spray. This may not be necessary if the waffle iron has a nonstick cooking surface, however.
 Peel the skin off the potatoes. Rinse off any stray dirt and pat the potatoes dry with clean paper towels.


If you'd prefer to keep the skins, wash the potatoes under running water and thoroughly scrub off any dirt using a stiff vegetable brush.
 Using a box grater or mandolin, grate both potatoes into thick shreds.At this point, the raw potatoes should look similar to hash browns.
Do not rinse the shredded potatoes since doing so will rinse away too much of the potatoes' natural starch. That starch is necessary since it will help bind the shreds together.
 Place 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of butter in a small microwave-safe dish. Microwave the butter for 10 to 20 seconds, or until it's completely melted.


If desired, you could use margarine or olive oil instead of the butter.
 Place the shredded potatoes into a large bowl. Drizzle the melted butter on top and sprinkle the potatoes with salt and pepper.


Use your hands or a mixing spoon to toss the ingredients together, coating the potatoes evenly with the butter and seasonings.
 Spoon the seasoned potatoes over the bottom of the preheated waffle iron. Arrange the shreds into a thin, even layer.


Depending on the size of the waffle iron and the size of the potatoes, you may need to separate the shredded potatoes into two batches. Cook one batch, remove the finished fries, and cook the second batch in the same manner.
 Close the waffle iron and allow the fries to cook until they reach a deep golden brown.


The amount of time may vary depending on your waffle maker. It's generally a good idea to check on the fries after 5 or 6 minutes, though.
If the bottom of the fries are cooking faster than the tops, consider flipping them over before you finish cooking them.
 Use a fork to carefully lift the finished waffle fries out of the waffle iron. Enjoy the fries while they're still hot for the best flavor and texture.

