 The player that draws the star will be the “Angel of Death.” This player should reveal that they are the Angel of Death. After two hours, this person has the option of ending the game without a winner at any time. The Angel of Death, however, must still be in the game to end it., If you own more than one railway, and you land on one of your own railways, you may "take a train" to another one of your railroads on your next move instead of rolling the dice. If another player lands on one of your railways, they may travel to another of your railroads in the same way by paying an agreed upon "ticket fare" in addition to the regular rent., Typically, three consecutive doubles will land a player in Jail. It is an option to allow a player to roll unlimited doubles with no consequences. This is great for the lucky player that rolls more than three consecutive doubles, but may get frustrating for the rest of the players., If a player offers to pay 'N' times the face value of a property (Value of N is decided before starting the game) which is owned by another player, who doesn't want to sell it, then the fate of the proposed trade is decided by rolling the dice by both players involved (Aggressive Buyer & Noncommittal Seller). Whoever score highest wins his side of the trade. Hostile bids have to be either on single properties, or if the property is developed then the face value should include the development face value. If the seller owns a pack of single color of properties, the bid has to be for N times the face value of pack (pack cannot be broken by hostile takeover).


Only two hostile bids are allowed between two players before the buyer completes one round around the board. Only one bid per property per player per round. The seller has to pay 30% of the trade value to the bank as tax (this also prevents immediate reverse hostile take over)

, Games of Monopoly can be played for hours at a time with seemingly no end in sight. It is, however, possible to play a shorter game that will only last an hour to and hour and a half. To make the game shorter (use a slightly different set of rules:


Pass out two or three free properties from the bank to each player at the beginning of the game.
Only three houses are required before building a hotel instead of four.
Always get out of jail on your first turn, whether you use a get out of jail free card, roll doubles, or pay $50.
Always pay a flat $200 when landing on Income Tax.
End the game when one person goes bankrupt. All players must add up their properties and houses/hotels at purchase price, their cash, and their mortgaged properties half of the purchase price. The winner is the player with the highest total value.

