 You've probably heard people say, "No one likes tattle-tales," but you must look out for your own well-being. If bullies become violent, start harassing you constantly, or harass you online, tell someone. Whether it's a teacher, parent, or guidance counselor, it is important that someone is informed. Even if you think getting others involved may make the situation worse, adults can often help you determine an effective action plan. If the teasing happens at school, talk to a trusted teacher or guidance counselor. School officials should have training in how to deal with bullying. Think about what may reduce the interaction with the bully and help you feel safer. This may include rearranging seating or providing more adult supervision.
Talk to a parent or family member that can give you some advice. Your parents should be alerted of the situation, especially if you are in danger. Note that getting your parents to talk to a bully’s parents, however, is often not recommended. A close friend may be the first person you are inclined to turn to when being picked on. Trusted friends should be willing to help you cope. They may accompany you to see a guidance counselor, or stay at your side when you are facing harassment.
Telling someone that you are being picked on can be challenging. Let them know how you’re feeling by starting with, “This is hard for me to talk about, but I wanted to tell you what is going on.”

, Bullies pick on people who have low social standing or show low self-esteem. This does not mean that you should change who you are! Instead, work on feeling comfortable in your skin. Get involved in activities that make you feel good about yourself. Consider joining an school club, or take an extra class that helps you practice a skill that you enjoy.
Exercise as a way to nurture a positive outlook and improve your self-image. You may enjoy a team sport, yoga, or self-defense classes. Positive affirmations are important in building security and self-esteem. Keep a journal and write positive things about yourself daily, not just when you are feeling bad.
 There are several websites that are geared towards middle and high-school students who face bullying. Browse through the stories and advice on websites that provide a safe space for discussing such topics. 