 Stand with your feet shoulder width apart. Kick your left leg across your body toward the right side, turning your body in that direction as you kick. As you bring your leg back down, bend your knees in a squat. As you stand up from the squat, kick your right leg out to the left side, turning your body as you kick. Return your right foot to where it started, landing in another squat. Repeat the full rotation to the beat of the music.


Swing your arms in the same direction as you leg. When you squat, you can do whatever you want with you arms, like raise them over your head or throw them out to the sides.Make sure you don't bend down too far. You don't want to lose your balance or hurt your leg muscles.
 Start with your hips shoulder width apart. Step out with your right foot, pointing your toe out to the right side about 45 degrees and resting your heel on the ground. On the next count, lay your toes down, twisting your foot to point your toes to the left side at a 45 degree angle. Next, bring your right knee up, keeping your leg at the same angle your foot is in. Hop in place as you drop your right foot, landing on your left foot, which is now resting on your left heel and pointing out to the left side. This position mirrors the position your right foot was it a few beats ago. Repeat all the moves on this side, including the transitional hop. Repeat the circuit, alternating as you keep up with the beat of the music.


You may need to try this move slowly until you get the hang of it. Try doing it to a slow song or move on every other beat of the music if the song is too fast., Start with your legs slightly less than shoulder width apart. Jump toward the left side, angling your body toward the left as you land on your right foot and pop your left foot back. Hop to switch feet, landing with your left foot down and right foot raised in front of you, still angled toward the left side. Hop again, switching back to your right foot with your left foot raised in front of you. Repeat the move, jumping toward the right side, angling your body in that direction as you land on your left foot with your right foot popped behind you. Repeat the remaining steps on this side. Transition between sides each time your make it through the circuit of steps.


This move is complicated, so it may take some practice. Try is slowly at first, increasing tempo as you get better at it., Start with your legs shoulder width apart. Jump in place, raising your right leg as you jump. Next, put your right leg back down. To complete the rotation, jump in place again, lifting your left leg. Then, sit down your left leg. Repeat, changing legs each time.


This can be adapted to any tempo music. You can do it at a slower pace, adding in a small dip in your leg as you jump. You can also do it faster, making your hops smaller as you switch legs to the beat of the music.
Swing your arms slightly with the movements of your body. This will look cool with your move and will help keep you balanced., Start with your feet together. Hop on your left foot, moving a small step forward as you hop. At the same time, lift your right leg up toward the middle, swinging it out toward the right side in one fluid motion. Next, hop as you move your right foot behind where your left foot was, landing with your right foot at an angle toward the right side. At the same time, lift your left leg, pointing it slightly toward the right side. Next, repeat the original moves now that you are on the opposite side. Hop your right foot forward as you swing your left leg toward the left side. Hop to switch legs again. Repeat the move, transitioning between legs each time.


Given the difficulty of this move, try it at a slow pace at first until you get the hang of it. Once you get it, you can increase the tempo.
Move your arms at your side, keeping them bent for balance as you hop between your feet.