 Technology can be very distracting, both for you and grandma. Turning off your alerts and putting away your electronic devices will show her that she has your full attention. Have grandma do the same by saying something like:"Hey grandma, I don't want any interruptions today while we're hanging out, so I thought we could turn off our devices and do something else."
"Grandma, you've been using your iPad for quite a while. Is there a game or an activity we can both do together?";
, You never know when you and grandma might have something in common. You might both have a deep love of music, art, sports, reading, and so on. They only way to find out is to ask. Tell grandma about your interest, and ask about hers as well saying things like:"My English class has been reading the book Of Mice and Men. Do you like that writer, John Steinbeck?"
"I joined the dance team last week, and I'm having so much fun. Do you have a favorite dance? Could you teach me how to do it?"
"Grandma, today I want to do something we can both enjoy. Maybe we could play a board game in the park or go bird watching. What do you think?"

, If you think some of grandma's hobbies and skills, like sewing, crocheting, baking, and so on, are too old fashioned for you, you could be missing out on fun without knowing it. Give these activities a shot. At the very least, your grandma will likely appreciate you taking an interest in the things she does.Many of your hobbies will be too difficult or strenuous for your grandma. By picking up one of her hobbies, you'll both be able to have fun doing something together.
Puzzles and tabletop games, like cards or board games, will be less physically difficult for your grandma and can be a lot of fun.
Some common skills your grandma might be able to teach you includes things like making jam, writing shorthand, mending, and more., Your grandma probably has a daily routine that doesn't change very much. This isn't necessarily a bad thing, but doing something different could be exciting and fun for both of you. Ask your grandma if she'd be interested in:Going on a photo safari. Use your camera or phone to hunt for interesting pictures, like a red bird, a three-legged dog, or a bird wearing a bread crust necklace. You could even turn your safari into a competition.
Visiting a local museum or art exhibit. Many museums have kids sections, so if you're younger, there will be something fun to do for you and grandma both.
Heading to the library or community center for local events, like movies, game nights, book clubs, and more.

