 It’s a reason to touch her in a non-sexual way. It’s also a legitimate reason to touch her without seeming too flirty especially if you greet her with a hug. If you do this every time you see her, she will begin to understand that hugging is the way that you greet her.You could possibly get a hug every time you see her.


If you want to take it a step further, hug her more frequently. Give her hugs for no reason if you know her fairly well. With time, this may escalate and she might start giving you hugs.However, also keep in mind that some people just don't like hugging. So, it is important to pay attention to her body language and facial expressions. If she doesn't like it, stop; and of course, if she tells you to stop, you should stop immediately.
 Some girls like this. Focus on the hair at the nape of the neck because playing with her hair in this area will probably give her chills -- in a good way. If she is comfortable with you, play with the hair close to her torso or bustline. (Be respectful though.)From there if the girl is still comfortable, take it a little further. With the back of your hand, gently push the hair hanging in front of her shoulders behind her shoulders. (Please don't do this if it looks like the girl worked a long time to style her hair. Even if you are just trying to flirt with her, she will get mad at you for ruining her hair.) If all is well, start to rub her neck like you’re giving her a neck massage.
 If she likes you, she'll most likely lean back on you. Touch her gently so you don't startle her. If you two get really comfortable she might even let you slide your hand down a little lower.Once she’s comfortable with you putting your hands on her waist, grab her and swing her around. Then, she’ll be facing you. Lean in and whisper something in her ear, or just say it outright. You’ll be able to tell if she liked it by the expression on her face. (Beware: Some girls are extremely ticklish and tend to involuntarily squeal or giggle when someone touches their waists).
 When you're walking next to her on a sidewalk or path, gently push her off the path. She'll probably push you back, which will start some playful flirting. Because even childishly pushing each other is a way of flirting. (Don't do this on a busy road though. Someone might get hurt.), If you're already friends and you're watching a movie, reading, or just talking with friends, go over and lie your head in her lap. Let her play with your hair. If she pushes you off, just laugh. This only works well if you’ve flirted with this girl many times before.
 Good areas for tickling are under her ribs or the sides or her stomach. If she likes you, she'll tickle you back -- probably while smiling or laughing. Watch her signals though, if she doesn't like it or if she pulls away, stop. You don’t want to annoy her and ruin any chances of getting close to her again. If she pulls away, revert back to the physical touching that she seems to be comfortable with and do that for a while., Pay attention to her body language and anything that she says. You don't want to overstep her boundaries. Overt touching should be consensual, and some people are uncomfortable with public displays of affection or being touched at all. Everyone is different, so it is very important to pay attention to her verbal and non-verbal cues. If she says, "stop" at any point, then stop. If she looks uncomfortable, stop. She'll perceive you as invading her space and possibly harassing her. Neither are attractive or respectful.

