 Your introverted teen may have a lot of different interests, but these interests may not be what other children like. Your teen may not be interested in teen sports or school clubs. Talk to your teen about what they are passionate about and help them pursue those interests.For example, your child may be interested in writing or painting, so you may be able to find writing or painting classes in your community. If your child is interested in science or computers, consider science and computer camps.
 Introverts need privacy and space. They often spend a lot of time in their bedrooms with the door closed. While you may be suspicious or worried that your child is spending so much time alone, understand that introverts need that space and privacy.Introverts need time away from everyone else. They enjoy being alone and in quiet environments. They like solitary activities, like reading or writing. Respect your child when they demonstrate they need their space.
 Introverted teens needs time to be alone to regroup and center themselves. If they don’t have this time, they may get upset or feel out of sorts. Your teen needs time every day to be by themselves.This may be 15 to 30 minutes of time in their room where they can process the day’s events.
Don’t get mad or think they are being antisocial if they spend time alone every day after dinner or even on weekends.
 One important thing to do as you raise your introverted teen is to understand what being introverted means. Introverted people may enjoy alone time, not share their feelings easily, and prefer small groups to large crowds. Your teen may have a few good friends and it may take them awhile to open up to people.Introverts may be chatty with family members or people they have a connection to, but may not talk to strangers. They may listen more than talk when they are with others.
They prefer solitary activities, like reading, writing, or drawing. They often watch activities before they join.Introversion is not being shy. Shy implies there is a bit of social anxiety in the person causing them to feel uncomfortable in a social situation.

