 You can also purchase remnants of lace edging or ribbon on the Internet or at many thrift stores., You can run one or two layers through your sewing machine to improve the look of the lace. Layer your lace and run it through a ruffler foot attached to your sewing machine.


A straight stitch through a ruffler foot will result in pretty gathered ribbon for your flower., You can fold the lace fabric horizontally and run it through your sewing machine and ruffle foot to create a finished edge that will not break or fray.
 It will create a multi-colored flower.
 Cut ten inches (25cm) of lace ribbon for a large flower. Use sharp fabric scissors to improve the edges.
 It will provide the backing for your flower. Since lace is a delicate and opaque fabric, a contrasting color will likely show through the lace flower.
 For small flowers, use a circle that is two inches (5cm) in diameter. For a large flower, cut a circle that is four inches (10cm) in diameter.
 Keep in mind that the finished edge should be on the outside of the flower. The unfinished edge, if there is one, should be glued to the interior of the felt.
 You can also use very strong fabric glue, as long as it is applied with a fine tip applicator.
, Make sure you set the rough, inside edge against the glue, instead of your finished edge. Allow the glue to set for five minutes, so that it doesn’t come loose while you wrap the ribbon around the felt.
 As you wrap it, it will gather into a circular bloom shape.
 Wrap your lace ribbon around that edge in a circle. When you come to the starting edge, you will bring the lace inside to spiral it in a petal pattern.


Hold the lace in place and allow the glue to set for five minutes, if the lace is slipping away from the felt circle.
 Wrap the lace in a spiral and press the edge onto the glue. Repeat the spiral of glue and lace until you come to the center of the circle.


Press the lace down with a toothpick or pencil to avoid burning yourself with hot glue.
 Use a matching thread and a needle to secure the center of the lace on the felt circle as you would a button.
 It will look like a style, or center, of the flower. You may want to choose a contrasting color to improve your flower design.,