 Depending on where you are, you may have a choice about which opposite sex lavatory to use. Look for lavatories that are less frequented or more out of the way if there are multiple options.In a mall, try lavatories in big department stores or restaurants.
If you are in a large public place or business, like a sports arena or office complex, your only option is likely to be large lavatories with multiple stalls. Try to go when other people are occupied with the game or busy with their customers.;
, If the lavatory is in a small business or public area, it may or may not be easier to use the other lavatory discreetly.


If the lavatory door is very exposed or in a busy area it might be hard to slip in without being noticed.
With fewer people in a small business or restaurant or bar, it’s much more likely that the people who work there are aware of you and what you are doing. Try to slip in when they are occupied with customers or busy in some other area.
Often it’s the case that smaller businesses, if they have a public restroom, are less strict about who goes in which lavatory. Try asking someone if it’s ok to use the opposite sex lavatory.
 It can be risky using the opposite sex lavatory, so be alert to your situation. Follow your instincts about how comfortable you feel when using the opposite sex lavatory.


You might feel ill at ease in places where you’re more noticeable. Choose a lavatory in a location in which you don’t feel like you stand out.
Be wary of using the opposite sex lavatory in any place that feels too isolated or empty.
Regulations about who is allowed to use which restroom are currently a big topic of debate and even legislation. In most states, there are no laws about using the opposite sex lavatory, but there are in some. Know what your legal risk is and act accordingly., If you have been waiting outside the restroom for a while, watch the other restroom to see if there is a steady stream of people, or if it stays empty for several minutes at a time. If it does, you can slip in the next time you see someone come out.
 The size of the lavatory makes a big difference in terms of how many people may either be currently using the facilities, or might walk in while you’re in there. Be aware of what kind of space you’re walking into before using the lavatory.


Try to find a lavatory with stalls that have working locks on the doors.
Small to medium size lavatories with just a few stalls can get really crowded, making it hard to make a discreet exit. Try to slip in and out quickly.
Single use lavatories are probably the ideal choice, mostly because these types of facilities have exterior doors with locks on them. Be sure it's empty before you go in.
 It’s not good for you to go for long periods trying to hold back your need to go, but if you can wait just a bit longer you have a better chance of finding a lavatory that will work best for you. Start looking before your need gets to the crisis level. Once you have reached that point, do the best you can to make the safest choice possible., If you can, pick a moment when there aren’t many people around. Even if you’re in a crowded place, there might be times when the lavatory isn't so crowded. For instance, during showtimes, movie theater bathrooms are likely to be empty or almost empty., If the lavatory has more than one toilet, you should keep track of who has come out and who has gone in. When all of the people you have seen go in have exited, you can be fairly sure the lavatory is empty.
 Depending on the kind of establishment, the number of people around can stay steady or vary greatly throughout the day and evening.


Places like shopping centers, grocery stores, libraries, or coffee shops can often have a steady flow of people around all day. This means a moderate but steady flow of people in and out of the lavatory as well. If you need to use the opposite sex lavatory in these kind of places, try to slip in when things seem less busy and no one is waiting in that line.
You’re likely to see low traffic in busy restaurants after the lunch rush and before the dinner crowd shows up. If the restaurant stays open between 3:00 and 5:00, you have a good chance of not being noticed if you have to use the opposite sex lavatory.
If they have a public lavatory, small businesses like book stores or nail salons will typically have very few customers in the store at one time. If you can’t get in one lavatory, it should be pretty easy to duck into the other one.
 You want to make sure that the lavatory is empty, especially if it has more than one stall. Even when the last person you saw go in comes out, there’s still a chance someone is inside. Tap on the door and wait a minute for a response. You can also stick your head in and ask if anyone is there., Most people will head for one of these too and you want to go unnoticed if someone should come in while you are there.


If someone should come in while you’re in the stall, wait quietly until they leave before leaving yourself.
If someone comes in and is waiting for the stall you are in, let them know you're there, and that you're coming out. This way they are at least prepared for seeing you in their lavatory.
If there are people waiting for the stall you were using, or waiting for you to finish before they come into the lavatory, say a quick “thank you” to them as you leave.
 Have them wait outside to let other people know you're in there, and warn you that someone needs to come in. They can also ask the other people if they could give you just a few minutes to finish up.
 When in line with other people who are also waiting on the lavatory, see if someone wants to take turns with you being a lookout while you each use the opposite sex lavatory.
 If you have been standing in line for one lavatory for a while and the other line is moving much more efficiently, you can ask if you can break into the faster line. Especially in crowded places where there is a huge difference between how lines are moving, a sympathetic someone might let you in ahead of them and watch the door for you., If it really is a physical emergency, definitely let someone know. If your need for using the lavatory as quickly as possible is not a physical emergency, for instance you’re about to miss your bus, don’t over-explain. Just say it’s urgent and often you can get use of the lavatory immediately. Be sure to say thanks to anyone who helps you out.
 Get in and out as quickly as you can, and apologize to anyone you've kept waiting.

