 Families may also experience various reactions to their loved one who is suffering from PTSD. It can be difficult to cope with a loved one who is constantly pushing people away, or experiencing traumatic flashbacks. These symptoms can create common reactions that family members and other loved ones experience.


Keep in mind that these reactions are normal, and that living with someone with PTSD can be very difficult.
These reactions are described in the following steps.
 People often feel very sorry that someone they care about has had to suffer through a terrifying experience and that their loved one still suffers from PTSD. However, too much sympathy can be a bad thing leading a family to “baby” a trauma survivor. This can send the message that the family does not think the trauma survivor is capable of overcoming the ordeal.


For example, if you do not expect your loved one to pursue treatment and go to therapy appointments, they may feel like you don’t have confidence in their ability to recover.
 Because irritability is one of the basic symptoms of PTSD, conflict is often inevitable. A short fuse and readiness to defend or fight rather than back down could result in more angry outbursts towards family members and others.
 After a traumatic experience, many people with PTSD will become disconnected from their loved ones as they cope with what has happened. This can be very hard for you and other family members but try to give the person space.


Remember that they are not distancing themselves because they want to hurt you, but rather because they are dealing with what has happened to them.
 Family members can often feel guilt or shame after a traumatic event for many reasons. They may feel guilty because they feel responsible for caring for their loved one. Family members may also feel shame with dealing with their loved one, as they may feel like they are failing. Remember that dealing with a loved one with PTSD is not easy, but that you are doing all that you can to help them.
 These negative feelings can include anger and resentment towards the traumatized person or towards those who traumatized the individual.

