


Search for your product online. Guess what words people are using to search for your goods. If you have not yet optimized your web page with keywords, your website may not come up in search results as you had expected.
Use search engines to find your competitors. Note which keywords rank their website highly in the results. Do dozens of searches to find which keywords are working for your competitors, and which important keywords they may be ignoring.;
, This is the best way to become familiar with keywords and how valuable they are in the online advertising marketing.


Try PPC ads on Google Adwords and Microsoft AdCenter to begin with. Choose several keywords, including multiple terms at once, to see which are the most successful. You will only pay when someone clicks on your ad. You can also set limits for how many clicks you can afford per day.
Review the reports of the PPC ad success on AdWords and AdCenter sites. See how much traffic they drive to your website. Also, look at how quickly your limits were reached and which keywords provided the best conversion rates.
In PPC advertising, head keywords, those that are the most broad and common, are more expensive. You will be asked to bid on the amount you will pay per click. The amount you decide will be weighted depending upon how your competition bids. For small businesses, head keyword ads are often too expensive, so long tail keywords offer the best targeting and value.
 If you do not have a built in program that tracks your web traffic, install Google Analytics to monitor how people are finding your website.
 Type in several head keywords.
 These are queries that people have typed into Google.


For example, you may type in "workout clothes." Google search may suggest "workout clothes for women." This second group of words is called a long tail keyword.
 Type in long tail keywords, such as "workout clothes for women" to see how well they perform.


You will learn the frequency with which these long tail phrases are used for searching. You may be surprised to note that the most common related long tail keywords are "2xx womens workout clothes" and "workout clothes women."
Repeat the process with other potential long tail keywords that relate to your products, services or content. Write down the 2 to 3 most searched phrases for each potential keyword.
 In the web traffic section of your analytics program there should be a section that shows traffic sources and search terms. Ask your marketing department or web programmer if you cannot find it.


If you are using Google Analytics, you can find these terms in the "Traffic Sources" section under "Sources." Look in "Search" and choose "Organic."

, This is primarily useful with content, not products.


Type in your search term. Go to an article. Look in the Table of Contents and see what topics are subheadings in the article.
 Adding a phrase like "Los Angeles" or "Culver City" to "Workout pants" may make it a highly specialized and valuable long tail keyword.


Test your regional long tail keyword in WordStream's keyword tool. Certain areas will have higher results than others.
 These may be keywords that you only want to use on your website or PPC ads for a month; however, they can improve your search results immediately.


Type in your search terms. You will see a graph to show if the prevalence of the keywords is changing for better or worse. Experiment with news-related items until you find several search terms that are hot now.
, AdCenter and AdWords help track this information for you.



Replace the head keywords in PPC ads with long tail keywords. Test them for at least 2 weeks before analyzing the results. Pay special attention to the conversion rate in sales. Long tail keywords may produce fewer clicks; however, they are targeted. When you find the right keywords, they should result in more sales per click, making them more valuable because you pay per click.
Use them in your article titles, URLs, image names, meta descriptions, meta tags and content. If you do not have a marketing employee in charge of SEO, you may want to employ a consultant at this time. Take your most successful long tail keywords and add them to these areas. Monitor your increase in web traffic from organic sources.
Create backlinks with social media and edu websites that use these keywords. Write status updates and post link content that uses the keywords on LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter and blogs.
Post high quality content that includes these long tail keywords. Hire a professional writer who can include them without sacrificing the quality of the content. Encourage user reviews on those website pages, which will encourage others to use combinations of those keywords in their comments.

