 Adding exercise to your schedule may take some planning, but it won’t be impossible. To get the benefits of the physical activity, schedule 150 minutes of exercise into your week.Adults should aim for at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity activity or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic activity, or a combination of these.Adolescents should get at least 60 minutes of moderate or vigorous physical activity each day., There are so many activities you can do for aerobic exercise. You can join intramural sports teams, go for walks with friends, or hit your college’s gym. Make sure to think about whether you are doing moderate or vigorous intensity workouts.Moderate physical activity includes brisk walking at three miles per hour or faster or bicycling slower than 10 miles per hour. You can also play doubles tennis, go ballroom dancing, or do general gardening.
Vigorous intensity workouts include race walking, jogging, or running or cycling faster than 10 miles per hour. You can also swim laps, play singles tennis, do aerobic dancing, jump rope, or hike with a heavy backpack or uphill.Many gym classes provide excellent opportunities for vigorous and moderate exercise.
Any aerobic activity should be performed for at least 10 minutes at a time to gain brain-boosting benefits. You should also spread it out throughout the week to keep your brain focused and sharp.
 Committing to an exercise program to help your studies may be difficult at first. Keep in mind the mental and cognitive benefits of the exercise and how it will help improve your school performance.Sit down and list all your commitments, activities, and study hours. Don’t forget to list sleep times, meal times, and time for other things, like showering. Look for places you can incorporate exercise.
Don’t forget to count daily exercise. If you walk 10 or more minutes to class or work, this counts as aerobic physical activity. If you can start walking to class, make that one of your changes.
Choose something that you believe you will enjoy and that can easily be placed into your schedule. If you have trouble finding time to workout, consider going out for a 30 minute jog or dancing around your room for half an hour.
Breaking up exercises into smaller increments, such as three 10-minute fast-paced walks, can offer brain-boosting benefits if you struggle fitting exercise into your day., Consistent daily workouts, or workouts that coincide with your studying and classes, are more effective than trying to get 150 minutes of physical activity in on the weekend. The consistent physical activity throughout the week will boost your brain during the week, closer to when you study, instead of isolating it on the weekend.If you have class three times a week and study on those days, try to go for at least a 30 minute walk or jog before you go back to your room to study. If you go to school every day for eight hours, spend half an hour to an hour after school lets out doing something physical, then study after you get home., Exercise is great for relieving stress and reducing anxiety. Therefore, try not to make the physical activity a stressful part of your day. Allow yourself the time to take care of yourself. Remember, though you are not studying or working when you exercise, you are helping to boost your overall studying effectiveness.


Listen to music while exercising. Numerous studies have linked music to stress relief and the reduction of anxiety. While out for your walk, listen to music that either relaxes you or makes you happy.Exercise with a friend. This can do two things at once: get physical activity into your day while letting you socialize, which can help boost your mood and reduce stress.