 Try to get to spills as soon as they happen. Use a dampened cloth for sticky spills, but dry the spot immediately afterwards with a microfiber pad.


Never use ammonia or regular household cleaning products to clean up a spill. These will damage the floor’s surface. Try Windex instead.
Avoid using water and vinegar to clean with, as well., Position them inside and outside your home’s exterior doors. Encourage visitors and family members to wipe their feet on them. Place additional mats in other high-traffic areas, such as in front of the kitchen sink and down frequently used hallways. A floor mat should also be placed in any area where water might be splashed, like by the kitchen sink.


Be sure to use floor mats that are made specifically for hardwood floors.Other types of mats, such as rubber-backed and non-ventilated mats, can trap moisture and debris underneath, causing surface damage to the floor.
Shake the mats out regularly to prevent debris build-up.
 The legs of furniture can leave behind significant scuffs and scratches on your floor’s surface. Place stick-on felt protectors under the legs of your furniture and keep them on at all times. These felt protectors get dirty quickly, so replace them often. If you don't, the debris embedded in the felt may scratch your floor.


Never drag a piece of furniture across a hardwood floor.
You can also try using thin, cup-shaped plastic protectors to cover the legs of furniture.
 Try to avoid wearing them when you have to walk on the floors. Consider keeping a pair of slippers or socks near the entryway so you can easily remove your heels at the door.
 Unfortunately, your pet’s claws can easily scratch the surface of your floor. Trim their claws on a regular basis to prevent this. If you are unable to trim the claws yourself, bring your pet to a professional groomer. Pay attention to your pet’s paws, as well. Pets often track in debris and other substances that can stain and scratch your floor. Keep your pet’s paw pads as clean as possible.

