 Do your best to stick to your normal sleeping habits, whether you have the entire summer or just a couple weeks off from school or work. Go to bed and wake up at the same times every day, and avoid sleeping too late. A change in routine can disrupt your workout and eating routines.If you sleep too late in the day, you’ll be less likely to be physically active and more likely to gain weight.
Getting the right amount of sleep will also help maintain your metabolism. Go for 7 to 9 hours if you’re an adult and at least 8 to 10 hours if you’re a teen or younger.;
, Eating breakfast, lunch, and dinner at the same times every day will keep your metabolism in check. You’ll also be less likely to graze on unhealthy snacks throughout the day.If you do snack between meals, go for healthy options, like Greek yogurt with fresh blueberries or 10 to 15 raw nuts., Summer is a great time to get more physical activity in because the days are longer and the weather is warmer. For some people, the warm weather and a lack of routine can make it difficult to follow an exercise regimen. However, you should keep up with your workouts, or start exercising if you don't already. Whether you go on brisk walks, jog, or ride your bike, try to get at least 30 minutes of physical activity per day.


Try out new activities to get more exercise during the summer. For example, you could go for a hike, go swimming, have a water balloon fight with friends, or run through sprinklers with your kids or pets.
Try using a physical activity diary to track your workouts and hold yourself accountable: https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/pdf/physical_activity_diary_cdc.pdf.
Talk to your doctor before taking on a new exercise regimen, especially if you have an existing condition, like heart or joint issues.
 If you have extra time on your hands during the summer, committing to a new responsibility can help you resist the urge to lounge. A part-time job can keep you busy while offering extra cash. You could also volunteer for a cause dear to you, like at your local animal shelter or soup kitchen.Taking on a new responsibility will leave you with less time to sit around and snack.

