 Even if you clean your sponge on a weekly basis, you should still sterilize it using heat at least once a month. This is especially important if you use your blender sponge on a daily basis. Standard cleaning removes surface bacteria, but the only way to kill bacteria lying deeper in the sponge is by killing it with a short burst of intense heat.


You may need to sterilize the sponge more than once a month if you notice the bacteria building up more rapidly. Signs of intense bacteria build-up include uncharacteristic acne breakouts and a foul/unusual odor coming from within the sponge.
Note that you'll still need to perform a basic cleaning procedure after sterilizing the sponge. Sterilization will only kill the bacteria; it will not remove any cosmetic stains or foundation.
 Fill a microwave-safe bowl with approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water. Lay the sponge down in the center of the water puddle.


You must sit the blender sponge in water. Do not microwave a fully dry sponge since doing so could damage the material or cause the sponge to catch fire.
 Place the uncovered bowl in your microwave and run the appliance at full power for 30 seconds.Keep an eye on the blender sponge as you microwave it. Don't be alarmed if it expands slightly or if small trails of smoke develop, but stop the microwave immediately if it balloons up past its full size or if heavy smoke starts to form.
 Wait one or two minutes before removing the bowl from the microwave and removing the sponge from the water.


The sponge will likely be very hot once the microwave cycle ends, and the waiting period is primarily for your own protection. You can actually handle the sponge as soon as it is cool enough to touch.
 Gently roll the sponge in clean, dry paper towels. Let it sit out at room temperature until it feels completely dry.


If you plan on performing a basic cleansing routine on the sponge after sterilizing it with heat, you can do so immediately after pulling it out of the microwave. You do not need to dry the sponge first.
Wait until the blender sponge is completely dry before using it as an applicator.

