 You can store cloth diapers in both dry and wet diaper pails. If you choose the dry method, you can use the same pails as disposable diapers, but pails that require special bags will not be a good fit as they lock diapers in individual bags. This does not allow access to launder the soiled diapers.
 Pails with a handle and pour spout are easier to carry and make it convenient to dump waste water.


Choose pails that are lightweight. Pails will become much heavier once they contain water.
 Wet pails should lock securely. Small children can fall into unsecure diaper pails and become trapped.
 Some brands of pails use special bags that you must purchase to use with the diaper system. These bags lock in odors and some brands wrap each diaper in an individual bag. They are not recommended as dry pails for cloth diapers.


Consider the cost associated with these bags since most children are not potty trained until age 2 or 3. Other pails use regular trash bags and are an inexpensive option over the long run. However, these pails may not lock in odors as effectively as pails that use special bags.;
, You can choose from hands free, motion sensor, foot pedal, push button, or locked lid options. Many systems have a large lid that you remove to empty the pail and replace trash bags and a smaller lid that you open to throw away dirty diapers. This is an added safety feature to prevent the child from opening the pail and falling in and it helps to trap odors within the pail.
 Search through store websites and read what other people thought of the different diaper systems. Find out if the pails you are considering live up to their claims.
, Many stores that sell baby items will have display models for you to look at.


Open and close different pails to see if they are easy to use. Practice with 1 hand.
Look at the pail accessories and replacement bags. Consider the price of the bags and odor pellets and see if they are readily available.
Compare prices to other models.
See if the directions are easy to follow.
