 If a food gives you indigestion, it will usually do so within about three hours. Even if you have never been sensitive to a food in the past, people can develop intolerances and sensitivities throughout their lives. One way to identify which foods may be causing your symptoms is to make a list of suspected foods or foods that commonly trigger indigestion, then eliminate them from your diet for two weeks, and notice if your indigestion stops. Then reintroduce the foods, one by one, and record if you begin experiencing symptoms again. If so, then you know you need to avoid that food. Common foods that trigger indigestion include:Caffeine. Though that morning coffee or tea may be crucial for getting out of bed in the morning, it may be causing your indigestion, too.
Spicy foods. Some people find that food with chili triggers their indigestion. The amount that people can tolerate is highly variable.
Fatty, heavy foods. This includes breaded, deep fried foods and foods cooked in a lot of oil. Many fast foods, such as fries, potato chips, and fried dough are deep fried.
Carbonated drinks. Fizzy drinks like sodas taste great, but they are frequent triggers for indigestion.
Chocolate. Chocolate can also trigger indigestion.;
, Alcohol can make your body produce more stomach acid. With more acid, you are at a higher risk of the acid irritating the tissues of your digestive tract.Do not mix alcohol with painkillers, even over-the-counter painkillers like aspirin. Doing so can increase the damage to the lining of your stomach.
 Time your last meal so that your body has plenty of time to digest it before you go to sleep. Try to finish eating at least three hours before you go to bed.This is important because when you lie down, it is easier for stomach acid to flow up into your esophagus.
If you are prone to heartburn when you go to bed, don’t lie completely flat. Prop yourself up slightly by putting pillows under your head and shoulders. This will allow you to use gravity to help keep the acid down.
 If you eat more frequently, you will be less hungry when you do eat. This will make you less likely to overeat. It will prevent you from overburdening your stomach with more food than it can handle.Overeating can stretch your stomach and be painful.
Instead of eating two or three huge meals, try eating five or six smaller ones. Add mid-morning and mid-afternoon snacks to your meal plan.
 Chewing breaks your food down into smaller pieces. In turn, that helps make it easier for your stomach to digest. The easier your stomach digests food, the less likely you are get indigestion.


Reduce the stress on your digestive system by eating slowly. This means that your digestive tract has less food to deal with at any given time.
If you usually eat your food in five to 10 minutes, consider pausing as you eat and stretching it out to 30 or 45 minutes.
In addition, eating slowly will allow your full stomach to communicate to your brain that you are full and you should stop eating, even if there is still food on the plate. Eating too fast doesn't allow this communication to naturally occur and you have already over eaten by the time your brain tells you that you are full.
 Carrying extra pounds puts pressure on your stomach, making you vulnerable to indigestion. The best way to control your weight is to eat healthy and exercise.A healthy balanced diet includes fresh fruits and vegetables, low fat dairy, whole grain breads and pastas, and, if you eat meat, lean meats. Foods to limit are fatty or sugary foods like red meat, fried foods, pastries, candies, cookies, and cakes.
Women who want to diet safely should aim for 1,200 – 1,500 calories per day. Men should eat 1,500 – 1,800 calories per day. These diets should enable you to lose a pound per week. If you plan to do more severe dieting, you should be supervised by a doctor to make sure that it is safe for you.
Regular exercise will help you trim down and burn calories. For best results, do 15 to 30 minutes a day at least five times per week. Make it fun by choosing an activity you enjoy like sports, running, walking, or biking.
 Stress triggers indigestion for many people. Luckily, there are many ways you can learn to control your reaction to stress and to relax. They may take some practice, but it is worth the effort. Relaxation techniques to try include:Deep Breathing
Meditation
Yoga
Tai Chi

, Some medications may make you vulnerable to indigestion. Do not stop taking your medications or change how you take them without talking to your doctor first. Your doctor will work with you to find a suitable alternative.Nitrates, which are given to widen blood vessels, may weaken the muscle at the bottom of your esophagus. This makes you more vulnerable to acid reflux.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen may make indigestion worse.
Some diabetes medicines (metformin) and antibiotics can also cause some stomach upset.
If you are unable to change medications, your doctor may advise you to take them with a meal.
 A muscle at the bottom of your esophagus connects your esophagus to your stomach. That muscle prevents the acid from leaving your stomach and entering your esophagus. Smoking damages it and makes you vulnerable to acid reflux.The chemicals in cigarettes can also give you indigestion. You have many resources available to help you stop smoking. You can:Join a support group or call a hotline when you have a craving
Talk to your doctor or an addictions counselor
Try nicotine replacement therapy
Try residential treatment where you will have 24 hour access to medical and emotional support through doctors, counselors, and peers

, These over-the-counter medications neutralize excess stomach acid. This makes the acid less irritating to the lining of your stomach, esophagus, and intestines.


If you always get indigestion at the same time of day, like when you go to bed, take one at that time. If your digestion is unpredictable, you can take one whenever you feel the indigestion starting. The relief will probably last 20 minutes to a couple hours.
Antacids are widely available at local pharmacies and supermarkets. Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant, nursing, or treating a child.
 This medication produces a foam in your stomach which blocks your stomach acid from flowing into your esophagus. You take one after you eat to prevent indigestion from happening.Alginates should be taken after you eat because that maximizes their effects. They stay in your stomach longer and are present when you have the most stomach acid.
Many antacids also contain an alginate. The information on the packaging will tell you if that is the case.
 These techniques have not been scientifically proven, but some people find them to be helpful. Talk to your doctor before taking any herbal remedies or dietary supplements to be sure that they are safe for you. Some may interact with medications or make certain GI conditions worse.Try probiotics containing Lactobacillus acidophilus. This "good" bacteria may help maintain the balance of good and harmful bacteria in your digestive system.Eat oatmeal to absorb excess acid. You can even try eating a spoonful of dry oatmeal.
Soothe nausea by drinking peppermint tea (do not use peppermint if you have indigestion due to GERD, as this can actually make it worse).Use ginger. Ginger can settle your stomach and reduce nausea. You can use it to make a tea, eat candied ginger, or drink ginger ale.
Take artichoke leaf extract. This substance may increase bile.
Try STW5. This supplement contains peppermint, bitter candytuft, licorice, and caraway. It is said to reduce the amount of acid your body makes.
Drink cranberry juice or take cranberry supplements to inhibit the growth of H. pylori bacteria., Your doctor may recommend either over-the-counter medications or prescription strength medications. Talk to your doctor about possible side effects before you start, especially if you are pregnant or nursing. Your doctor may suggest:Antibiotics. This may be necessary if the indigestion is caused by an infection of H. pylori bacteria.
Proton pump inhibitors. These medications lower acid production. They are known to interact with medications for epilepsy and blood thinners. Side effects may include rashes, abdominal pain, dizziness, headaches, constipation, diarrhea, gas, nausea, or vomiting.
H2-receptor antagonists. These medications reduce the acidity of your stomach acid. They are generally only given after antacids, alginates, and proton pump inhibitors were ineffective.
Anti-anxiety or antidepressant medications. This may reduce the discomfort caused by the indigestion.
 Pregnant women are vulnerable to getting indigestion because of the hormonal changes their bodies are going through, the expanding uterus pressing on the stomach, and the relaxation of the muscle separating the esophagus and the stomach. Home remedies to try include:Eating a spoonful of dry oatmeal before bed.
Maintaining good posture when eating so that your torso is straight. Good posture will minimize the pressure on your stomach.
Eating five or six small meals each day, rather than three large ones, which reduces the amount of stomach acid your body must produce to digest a meal.
Avoiding processed foods and focusing instead on whole foods.
Taking probiotics with your doctor's approval.
Waiting three hours or longer before laying down for bed after eating. If you do go to bed earlier than that, try propping yourself up on pillows so your head is above your stomach.
If you are pregnant and experiencing indigestion, talk to your doctor before you take any medications, even over-the-counter medications.

