 Downward dog is a whole-body stretch and is a good pose to get the blood flowing and start your practice. It can help you find length in your spine as well as building an active and stable core.Get onto all fours with your knees under your hips and your wrists directly under your shoulders or a little forward. Tuck your toes under, and on an exhale lift your hips toward the ceiling, extending your arms and legs so that you're in an upside-down "V" position.
Hold this pose for 5 to 10 breaths. With every inhale, focus on pulling towards the ceiling, away from your wrists. With every exhale, focus on pressing through your heels to the floor.;
, Runners often have a weaker upper body, making upward dog a good pose to build upper body strength, targeting your core muscles in particular as well as strengthening your spine.The best way to start this pose is to move into it from downward facing dog. Lower your body forward on an exhale into a modified plank position, dropping your hips to the floor and rolling over your toes to rest the tops of your feet on the floor.
Press your palms down and lift the crown of your head to the ceiling, rolling your shoulders back so that your shoulder blades melt down your back in line with your spine. You should feel a stretch as your chest opens.
Hold this pose for 5 to 10 breaths, then lift your hips on an exhale to return to downward facing dog.
You can create a flow moving between downward dog and upward dog in time with your breath, with a movement for each breath.
 Chair pose is a simple but effective pose suitable even for beginners to yoga practice. This pose will challenge your core as well as building strength in your upper legs.To do the pose, start in a standing position with your feet, knees, and thighs touching. On an exhale, lower your hips as though you are sitting in a chair. Extend your arms over your head.
Engage your core and hold the pose for 5 to 10 breaths, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth. Return to stand.
You also can add a twist to chair pose by pressing your palms together in front of your heart. On an exhale twist your upper body, bringing your left elbow to the outside of your right knee. Inhale back to center and repeat the twist on the other side.
 The lunge pose strengthens your entire body, with focus on building and stabilizing your core to bring your body into alignment. To move into this pose from standing position after chair pose, simply step your right leg back.Your right leg should be straight behind you, your left leg bent at a 90-degree angle with your knee directly over your ankle.
There are several variations to this pose, so find the one that feels good for you. You can keep your arms at your hips, or reach them overhead, keeping your back straight and your shoulders rolled down alongside your spine.
To do the arrow lunge, keep your arms extended overhead and reach forward. To add a twist, press your palms together in front of your heart and twist your torso, keeping your hips straight. Rest your right elbow on the outside of your left knee.
Hold this pose for a couple of breaths, then on an exhale come back to center stand and repeat on the other side.
 Bridge pose is a backbend that not only creates space in your chest and the front of your body, but also strengthens your core. This pose can serve as a counterbalance to your running stance, particularly if you hunch forward.Lie on your back and bend your knees so that your feet are flat on the ground. Rest your arms at your sides, and scoot your heels back in line with your fingertips.
On an exhale, lift your hips, keeping your knees together. You might imagine you're holding a block between your knees to keep them from splaying out.
On an inhale, lower your hips back down to the ground in a controlled movement. Lift again with the next exhale.
Repeat the movement 5 to 10 times in time with your breath, keeping your shoulder blades tucked in and your shoulders rolled back so that your elbow creases face up toward the ceiling.

