 Simple - listen to your thoughts, note them down and work on them. Even if something seems stupid, pen it down and see what you can come up with. For instance:


1. I have to buy the milk today.
2. I have to travel by car to the supermarket to do this.
3. While going there, I could have a small car crash
4. This accident could have taken place with a foreign person, whom I meet and start to form a relationship with
5. He might have an interesting background story which could affect my life...
And so, here's a very banal example of something you can do with a seemingly worthless idea. Even the most mundane of topics can start a highly fascinating story or concept for a song, painting, play, etc.;
, Remember your past, look at old photo albums and talk to relatives about any anecdotes they remember. You can always find seeds while digging up the ground.
 Make sure to talk to people and be active - by doing this, ideas will flourish far more easily. Travelling is an extremely important part of getting inspired, and has served to countless writers and artists - think of the Grand Tourists, being inspired as they travelled through the bucolic Tuscany or enigmatic seas of Greece. You'd be surprised how much a change in environment can power your inspiration.
 When you're elated, regretful, excited, bored, worried or even feeling level, note down exactly what's going through your mind and how you view life - even a simple emotion can be the source of any great work of art.
 Countless artists and writers based their works on dreams - think of Stevenson's 'Jekyll & Hyde', Dalí's paintings or The Beatles' classic 'Yesterday', all said to have been fruits of their creators' oneiric imagination. Keep a 'dream diary' where you write what you saw and how you felt in each dream. Both are needed to complete the idea.
 Read novel after novel, listen to piece after piece, go to gallery after gallery. Make yourself a reading list of random books ranging anywhere from Elizabethan classics to how-to manuals, listen to an eclectic mix of music (opera, rock, dubstep, bhangra, anything), be bold and go outside your comfort zone. You'd be surprised how much inspiration this can give you.
 For once in your life, ignore any preconceptions and jump into things you would never do. It could prove life-changing and inspiring.
 If you feel like doing something, do it. Simple enough (as long as it's legal).
 Inspiration isn't something you can plan. The more you overthink, the staler your ideas will be. Don't think this through methodically, just go with the flow of your mind and discard plans.
 Don't stay there waiting for inspiration to come - it probably won't, at least for a long time. Force yourself to begin. Open a dictionary and write the first word you find. Force yourself to use this word to construct a story/song/painting/other work of art. You'd be surprised how often inspiration comes along during your creative process.

