 Breast milk is the absolute best food your baby can consume. Even when a baby starts on solid food around six months of age, he can continue to drink breast milk or breast milk substitutes. As long as you clean your baby’s teeth and gums after meals, breast milk should not have any negative impacts on your baby’s oral health., While you’re breastfeeding, anything you eat can affect your baby. Therefore you need to eat a healthy and well-balanced diet in order to ensure both you and your baby remain healthy.Calcium is vital for the development of strong and healthy bones and teeth. This means you need to ensure you consume enough calcium for both yourself and your baby while you’re breastfeeding.
 Your baby should start eating solid food at around six months of age. Ideally, this solid food should be fortified with iron and contain no added sugar.Serving cereal with milk will help reduce the effect the sugar will have on your baby’s teeth.
You should not allow your baby to consume sweetened cereal as a snack between meals. The exposure of your baby’s teeth to sugar over a long period of time is worse than if the sugary item is consumed all at once.
 In order to avoid iron-deficiency anemia, your baby should not be given cow’s milk until at least one years of age. If you want to put milk on your baby’s cereal, use breast milk or infant milk, not cow’s milk. When your baby is between one and two years old, you can start providing cow’s milk as a drink, but only up to a maximum of 24 ounces per day., In order to ensure bottle mouth doesn’t happen to your baby, it is a good idea to start switching to a sippy cup around six months of age. The sucking motion of drinking from a bottle can actually damage your baby’s mouth, so switching to a safer form of cup is a good idea., Sugar can cause teeth to decay — in adults and children. If your child has sweets every day, it will significantly increase the risk of tooth decay. Reduce the amount of sweets your baby or child consumes, including sugary drinks, to help prevent any form of dental intervention.Tooth decay and damage can also be caused by drinks that are highly acidic, like juice.
Give your baby mainly milk and water to drink, instead of pop or juice.
Check the amount of sugar contained in baby food and try to select the options with the least amount of sugar.
Dilute juice with water by adding 10 times the amount of water to a bit of juice.
Reward your baby with objects like stickers, etc., rather than cookies or sweet treats.
If your baby requires medication, ask your doctor for a sugar-free version.
 Fruit juice contains a lot of sugar; because of this infants should consume no more than 4 – 6 ounces of juice per day — at most. If an infant is given fruit juice to drink, all the juice should be consumed at once. Fruit juice should only be given as a drink during the day, not before bedtime.Infants should eat mashed or pureed fruit prepared at home. Unfortunately a lot of mashed or pureed fruit baby food includes added sugar. If you are unable to make your own, look for a commercial version with low or no sugar.
If you give an infant juice to drink, it needs to be consumed all at once, over a short period of time. The longer teeth are exposed to sugar, the harsher the impact will be to the teeth.
The same suggestions for fruit juice also apply to soda pop and any other beverages with sugar added (e.g. Kool-Aid).

