 Despite what it may seem at times, spouses and boyfriends do not have the ability to read minds. Make sure you practice direct communication by telling him exactly what you mean or what is on your mind. Try not and make him guess. You can practice direct communication a number of ways. Find the right time to talk. You want to make sure you are bringing up a conversation at an appropriate time. Be aware of your surroundings and pick a time and a place that is comfortable for the both of you.
Think and do not attack. Make sure you are courteous to your loved one. Do not verbally attack him if you are angry or frustrated. Think about what you want to say before you say it. Practice it if you feel like it will be an emotional conversation.
 Express your feelings often to avoid being overly frustrated. Remember that your loved one is there for you and wants to help you. Be honest with him and share your emotions so that you may approach a conversation as a unified team.
 When he is speaking to you or telling you about his day, he is looking for someone to vent to or to decompress. Show you are listening and you are empathetic to his needs by asking active questions or repeating back something he said. Engage in the conversation rather than just hear it.
 “What do you want for dinner?” can definitely be a fight-starting question. When questions are asked to you, answer him honestly. If he gives you suggestions, do not be vague in answering them. Tell him what is really on your mind or tell him that you are unsure what you want or think. You can say what's on your mind in a few ways. Try using some of the following:


"I appreciate that you suggested pizza for dinner tonight, but I'm not sure what I'm in the mood to eat tonight. Can we name a few options and I can tell you what sounds good?"
"No, sorry, I am not feeling like being social tonight. I love that you want to go out to the party, but can we stay in and relax instead?"
"I'm sorry. You really hurt my feelings last night when you came home late from work. I would really appreciate it if you would call or text me next time you will be home late so I don't worry."
"I really do not have an opinion one way or another on the paint color for the living room. I think the color you have picked out will work great!"

, Always be honest with him. Communication is much easier when you do not have to pick and choose between lies and half-truths. Your relationship will be stronger if you can share what is on your mind with him. 