 Slice open the peppers and remove the seeds, stem, and white inner flesh. Heat a dry skillet and toast the peppers for about 30 seconds on each side, until dark spots begin to appear.You can skip this step and use chili powder instead, but whole dried chili peppers give a much better flavor.


Do not touch your eyes until you've washed your hands thoroughly. Wear gloves if you have sensitive skin.
If you like extra-spicy, chili, set aside some of the seeds and add them once the chili is cooking.
 Submerge in 1 cup (240 mL) of hot water, not boiling water, for 5–10 minutes. Puree the peppers and water in a blender and set them aside for now.If you think you'll use them again, you can make a large batch in advance. For maximum flavor, soak for 30 minutes and simmer in oil, covered, for another 20 minutes., Add the beef to a hot frying pan and cook until brown. Stir occasionally and break it into even-sized pieces with a wooden spoon. For best results, brown in small batches, so most of the beef can touch the pan surface. This will take a few minutes per batch.


Use a nonstick pan, or nonstick cooking spray.
 Add the diced onions to the hot pan and cook until translucent, about five minutes.
 Combine chili pepper puree, beef, and onions in a large pot. The larger and heavier the pot, the better the meat texture will be.Add the chicken or beef stock, beer, cumin, a grind of pepper, and several pinches of salt.


If food has stuck to the frying pan, deglaze it with some of the stock and add it to the chili.
Red ale or stout is a good choice.Replace with more stock for a nonalcoholic version; otherwise, about 25% of the alcohol will remain., Bring to a boil, then simmer uncovered until the meat is tender and the chili is thick, 45–60 minutes. Stir occasionally.


For extra flavor, instead cover with a slightly ajar lid and cook for up to 3 hours., This makes a thicker, less greasy chili. Add the corn flour to a bowl and spoon in some of the chili broth. Stir until it forms a paste, then pour it into the chili. Stir until thoroughly combined.
 Taste the chili. Add more salt, pepper, or cumin if desired. Let it sit off the heat to absorb more flavor and cool enough to eat. Serve with Fritos and grated cheese.


Squeeze a lime over it for extra flavor.
For sweet chili, stir in 1 tbsp (15 mL) brown sugar and 1 tbsp (15 mL) white vinegar, then let simmer another ten minutes.,