 If you wish to be a gunner, you have to approach the area of the vehicle where you can do this (For example, the back of a warthog) and you will be prompted on the top right-hand corner of your screen to enter the vehicle using the Right Bumper. Sometimes the prompt doesn't appear, but you can still enter.;
, Nothing annoys a driver more than having to wait around for a gunner to get on, so if you want to be a successful gunner, learn to hop on instantly so you can both drive off and start killing. This is particularly helpful in hectic situations where you are under fire and need to move.
 In most cases, the driver's word is final - if they say to shoot left or right, then they probably have spotted a serious threat that needs eliminating so unless you're shooting at a guy with a laser or missile pod, turn where ever the driver says. Try not to tell him to back around if you've missed an opponent as they'll most likely be expecting that, so let the driver do what they have to. Over time, you'll create a code or understanding between you and your vehicle co-occupants.
 If you are driving in a wraith or scorpion, keep looking forward to finish off those kills the driver missed with the main gun.
 It helps keep the gun ready for action and can sometimes provide a lucky kill if you happen to pointing in the right place. However, if you are trying to launch a sneak attack or remain hidden, refrain from shooting as this will give away your position.
 There's nothing special you have to remember - if the enemy is in sight, and especially if the cross-hair is red although it doesn't always have to be, then just let the gun do its work and try to keep with the target for as long as possible. This can be hard if the driver is moving erratically, but it should get easier over time. Different guns have different powers and firing rates, so learn how to use each one.
 Nothing will kill a driver more than if you suddenly jump off - he'll be defenseless and very angry by the time they re-spawn. More than anyone, it is your job to go down with the vehicle, unless of course you can both do it safely and without hitch.
 Remember, if your driver sees an opponent and you're facing the other way, the only way you can know is if they tell you and the same goes the other way - if you need him to slow down so you can pick off a close enemy, tell him. Communication is vital.

