 Often it's easier said than done, but remember that most bullies are trying to get attention and get a reaction from you. If you deprive them of the reaction they crave, they may move on and stop bothering you.Often, a bully won't see any point in harassing you if they don't get any reaction. They won't you to be afraid of them, or to get upset as a result of their behavior.
As difficult as it can be to ignore their behavior, try your best not to show them that you are upset or afraid. Start small, making your reaction to each incident less than it was the time before. If you have problems with self-control, this smaller goal can make it easier to manage.
Don't draw attention to the fact that you are ignoring them. For example, if you stick your fingers in your ears and say loudly "I can't hear you! I'm ignoring you!" that is a reaction. The bully may only see it as a challenge.
When you are going to be alone, make sure you have something with you on which you can focus, such as a book or an electronic device. Directing your attention elsewhere will make it easier for you to ignore the bully.
 Use your powers of observation to study confident people carefully. Pay attention to how they stand, the tone of their voice, and how they interact with others. Then you can practice and mimic that behavior yourself.You also can get ideas on how to display confidence by reading books or watching movies or television shows that feature strong, confident characters. Watch the way the act and the things they say so you can copy them. Think about how they stand, how they hold their head, and what they do with their eyes.
Eye contact is one way to display confidence, but it can be a difficult thing for many autistic people to master. Practice in a mirror, staring your reflection deeply in the eyes. You also might practice eye contact with a friend.
 Many bullies are acting out because of difficulties or insecurities they have in their own lives. If you can find out information about your bully, you may be able to understand more about what motivates their behavior and find the best way to deal with them.Many autistic people have difficulty with empathy. Learning more about someone's background gives you more information you can use to put yourself in their shoes.
For example, suppose you find out that your bully is abused at home by an older sibling or parent. There are two possibilities at work here – the bully may be taking out their frustrations on someone else (you), or they may believe that their behavior is appropriate because they've seen adults at home acting that way.
Often bullies feel misunderstood, or may be working through difficulties of their own such as learning disabilities. By making someone else feel bad, they feel better about their own situation. However, if you can find a way to make them feel better, maybe they won't feel the need to bully you.
For example, if you find out that your bully is dyslexic and has trouble reading, you might offer to help them work on reading after school until they get more comfortable with it.
 Bullies typically have a group of friends who support and encourage their behavior. If you can convince those people to join your side against the bully, they may decide to stop targeting you.If just one of the bully's friends says something about the bully's behavior, it may be enough to get the bully to stop. Bullies tend to target people who are all alone and relatively defenseless. Getting people the bully likes on your side can help remedy the problem.
Use your observation skills to watch the bully and their friends as they interact with one another. You should be able to identify the one who seems most sympathetic, or most likely to listen to your side of the story.
Focus on the bully's actions rather than describing how they make you feel. For example, you might say to the bully's friend "Can we talk about why your friend Suzy seems to be out to get me? If I've done something wrong to her I want to know."
You may want to bring along a trusted friend for support. If you find talking to the person yourself difficult, see if a friend or classmate is willing to talk to them for you.

