 Poison ivy can take the form of an upright woody shrub, and trailing shrub, or a woody vine, but the leaves are always compound leaves consisting of three leaflets coming off the same stalk.Each leaflet is generally 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) long. The middle leaflet is usually slightly bigger than the other two.






The leaves have pointed tips and are often green and glossy, but some poison ivy plants have dull green leaves, instead.






Poison ivy plants can grow in a range of areas, but it is most commonly found along wooded trails, roadsides, and fenced rows.;
, Wear gloves as you work to prevent the plant from coming into contact with your skin. Wear long pants, long sleeves, socks, and shoes. Cover as much skin as possible.


Discard or wash the gloves after the plant has been removed. Also wash the clothes you wore. Thoroughly rinse the washing machine after washing your work clothes to avoid contaminating the rest of your laundry.
 New or small poison ivy shrubs can be dug up using a shovel. When removing the plant, remove all parts, including the entire root.


Note that poison ivy plants can grow from root sections, so the entire root must be removed in order to ensure that the plant will not return.






Removal is most effective when the soil is moist.
 If you cannot pull or dig out the root of a long vine or mature plant, use sturdy garden shears to cut the plant off at the base.Sever the plant as close to the ground or visible base as possible.
Keep up on the process. You may need to continually cut the plant down before you successfully starve it.
Thoroughly clean the shears after cutting the plant to wipe away the poisonous oil. Use soap and water or bleach diluted with water.
 Chemical herbicides can be applied to freshly cut poison ivy or to poison ivy plants that have not been cut.


To maximize effectiveness, apply a chemical herbicide immediately after you cut the plant down to the ground. Do not wait to do so since the plant may close the fresh "wound," thereby eliminating your ability to access the plant's roots through the exposed portion.
Note that herbicides capable of killing poison ivy will also kill other plants. For this reason, it is important that you apply the chemical directly to the poison ivy plant. One of the best ways to do this is with a small foam paintbrush.
When possible, look for an herbicide that is specifically labeled for use against poison ivy. Chemicals commonly used against poison ivy include glyphosate, triclopyr, and amino triazole., Any plants or plant sections that have been removed should be wrapped in a plastic bag and thrown out.


Do not burn the poison ivy. When burned, poison ivy produces a dangerous smoke that can cause damage to your eyes, skin, or respiratory tract.







