 Have you ever noticed how eating chocolate seems to give you a mood boost when you’re feeling a little low? That’s because it releases endorphins that help you relax.Chocolate also contains the endocannabinoid anandamide, which mimics the effects of marijuana, although the effect of chocolate is nowhere near as extreme.


Choose dark chocolate, since it contains more actual chocolate and less sugar and other fillers that don't affect your endorphins.
Give in to your cravings in small doses. Consider taking a chocolate bar with you and having a square when you need a boost.;
, Cayenne peppers, jalapeno peppers, banana peppers, and other hot peppers contain capsaicin, which releases endorphins.Try eating a piece of raw pepper. When the initial fiery pain subsides, you should feel euphoria. If you don't want to have to deal with the pain to reap the pleasure of capsaicin, sprinkle a little cayenne pepper on your food for a milder boost in mood.
 Helping yourself to a bowl of pasta with cheese, ice cream or another carbohydrate-rich comfort food releases endorphins. People turn to these items during stressful moments because they really do make you feel better.


You can enjoy comfort food without going off your diet. Try a bowl of old-fashioned oatmeal with a little honey and milk stirred in, or a plate of red beans and rice. You'll benefit from the carbohydrates without suffering from the consequences of eating refined carbohydrates.
To elevate your mood even more, try pairing two endorphin stimulators together. Put some chocolate chips in your oatmeal, or add hot cayenne to your dish of pasta.
 This herb has been shown to enhance the production of endorphins. It's a popular choice among athletes who want to make the most of the endorphins their bodies already release during exercise. Try incorporating a ginseng supplement into your daily routine.
 The scent of vanilla has been shown to stimulate the production of endorphins. Try adding a drop to your coffee, or stirring some into your yogurt. It's the smell, not the taste, that affects your endorphins, so be sure to take a deep whiff.


You can get the same benefits from smelling a vanilla-scented candle, lotion or essential oil.
Lavender has similar properties and is also shown to stimulate endorphin production.

