 This is arguably the most important step in the entire process. In order to request a new card, you have to file a report with the SSA. You can contact them at www.socialsecurity.gov or call toll-free at 1-800-772-1213. They can replace your missing social security card with your original number or a new number.


If you suspect someone is using your number, you should contact the SSA to report the issue. The SSA will review your earnings with you to ensure its records are correct. You can also review earnings posted to your account on your Social Security statement. This statement is available online, and you can get it at www.socialsecurity.gov/myaccount after creating an account.
Note that, if someone used your social security number to get a line of credit, the SSA cannot resolve these problems.;
, You can find the form at www.ftc.gov/complaint. Complete the complaint form with as many details as you know. Save the reference number and submit your information. You need that reference number to update your complaint online or by phone. When you finish writing all the details, print a copy of the report. It will print as an Identity Theft Affidavit. Make sure to save or print your Affidavit. You can use this document to file for a police report or to counter false credit charges made in your name.
By Phone: Call the FTC at 1-877-438-4338 or 1-866-653-4261 (TTY). Explain the issue to the representative and ask for your complaint reference number and affidavit password. The FTC representative will email you a link so you can print or save your AffidavitKeep record dates and copies of your Affidavit in your files and if necessary, call the FTC to update your complaint. You will need to provide your complaint reference number.
 Bring with you a copy of your FTC Identity Theft Affidavit, any other proof of the theft, a government issued ID with a photo, and proof of your address (rental agreement, pay stub, or utilities bill). Complete a report on the theft and ask for a copy of the report., The Internet Crime Complaint Center is run by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the National White Collar Crime Center. It functions as a way to register complaints regarding fraudulent online accounts. Obviously, only file a complaint with them if you suspect that someone has stolen your social security number online., You need to replace the card that has been stolen. You can get an application from the Social Security Administration office, or print off the Application for a Social Security Card.


This was the application you also filled out when applying for the card for the first time.
You can also get the form from a local Social Security office. You can find your local office at their website.
 After reading the directions, use blue or black ink to fill out the form.


Use the 4-digit year (XXXX) to state your birth.
You are not required to provide race or ethnicity information to obtain a Social Security card.
You must sign the form yourself if you are 18 or over and physically able to do so. If you are not able to sign the form, then you may have a legal guardian, close relative, or parent sign for you. If you cannot sign your name, you can sign with an “X” and have two other people sign as witnesses.
 You must bring documents that establish your identity with you when you apply for the replacement card. Documents issued in the United States are preferred and should be unexpired. They should show your legal name, include biographical information, and have either a picture or provide a physical description of you.


Preferred proof of identity documents include:

a valid U.S. driver’s license
a U.S. passport
a U.S. state-issued non-driver identity card


If you don’t have one of these documents, or can’t get a replacement within 10 working days, the Social Security office may accept other documents, such as:

a U.S. military identity card
employee identity card
health insurance or Medicaid card
school identity card


Birth certificates, Social Security card stubs, and Social Security records are not accepted as proof of identity.
 If you were born outside of the United States, you will need to bring additional documents with you to show your citizenship or immigration status.If you are a U.S. citizen but were born outside the United States, you will need to show evidence of your U.S. citizenship. Acceptable documents include:A U.S. passport
A Consular report of birth
A Certificate of Citizenship
A Certificate of Naturalization


If you are not a U.S. citizen, you must show proof of immigration status or work eligibility. Bring your original visa or green card (not copies). You should also bring your foreign passport.
 You can apply for your replacement card one of two ways. You can apply in person at a local Social Security office. You can find your local office online at the Social Security website. Bring the completed application and required documents with you.You can also mail your original documents and your completed application to your local Social Security office. They will return the documents to you when they have completed the application process.
You may also call Social Security toll-free at 1-800-772-1213 to locate your nearest office.
 In most cases, you will receive your replacement card by mail within 7-14 days. If you applied in a Social Security office, they will tell you how long you can expect to wait to receive your card.
 Once you do so, the credit reporting agency is obligated to contact the other two agencies to notify them as well. This is the easiest way to monitor your credit after losing your social security card. These companies will contact you by phone to verify when credit is opened under your name. Equifax: 1-800-525-6285
Trans Union: 1-800-680-7289
Experian: 1-888-397-3742, If you have created an Identity Theft Report with the FTC, you can ask credit reporting companies to place an extended fraud alert on your credit file. They may have you complete a request form. Placing an extended fraud alert is free and stays in effect for up to 7 years., You are given 1 free credit report each year.Carefully review them for activity you did not authorize. Verify that the personal information on the report is accurate.


Look for accounts you did not open, companies you haven't contacted, and debts you can't explain., Speak to someone in the fraud department where your financial accounts have been tampered with or where accounts were opened without your authorization.


When requesting an account to be closed or fraudulent charges to be removed, send the request in writing and include copies of documents that support your claims like your FTC or police report. Keep records of all communication and correspondence.You may want to send the companies a certified letter in writing to formally request that the charges be removed. Be sure to be explicit about each fraudulent item.
 Do this during the first year after a Social Security card is stolen, and then annually thereafter, to make sure that no one illegally uses your Social Security number to open a new credit line.