 If you usually look tidy and stylish, consider decking yourself out in punk clothes or going goth. Wear old clothes that you rarely ever wear, or raid one of your parent's closets for vintage stuff your acquaintances won't be used to seeing.


Men should consider dressing up or dressing down in age. If you usually dress like a 19 year old, consider how your father dresses and start taking cues from him. Wear polo shirts tucked into khaki pants with your cellphone on a belt clip and you'll age 20 years in a minute.
Women could consider dressing in a more masculine style, wearing pants where they might normally wear skirts as a way of changing their general presence. If people are used to seeing you in make-up and nice clothes, it'd be a surprise to suddenly be wearing a basketball jersey.
 It will help for your new look to be believable.If you combine women's dress pants with cholo shirts, it'll be a surprising disguise, but not necessarily one that will last. It'll just look strange. Think of yourself as an actor who's changing into a character that everyone must believe. Wear hats, appropriate jewelry, and look-appropriate gear.
 Wearing baggier clothes than you usually wear can be a good way of changing your basic body shape and looking different. Buy some surprising items a few sizes larger than you'd normally wear them. Layer your clothes to add some weight to your appearance, then shed layers over the course of the day to ensure that you look different in the morning and at night. No one will be able to find you if you keep changing.
 A few years ago, an Asian man boarded a plane wearing a silicon mask that made him look like an elderly white man, and then changed clothes and took the mask off in the middle of the flight, getting past everyone. By having a ready supply of clothes to change into (in a back-pack or purse) you can not only disguise yourself but continue evolving your disguise over the course of the day.


Keep make-up and emergency hair dye on your person for a quick transformation. Shoe polish can work in a pinch.

