 Get all of the gear you need as a beginner, such as a helmet, knee and elbow pads, wrist guards, and of course, your skateboard! You can also get skate shoes, which are special shoes designed to last longer and grip better on a skateboard. They are much better than the average sneakers. You can buy them at places like Journeys, or you can buy them at special skate shops with tons of skating gear. Good brands include Vans, DC Shoes, and Adidas.;
, Some of the first basics you learn will improve as you work, and will be some of the things you will need to do to start moving into the advanced tricks, like kickflips and grinds. Be sure to familiarize yourself with the basic push,(also known as "pumping")the kickturn, the regular turn with your heel and toes, and the stopping position. Keep practicing and you will soon move into more advanced things, such as dropping in, and going down larger ramps.
 Some skate parks offer special private lessons, free skate, and special skate clinics over the weekends. If you can, try going outside at least once a week to practice all that you have learned. Trust yourself, that all of this practice will eventually become really good.
 Learn about some of the famous skaters, such as Tony Hawk, Ryan Sheckler, and Shaun White. Read some of the books about them, or watch videos on YouTube about them. Some have cool skate mottos to live by, “These sports are just, you go do it, and you're doing it on your own. You don't have to answer to anyone.”-Tony Hawk. If you have some background knowledge about skateboarding, you might be able to improve yourself by following the mottos while skating.
 Remember, never get mad at yourself for being a "terrible" skater because of your mistakes. Even if you fall and get embarrassed, try to think how you can learn from it. Did you push of properly? Was something in the way? Think about how you can improve yourself, rather than getting mad and throwing your board across the floor.
 Don't push yourself too hard. Always be sure to take long drinks of water every so often. If you are healthy, hydrated, and ready to go, you will be able to make better decisions. You will also be able to think more clearly.
 Think of your first month as a month to try skateboarding for the first time to see if you like it. You are not going to learn EVERYTHING in a whole month, so be sure to be practical. It will take a long time to learn how to learn advanced tricks and flips, so learn the basics in your first couple months and practice them to become better. Think of skateboarding as a book, and learning the basics can be ways to turn pages to new chapters!

