 Instead of jumping straight to drying it out straight, start by using the dryer without a brush to get your hair about eighty percent dry. Hold the hair dryer several inches from your head and dry your hair all over, using your other hand to comb through your hair and tousle it to help all the layers dry evenly. Stop when your hair is still damp, but no longer wet.


Rough drying protects your hair from getting too damaged by your hairbrush and dryer. If you go straight to using the brush, it will take twice as many passes to get each section of hair straight. It's better to get most of the way there without a brush.
 Gather the top layers of your hair and pin or ponytail them at the top of your head. You'll start by drying the bottom layers, and unpin more layers as you to until your hair is fully dry. This way you'll be able to ensure that all of your hair is evenly dried and straightened.
 Choose a section to start with and drape it over your brush close to the roots. The brush should be touching your head, with the hair draped over it and hanging toward the ground. This will enable you to pull the section of hair taut as it dries, which is the key to getting it straight.
 In most cases you want to use a medium heat setting to reduce damage to your hair. However, if your hair is extremely curly, use the hottest setting to ensure it dries straight.
 Pull your hair taut with the brush and run it through your hair from roots to tips. At the same time, angle your hair dryer down and move it down the length of your hair. The brush and hair dryer should move in sync.









If your hair lacks volume, you should brush your hair up. If you want it to lie flat, brush it toward the ground.
Either way, keep the hair dryer angled down, so that the stream of air moves from the roots toward the tips. This helps the hair shaft lie flat and prevents frizzing.
 One pass isn't usually enough to dry a section of hair. Keep drying the same section until it's completely dry and straight. Remember to brush from roots to tips, holding the hair taut. Angle the dryer downward.
 Keep going until the entire bottom layer is dry, then unpin the next layer of hair and repeat. Continue until your hair is completely dry from top to bottom.








