 If you believe all men want a blonde with large breasts, you'll act like it. Every man is attracted to a different type of woman. Relax. Yours is out there.



Smile. Such a simple thing does wonders. Positive, smiling people light up a room and others are automatically attracted to them. Moods are contagious--if you make others feel good, they'll seek to be around you.
Compliment others. This includes him! The old adage "What goes around comes around" is true. Cultivating an aura of positivity that others can benefit from will encourage them to return the favor.

What's more, accept compliments with grace. If a guy tells you that you look nice, smile and say, "Thanks!" Don't brush off his statement or disagree with him.

;
, Thinking you're awesome makes it easier for others to see you're awesome, too.


Think of all your positive attributes. Though nobody's perfect, we all have something others envy. Write down what you love about yourself and go over the list every day.
Limit your complaining. We all struggle with our weight and with friends. If you have a problem, do talk about it--but don't fill empty silences with griping. Keeping your mind on bigger, happier things will make it easier to give off the impression you want.
Be proud of your accomplishments. Did you ace that test? Score the most points in your last volleyball game? Go ahead, brag a little! Don't be afraid to talk about the impressive things you do.

Make sure not to be self-centered. Being proud of yourself and conceited are two very different things.


Compare yourself to your former self, not to those around you. Make the goal to be better than who you were, not better than others in your life. There will always be people better and worse off than you.
 Keeping an open, welcoming stance will show any guy that you are approachable and ready to talk.


Make eye contact. Shying away from someone shows them that you're nervous and may not want to engage. Holding his gaze will let him know that you're interested and deserve his attention.
Stay open and friendly. Crossing your arms may give off the impression that you're not looking for conversation. If you see a guy you may be interested in, angle your body towards him, signaling that interest.

Being open also involves not being preoccupied with something else. Checking your phone every 2 minutes tells the world that you aren't present and involved in your surroundings. Set it down and make yourself available.


Touch him lightly. The bond of human touch is irreversible. If you're involved in conversation, touch him sweetly on the arm or knee to tell him you're listening and captivated.

