

Required: Morph Ball, Bombs
Location: Crateria
Head left from Samus's ship. When you come to a wall, bomb it open and run left until you retrieve the Energy Tank.;
,

Required: Speed Booster OR Power Bombs, Morph Ball and/or the Space Jump
Location: Crateria
Head left from Samus's ship, then run right to activate the Speed Booster. Stand on the mound right of Samus's ship, face left, press R and jump. You will Shinespark up-left and blow a hole in the wall. Head left and use bombs or the Screw Attack to destroy the obstructions. Head through the door and grab the Energy Tank.
Alternatively, use the Space Jump to get up to the wall left of Samus's ship (or walljump if you're good enough) and you'll see a little bowl shape in the wall. Place a Power Bomb and head through the resulting gap. From there, follow the instructions for the normal method.


Required: Beat Kraid, Super Missiles
Location: Brinstar
Go to the elevator leading down to Norfair and shoot the right wall with a Super Missile. Head through the gap and go through the door past the monster face. Go down the shaft and shoot open the left door (which will be locked unless you have defeated Kraid). Go inside and shoot the ceiling four blocks away from the left wall and grab the Energy Tank.


Required: Power Bombs (the X-Ray Scope helps)
Location: Brinstar
In the green thorny shaft containing the main elevator, head to the bottom and blow open the floor with a Power Bomb. Head to the bottom and go through the door here. Head in the same direction until you see the Energy Tank. Beware of the hidden hole in front of it.


Required: Hi Jump Boots OR Bomb-jumping
Location: Brinstar
In the same corridor as your second missile tank (accessed by going right after you get the Morph Ball) shoot out to the left of the overhang to find the Energy Tank high up in the ceiling. If you have the Hi Jump Boots, simply jump to the Tank. If you just have bombs, try placing a bomb to launch you up, then place another one at the height of the blast to blast you up even further. Repeat until you get high enough to grab the Energy Tank.


 



,

Required: Power Bombs, Wave Beam, Grappling Beam (optional)
Location: Brinstar
In the big purple shaft with the snowflakes falling down, there is a yellow door, openable with a Power Bomb. Open the door and head through. Use the Grappling Beam or walljump to get to the shutter, shoot it with the Wave Beam, then head on through and grab the Energy Tank.






Required: Speed Booster, Power Bombs, Gravity Suit (optional)
Location: Brinstar
Go to the chamber where you retrieved the Charge Beam and place a Power Bomb. Head through the hole to find a corridor filled with knee-high water. If you have the Gravity Suit, simply shoot the enemies, head to the right, and then run until the Speed Booster kicks in and you pass through some blocks and land in front of the Energy Tank.





Alternatively, you can walljump on the wall and land on the dry part of the room. Run to the left, then run to the right until the Booster starts then crouch, go back into the water, jump and press left straight after the jump. You will Shinespark straight to the Energy Tank.


Required: Nothing
Location: Norfair
When you first enter Norfair, drop down to the bottom of the shaft. Shoot the door on the left, head through, and pick up the Energy Tank.


Required: Grappling Beam OR Space Jump OR Gravity Suit OR Speed Booster, Beat Crocomire
Location: Norfair
Once you've beaten Crocomire, if you have the Grappling Beam, use the Grappling Blocks to the right to get the Energy Tank. If you have the Space Jump, Space Jump to the right to get the tank. If you have the Gravity Suit, simply run across the lava. If you have the Speed Booster, run to the left, run back to the right and Shinespark to the right by crouching, jumping and pressing right.


Required: Power Bombs, Ice Beam, Space Jump means you won't take damage.
Location: Norfair
When you've escaped from the lava-filled room after you retrieve the Screw Attack, head right until you come to a dragon head enemy who shoots blue fire. Freeze it with the Ice Beam, then use a Power Bomb to blow him up. Head through the hole and Space Jump to the Tank over the spikes or if you can take damage, simply run on the spikes and walljump to the Tank.


Required: Beat Ridley
Location: Norfair.
Beat Ridley, then head through the door on the left. Shoot the block under the door and grab the Energy Tank.


Required: Gravity Suit, Space Jump OR Grappling Beam
Location: Wrecked Ship
Travel to the shaft leading to Crateria on the right side of the ship. Shoot a hole in the ceiling and jump through. When you get through the door, either Grapple or Space Jump to the Energy Tank.


Required: High Jump Boots, very good jumping
Location: Maridia
A bit right of the water serpent boss in Maridia, you will see an Energy Tank in a hidden tunnel accessible by jumping then quickly morphing into a ball to fit into the gap.


Required: Space Jump/High Jump Boots/Walljumping skills
Location: Maridia
In the hidden cave with the turtles, Space Jump or jump on the adult turtle's back when he flies upwards and jump to reach the Energy Tank.

