 Take note of certain characteristics of the people you know that distinguish them from everyone else. Does that boy who lives across the street have a habit of knocking things over? Does your best friend talk with her hands when she's excited? These could be quirks of a character you create yourself.;
, If this is your first time writing a story, or you're not sure how to make your character believable, base your character on somebody. It could be a friend, a family member, a celebrity, or even you! If you base it on someone you know, you will know how they react to situations, which makes it easier for you.
 Keep everything you'll need to know about your character in this folder. Doing this will keep you organized. Alternatively, you could make a folder on your computer and type everything up on Microsoft Word.
 How tall is the person? Are they of athletic build, slim build or chubby? What colour is their hair and their eyes? How long is their hair? Is it curly, wavy, straight, etc.? Look online for 'face makers' or, if you have a Sims game, make a Sim look like your character and take several screen shots. You could also look through pictures on-line and in magazines and find a person that looks like your character. This will help you get a strong visual of what your character looks like. Put pictures of your character in their file.
 This means recording things like the full name, birthday, ethnic background, and every detail of your character's personality. Search Google for character sketch outlines. Many are quite helpful. Work out and write down the basics, such as:


When is their birthday? How old are they?
Who are their friends?
What are their dreams/goals? What do they want to accomplish?
What is their past like?
Who's in their family? Do they have any family? Any pets?
What are their favourite things?

, Names are important and must fit the personality of your character (although, as the writer, the name you choose will usually fit eventually, as readers get used to the combination). The name should reflect the time period and location in which your story is taking place, in order to seem fitting and convincing to readers. For example, a boy living in a small town in South Georgia in 1980s isn't going to be named Throckmorton.


Sometimes, a long, complicated name is appropriate, but keep in mind how many times you will have to write it and your readers will have to read it. There's nothing worse than not being able to pronounce the main character's name!

, These can form excellent subplots and are a great help when you're stuck. What if Oliver is afraid of heights? What if the only way to save his little sister is to climb across the rickety bridge a mile above the ground? Knowing your characters' secrets can also create a compelling story. Having the secret slowly revealed can help to bring the plot and characters to life even more.
 If it helps you, draw your characters. While the personality of characters is far more important than appearance when it comes to being convincing, appearance can help to develop the character as well.
 Know their greatest desire, because this will keep the plot alive. Know their past, their biggest fear, their most embarrassing moment, their darkest secrets. Even if some of this doesn't show up in your story, that's okay. Knowing your characters will convince them that they are alive, and will do the same for their reader.
 Once you have the essentials down, start interviewing your character. How does she/he look at the world? Pretend that you're someone on a talk show interviewing a celebrity. Watch some talk shows for ideas on questions to ask your character. Ask as many questions as you'd like until you get a real feel for your character.
 Put the folder in an easily accessible place so that you can continuously go back and take another look at the details of your character while writing. This will ensure that your character is strong from start to finish of your story, instead of starting strong and dwindling away as the story progresses. Now start your story with a strong, convincing character!

