 Wear natural colored lip glosses, a little bit of blush, and light mascara or curl your eyelashes. If you have dull skin, wear a little bit of bronzing powder.;
, Use simple colors, without a lot of patterns, and do a layered look. If the clothes don't fit properly, and you are able, have them tailored or adjusted. Ill-fitted clothing just doesn't look natural.
 Sometimes add some clunky necklaces or a funky bracelets; they look good. Look for natural look accessories, like semiprecious stones, seashells, wood beads, and leather. Plastics and acrylic pieces do not communicate "natural" very well.
 Smile a lot and know you can achieve anything. A smile is a welcoming, warm, and friendly expression that doesn't cost anything, and expresses much.
 Simple hairstyles, whether a straight cut, moderate curls, a ponytail, or whatever is natural for your ethnic background will obviously contribute to a natural appearance.
 Even if you live near a beach, a deep tan will look somewhat contrived in the middle of winter, and spending hours in a tanning booth can cost a fortune, as well as your time.



It seems every article regarding personal appearance and style suggests attention to hygiene, and in the bright light of day, choosing a natural look means being conscientious about your cleanliness and health.






Brush and floss your teeth thoroughly and often, and have your teeth cleaned at least annually.






Keep your nails cleaned and trimmed neatly, as well.
 If you choose to polish your fingernails and toenails, use subdued tones with a medium or low gloss finish.
 Having a heavy makeup which does not completely cover freckles or other skin features may actually draw attention to the item you are trying to hide. Many people seem to be self conscious about moles, freckles, and other "blemishes", but many successful fashion models and celebrities actually are recognised by these same distinct features.
 Eyebrows can make or break a look. However, don't make them too thin! Or redraw them on!

,,