 That's normal. Where confusion arises is in understanding that even if you still love someone, you can end up not being in love with them anymore. Try to grasp this difference so that you can be more at peace with your residual feelings without feeling as though they're indicative of a spark that's no longer there.


Think in terms of relatives. You love your parents and siblings, but you'd never say you're in love with any of them. There are other types of love aside from romantic love. It's okay to remember someone fondly and admit that a part of you will probably always love them, as long as you can be clear with yourself that it's a familial kind of love. All you have to focus on is getting over the “in love” part of the equation. There's no need to rip your guts out and rearrange them, too.
 A breakup is devastating for both parties, and you're going to need time and space away from your ex to successfully cope with it. At the most basic level, this means cutting off contact with your ex and avoiding spending any more time around him or her than you absolutely have to. Unfortunately, sometimes your ex won't be able to make the same commitment. If your ex keeps reaching out to you, meet somewhere neutral and explicitly tell him or her to stop contacting you.


Be clear and firm. It might be heartbreaking in the moment, but it's for the best. Remember, you're not getting back together – you broke up for a reason, after all (and possibly for several reasons). No matter what your ex says, space and time away from each other is good for both of you in the long run. If he or she isn't strong enough to accept that, you'll have to be strong enough for the both of you.
Be civil. Don't come out of the gate swinging; don't attack your ex for contacting you, or whine about it. Instead, shoulder the responsibility yourself. Say things like “I really need time away from you to heal; I can't handle seeing or speaking to you right now.” Keep the focus on yourself and what you need, rather than being accusatory or spreading blame.
 Writing is a useful tool for getting thoughts and emotions out of your head and clearly organized so you can handle them better. Few life events are as overwhelming as a protracted breakup after a long and close relationship, so take advantage of your literacy and write things out. Describe the breakup; describe how you felt when things were at their lowest, and how you still feel when the weight of it hits you. Write down anything you can to make the burden easier to bear.


Write down a list of everything you dislike about your ex, and add to it whenever you think of something else, even if you've already got a similar item. Don't dwell on this list; hate is pointless and damaging to your own psyche. Instead, just use it as a way to vent, and as a clear reminder of why the breakup had to happen when you feel your resolve wavering.
If you're completely overwhelmed by an experience, write it down and then shred or burn the paper it's on. This helps push the experience out of your mind.
 The absence of a significant other in your life has likely left a vacuum of empty time in your daily schedule. Fill it with things that have nothing to do with the breakup or your ex. It's okay to spend some time moping or reflecting, but it's very easy to end up wallowing in your own bad feelings without a plan to keep yourself occupied.


Take up or increase your exercise regimen. Exercise is a proven way to reduce bad moods – it can even combat clinical depression, in some cases. Exercise as much as you safely can, as many days per week as you can.
Socialize more. Get in touch with old friends or make new friends by joining clubs and visiting social events – whichever way you approach your social life, make it a point to increase the time you spend around others who like you. Knowing that you still have a place in your social landscape really lifts a heavy heart.
Take up hobbies. Anything from collecting items to building them in your garage is a good choice. As long as you can spend time and see constructive results, your hobby will help you cope by channeling a lot of your energy into something creative and positive. Even practicing new makeup styles or outfits can work, provided you take the time to work at it.
 Eventually, it'll be time to go out and start dating again. Don't rush into this; it isn't fair to use someone else as a “rebound,” and it prevents you from properly coping with your own feelings. However, once you're able to control your emotions when you think back to your ex, nothing will help boost your spirits quite like going on dates with some new people.


Attend every party and social event you can. If you don't know people who throw parties, look up dance nights, open mic nights, and other free or cheap community events, and plan to attend. Dress up and look your best; you never know who you might meet.
Sign up for an online dating service. Free services, such as OKCupid, are really the only way to go here, since there's no guarantee you'll meet anyone you really hit it off with. That said, online dating sites are a great way to set up dates and test the waters again without having to make a commitment right off the bat. Date around some and try to have fun with it.

