 Take the pizza dough out of the tube, and unroll it onto a 15x10x1-inch (38x25x2.5-cm) baking pan that’s been lightly greased with olive oil or cooking spray. Place it in the oven and allow it to bake for 7 minutes at 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius).When you roll the dough onto the baking sheet, use your fingers to flatten it out and build up the edges slightly to form a crust.
 When the dough is out of the oven, spread 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of the Buffalo wing sauce over it. Combine 1 ½ cups (150 g) of shredded cheddar cheese and 1 ½ cups (150 g) of shredded mozzarella cheese in a medium size bowl, and sprinkle ⅓ of the mixture over the crust. Set aside., In a large skillet, melt 2 tablespoons (28 g) of butter over medium high heat. Add 2 pounds (960 g) of boneless, skinless chicken breasts that’s been cut into cubes, ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) garlic salt, ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) pepper, and ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) chili powder. Allow the chicken to cook until it is no longer pink, which should take approximately 8 minutes.You can add any seasonings that you like and think will complement the wing sauce to the chicken. Cayenne pepper, cajun seasoning, and crushed red pepper flakes are some options to consider.
 When the chicken is cooked, mix the remaining Buffalo wing sauce into the skillet. Lower the heat to medium, and allow the chicken and sauce to cook for another 5 minutes.Make sure to stir the chicken and sauce to ensure that the mixture cooks evenly.
 After the chicken and sauce have cooked, spread the chicken mixture over the previous cheese layer. Next, sprinkle the rest of the cheese and ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) of dried oregano over the top., Place the baking sheet with the pizza on it in the oven at 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) for approximately 18 to 20 minutes or until the crust becomes a golden brown and the cheese is fully melted.To mimic the way Buffalo chicken wings are served, add a side of blue cheese dressing and some celery sticks to the pizza when you bring it to the table.

