 You should first make sure that the tenant actually is violating a term of the lease. Take out your copy and read it cover to cover. Highlight the lease provision you think the tenant has violated. For example, the tenant might have:


Failed to pay you rent.
Let unauthorized people live in the unit.
Conducted illegal activity on your property, such as prostitution or selling drugs.
Severely damaged the property.;
, A qualified landlord-tenant attorney can answer any questions you have. Landlord-tenant disputes are state law disputes, so how you handle the dispute might differ slightly depending on the state where the land is located. You should consult with a qualified attorney if you have any questions.


If you don’t already have an attorney, you can get a referral by asking other landlords or by contacting your state or local bar association and asking for a referral.Think about hiring the attorney, especially if you don’t think you have the time to bring your own lawsuit or if you are nervous doing so. An attorney can make the process easy for you. Also, you could benefit by forming a business relationship with an attorney, whose expertise you will probably need in the future.
 Document any violation as best as you can. For example, if the tenant has damaged your property, then take photographs of the damage. Make sure to document the date and time that you took the pictures.


You can also get witness statements. For example, if the tenant has an unauthorized person living with them on your property, then you can have a neighbor sign a written statement to this effect.
You can also write down your own impressions. If you saw the tenant doing something in violation of the lease, then write down what happened and when.
 You can use this kind of notice when the tenant hasn’t paid rent. You give the tenant a certain amount of time to pay up. If he or she doesn’t, then you tell them to move out (“quit” the property). The amount of time you must give will differ depending on your state.You should read your state’s law on evictions. Some states require that you use certain language in your notice. If you don’t use the right language, then a court won’t let you evict the tenant until you do provide proper notice.
You can find your state’s statute by looking online. Type “your state” and “eviction” into your favorite search engine. If you have trouble finding anything, then contact your local housing authority for information about what to include in your notice., You can use this kind of notice if the tenant violates a term of the lease, such as letting unauthorized people move in or using the property for unauthorized purposes. You tell the tenant that he or she has a certain amount of time to fix (“cure”) the violation or else move out.Again, check with your state statute to see if there is a set amount of time you must give the tenant and if you must use certain language in your notice.
 With this notice, you don’t give the tenant a chance to fix the violation. In most states, you can use an unconditional quit notice in the following situations:the tenant has been late several times with rent
the tenant has repeatedly violated the lease
the tenant has seriously damaged the property
the tenant has engaged in illegal activity, such as selling drugs on the premises

, Your state may also require that you deliver the notice a certain way. For example, the state may prefer that you hand deliver a copy to the tenant personally. If you can’t reach the tenant in this manner, then you can leave a copy of the notice with someone at the residence (provided they are old enough) and at the same time mail a copy to the address.You should check your state statute and be sure to follow the recommended methods of service. If you don’t, then the tenant could challenge the notice as improperly served.
Always hold onto a copy of any notice you send. You will need it later if you have to bring a lawsuit.
If you must mail a copy of the notice, then send it certified mail, return receipt requested. The receipt will serve as proof that the notice was received.
 With luck, the tenant will fix whatever violation you have identified in your notice. For example, the tenant might send you a check for rent or fix whatever violation he or she was committing.


However, if the tenant doesn’t fix the violation or vacate the property, then you will need to file a lawsuit to evict the tenant.You must wait until the notice expires before filing the lawsuit. If your state requires that the tenant get three days to cure a violation, you can’t rush off to court and file an eviction lawsuit the day after you provided notice.
 Your instinct might be to throw the tenant’s belongings onto the sidewalk or try to physically remove the person. You shouldn’t. It is against the law in most states for landlords to use any form of “self-help”:Don’t change the tenant’s locks.
Don’t threaten to remove the tenant.
Don’t order the tenant to leave.
Don’t physically remove the tenant or the tenant’s possessions.
Don’t shut off the tenant’s utilities.
 Instead of using self-help, you need to bring an eviction lawsuit, which is called an “unlawful detainer” action in most states. You can start this lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. In the complaint, you identify yourself and the tenant. You can typically also request payment of past-due rent and/or monetary compensation if the tenant damaged your property.


Many courts now have printed “fill in the blank” forms you can use for unlawful detainer lawsuits. Ask the court clerk.You may have to complete other forms, such as a Civil Case Cover Sheet, depending on the court. Ask the clerk for all forms that you need to fill out.
 Once you have completed the complaint, you should make several copies. Take your original and the copies to the court clerk for the county where the property is located. You can ask the clerk to file the original complaint.


You will probably have to pay a filing fee, which will differ by court.Ask the court clerk how much the filing fee is ahead of time. Also ask about acceptable methods of payment.
The clerk can stamp all of your copies with the filing date.
 You have to give the tenant notice that you are bringing an eviction lawsuit. You can provide acceptable notice by serving a copy of the complaint and a “summons,” which you can get from the court clerk. A blank summons form is often included with the complaint form.Ask the court clerk for acceptable methods of service. Generally, you can have someone 18 or older make hand delivery on the tenant, provided the server is not part of the lawsuit.
 Whoever makes service will have to fill out a “proof of service” form (also called an “affidavit of service”). The purpose of the form is to prove to the judge that proper service was made on the tenant.


The server should return the completed form to you. You should make a copy for your records and file the original with the court clerk.
 The tenant will probably respond by filing an “answer” with the court. In this document, the tenant will admit or deny each allegation that you made. The tenant can also raise specific defenses.


As a defense, the tenant could argue that your notice was improper because it was missing necessary language or was delivered improperly.If the tenant doesn’t respond in time, then you should seek a “default judgment” with the court. There may be a form you can fill out. At your nearest hearing, ask the judge for a default judgment.
 This phase is called “discovery.” The purpose is to uncover helpful evidence for your case and also to uncover what evidence the other side has to support its arguments. In some states, the discovery process may be very short since most states want to speed up unlawful detainer disputes. The following are standard discovery techniques:Requests for Document Production. Either party can request documents. For example, the tenant might request a copy of the lease or witness statements you managed to obtain.
Interrogatories. These are written questions you must answer. The tenant might ask you for a list of witnesses you have.
Depositions. People can ask witnesses questions in an oral deposition. A court reporter usually records the questions and answers.
 If you have a lawyer, then he or she will pull everything together as your trial date approaches. Remember what you have to prove, and gather sufficient evidence to prove it:


You have a valid lease. You should turn your lease into an exhibit by attaching an exhibit sticker to it. You can then testify at your trial that both you and the tenant signed the lease.
The tenant violated the lease. You need proof that backs up why you are evicting the tenant.Get pictures or video of the violation. You can also have witnesses testify that the defendant violated the lease.
You gave proper notice of the violation. Turn your Notice to Quit or Notice to Cure into an exhibit, just as you did your lease agreement. You will need to show the notice to the judge. Also get proof that you served the notice properly: witness testimony from the person who delivered it and/or a signed receipt.
 If you are representing yourself, then you might be nervous. You can prepare for your own trial by sitting in on someone else’s unlawful detainer case.Courtrooms are generally open to the public, and you should ask the court clerk if there is a lawsuit you can observe.


Pay attention to where people sit and how they address the judge. You will want to appear as professional as possible.
Also take a note pad and write down the questions that the lawyers ask witnesses. Use your notes as you create your own outline of questions to ask each of your witnesses.
 Generally, either you or the tenant can choose to have a jury.You will select the jury before trial begins. Jury selection is called “voir dire.”


In voir dire, the judge will call a panel of prospective jurors to the front of the court room where the judge will ask them questions. The questions can be pretty basic: what the juror does for work, what their hobbies are, etc.
You can ask the judge to remove a juror “for cause.” This means you don’t think the juror can be fair. For example, if the juror knows the tenant, then you might ask the judge to remove the juror.
You will also get a limited number of “peremptory” challenges. With these, you can remove a juror without asking the judge’s permission. However, you can’t use peremptory challenges to discriminate on the basis of race, ethnicity, or sex. If the tenant challenges your use of peremptory challenges, then you will have to give the judge a non-discriminatory reason for dismissing potential jurors.If neither you nor the tenant dismisses a potential juror, then he or she is seated on the jury. In other words, jury selection is a process of elimination.
 You should have your witnesses (if any) prepared to testify. You can also testify on your own behalf. If you want to introduce a document, then remember that you have to lay a “foundation” for the document:First, ask the witness if they know what the document is. For example, if someone took a picture of damage to your property, give the picture to the witness and ask, “Do you know what this is?”
Second, ask the witness what the evidence is. The witness might say, “This is a picture of the western edge of the building at 1214 South Street.”
Third, ask how they know what it is. The witness might say something like, “Because I live next door to the building.” The witness has to give a reason for knowing what the evidence is.
Fourth, ask the witness if the picture accurately reflects the object pictured in it. The witness has to say, “Yes.”

, The tenant gets to present his or her case second. You can expect the tenant to try to get the judge’s sympathy by claiming what a terrible landlord you are. For example, the tenant might claim he or she withheld rent because you never responded to complaints.


You have to listen quietly. Remember that you will have a chance to either respond or cross-examine the tenant’s witnesses.
 If you win the eviction lawsuit, then the court will enter judgment in your favor. You can then get a “Writ of Judgment” (also called a “Writ of Possession”) from the court clerk. This document allows the sheriff or marshal to evict the tenant., Once you win your lawsuit, you should take the Writ of Possession to the sheriff’s office. You will have to coordinate with the sheriff, who will oversee the tenant’s removal. You will probably have to pay a fee for the sheriff’s services.You can’t remove the tenant yourself, not even after you get a court order. Only the sheriff or marshal can remove the tenant. Sit back and wait for the sheriff to arrive on the date scheduled for eviction.
If the tenant leaves possessions behind, then read Handle a Tenant’s Abandoned Property for tips on what to do with the property. In some states, you can freely dispose of the tenant’s possessions.However, most states strictly limit what you can do with property left behind.

