 Salad dressing in any restaurant is typically a less healthy choice, and Japanese restaurants are no exception. Your food may come with a dinner salad, or you might order salad as an appetizer. Either way, inquire about the dressing. If it’s described as creamy or oily, ask for an alternative, such as vinegar, or skip the dressing altogether., Tempura is a method of cooking that is largely similar to deep-fried food. Tempura means that a meat, vegetable, or even cake is battered and then lightly fried. Tempura batter tends to be much lighter than other types of batters, like beer batter or traditional flour batter, but is still not the healthiest option. Instead of choosing anything prepared tempura, look for grilled or steamed options., Katsu describes a food that is pan fried. Pan fried foods are cooked with added oils, fats, or butters. If you are opting for a low-fat diet, you’ll want to stay away from katsu-style foods. Just like with tempura, ask your server if they have any grilled, broiled, or steamed versions of the food that you’re interested in., You might be watching your sodium intake, and as you know, any restaurant is going to have an elevated sodium content. Because salt enhances the flavors in foods, you’re likely to find it in just about everything that you order. Ask for your food to be steamed and for any sauce to be put on the side. This will ensure that you get the least amount of sodium possible in your meal.Also, use soy sauce sparingly or ask for a reduced sodium version of soy sauce.
 White rice is a staple in most Japanese restaurants and an excellent accompaniment to your meal. If you’re trying to watch your carbohydrate intake, though, white rice isn’t a healthy option for you. Ask your server if they can swap your white rice for steamed brown rice, which is full of more nutrients compared to white rice — like fiber, B vitamins, and vitamins E and K.If the restaurant doesn’t offer brown rice, ask them to skip the rice altogether or ask if they’ll substitute steamed vegetables in place of the white rice.
You can also ask if the restaurant will swap brown for white rice in your sushi.
 Fish is typically rich in vitamins, omega-3 fatty acids, and minerals — all nutrients that the body needs. Fish that is prepared healthily, such as steamed or broiled, can be an excellent, healthy choice when eating out. If you’re watching your fat intake, though, you’ll do well to stay away from fattier fish.Examples of fattier fish are mackerel, eel, whitefish, salmon, and sardines.
Examples of leaner fish are bass, cod, flounder, mahi mahi, and tuna.
Some fatty fish, like salmon, are high in Omega-3 acids, which promote heart health.

