 If you don't abide by the rules, you are likely to get muted or banned. However, if you do break a minor rule, don't fret. Just don't repeat your mistake, and you'll be fine.;
, It's helpful to have a short name, preferably without numbers, but make sure your username isn't gibberish. Short names are easier to remember and type.


Examples of good usernames: Alina Kai, Phx Rising, Z
Examples of bad usernames: Bob8795253, Dave88896441, Red8689Dragon8779is6554strong654856

, This is when you use numbers, symbols, or other characters to replace certain letters or symbols, such as spelling "noob" as "|\|008".
 Mature players are only called noobs by immature players, and would never stoop to calling another player a noob.
 This is when you insult another player just because they said/did something to offend you. If someone says "noob", just ignore it, whether or not they are talking to you. Do not follow them and start saying "Noob, fight my main!".
 Just accept it or ignore it; it's no big deal what someone else thinks of you. If you react negatively, you could start a "flame war" and hurt yourself in the process. Every player is a newbie at some point.
 If you are a friendly player, you'll likely be well-liked in return. However, if you are too friendly, you'll begin to drive people away.
 If anything, this will only make you more of a "noob". Furthermore, just because you cannot afford a more expensive item doesn't mean that it should be made cheaper. Other players aren't likely to give up their hard-earned wealth for a random stranger going "omgplzplzzammy!!!!".
 RuneScape is an online game, not a dating site. If you are caught asking for a boyfriend/girlfriend, you will likely be muted or banned.
 Avoid making claims that you cannot prove, such as: "I got a level 138 main. I can't bring it here, it got banned/hacked/it's in a member's world".
 In some instances, you may be in breach of rule 13 (Asking for personal details). However, if you know the person, you may ask personal information via private messaging.
 Jagex can easily detect third-party software such as bots or auto-typers. Any player that is caught using this software to give themselves an unfair advantage will be permanently banned. Using Macros is a pathetic attempt at looking cooler. To use a bot is to seal your own pitifully pathetic place in history.
 There are three types of moderators in the game; consult the Moderators|RuneScape Knowledge Base article to learn more about each kind.
 Players who are annoying are highly likely to leave negative impressions on others.
 Spamming is the act of repeatedly filling the chat window or forums with nonsense or gibberish. This may result in you being muted/banned.
 Try not to say anything that correlates to your friends such as "My friend can beat you!". It's pointless.
, This is against the rules, and as such you may end up being banned or muted.
 Players don't like it when another player starts following them for no reason. If you don't like it when a random level 3 starts following you, don't follow others.
 It is annoying when you walk up to someone and start saying: "Noob! **** you! Stupid noob!"

, Players with less combat experience might have a higher total level than you do and/or are leveling up a new (but low level) character. However, be prepared for other people to call you a noob based on your combat levels because they can and will.
 If you're a level 58 in Ranged and you're using a sling, you'll be called a noob. This same rule also applies, to a lesser extent, to other skills

,


Don't trade someone, put your whole inventory on the trade screen and then decline.
Don't trade someone expecting them to give you items for free.
Don't trade someone, click accept when nothing is on the trade screen, then click accept again.
 Do not say "selling something" then trade a random person and put your item on the trade screen.
 Do not trade someone who is selling something, and click accept when you have nothing on your trade screen.
 Nobody in the game is entitled to free items if they lose their items from being killed/scammed/hacked, so why should you?

, It is very annoying to trade someone and offer an item they were buying, just to stand there for several minutes without them putting up their end of the offer.
 Do not barge into someone's clan chat and start swearing randomly.
 Players in the duel arena hate cowards. If you challenge someone or accept their challenge, do not hide behind obstacles or forfeit; after all, why did you offer/accept the challenge in the first place? The Duel Arena is a safe minigame, and you have zero risk even if you die (unless you staked).
 Don't try to "claim" a rock (mining), a monster, or anything that isn't actually yours. Until the monster's dead or the ores are in your inventory, it's up for grabs. If someone mines the ore you're mining or gets the drop for a monster you were fighting, don't get angry; it's just a few items. If you don't want people "stealing" your "kills", hop to a less crowded world, or choose not to fight in a multi-combat area.
 You can either use the map or politely ask someone to show you to it (it is considered good etiquette to give some coins as a "tip" for the player leading you to your destination). A noob is someone who will just stand there and demand directions repeatedly; eg: "Where is the Grand Exchange!".
 Bottom line. When in doubt, this is reference.
 Don't follow random players around saying "buy your armor". Chances are, they bought it to wear it. Don't be lazy - visit the Grand Exchange or buy from people who are selling the items.
 If you spell something wrong, correct it with an asterisk (*). However, don't go overboard and correct every single grammatical error you see people make and chastise them about their poor English.
, A level 50 miner has no right to complain about needing 9K exp to level up in the presence of a level 80 miner, who needs more than 200K exp to level up.
 Spend time learning about the skills you are leveling up; combat may not be the most important. Having a good total level is a good start, seeing as you slowly become more mature attempting to get it.

