 A quick look at some basic information about your chosen topic will indicate the scope of information available. A quick way to start is to simply look up the topic in an encyclopedia. If you can’t find sufficient basic information about your chosen topic in an encyclopedia, you will have to dig deeper to find the basic information you need to get started on your research, such as dates and events, just to get an overview of your subject. Ask the reference librarian for help to get you started. For example, if you want some background information on the dairy industry, formulate your questions with these queries:


Do you have some general information about the dairy industry?
What are some of the issues involved with hormones and milk production?
Where can I find information about the benefits of organic milk?
Where can I find some background/history on the dairy industry in Europe?
Who was involved with the invention of automated milking machines?;
, If your first exploratory research efforts didn’t yield much information, think about narrowing down your topic, or expanding it. This becomes more important if you have serious time constraints: if it is difficult to find broad background information on your topic, how will you find in depth facts if you have only 2 or 3 weeks to research and write about your topic?


Look at the Library of Congress Subject Headings for keywords that apply to your topic.
Browse through your library’s interlibrary loan system, if they have one. If you can’t find books about your topic in an interlibrary system, you might want to change topics; it is a sure indicator that you will not have an easy time finding resources to support your paper.
Ask if the library has access to SAGE. This software helps researchers with their projects, including designing your writing project. You will be able to search for information about your topic in a variety of sources, including government documents, magazines and journals.
 Reference librarians can assist you much faster if your research request if specific. Tell the reference librarian about the topic you want to research, and about what you intend to do with the information. The depth and breadth of resources you will need will vary according to what you need the information for. Are you going to write a short speech? Are you working towards a dissertation? Are you writing a short summary of the topic, or are you writing a 20 page paper on it?

, Tell the librarian what you have already searched for and what search terms you used. Specify your needs; break down your reference question to a single fact if that is all you need to complete your research. Phrase a single fact question in a way that will elicit the information you need:


Who is/was . . . ?
What is/was . . . ?
When did/was . . . ?
Where did . . . ?
How many/often . . . ?

, Start by asking questions that will lead you to solid primary source information:


I need to research XYZ company. What resources would you recommend that I use?
Where can I find information about the Montreal Olympics?
What information is available about orphanages in Romania during the 1960s?
How can I find out about the origins of genetically modified seeds?

, A reference librarian can help direct you to the resources and relevant information you need; it’s up to you to extract the information.

