 Sometimes, if you're just flirting with a person, you may read the situation as more flirtatious than it is. Studies have shown that men, especially, are guilty of this problem. That is, men are more likely to read an innocent gesture as sexual or flirtatious than women.It may be the person isn't giving you mixed signals at all. It may be that the person is simply being nice or friendly, and you are reading more into it than you should.;
, If you're not sure whether the person is flirting with you or not, pay attention to how that person interacts with other people. If he or she is treating everyone else the same way, then they're likely not flirting with you. However, if you seem to be getting special attention, they may be flirting with you., If you're not the type to address something head-on, you can try giving your own positive signals. That way, if the person is sending mixed signals because they're not sure that you're into them, you can reassure their fears. That is, laugh at the person's jokes, touch his or her arm when you're talking, touch your hair, and look into the person's eyes. Use body language to indicate to the person that you're interested, and they may reciprocate., If your flirting with someone but you don't want to ask them out, try using an indirect method. That way, you give them an opening, but you're not setting yourself up for major rejection.For instance, you could casually mention your plans for the weekend, such as "I'm excited about this weekend. I'm going to see this really great independent film downtown on Saturday." If the person is interested, he or she might ask to tag along.
If you want to open the door a bit more, you could add, "What are your plans?" or "Do you want to tag along?"

, You can also just bring it up directly instead of beating around the bush. That way, you get it out in the open. If the person rejects the idea, you can both move on with your lives. If the person says that they like you, you can consider going on a date.If you're trying to see if someone likes you, you could say, "I noticed you seem to flirt when I'm around. How would you feel about going on a date?"
However, be careful doing this step at work. Most workplaces frown on inter-office dating, and you could be making a very awkward situation that could cause trouble for you later.

