 Talking candidly about your scar can help you become more comfortable with it, but listen closely to the person’s tone and line of questioning to decide what you want to share with the person who is asking.


Perhaps the curious individual is engaging in self-harm themselves and asking you about it because they have nobody else to talk to about it.
Stay attuned to the tone of the conversation and delve deeper with the person if possible. You could, for example, say to them, “This scar is a reminder of a rough patch I went through. Do you know anyone who has engaged in self-harm?”
Use these conversations as opportunities to educate and inform others about the difficulties of self-harm and related scars.
Talking through your experience with others can often help you feel more comfortable with your scar and might inspire someone else to make a positive change.
Do not share information about your scar if you are not comfortable doing so.
 Good friends will support you and be understanding of the difficulty you have in opening up about your scar. You should also direct your friends about what to say if someone asks them about your scar.


People often feel uncomfortable asking about something obvious but private like a scar. Curious people who don’t know you well may, therefore, ask your friends what happened instead of asking you.
Provide your friends with directions about how you’d like them to answer these questions.
For instance, if you want to maintain control over the distribution of information regarding your scar, you should tell your friends to direct all questions to you. Your friends might answer a question about your scar by saying, “I don’t think my friend would appreciate me talking about it. You will have to ask him/her.” This is a good option when the scar is personal.
Role play with your friends to ensure they understand your wishes about what is acceptable to share about your scar. Pretend to be a stranger asking for information about your scar and ask probing questions.
Talking to your friends about your scar can show your friends that you trust them with sensitive information and help deepen your friendship.
 Politely but firmly deny their request for further information by saying, “I don’t want to talk about it,” or “Thank you for your concern, but that is a private matter.” Do not share information with people you don’t feel comfortable sharing with.
 The Scar Information Service offers a long list of scar-related groups on its website at http://www.smith-nephew.com/awm/scar-info/useful-contacts/scar-related-organisations/. Consult this list and search for a support group near you.


If you don't find a group near you, consider starting one, or joining a general group for individuals with body image issues.
You might also have success looking for groups related to your specific type of scar. For instance, you might be able to talk about breast cancer scars in a breast cancer support group.
 In order to work through those issues and confront your feelings about the scar, you may need to speak with a therapist. Therapists are specially trained to help you confront the complicated feelings you have about your scar.

