 Secure it as tightly as you can in an area protected from wind, but within sight of the horse's exercise area. The less the tarp blows around, the better. Ideally, give the animal a few days to get used to this "scary monster" before you continue.


Before you continue, wait for a calm day when there is almost no wind to blow the tarp.;
, When walking the horse, a rope halter communicates your prompts better than a standard halter. You may use a standard halter instead, but make sure it fits the horse well so he can feel your prompts.


Make sure the horse is calm and comfortable. If the horse is restless, spend a few minutes grooming him, or speaking to him in a quiet voice.
Confirm that the lead rope is sturdy and well-attached.
 Lead the horse near the tarp but go easy on him for now. If he wants to stop and sniff or look at it, let him. Touch the tarp to show that it's not dangerous.


If the horse refuses to come near, walk around the tarp a couple times so he can examine it from all sides.
 Step onto the tarp to show that you're not scared of it. Face the horse and gently pull on the lead rope to see if he is willing to follow. Tell him to "come ahead" with a firm, pleasant voice. Praise the horse every time he takes a step closer, but don't force him to do so.
 If the horse balks at your invitation, walk him around the tarp instead. Start with large circles around the perimeter of the tarp, then bring the horse in closer with each pass. Eventually, the circle will cross the edge of the tarp and the horse should step on at an angle.
 If the horse continues to resist, pull firmly and repeat the "come ahead" command with a louder voice, but still a calm and encouraging tone. Stay alert as he may buck or rear depending upon his level of fear. Some horses may take quite a while to follow you.
 Take the pressure of the rope once the horse stands on the tarp, putting the horse "at ease." If it took a lot of effort to get to this point, or if the horse seems agitated, praise the horse, give him a treat, and call it a day.
 If your horse isn't too skittish, you may be able to walk him to the middle of the tarp. Stand there with your horse for a moment so he can see that he is safe. Walk him back across the tarp and off again, or walk back and forth a couple times if your horse is calm.
 This process can take anywhere from a few minutes to several sessions, depending on the horse's temperament. Be patient and confident, since your horse picks up on your mood.
 When the horse is completely calm around the tarp, try a more advanced desensitizing exercise. Introduce these slowly and one at a time, or your horse could react violently:


Repeat this exercise on a day when the tarp is blowing slightly in the wind.
Hold a plastic bag at the end of a long stick, letting the horse examine it from a distance then from closer up.
Hold the tarp and approach very slowly. Once the horse is calm, rub the tarp against the horse's body.

