 Explain to the elder, in clear terms, what the technology is. This may sound like a simple task, but many elders may become quickly confused by the vocabulary that a younger person might consider common. Take your time while describing the technology to an elder to fully go over every major detail that the technology holds.Avoid using brand names and instead use the names of the technology. For example, use telephone over iPhone, tablet over iPad, or mp3 player over iPod.
It might be helpful to ask yourself questions like, “How would I explain this to someone who has never used technology like this before?” or “What would I say to someone who has never seen something like this before?”;
, Framing what the technology is and how it will affect their life is key to convincing elders to purchase new technology. Being able to differentiate between upgrading their current technology and adopting an entirely new one will help with their transition. Be sure to focus on what is different with the upgrade, how it will change the way the interact with the technology, and what its benefits are.


All technology can be seen, in some sense, as an upgrade. However, focusing on smaller shifts will help make these transitions more understandable. For example, try to differentiate an operating system upgrade from an transition from flip-phone to smartphone.
 There are many benefits to staying current with technological trends. Explaining these benefits will help motivate an elder to continue learning and using a new technology. Whether they are using the internet, an iPhone, or a Smart TV, many new technologies offer a range of benefits and accommodations.


Try explaining how using an iPhone or Facebook will help them keep connected with family members across the state, country, or globe.
Explain, for example, how a Smart TV will let them record TV shows that they can then playback at anytime they would like.
Try using phrases like, “This phone will let you view pictures of your grandchildren whenever you like” “This watch can also monitor your activity, heart-rate, and give you health alerts” or “This TV can record shows and let you watch them back whenever you would like to.”

, Many elders resist learning new technology due to physical limitations, such as vision or hearing impairment as well as chronic or significant diseases. Addressing these physical limitation will help both you and the elder understand what technology can be used and what technology they will be unable to use., Taking the time to show an elder how the technology they have works will help them not only understand but also adopt this new technology into their current lifestyle. Give them a few lessons on how to turn things on and off and other basic functions of the technology. Continue practicing by giving them small task to try and complete, like calling you on your phone, sending an e-mail, playing a song, or recording a TV episode.Try to schedule regular times to sit down and go through one aspect of the technology. For example, you could meet once a week for an hour. One session you might set-up email on a smartphone, another might be signing an elder up to Facebook and connecting them with family members.
 Elders will likely need continuing support, especially from those who have a larger cultural and generational understanding of emerging technologies. Make yourself available to an elder whenever they might have issues with their technology and talk them through to a resolution. Making yourself available will keep elders engaged and help them feel like they have consistent assistance in learning this new technology.


Let the elder know that they can call you when they have an issue with their new technology. Granted, this may become too frequent and disruptive, so be sure to remind them of your regular meetings.
Reassure them by telling them “Don’t worry, I’ll be here to help you if you are confused or have any problems” or “It is important that you stay connected with the family, so I will do whatever you need to make sure you do.”

, Using the technology that an elder is attempting to learn will help them stay motivated and connected. The more often you can encourage an elder to continue using new technology, the more likely they are to adopt it into their lifestyle.Try to message an elder on Facebook frequently if they have just set up an account.
Try only sending text messages to an elder who has just received a smartphone.
 Many elders will be firm about their resistance to new technologies, especially those that use different and unfamiliar vocabularies. Instead of getting frustrated at their lack of understanding or lack of acceptance, stay calm and try again. Some resistances might run deep and could take time to change. Remember that acting out of frustration can do harm to your argument for using new technology.


If you find yourself getting frustrated, take a deep breath and try to relax.
 Some elders may not see the point in new technologies and think that they are unnecessary. However, the more you stress the importance of staying connected with the rest of the family, the more likely they will be to want to be a part of that connection. Let the elder know that you want them to be a part of the communication and interaction that you are having on a daily basis.Try using phrases like, “Well, we are all using smart phones now. We video chat with one another every week” “All of us are on Facebook so that we can share our family memories with everyone no matter where they are” or “We all really want you to be a part of our group chat so that we can keep you updated and receive updates about you.”

, Asking elders why they are uninterested in using new technology can provide you with information to help better make adjustments for their eventual use. Whether they don’t understand what the technology does, don’t want to learn anything new, or don’t think they need anything to replace what they already have, understanding what they are avoiding and why they are avoiding it will help you convince them to change.For example, if they don’t understand the technology then provide them with resources for learning, like IT classes geared specifically toward seniors, or teach them yourself.