 In addition to being actively harmful to your health in other ways, these substances all interfere with your ability to get quality sleep. Drinking even one alcoholic beverage before bedtime, for example, results in disrupted sleep.People may associate alcohol with feelings of relaxation, but the scientific evidence doesn't back this up.
Beware of caffeine hidden in some products. In addition to coffee, tea, and sodas, caffeine is found in chocolate, energy drinks, and certain cold medications. Read the labels before consuming any of these things in the late afternoon or evening.
Avoid using any products, including alcohol or herbal supplements, to help you sleep.
 Studies show that there is a high correlation between high stress levels and insufficient sleep. Not getting enough sleep results in higher stress levels, but having too much stress also results in getting less sleep. Take active steps to lower the stress in your life in order to get enough rest in high school. According to researchers, adolescent rates of stress are similar to those of adults.Teens who spend less time online report overall lower levels of stress.
Physical activity is one of the best ways to lower stress. Walking, jogging, swimming, doing yoga, or playing basketball with friends are all good ways to move your body, reduce your stress, and get a better night's sleep.
If you find yourself getting stressed out by a situation you don't know how to deal with, talk to someone about it. Even if the other person can't solve your problem, sharing it with her often helps lower your stress about it., If you really need to catch up on sleep, take short naps in the early afternoon. Good daytime naps shouldn't be more than 20-30 minutes in length.Taking naps in the later afternoon or evening may interfere with your sleep schedule, and are best avoided.
Make sure your napping place is quiet, restful and reasonably dark.
There are three types of napping that can be used to help you get enough rest. They are planned naps, when you schedule a nap on a day you expect you'll be sleepy; emergency naps, for when you are just too sleepy to function well; and habitual naps, when you set aside time in your daily schedule for a nap.
 Learning relaxation strategies, such as meditation, yoga or a relaxing hobby, can help lower your stress levels, and have a positive effect on your sleep. Teens will appreciate relaxation techniques that they can use on their own, without guidance from a parent or adult.Progressive muscle relaxation is a good technique to fall asleep by. This is a step-by-step self-guided relaxation of each individual part of the body, starting at the toes and working up to the tip of the scalp. One by one, each muscle group is identified by awareness, tensed for 5-10 seconds, and then relaxed.
Guided auditory meditations may also be useful for teens. Explore different techniques until you find the one that's relaxing for you.

