;
,


Desktop users: Press the red Create an Account button either in the top right corner, or in the center of the page.







Mobile devices: The page may look different. Press the blue Create account link under the grey sign-in box if it is different.
 Your username will become your new Gmail email address. If your username is not available, you will be given several related options, or you can try a different one.
 You will need to enter your birthday (for age verification), your gender, location, your phone number in case you lose access to your account (optional), and a verification email address (optional). You also need to enter which country you reside in.


The mobile phone number is recommended but not required. Google can send you a text in case you lose access to your Gmail account.
, It's at the bottom-right corner of the page, so you may have to scroll down to access it.
, There are several different views that you can use for Gmail. These views affect the spacing between each email in your inbox. Click the Gear icon in the upper-right corner of the Gmail window, and select one of the Display Density options: Comfortable, Cozy, and Compact. Comfortable has the most spacing in between each email, while Compact has the least amount of space between each line.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the browser. Once you've clicked it, hit Change to set an image for your account. This picture will be displayed when other Gmail users receive email from you, and will be associated with all of your Google activity.


If you create a YouTube account this picture will show up as your channel icon.
 You can quickly add your contacts from another mail program to Gmail using the Import Contacts tool. You will need to have exported your contacts from your old email program, such as Outlook, as a CSV file. You can also export your Apple contacts in vCard format.


Click the "Gmail" menu in the top-left corner of the window. Select Contacts from the menu that appears.
Click the "Import Contacts..." option at the bottom of the left menu. The new Google contacts will require you to press More > and then Import.
Select where your contacts will be imported from.
 Click the red COMPOSE button in the upper-left corner of the Gmail window. This will open the New Message window in the bottom left corner. If you prefer the window to be in the center of your screen, click the ⤢ button in the upper-right corner of the New Message window.


Enter the recipient into the "To" field. You can add multiple recipients by separating the addresses with commas.
You can add a "Cc" line, which sends a copy to the recipients you list, as well as a "Bcc" line, which sends copies to the recipients you list but hides their names from the regular recipients.
Enter the subject of your email in the "Subject" field.
Type the body of the email into the large field underneath "Subject". Click the "A" button at the bottom of the window to show the text formatting options. These allow you to change size, font, color and more, just like a word processor.
Click the blue Send button to send the email to the recipients.
 You can attach files up to 25 MB in size to your emails. Gmail supports sending any file type. You can either drag the file directly onto the email you are composing, or you can click the Paperclip button and browse for the file on your computer.


You can attach multiple files to one email, as long as the total size does not exceed 25 MB.
If you want to send a lot of files at once, such as a photo album, compress them all into one archive file to save space and make things easier for your recipient(s).
 Gmail contains powerful filtering and labeling options that let you sort all of your incoming emails into specific folders. You can even set filters to automatically forward certain emails, or block addresses altogether.


Click the Gear icon and then click Settings.
You can create new Labels by clicking the Labels tab in the Settings menu. Gmail has several labels created automatically, including System labels, Categories, and Google+ Circles. You can create your own labels by scrolling down and clicking the Create new label button.
You can hide labels that you don't want to see by clicking the "hide" link next to the label in the list.
Create filters by clicking the Filters and Blocked Addresses tab at the top of the Settings menu. You can create a new filter by clicking the "Create new filter" link at the bottom of the list.
Filters are broken into two main sections: the search and the action. When you create a new filter, you first define the search which will pull any mail that meets the criteria. You can enter certain addresses, filter by subject line, include keywords, and more.
The action is what happens when a mail meets the search criteria. There are a variety of options, including archiving, applying a label, deleting, forwarding, and more.
See this guide for detailed information about creating Gmail filters.

