 What are your reasons? Are you doing it because you want to be healthier? Do you want to stop supporting animal cruelty? Are you converting to a religion that requires you to be vegetarian/vegan?;
, For example, you may need to take vitamins such as Iron, B12, Omega-3, Zinc, and Vitamin D.
 Telling your parents when they are busy will most likely make them say no. Notice if your parents look relaxed and in a good mood then approach them.
 If it is their favorite show, chances are they will be annoyed, and get frustrated, which is not the mood you want them to be in.
 If they say 'yes say - "Mum, Dad I just wanted to let you know that I have made the decision to go Vegan/Vegetarian. I would really appreciate if I could have your support on this." If they disagree, educate your parents by showing them films about veganism such as Earthlings, Cowspiracy, Meet Your Meat and Forks Over Knives. Do some research and state the real facts about why meat, dairy, and eggs are unhealthy to your parents as well, who knows they may join you on your vegan journey.
 If your parents do allow you to become a vegan or vegetarian you could try to convince them to give veganism a try but if they don't want to respect their decision.
 Learn to cook some of your own meals. If it is a hassle, tell them you will make your own school lunches, and they will only have to cook your dinner.
 It is a good idea to make a little recipe book with ideas for meals that you can all eat together. For example:

Breakfast: porridge with fruit and nuts, smoothie bowl, toast with nut butter, fruit salad or an omelette with vegetables and tempeh bacon.
Lunch: pasta salad, roasted vegetables, sushi with avocado, carrots, cucumber etc, veggie wrap or sandwich or baked potato with salsa, corn, and beans.
Dinner: vegetable soup, vegetable lasagna, tacos with beans, potato curry with rice or stir fry with tofu, vegetables and rice or noodles.
Snacks: mixed berries, smoothie, carrots and hummus, nuts (walnuts, peanuts etc) or avocado toast.
 If they still disagree and force you to eat meat, you can either just give up and go vegan when you move out, reduce your meat intake and eat more fruits and vegetables or, if this means a lot to you, you can refuse and just eat whatever is OK for a vegan or vegetarian on your dinner plate.

