 Cats are drawn to furniture for a variety of reasons. A cat may jump on a couch near a window or get on a kitchen counter in search of food. Make your furniture less appealing by eliminating the built-in rewards cats seek by climbing on furniture.Keep blinds closed if you have furniture near windows. This way, cats will not be drawn to furniture to sunbathe or look out windows.
Remove any excess padding from furniture when it's not in use. For example, after you get done lounging on your couch to watch a movie, remove any blankets or pillows you used.
Keep surfaces in the kitchen free of food and other debris that cats will be drawn towards.;
, Cats dislike slippery surfaces. When not in use, line furniture with tinfoil. This will deter your cat from jumping up on the furniture as they will dislike sliding around.This tends to work best with small bits of furniture, such as coffee tables.
 For non-fabric surfaces, place double-sided sticky tape in stripes or criss-cross patterns on things like coffee tables, mantels, and kitchen counters. If your cat finds their feet get sticky after jumping on a piece of furniture, they're more likely to stay off that furniture.Do not place double-sided sticky tape on leather furniture. It will leave residue behind that's difficult to get off.
 Repellent sprays often work great for fabric surfaces. If you want your cat off a couch or a chair, spray that surface down with a commercial cat repellent spray. Commercial sprays will not harm cats, but will contain oils and other scents that repel them from furniture. Follow the directions on a spray bottle closely and apply it to your furniture to keep cats down.Always test a spray on a small, unnoticeable patch of furniture first. Make sure it does not cause any damage or discoloration to the surface before applying it all over your furniture.
 Plastic floor mats can be turned upside down and laid over furniture when it's not in use. Floor mats have small knobs on the bottoms that irritate a cat's feet. These knobs will not harm cats, but will be uncomfortable enough that your cat will be deterred from jumping on furniture., Cats respond better to built-in punishment. Rather than punishing your cat after it gets on the furniture, leave something on the furniture to startle your cat. Place some lightweight cookie sheets on the edge of the couch or chair, for example, that's balanced near the edge. When your cat jumps up, they'll land on the trays and be startled. With time, this may discourage your cat from getting on counters.