 Fetch a roll of duct tape, electrical tape, or any other type that is totally opaque. Open your shoebox. Hold it up to a light source to see if any cracks, joins, or holes are permitting light to enter the box from the outside. If so, cover those areas with tape to keep all unnecessary light out. Do the same with the cover to the shoebox.
 Use a pencil or pen to trace a 1”x1” (2.54 cm x 2.54 cm) hole on one of the box’s smaller ends. Place it near the edge of the box’s bottom, but leave about a half-inch of space between the hole and the edge so you don’t accidentally tear the edge when you make your cut. Use a utility blade to cut the hole along your outline.For safety’s sake, always have the sharp end of the blade facing away from you in case it slips.
 Cut out a piece of tin or aluminum foil that is slightly larger than your hole. Cover the hole from the inside and tape the foil’s edges to the inside of the box. Use a pin, needle, or thumbtack to prick a very tiny hole in the foil. Aim for the center.Make sure the foil is pulled taut when you tape it. Otherwise, you may end up only pushing the foil with your pin or needle instead of poking a hole through it.
 Place it inside the box, directly across from the foil, in the exact same position along the box’s other smaller end. Tape it in place along its edges. Close the box with its cover once you finish.When the foil end is aimed at the eclipse, the sunlight should penetrate the foil through the hole you poked and then strike the piece of paper that you just taped up at the opposite end, just like a film projector aimed at a theater screen.
 Trace another 1”x1” (2.54 cm x 2.54 cm) outline to cut along one of the box’s longer sides. Use your utility blade to cut the hole out. Peer inside and make sure you have a clear view of the white screen.If you placed both the foil and the white screen near the bottom of the box, you can judge the best angle for viewing the screen from the top before closing the box.
If the lid to your box is totally detachable, you can also use other lids to cut new viewing holes if your first attempt does not provide a good view of the screen.
 Seal the lid with opaque tape to keep any more light from creeping into the box. Just before the eclipse begins, aim the foil end of the box at the sun. Check its shadow to make sure the box is lined up perfectly with the sun. As the eclipse begins, peer into the box through the viewing hole. Look for a circle of light projected onto the white screen. Track the moon’s shadow over this circle of light as the moon passes between Earth and the sun.