 Cognitive distortions are unhealthy or irrational thoughts that worsen feelings of anxiety or depression. Consider the most common cognitive distortions below and see if you can spot these patterns in your own self-talk.All or nothing (or black and white) thinking: Viewing situations in absolute categories — something is good or bad, right or wrong, with no subtleties, complexities, or gray areas.
Mental filter: Exaggerating the negatives while minimizing the positives.
Jumping to conclusions: Assuming someone else's negative reaction is because of you; predicting the future to be negative.
Magnification or minimization: Either maximizing or minimizing the importance of a situation.
Overgeneralization: Seeing a negative event as a part of a nonstop pattern.
"Should" statements: Judging yourself or others by what they "Should," "Ought," "Shouldn't," "Have to," or "Must" do.
Emotional reasoning: Reasoning based solely on your emotions — "I feel stupid, so I must be."
Discounting the positives: Diminishing the value of your accomplishments or positive attributes.
 To eliminate negative self-talk, you have to notice yourself taking part in these cognitive distortions, and then make a conscious effort to challenge these self-statements.


First, you notice negative self-talk: "I can see everyone watching me and I know they think I'm awkward."
Next, you challenge this thinking with one of the following questions:What would I say to a friend who said something like this?
What evidence I have that this thought is true?
What evidence do I have that this thought is not true?
Am I confusing "possibility" with "certainty"?
Is this thought based on how I feel rather than on facts?



,


For example, the statement from above, "Everyone is watching me and thinks I'm awkward," can be transformed to lift your mood instead of lowering it. Try to reframe it into something like, "I have no idea how others perceive me; it could be bad or good. But I know who I am, and I'm proud of it."

, Complete the exercise daily at this designated time. Choose a time away from your usual bedtime so that worries and anxiety don't interfere with your sleep., Become aware of your worrying by noticing how it makes you feel. If any thoughts you are having create tension in your body, a pounding heartbeat, wringing of the hands, or other signs you are anxious, label them as worries. Then, as you go through your day, when you start to feel anxious and notice yourself worrying, identify what you are thinking about.


Write the worry down on a worry list, if necessary, and remind yourself that you can think on it later. Try to clear your head and continue on with your daily activities., During your worry time, don't just think about what's been bothering you over the course of the day. Grab a pen and your worry list, and strive to problem-solve each worry.


Research on stimulus control therapy shows that the four-step process of identifying worries, setting aside a time to deal with them, catching and postponing worries throughout the day, and brainstorming solutions is the best method for reducing worrying., Early on, trying to postpone worries may seem impossible. However, after much practice, you will find that you actually can decide when and where you want to worry. Therefore, worries don't have to lay claim on your entire day.