 Every type of breast pump comes with pros and cons. Reflect on your lifestyle, your baby's needs and your own preferences and decide which pump works best for you. Pumps can cost as little as $30 or as much as $1,000, and range from simple manual devices to high-tech electric machines. Here's an outline of the options:



Manual pumps. These simple devices are the least expensive option. They come with a shield that is placed over the nipple and a plunging device that sucks the milk into a bottle. Women like manual pumps because they're cheap and nice to have around when you just want to pump a little milk. On the other hand, this option isn't practical for women who plan on bottle-feeding their baby using primarily pumped milk, because each pumping session takes at least 45 minutes and requires the use of both hands.

Electric pumps. These pumps are easy to use and pump more milk much faster than hand pumps. You flip a switch and let the machine go to work, and in the 15 - 20 minutes it takes to pump the milk, you can type, read a book or make a phone call because your hands are free. However, this option is the most expensive; plan to pay several hundred or up to $1,000 dollars, depending on the brand.

Battery-operated pumps. Consider this type of pump the middle ground, both in terms of expense and the amount of effort required. Battery-operated pumps don't pump quite as much milk as electric pumps, but they don't require the use of both hands like manual pumps. One downside is that they frequently run out of batteries during pumping sessions.;
, Every mother has different needs and preferences when it comes to choosing when to start pumping and bottle feeding. Premature babies may need to take the bottle from day one, meaning you'll need to start pumping right away. In most cases, it's advised to wait at least 3 weeks before you introduce the bottle, to avoid "nipple confusion." Ultimately, though, the choice is yours as the motherIf you're planning to start pumping when you go back to work, practice for a few weeks beforehand to get used to it first.
If you want to start pumping before you're ready to introduce the bottle to your baby, you can freeze the milk for later.
 On the days when you pump, the easiest way to make sure you get the most milk is to align your pumping with your baby's schedule. That way you can take advantage of your body's natural cycle, rather than trying to force milk to come at random times.


Keep in mind that the more often you pump, the more milk you'll produce.You can pump one breast while your baby is feeding on the other. This is an easy way to get plenty of milk.
You can wait one hour after a feeding and pump both breasts.
If you're at work or away, pump at the time of day when your baby would normally feed.
 The pumping process is easiest and least uncomfortable when you're feeling relaxed and calm. Whether you're pumping with your baby on your other breast or you're in the middle of the workday, it's important to find a space that feels peaceful and give yourself plenty of time. Rushing the process is only going to make it more difficult.
 That means helping the milk move down into your breasts so that it'll flow freely into the pump. Massaging your breasts, draping a warm cloth over them, and allowing them to swing downward can all help to encourage letdown., This will ensure that the milk doesn't get contaminated during the pumping process. Be sure to wash the pump, bottle and other supplies after each pumping session, too.

