 Although dirt does not directly cause rust, dirt and sediment can wear through your paint over time, especially when anyone touches the paint. Other things that can reduce your vehicle’s protection against rust include bird droppings and gasoline that spills when filling the vehicle. Over time, these things wear through wax, clear coat and paint, leaving the metal susceptible to rusting.Wash your vehicle every few weeks so sand and dirt can’t be rubbed through the paint.
Bird droppings and gasoline can eat through the paint. Consider washing your vehicle if either comes into contact with the paint.
 If you live in an area that snows in the winter, salt and chemical deposits on the underside of your vehicle can compromise its ability to protect against rust. Wash the underside of your vehicle regularly to prevent these materials from sitting on your vehicle for long.Many automatic car washes offer undercarriage cleaning.
You may also jack up your car and spray the underside using a hose.
 If you often have to deal with road salt, you may choose to add a small amount of baking soda to the soap and water you wash the undercarriage and wheel wells of your vehicle with. A tablespoon of baking soda will neutralize the acidic effect of the salt and other ice melting chemicals used on the roads.Make sure to use baking soda in conjunction with an automotive soap.
One tablespoon of baking soda is sufficient to clean the undercarriage of most vehicles.
 Leaving dried soap on your vehicle can also reduce the lifespan of the paint. Make sure you rinse all of the soap off of your car or truck each time you wash it. Never wash your vehicle in direct sunlight, as it may cause the soap to dry to the paint much faster.You may choose to apply soap to your vehicle in sections, such as the hood, then rinse it completely before moving on to the next portion of the vehicle.
Dried soap will also dull the appearance of the paint on your vehicle.
 Wax does more than provide your vehicle with a healthy shine, it also protects the paint from fading and damage. Applying a coat of wax to your vehicle twice a year will provide the paint with an extra layer of protection and help reduce the chances of rust forming.Wax repels water and creates another layer of protection for the paint.
Wax will also protect your paint from fading in direct sunlight.

