 You generally need the bondsman’s permission to reinstate the bond once it has been revoked. You should talk to the bond company about whether you can get the bond reinstated. Reinstating the first bond instead of buying a second one could be much cheaper for you.


Ideally, you should have immediately contacted your bandsman if you missed a court appointment or violated some other condition of your release.
If you did, then the bond company may be willing to reinstate the bond because you are honest and not trying to jump bail.
 You might have violated your bail, but not all violations are serious. Both the judge and your bondsman might agree to reinstatement if you had a legitimate reason for violating your conditions of release. Valid reasons include:Your violation was unintentional. For example, a medical emergency might have prevented you from getting to a court hearing.
You weren’t aware you were violating the terms of your bail. For example, you might have failed a drug test because of a valid prescription drug you were taking.
It didn’t cost the government anything to apprehend you. If you turned yourself in, then the government hasn’t expended any resources finding you.
The government hasn’t been prejudiced by your violation.
 Your court might have printed, “fill in the blank” forms you can use to ask the judge to set aside any forfeiture of the bond and to reinstate it. Ask the court clerk for the form. Sometimes, these forms are published on the court’s website.


Often, the bond company will have to sign a form granting permission for reinstating the bond. You should get the form from the court., If there is no form to file requesting reinstatement, then you will have to draft your own. The bond company may be willing to draft and file the motion for you, since you are in jail. Talk to the bond agent and work out an agreement. A proper motion should contain the following:The caption information. This includes the name of the court, the names of the parties (the state and you as the “defendant”), and the case number.
A proper title. Often, this motion is titled “Motion to Set Aside Notice of Forfeiture and Reinstate the Bond.”
A request to set aside the forfeiture and reinstate the bond. You should identify the date the bond was forfeited and ask that it be reinstated. Give your reasons for reinstatement.
A statement that the bail bondsman agrees to the reinstatement as well as their signature.
A certificate of service, stating how you sent a copy of the motion to the prosecutor.
Proper formatting so that the motion is easy to read (e.g., 14-point font, double-spaced, with one-inch margins).
 You should make several copies of your motion. File the original with the court clerk. There may be a fee that you have to pay to have the bond reinstated. If you can’t afford it, ask about a fee waiver.If the bail bondsman drafted the motion, then he or she can file it. Ask for a copy.
If you drafted the motion, then you will probably have to mail it to the court, since you are in jail.
 Typically, you must provide the prosecutor with a copy of your motion to reinstate bail. You can generally mail the copy to the prosecutor, who has a chance to oppose your attempt to reinstate the bail bond.
 The judge may hold a hearing to decide whether to reinstate your bail bond. The judge may ask you questions. Be sure to answer honestly and never interrupt the judge. Always call the judge “Your Honor.”If the judge grants reinstatement of bail, then he or she will sign an order to that effect. You should get a copy of the order.