 Hand eye coordination is the most important part of catching a softball. You must train yourself to always watch the ball that is coming toward you. Taking your eyes off the ball for a second can throw off your ability to catch it. Practice watching the ball as soon as it leaves the bat or the thrower’s hand., Move your whole body to where the ball is going, don’t just reach for it. Ideally you want to catch the ball directly in front of you rather than off to the side. Even though it can be scary at first to have the ball coming straight at you, this gives you the best chance of catching it. Having the ball off to the side increases the possibility of missing the catch., Once you have moved to where the ball is headed, position yourself directly in the line of the ball. Keeping the ball directly in front of you gives you the ability to move your glove around as needed in case the ball comes in higher or lower or off to either side of you., Although you have moved to where you think the ball is headed, you need to be able to quickly correct your positioning. Keep a good athletic stance with knees bent and most of your weight on the balls of your feet. This allows you to make quick movements should the ball end up in a different spot than you thought., With your mitt open, extend your arms out in front of you, keeping your elbows slightly bent. Just like bending your knees allows you to move, having your arms extended and slightly bent gives you the most mobility. Keep your arms at chest level as much as possible, and adjust them as the ball gets closer to you. Think of how you would position your arms if you were pushing against a wall. This is the position you want., Catching is not just about using your mitt. Your free hand is just as important because it is used to secure the ball once it hits your mitt. Place your thumb just behind the thumb inside your mitt, form a W shape with your hands. This will give your mitt extra stability and allow you to clamp your free hand over the ball once the ball is in your glove., Many times when you catch the ball you will need to throw it to another player immediately, so this is why your throwing hand should be close to the mitt. Once you clamp the ball, you can transfer it to your free hand quickly and make the throw.

