 Use laundry bleach. To begin, toss your shirt in a bucket, bowl, or other suitably sturdy container. Cover it with at least a few inches of cold water.


Feel free to soak other whites with your shirt. It is more efficient to bleach a number of items than just one. White underwear, socks, pillowcases, and towels often are good candidates. If you do, add extra water so that the clothes have at least an inch or so of water over them when pushed down.
You want a container big enough to give you room to stir and agitate your clothing while it soaks. Clean construction-grade buckets are great for this. If you can obtain one with a lid, it will help prevent accidents as well as cut down on any fumes if used inside. Other typical possibilities include a large cooking pot, a bathtub, or your washing machine.;
, Your bottle of bleach very likely has directions on how much is recommended for use. Different bleaches have different concentrations. If you are only soaking your shirt, you may only need a few tablespoons or so. However, if you soak a large load of whites, you may need to add up to 1 cup. Generally, about 1








Laundry detergent
Dish detergent
Borax
Washing soda

Note: Never mix bleach and ammonia — this can release toxic chloramine gas., Next, stir the liquid in the bucket to ensure your shirt (and/or any other clothes with it) get a nice, even soaking. Then, set a timer for five to ten minutes and simply wait for the bleach to do its work! You may want to stir every few minutes to ensure the shirt soaks completely.


Do not let your whites to soak for too long. Even fabrics that can safely be bleached, like cotton and linen, will eventually be weakened and damaged if exposed to bleach for long periods of time., Once your shirt has soaked, remove it from the bleach mixture and wash it under cold, clear running water. You want to do this to remove the bleach and other chemicals from the fabric. If allowed to dry, these materials can leave unpleasant residues in the fabric which can smell strongly of chlorine, irritate the skin, and possibly cause yellow stains.
 Once your shirt has been rinsed and any bleach or detergent that was used to clean it has been removed, squeeze or wring any excess water out of it. Then, simply dry it however you normally would. For most, the simplest option will be to simply use a drying machine or put out on the line to dry as usual.









However, you can also let the shirt air-dry out doors. Drying white clothes in the sun is actually known to have a slight "bleaching" effect, leading to whiter whites (see section below for more information). It is not as dramatic as using bleach, but sunlight does cause bleaching.

