 If you start to get angry about something, then it is a good idea to calm yourself down before you talk to your sister. The next time you have a problem with your sister, try taking a 15 minute break to calm down before you talk to her. Some good techniques to try include:Deep breathing.

Meditation.

Progressive muscle relaxation.
 Siblings tend to fight often over petty and serious issues. You may find yourself in conflict with your older sister often, even as you both get older. You can avoid conflicts with her by taking the time to focus on her positive qualities. Often, it can be easy to ignore her positive traits and qualities, and instead only focus on the negative.For example, maybe your sister tends to complain and nag you often about your life choices. You may try to focus on the positive aspects of her behavior, as she is likely nagging you because she is concerned about you and cares about your well-being.
You may also try to keep in mind that though your sister nags you, she is also there to support you when you fail or when you are having a hard time. Her positive qualities may outweigh her negative qualities, especially when it comes to her treatment of you.
 You should always try to view a situation through your sister’s eyes and avoid getting defensive. Maybe your perspective on a situation was different than hers and this lead to a conflict. Or maybe your approach to a certain issue seemed faulty from her perspective. Be willing to consider and respect her point of view, even if you may not completely agree with it.For example, you may feel like your sibling was always the golden child when you were younger or that she gets preferential treatment from your parents now. You could then consider your childhood through her eyes and realize how much pressure and expectation was placed on her growing up. You may be more empathetic toward her if you view the situation from her point of view.
 Try to do at least one nice thing for your sister. This could be something small, like putting toothpaste on her toothbrush in the morning or asking how her day went at school. Doing kind things for her can help to foster a more caring and giving relationship with her. You are both then less likely to get into a conflict or a fight if you are treating each other with respect and consideration.Be willing to tell your sister the things you admire or appreciate about her. You may say, “I like that you have a good sense of humor, even when you are having a bad day,” or you may say, “I appreciate when you stick up for me in front of the bullies at school.” Complimenting her on her behavior will help to create a relationship with her that is respectful and honest.

