 Animal feedlots, buried fuel tanks, waste disposal and septic systems can all pollute groundwater. Wells should be drilled in places where they can easily be reached for maintenance, and located at least 5 feet (1.5 meters) from building sites.


Every states has regulations regarding where wells can be located as well as setbacks that you must follow. The well driller should be very familiar with these.
 Most wells are drilled out, but wells may also be dug or driven, if conditions warrant. Drilled wells may be bored with an auger or rotary tool, smashed out with a percussion cable or cut with high-pressure jets of water.


Wells are dug when there is sufficient water near the surface and no intervening dense rock. After a hole is made with shovels or power equipment, a casing is lowered into the aquifer, and the well is then sealed against contamination. Wells no deeper than 20 feet (6.1 m) are usually classified as 'Ground Water.' As they are shallower than driven or drilled wells, they are more likely to go dry when drought lowers the water table. They are often contaminated with chloroform or E. Coli bacteria, so it is important to have them tested regularly.






Wells are driven by attaching a steel driving point to a stiff screen or perforated pipe, which is connected to solid pipe. An initial hole wider than the pipe is dug, then the assembly is pounded into the ground, with occasional turnings to keep the connections tight, until the point penetrates the aquifer. Wells can be hand-driven to depths of 30 feet (9 meters) and power-driven to depths of 50 feet (15 meters). Because the pipe used is of small diameter (1.25 to 12 inches, or 3 to 30 centimeters), multiple wells are often driven to provide sufficient water.






Augers can be either rotating buckets or continuous stems and can be turned either by hand or with power equipment. They work best in soils with enough clay to support the auger and don't work well in sandy soil or dense rock. Auger-bored wells can be drilled to depths of 15 to 20 feet (4.5 to 6 meters) by hand and up to 125 feet (37.5 meters) with power augers, with diameters ranging from 2 to 30 inches (5 to 75 centimeters).






Rotary drills exude water based drilling fluid such as a bentonite clay slurry to keep the hole open. They may use an additive to reduce heat, clean the bit, and remove debris. The high-pressure compressed air in a rotating bit make drilling easier while pumping out the drill cuttings. Typically the driller will use an oversized dual or tri-cone roller bit to drill down through softer strata until it reaches a solid strata formation. A smaller steel well casing is inserted at this point. These can drill to depths of 1000 feet (300 meters) or more, creating holes from 3 to 24 inches (7.5 to 30 centimeters) wide. While they can drill faster than other drills through most materials, they have trouble drilling through rock in boulder formations. While the drilling fluid makes it tough to identify material from water-bearing strata, the drill operator can use water and air to flush the well and determine whether or not the aquifer has been reached.






Percussion cables work like pile drivers, with bit or tool moving up and down on a cable to pulverize the ground being drilled into. As with rotary cable drills, water is used to loosen and remove intervening materials, but it does not flow from the drill bit. Rather, it is added from the top manually. After a while, the cutting tool is replaced by a 'Bailing' tool. Percussion cables can drill to the same depths as rotary drills, albeit much more slowly and at higher cost, but they can smash through materials that would slow rotary bits. Often when drilling in more solid rock formations, a cable tool rig may be more efficient in finding small fissures of water than a rotary air machine as the rotary air drill seals off such fissures with high air pressure.






High-pressure water jets use the same equipment as rotary drills, without the bit, as the water both cuts the hole and lifts out drilled material. This method takes only minutes, but jet-drilled wells can be no more than 50 feet (15 meters) deep, and the drilling water needs to be treated to prevent it from contaminating the aquifer when the water table is penetrated.
 Once the well is drilled, casing is inserted to prevent the water from wearing away and being contaminated by the sides of the well. This casing is usually narrower in diameter than the well hole itself. The most common type for domestic installations is 6 inches (15 cm) in size. They are frequently made out of steel or Schedule 40 PVC. They can be sealed in place with a grouting material, commonly either clay or concrete. To prevent ground water contamination, a bag to filter out sand and gravel is inserted in the casing, then the well is capped with a sanitary seal. Unless it is an Artesian Well and the water is already under pressure, a pump is attached to bring the water to the surface.


Sometimes for the steel casing, a perforator tool is inserted and slowly pulled up to determine the the depth of the water. Using the drill's compressed air at low volume, it drives a wedge out into the casing multiple times, cutting an opening for water to flow into the casing.
In sandy soils, a solid piece of casing 5–10 feet (1.5–3.0 m) in length may be used. These have a steel laser-cut slotted screen in a 10 feet (3.0 m) section welded to the top of the casing or a solid casing welded to top of a slotted screen. For extremely sandy soils, a 4 inch PVC pipe and screen is inserted inside the steel casing. Small 'pea' gravel is slowly poured outside of PVC liner casing but inside of the steel casing. This improves the filtration of sand.

