 The beauty of the Harlem Shake is that it can be done anywhere with anyone (it's better with people who don't dance, actually). The more outrageous the setting, the more outrageous the result.


Just stick to places that are legal (even though it's been done on a plane). If you can bust 'er out in a swanky French restaurant or in the middle of Chem class, that's ideal. Somewhere unexpected.;
, They should be pretty inconspicuous and match the setting. A couple of people is sufficient, but you'll probably get a better overall look with at least half a dozen. Whatever your number, make 'em look casual.


The more varied your group, the better your outcome will be. Do you have one friend that can breakdance? Super. Do you have one friend who you have to pay to be in this video, but when he busts out his Russian ballerina impression, jaws hit the floor? Better yet...do you have a friend with an armadillo costume? Speaking of which.
 Alright, so if you and your buddies are getting together and Harlem shaking for fun, might as well toss on your pajamas and make the best of it. But if you're going for hardcore YouTube glory, you're gonna need more of a spectacle. A certain "look" is best, but anything that's eye-catching will do.


In most videos, everyone has a certain identity. There's the one guy in the gorilla costume in the back being marvelous at being awkward, the one guy acting gangster as all get out, and the other guy that, for some reason, thought it would be a good idea to swing his belt around his head while his pants fall to the floor. Whatever look you choose, make it count!
But for the record, you're starting in street clothes -- or whatever matches your environment. The key is to start being perfectly blended in and then BAM! Shake. Groove. Slam.
 After a few moments, one person should start dancing. Generally, they'll start at the left side of the screen and move toward the right. In most interpretations, they have some sort of headgear on -- which allows for plenty of creativity!


Helmets, a ski mask, a turkey -- it all works. And it doesn't have to make sense. In fact, the more absurd, the better. Just covering the eyes works, too.
 By "dancing," we mean flailing about wildly however you damn well please. This video is not about looking pretty or hitting beats 1 and 5 with a pointed toe. You do whatever you want as long as it's energized and matches the electronic dance beat of the music.


Don't be shy. Dance like nobody is watching! You can just close your eyes so you won't see the people around you. If you've ever wanted to pretend you have epilepsy or are being possessed, now's your chance! You've been waiting for this moment for years, haven't you?
In most videos, there's an obvious cut where the video starts back up but everyone's changed costumes. You do not have to be a video pro to do this.
This part is when you have one guy dropping trou off to the side, one girl doing hair flips constantly, and another guy in the back doing the electric slide in a giant squirrel outfit. You'll probably also have a friend who insists on standing there and just bobbing his head intimidatingly. Every group has one.
 Part of the reason the Harlem Shake craze is so big is because the ADD generation can handle it. It's quick and to the point. If you make it any longer, it gets repetitive and boring. And how long do you really want to watch yourself seizing?

