 If you’re preoccupied with unpleasant memories, you won’t have fun at the reunion. Instead, eat, mingle, and act normally. Cherish the opportunity you have to reconnect with old friends and classmates.Instead of focusing on the former bully, focus on the good people whose company you enjoy.
 It simply means you realize that they are not worth your time and energy.Don’t let your pride or emotions push you to confront the former bully unnecessarily.


Also keep in mind that your bully will likely not engage with you either, so not approaching your bully is nothing to worry about. Focus on reconnecting with the people you enjoyed spending time with in high school and who treated you with respect.
 If your former high school bully reaches out to you either before or during the reunion, you are under no obligation to speak with them.You don’t owe them anything, and you should not be made to feel that you do.


If a former bully tries to engage you in conversation -- even pleasant conversation -- you are perfectly within your right to excuse yourself.
You can be direct or indirect when excusing yourself. You might simply go get something to drink, or you could be direct with the former bully and say what’s on your mind.
For instance, you might say, “I’m not really interested in speaking with you because you were rotten to me when I was growing up. Good day.” Turn on your heel and walk away.
 Are they still a loudmouthed jerk? Or have they softened with age?Watch how they behave from afar.


Do they talk pleasantly with everyone? Or do they exclusively stick with their old clique? If they’re talking with everyone, they might be less combative and mean-spirited than they were back in high school.
If you can, try to pick up on a bit of their conversation as well to figure out if they've changed for the better.
If you think they are reformed, consider talking to them about your feelings.
If they seem to be unchanged and obnoxious, stay away from them.
 Even if you don’t speak to your former bully, seeing them might make it easier to accept that the past is past. After the reunion, work to address any lingering impacts the bullying may have had on you.

