 Push off and begin riding. Work up a little bit of speed before you approach your turn. Stay poised on the balls of your feet, ready to shift your weight.


If you’re not moving fast enough when attempting a kick-turn, you’ll most likely just end up spinning in place over the rear wheels.
 As with the leaning method, keep your front foot rooted over the bolts of the front trucks. To perform a kick-turn, however, your back foot will need to be on the tail (the upturned rear edge of the board). Slide your rear foot back until it is in the center of the tail. You’re now in position to turn by lifting the front end of the board.Keep your weight centered over the middle of the board. There’s no need to lean one way or the other as there is for an easier turn.
Don’t put any weight on the tail until you’re actually ready to start turning. This is a good way to get acquainted with the concrete.
 Using a slow, controlled motion, push down on the tail with your back foot and distribute your weight evenly between both feet momentarily. Pushing down on the tail while your center of balance is situated over the rear wheels will cause them to act like a teeter-totter, raising the nose of the board.Pushing down too hard or too fast will force the tail into the ground, killing your speed, at best, or resulting in a nasty spill.
Lifting the nose to steer will probably feel pretty foreign at first. Practicing the “manual”, a skill that involves balancing on the back wheels while rolling or stationary, may help you get a feel for negotiating your weight on the tail., From here, you can rotate the nose of the board in whichever direction you wish to turn. Guide the front end of the board with your lead foot and use a winding action of the shoulders and hips to swing the nose around. Using this technique will enable you to perform much sharper, more drastic turns, and will also come in handy for learning skills such as cornering, carving, etc.Kick-turns can be used change the direction of the board up to about a 30 degree angle while moving. Any sharper than that and you’re likely to lose control.
Be careful—the longer the front wheels stay off the ground, the greater the chance of the board flying out from under you.
 Once you’ve completed the turn, shift your weight to your lead foot to set the front wheels back down on the ground. Make sure to touch down with the front wheels nice and easy to avoid clumsily dropping the nose or throwing yourself off balance. Keep riding, pushing off to generate more speed. Congrats! You’re now fully mobile!


Both methods of turning, leaning and kick-turns, are essential basic techniques to master when you’re learning how to skate.

