 It may seem obvious, but if you're cooking something you don't particularly enjoy eating, it stands to reason that you won't enjoy the act of preparing it. Just because you're eating healthy doesn't mean you have to dislike your food.For example, you may dislike eating "rabbit food" — raw vegetables, such as in a salad. There's nothing wrong with that, but there's also no reason you wouldn't like those same vegetables if they were cooked. Cooked vegetables are just as healthy as raw vegetables, and they often taste much sweeter. Try tossing carrots or broccoli with a little olive oil and roasting them in a hot oven for about 15 minutes.
 If you already dislike cooking, the last thing you want to do is juggle a main course and two or three separate sides. Casseroles and stir fry can be healthy and well-balanced without requiring complicated logistics.Soups and stews also are inexpensive and easy things to make that require minimal time in the kitchen. These recipes also are versatile, in that you can often substitute ingredients that you like or add ingredients for variety.
 If you've accumulated dozens of cookbooks or bookmarked hundreds of websites in an attempt to find healthy meals to prepare, you may be overwhelmed. Rather than trying to read everything, choose 10 to 15 recipes you like and isolate them.Each week, look through those few recipes and pick two or three, rather than going through every recipe or cookbook you own before every dinner.
Occasionally, go back through and find a few recipes to substitute, especially if you feel like you're getting tired of a particular thing.
 Especially if you're tired at the end of a busy day, the last thing you want to do is slave over a hot stove for hours. Beat this issue by keeping one or two recipes around that require minimal effort.Look for one-pot dinners and full meals that can be prepared and cooked in 20 minutes or less. With these recipes, you can cook something healthy yourself in less time than it would take to microwave a prepared meal or wait for takeout.
If you've planned your menu for the whole week in advance, take the ebbs and flows of your week into account as you choose your meals. For example, if you know that you have a big meeting on Tuesday and are probably going to be exhausted afterward, plan a quick meal for that evening that is relatively hands-off and requires minimal preparation — or that uses ingredients you already prepped for the meal the night before.
 If you're just starting out and you hate to cook, there's no need to suffer through a complicated recipe with a dozen ingredients that requires hours of prep time.When you're choosing recipes, try to find overlap. That way you can prep foods at once and then you'll have the preparation done for the next meal in advance. For example, if you found a nice broccoli casserole, you might do a beef and broccoli stir-fry the next day.
Simple recipes can be just as delicious and impressive as complicated and temperamental ones, and there's a lot less room for error.
 To enjoy anything, you have to be relatively adept at it. If you use a few recipes repeatedly until you can create the dish without having to dig out the instructions, you'll feel more comfortable experimenting and start having fun in the kitchen.After you've done something several times, you've identified the spots that give you trouble and you'll start to intuitively know what to do each step of the way.
Quick, simple recipes also can serve as back-ups if you have a planned menu for the week, but for whatever reason aren't interested in the meal you had planned for a particular night.
Having a recipe memorized also builds your confidence to try new things, such as more complicated recipes or those that require more preparation time.
 Sometimes people say they hate to cook simply because they've never really tried to cook before, and they don't know how or are afraid they'll mess something up. If you have limited experience in the kitchen, a cooking class can help you get better acquainted.There are some basic skills involved in cooking that you need to learn before you can perform adequately. If you don't know how to use basic kitchen tools, or you're extraordinarily slow, this can impact whether you like to cook.
Check with your local community center or public library and find out if there are any cooking classes in your area. If there's a community college near you, they may offer cooking classes as well.

