 The underlying key to all flirtation is confidence. What women really want is a man who is comfortable in his own skin, a man who's happy, capable and self-assured.


Update your wardrobe. When you feel good about your appearance, you'll naturally project confidence, so ditch the baggy jeans and invest in some good quality, well-fitting pieces to help you look and feel like 007.Speak clearly and confidently. This doesn't mean talking over people or interrupting them constantly, but try to speak a little louder than you normally would. Avoid qualifying sentences with too many "like"s and "you know"s., Try not to dominate the conversation. Ask plenty of questions and listen carefully to her responses. Listening demonstrates that you are interested in her and in what she has to say.
 Open up about yourself, give the girl more and more reason to like you. Respond to her questions and let her get to know you a little but don't go on and on either, the goal is to engage and intrigue her, not bore her.
 Maintaining good eye contact will make you appear more trustworthy and attractive. Looking someone in the eye comes naturally when you're feeling comfortable and confident. Make sure to look at her directly whenever either of you is speaking, but remember to look away during pauses in conversation - staring is creepy!, Smiling makes you look happy, approachable and more attractive. That's the kind of guy girls want to be around, so show off those pearly whites.
 Questions that can be answered with a simple "yes" or "no" are not a recipe for engaging conversation. Close-ended questions aren't effective for getting the girl to really invest into the conversation. Try to pose more interesting, open-ended questions which require longer, more thoughtful answers. Close-ended questions should only potentially be used in the very, very beginning of the conversation so as to put only a minimum amount of pressure on her. Starting conversations with strangers is an already awkward experience and making it more awkward for her by putting pressure on her with an open-ended question may be counter-productive. So you may start off with open-ended questions like "Is this your first time here?" or "How are you?" to get more comfortable with the situation before proceeding to more open-ended questions.
 Bringing controversial topics into the conversation can make her feel awkward, uncomfortable, or just downright angry. Avoid seeking her views on topics such as politics or religion during your first conversation or your relationship runs the risk of being over before it's even begun.

