 What caused you to become so guilty that it's starting to irritate you? Did you accidentally lash out at one of your friends, or did you do something overdramatic/childish? Write down your feelings, what happened, and how you could fix it. If you feel even more guilty while writing, remember, life has a purpose and it definitely isn't slouching around and telling yourself that you're no good.;
, Think about what could've happened. Don't think too deep into it so that it will only make you feel even more worse, write your actions and what could've happened down and then make a promise to yourself that you will think next time something happens.
 Listen to music, draw, write, go outside, kick a ball around, throw rocks, climb hills, do anything that will get your mind off of the painful events. Spend time with your family, have a little snack with them, gossip about things, and play games with them. Don't attempt to try to get them to spend time with you if they're busy or you're tired.
 Vent your feelings out, don't overreact though. Sometimes, a little talking can make some things better.
 If you had made many, many mistakes in the past that seem to go beyond "sorry", vow deeply to yourself that it will NEVER, EVER happen again. If people bother you about the things in the past and make drama and hurtful rumors about you, ignore them. Remember, saying bad things about the people who are saying bad things about you will only make it worse.
 Chill outside with a nice drink. Be happy. Be who you really are inside. Fresh air is very good for you.
 Brush your teeth twice a day, floss a couple times after you eat, and go to the dentist every six months. Take showers every 2 days. Brush your hair, get rid of any acne. Get 8-10 hours of sleep and exercise.
 It will feel good to help others. It might even get you new friends. The best people to help out are the people who are dealing with similar problems that you have had.
 You aren't a weak target anymore so they probably will go off looking for someone else to torment.
 Usually the reason why people do bad things to you is because you either offended them somehow or they just want to get a good reaction out of you to gossip about with others, leading to popular belief that you are a very weak target.

