 When doing this step, it's important to look at a lot of reference images to make sure you know how each piece looks. That way, you can find or make pieces that more closely resemble Aoba's outfit.;
, Even if it's not the original color of the cosplayer, you can substitute for black, or even a turquoise blue (something that will flow with the cosplay's color scheme) but for a better visual of Aoba Seragaki, you should use a black sleeved shirt.
 Make sure it has the right look. Even if your wig is in good condition, brushing always prevents future tangles, so stroke a brush of your choice over your cosplay wig a few times just to make sure and you can get short blue hair if you want because Koujaku has cut his hair, but you can get the long blue hair too, it's you're choice.
 There are many hair products available, so choose the one that suits to your needs best. It may also be helpful to ask people what brands or products they use, you can even style you're wig to look a little more gorgeous, because Aoba Seragaki's hair is already Gorgeous.


The trick to using hair gel is to rub it in your fingers like it's lotion, and apply it by twisting small bunches of hair and pulling them both outward, and downward. And voila! Just like magic your hair would look ten times better!

, After you've applied your hair product to your wig, now would be a great time to put on your jacket! make sure it's short and same as the one Aoba Seragaki has.
 Aoba Seragaki, like many other characters, has cosplay headphones. If you cannot afford, or cannot get one shipped to you in time then try going to Hot Topic, or Walmart to get a pair of plain, red headphones for under $40, Aoba Seragaki's Headphones are Pink.
 The step to cosplaying would be Aoba's glove, which is fingerless. Aoba only wears one glove and it's on his right hand.
 Now that you're in your cosplay it's a good idea to take some in character photos to show off your cosplay. You can also cosplay with your friends as the other characters from dramatic murder or go to conventions in your cosplay and you can also take pictures to remind you of the day when you have gone to the conventions as Aoba Seragaki.
 Don't be afraid to make the cosplay you wear unique and individual, just have fun!

