 If you are experiencing lightheadedness, dizziness, confusion, or altered vital signs (such as a fast heart rate and an increased respiratory rate), you may have a more severe form of dehydration that warrants professional medical attention. The most common causes of severe dehydration are heat stroke (from spending too much time in the sun), extreme endurance sports, and illnesses that involve diarrhea and/or vomiting.


If you believe you may have any of these medical conditions, or if you are worried that you may have severe dehydration, it is best to see a doctor sooner rather than later for treatment., IV (intravenous) fluids are the fastest and most efficient way to replace fluids if you are suffering from severe dehydration. This is because the fluid is injected straight into your vein, rather than having to go the long route of being absorbed by your digestive system. IV fluids are also tailored to your specific needs with the perfect balance of fluid, salt, and calories to optimize your body's hydration and overall health.If you have an illness such as diarrhea and/or vomiting, you may not be able to consume fluids orally (due to nausea and/or vomiting, or diarrhea which prevents absorption); therefore, IV fluids may be your only option in severe cases.
 It is important to understand that severe cases of dehydration require not only fluids for treatment, but also diagnosing and resolving the underlying cause of the dehydration — a job best accomplished by an experienced physician. If you try to rehydrate yourself without first identifying the cause of the problem, it is unlikely to lead to a long-term or permanent solution; therefore, if in doubt it is best to see a doctor who can guide you through the steps to getting properly hydrated and in good health once again.The specific diagnosis underlying dehydration also affects the treatment course, in many cases. This is another reason why identifying the underlying cause is key.
If you suffer from a chronic disease such as congestive heart failure, kidney disease, an endocrine disorder, or hyponatremia it can be dangerous for you to make changes to your daily fluid intake. Speak with your physician about what is appropriate for you, and keep in mind that the recommendations for the general population will not necessarily apply.

