 This method can be used with men’s or women’s hoodies to make them fitted.;
, Turn it inside out.
 Use a mirror to view how your hoodie fits or ask a friend to help you with this part of the process.
 Insert a straight pin at the point where you would like your new armpit fabric to be. Don’t make it too tight, or you may not be able to lift your arms.


Do both armpits, before you move on to the rest of the body and arms. Measure the length of the fabric you pinched. Make it even, so that your hoodie is symmetrical.
 Pin where you pinch every 2 inches (5 cm) until you reach the bottom waistband. Then, move on to the left side.


Measure how much material you have pinched and plan to remove. If there is a large discrepancy between right and left side, you will want to redo it and measure it evenly as you pinch.
Keep the straight pins pointing down so that you don’t hurt yourself.
 Pin it with straight pins every 2 inches (5 cm). Continue until you reach the wristband.


Repeat on the opposite side.
 If you do, cut the waistband and the wristbands off of the hoodie, just above the hem.
 Decide how much you want to cut off the arms and body, taking into account that you will reattach a band. Mark the point at which you want to cut with a straight pin.
 Keep it inside out. Smooth it on a worktable.
 You will need to make the following cuts:


Use a straight edge to mark and cut an even line along the bottom of your hoodie.
Use a straight edge to mark and cut even lines at the end of your arms.
Cut 1/4 inch outside of the pins. You will cut from the bottom of the hoodies, around the armpit.
Turn the fabric scissors around the armpit and cut outside of the pins at the bottom of the arms.
, Make sure you sew through both pieces of sweatshirt fabric. Repeat on the opposite side. , Keep the bands right side out, on top of the sweatshirt that is inside out. You will flip the band down when you are done.
 Make sure the rough edges of the sweatshirt and the waistband meet. Pin around the parameter 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) from the edge, giving you room to sew the band and flip it.


The waistband will be too big now, so start at 1 of the side seams and cut off any extra when it meets on the side.
 Make sure you only sew through 2 layers of fabric. Sew the waistband together with a short vertical stitch.
 You will need to pin the old wristband to the bottom of the new armhole. Cut off any excess wristband material before you sew.


Keep the point where you hem the wristband together at the bottom of the arm.
 Turn the hoodie right side out. Try it on.

