 Success in a 16 week challenge depends on picking a goal that is important to you. Think carefully about what you want to achieve before you begin.


A 16 week challenge means intense work toward a goal over the challenge period. Because of this, you must be certain it is something you are committed to. Assess your level of commitment and be sure you are willing to dedicate the time and effort before you begin.Ask yourself why you want to achieve this goal. This will help you determine if it is truly what you want, or if it is just one path to something else.For example, if your goal is to learn to play the guitar, ask yourself why that is. If you find that you only want to play the guitar because you think it will improve your social status, you may want to set a different goal. There are other ways to increase your popularity that are easier than trying to learn to play instrument in 16 weeks. If a love of music isn't your true motivation, you may not achieve your goals.;
, A goal that is clear and specific is much easier to achieve than one that is not. In 16 week challenge, being specific is doubly important. This is because you will waste valuable time if you have to clarify your goals during the challenge period.


Having a clear goal makes it easier to create an effective plan for achieving it. It also makes it easy to tell whether you have reached your goal.For example, imagine you are in a psychology graduate program, and you want to read certain number of books over 16 weeks. Don't just say "I want to read 12 books about psychology." Specify exactly which books you want to read during that time. Once you've read them all, you've achieved the goal.
 Set a goal you can achieve. This sets you up for success. That can make it easier to get motivated to work on future goals.Setting an unrealistic goal can also mean making less headway on your 16 week challenge.
For example, imagine you set a goal to read 30 academic books cover-to-cover in 16 weeks. That goal would be very hard to achieve, and might not be realistic. You might think that setting the bar so high will encourage you to work harder. But, if you get to week eight and have only read nine books instead of 15, this could lead to discouragement rather than inspiration.

