 Once payment has been confirmed, you should have your package ready for shipment. For general shipping, a bubble envelope or small- to medium-size cardboard box should be large enough and provide enough protection for most clothing items.


Use a USPS First Class envelope for lighter clothing and accessories such as scarves and ties, if the item and envelope together weigh less than 13 ounces.
For packed items weighing more than 13 ounces, use a USPS Flat Rate Priority envelope or box, if you’ve offered these shipping options to your buyers., Since you took care to wash and iron your clothing for sale, try to pack the item in a way that will allow it to arrive with as few wrinkles and creases as possible. Fold shirts and pants neatly, and wrap them in thick paper or a sturdy plastic bag to provide extra protection and stabilization in the package.


Use commercial-grade packing tape to seal boxes and envelopes, and to affix your mailing labels to them.
 Use the eBay Print Label tool to easily print out postage-paid shipping labels. From the “Sold” page (the one that lists your sold items), check the box to the left of the item you want to print a label for, then from the “More actions” drop-down menu, select “Print Shipping Label.” The next page will give you a summary of the order, including shipping address, method, package weight, and shipping price. Verify that all this information is correct, then click on the blue “Purchase Postage” button, and follow the instructions for printing out the label.Cut the printout in half. Keep the receipt for your records, and tape the address label to the package.
You can either drop off packages at the post office, or arrange with the post office for a pickup.
 If you use the Print Label tool, the package’s tracking number should be automatically uploaded to the order information page for both you and the buyer. Being able to check this should give the buyer peace of mind about the status of the order. If the buyer has any questions before or after the purchase, or after receiving the item, be sure to respond in good time to their inquiries. Be courteous and understanding in dealing with their questions.Your helpfulness in answering customers’ questions should count towards a good seller review, as well as building customer loyalty. Just as with traditional stores, a satisfied customer tends to become a loyal customer.

