 This could be a digital recorder, Smartphone or tablet. Whatever you use, check in advance that it records the sound well and does not increase background interference noise or muffle the sound.;
, Always use new batteries when performing an interview, or charge the recorder beforehand. It's also a good idea to bring along some spare batteries, just in case.
 Ideally, hold it in a small room, as large rooms or halls can make the audio less clear and can mar the recording by picking up echoes and background noise.


Avoid doing an interview in bars, restaurants, outside in the street and other noisy environments; the background noise is a typist's worst nightmare and can lead to a less accurate transcript.
If you do have to record the interview in a noisy environment, try to place the recorder as close as possible to the voices that you want to record but avoid distortion. However, don't get too close!

, Where possible, sit opposite your interviewee with a table between you and place the recorder, placing it equidistant from you both.


Although most recorders use omni-directional microphones (meaning that they pick up sound from all directions), you'll notice microphone holes in the recorder so try and point them at both participants.
If you think that one of you has a quieter voice, then place the recorder slightly closer to that person.
 If you do have to hold the recorder, keep as still as possible. If possible do not conceal the recorder in a pocket or a bag either. Both holding and concealing the recorder can severely reduce the audio quality to the point where it could be useless for transcription purposes.


Distorted audio is impossible to rectify, making it useless for transcription purposes.
 This is often part of the appropriate process for interviews if performing them for research or work purposes. In any case, it is polite and in many cases, it is legally required.
 Have a quick listen to check whether the recording device is working correctly and to check the audio quality.
 Listen avidly and avoid interrupting them.

