 Write the name on the middle front portion of the envelope and be sure to leave plenty of space above and below this line. You can include honorific titles like Mr. or Mrs., but it is not required.


Postal services generally prefer for all addresses to be written in uppercase or block letters.;
, For example, you may want to print the hotel, business, or department name to ensure the letter reaches the right recipient.
 Write the apartment or unit number, followed by a hyphen and then a street address. For example, 2-234 Pine St. N


Canadian addresses should not include punctuation. It is important to write addresses correctly, because many addresses are read by sorting machines. If it is addressed legibly according to Canada's postal conventions, it will arrive at the destination more quickly.
 Canadian addresses have specific postal and province codes for different parts of the country. Before writing out the address, you must find out what the specific codes, including the correct abbreviation of the provinces, are.


If the person you are writing to hasn’t already given you this information, you can find out by visiting USPS websiteor the Canada Post website, Be sure to write them out in that exact order and place 2 spaces between the province and the postal code.
 The country name should always be the last line of the address, unless you are already sending your mail from Canada, in which case this line is not necessary.


The following is an address correctly written, with the line breaks separated by commas. Rachel Platt, PEARSON EDITORIAL INC., 2-234 Pine St. N, TORONTO ON M5V 1J2

, The return address is necessary so that the recipient knows where to address their response. Be sure to write the address legibly.


Write your return address following the same format. The only difference is the placement, be sure to write it in the upper left hand corner of your envelope. You can also place it in the middle of the back flap of the envelope.
If you are writing an American address, do not use periods for abbreviations or commas. Use the 2 letter state symbol. Place the abbreviation USA underneath the last line that includes your city, state and zip code.
If you are writing an international address from a country other than the USA, write the full name of the country on the line below the line that includes the city and postal code. For example, you would address the envelope to the United Kingdom, rather than writing "UK."

