 Heat half a cup of apple cider vinegar and pour it into a wine bottle or jar. With a sheet of paper, form a cone-shaped funnel with tape and stick it to the jar.Although fruit flies do not tend to be clever enough to leave the funnel jar once they’ve entered, adding a drop or two of dish soap can help prevent flies from being able to fly away once they’ve entered the jar.While apple cider vinegar is commonly used as bait for this DIY trap, a piece of ripe banana can also be used and be just as effective., Place several pieces of very ripe, borderline rotting fruit at the bottom of a jar. Cover the opening with plastic wrap, securing it with a rubber band.








With a toothpick, poke holes into the plastic wrap. This will be how fruit flies enter your trap.
To kill the flies that gather there, submerge the jar underneath soapy water for about 10 minutes. Rinse the jar out, refill it with produce, and repeat the trapping effort., Take two cups of water and some sugar and place it into a jar. Take a sheet of paper and fold it into a paper funnel with the wide side up at the top of the jar. Houseflies will be attracted to it and won’t know how to fly back out., After 10 minutes, place the mixture into dishes placed around the house. Add a couple of drops of dish soap to the plates if fruit flies seem to be flying away. Otherwise, landing in the mixture causes them to drown in it.
 Fruit flies will be attracted to the red wine for its fruity quality.








Dispose of the dead flies by dumping the wine out in the sink.
If you feel like the wine hasn’t done the job, fill the bottle with a dash of dish soap and water or place the bottle in the freezer to eliminate the flies and any potential eggs.
 This will kill existing flies, but because it does not remove eggs or organic slime, it is recommended that you follow up with a bacterial drain cleaner.








Pour drain gel into the drain to remove organic slime and drain fly infestations. Repeat this action five consecutive nights to get rid of everything that’s down there.After you’re confident that the infestation has been killed, follow up with a natural method of pouring vinegar or bleach down the drain. Keep the drain flies at bay by using a drain gel one night a week., Use the spray to instantly kill flies that hover around in the infested areas around the kitchen.








