 You can teach yourself how to do it at home, or you can attend a trade school or community college that will teach you how to use the equipment and engrave different materials such as glass, silver and gold. The main things you need to learn are:How fast and deep to engrave different materials.
What size cutter you should use.
Deciding when to use a nose cone.
How to use the tool-path generation on your engraving software
The more hands on experience you get, the better. If you are teaching yourself, follow the instructions in the owner's manual. It will tell you what settings and speed you should use.You do not need a technical background to operate a laser engraving machine. If you can type, draw, and upload an image, you can teach yourself.;
, Your business plan should include a description of your business, marketing plans, financing, and management. Make your plan as detailed as possible. If you are planning to work part-time or add engraving services to your existing business, your plan may not need to be as detailed.The description of your business should include information about your operating procedures, competition, and business insurance.
The financial section should include any loan applications, equipment and supply list, projected income, projected profit and loss, and a 3 year summary.
If you are using your business plan to get a loan, attach supporting documents such as your tax returns, personal financial statement, any franchising documents, and other pertinent legal documents.
 If you do not have personal funds or funds from a family or friends, you will probably apply for a small business loan to get started. Your business plan and personal credit and business history will be used to secure funding.If you plan to work from your home, your investment will be relatively low and you can probably finance it yourself. You can always start the business out of your home and then expand as your business grows.
You can get a small business loan from a bank, credit union, or through the United States Small Business Administration.
 You will need some sort of license or permit to operate your business legally. The requirements vary depending on where you live and the rules of your local government. The US Small Business Administration maintains a list of necessary permits and licenses by state.
 Some businesses offer a wide variety services while others specialize in a few. For example, there are businesses that offer engraving on any type of material while others specialize in glass or crystal. In addition, some engraving businesses offer design services as well, while others purely reproduce existing logos, images and fonts onto items.If you are just starting out, you may offer a wide variety of services first and then specialize based on what your customers are ordering.
 Your prices should be competitive yet profitable. Check out the prices of other businesses in your area to give you an idea of the market rate. The four elements of your price are:Minimum charge- the time it takes to set up the order. This would be an hourly charge for set up services. For example, you may charge $10.00 an hour to set up a job.
Origination charge- the time it takes to create any logos or artwork. This is usually an hourly charge such as $50 per hour.
Size of the job- the cost of the raw materials for the order.
Amount to be engraved- the time it takes to complete the order.

