 Before you begin seriously considering if you want to follow this career path, read up on being a member of New Jersey law enforcement. It’s good to acquaint yourself with the requirements, which may help you decide if this path is the right decision for you.


A police office upholds the laws of jurisdiction, provides patrols, and investigates crimes. They may also assist with emergencies.It requires an incredible amount of knowledge. You’ll need to know about everything from specific laws, to crisis management, and even about the psychology of personalities.It can be incredibly rewarding. Upholding the law and helping people is every bit as demanding as it is rewarding.It’s emotionally demanding. You’ll have to positively navigate all kinds of situations from arrests to missing children and animals to maybe even murders.It’s physically demanding. You could be on your feet for long hours or might have to work for long hours. It might also require that you lift heavy articles or shoot a gun.;
, After you have learned some of the basic facts of the law enforcement, think about if pursuing this career path is right for you and your lifestyle.


Think about how being a police officer will fit into your lifestyle. Knowing whether or not the time, emotional, and physical demands fit in with your lifestyle is important if you want to be a successful law enforcement agent.
Are you able to handle the physical demands? Do you like your weekends free? Can you be available at all times, or maybe even in some cases even when you’re on vacation?, Dealing with people is a major component of your job.


Can you handle the emotional demands? Are you able to positively deal with different personal dynamics and difficult situations? Are you shy or extroverted? You’ll need to be able to talk to anyone and deal with all kinds of people to be a police officer., The range in salary for state police officers in New Jersey is between 62,000 dollars a year to over 100,000 dollars a year depending on your experience.

Your salary will include health benefits and a pension plan.Troopers work a 40-hour week on several different schedules. Overtime is generally voluntary, except in unusual circumstances. You can earn extra pay or compensation time for overtime work.You get at least twelve days of vacation and three personal days per year.If you are interested in joining your local police force, contact their office. Salaries and benefits packages for these positions will vary by location.
 If you have lingering questions or want to get a better sense of what being a police office entails, speak with a local police officer or attend a recruiting event. This can help further inform your decision to either pursue this career path or consider something else.


The New Jersey State Police offer different recruiting events that provide information on a variety of topics including your initial application, the screening process, the written examination, benefit, or what it’s like to be a police officer on a daily basis., Weigh the pros and cons of the very rewarding and demanding landscape of being a police officer. This can help you make a decision if you want to continue on this career path.
 Any person who wants to become a police officer in New Jersey must meet certain minimum qualifications. Make sure you meet these basic qualifications so that you don’t waste time applying or can work towards meeting the requirements.You must be at least 18 years old and not reach your 35th birthday before you graduate from the date of your State Police class.You must have a bachelor’s degree or a minimum of 90 credits and complete your bachelor’s degree before you take the written examination to become a police officer.You may also have an associate’s degree or 60 college credits plus at least 24 months of satisfactory employment or military experience.Only citizens of the United States are eligible to be police officers in New Jersey.You must have a valid driver’s license by the time you get a background check., Once you’ve decided to become a police officer in New Jersey and meet the minimum qualifications, consider contacting a local law enforcement recruiter. He or she can help you understand the requirements to become a police office in New Jersey and assist you through the application process.There are local recruiters for different regions of New Jersey as well as a designated recruiter for women.You can find your Local Recruiter at the NJSP website.
You can also call 1-877-NJSP-877 to speak to a recruiter., At certain times of the year, the state of New Jersey accepts online applications to become a police officer. Check the police recruiting webpage to see if they are accepting applications.


Look on the website http://www.njsp.org/recruit/qual.html to see if you can apply online.
If the state is accepting applications for police officers, fill out the application and submit it electronically.The application will ask for information about you, your education, and employment history.You’ll also have to describe minimum qualifications and automatic disqualifiers., New Jersey evaluates all applicants to ensure they meet all the minimum qualifications and do not possess any of the disqualifying factors. This will help you move on to the rest of the stages of


The initial screening will determine if you meet the minimum qualifications of education and age.
The initial screening will also determine if you have any automatic disqualifiers such as felony convictions for drugs, if a warrant was issued for your arrest, or if your driving privileges were suspended. They will also check items such as if you’ve ever committed tax fraud.The program will notify you of your application status. If you are successful, you will be invited to take the Physical Qualification Test.Candidates will then be notified if they have moved on to the next step. Qualified individuals who are selected are then invited to the physical qualification test and the Pre-Employment preparation program.
 The police offer a Pre-Employment Preparation Program (PEPP), which can familiarize applicants with the required exercises needed in the physical qualification test. This voluntary program can help individuals having a hard time to train correctly by giving them some insight on how to prepare for the test.PEPP is not required but recommended for applicants.Whether or not you participate in PEPP has no bearing on your final selection., If you pass the initial screening, you’ll be asked to take the Physical Qualification Test (PQT). You must pass this test before continuing along in the application process to become a police officer in New Jersey.The PQT consists of the following timed tests: a 75 yard pursuit run, push up, sit ups, and a 1.5 mile run.
You are given a certain number of points based on times and numbers of each exercise you do. You must get at least 1 point on each test and a total of 20 points or more to pass.Anyone who gets 19 points or less fails.If you fail the PQT, you will be disqualified from the current police officer selection process., Every person who has moved through the PQT will take the written examination to become a police officer. The test takes up one full day and will examine knowledge you need to be a successful officer.The exam consists of several sections: a test on situational judgment, another on following policies and procedures, a form on work and school experiences, and a final part that surveys life experiences.Every person who advances to the written examination will receive a Written Exam Information Guide., After you’ve successfully completed the application screening, PQT, and written examination, state police officials will conduct a background investigation. The background check will probe various parts of your life to assess fundamental characteristics.The background checks for integrity, good moral character, reliability, responsibility, dependability and ethical judgment to do their duties as a police officer.The background check will review information including: personal data such as citizenship, voter registration, and if you have tattoos; educational and extra-curricular activity information; military service; employment history; criminal history; and financial status.You background check may include interviews of your spouse, partner, dependents, relatives, associates, and friends.You must be truthful on your application. If you are disqualified for any reason during the background check, you may not reapply to be a police officer for one year., Candidates who successfully pass the background investigation will meet with the Candidate Review Board (CRB). The CRB will interview you and discuss any issues with your background check or application.Only you may appear before the CRB.If your CRB interview is successful, you may receive an offer of appointment to the New Jersey Police Academy.
 Before you attend the police academy, you must pass tests examining your mental and physical state. They help make sure that you can perform essential functions of police work and if you’re suitable for law enforcement.The physical exam may require you to submit medical records. It also tests for problems with vision and drug use.The psychological exam will include questions that help determine if you are mentally able to handle the rigors of being a police officer.If you are found unfit during the medical and psychological exam, New Jersey police officials will rescind your conditional offer to attend the Police Academy., This two-day event is required to maintain your eligibility as a candidate. It helps expose the applicant to the process at the New Jersey State Police Academy.The program will expose you to the type of classroom, physical fitness and protocol instruction you will receive at the police academy.The program is mandatory and is two consecutive days over a weekend., If you’ve successfully completed other testing and there are funded positions within the police force, you can attend the New Jersey Police Academy. This is the final part of the process of becoming a police officer in New Jersey.


The police academy is a rigorous 24 week program that can provide you a comprehensive knowledge to be a successful police officer.The New Jersey Police Academy is located in Sea Girt, New Jersey.
You must be a resident of New Jersey prior to graduation and taking a job as an officer.