 These 50 to 100 words can come from one items or multiple items. They can come from prose you wrote, or prose you’ve read written by someone else. The only criteria is that they be 50 to 100 words that you like and interest you.Some ideas for where to get the words: excerpt from a book, something you’ve heard someone say, a few sentences from a newspaper article, quotes from famous people, bulletin boards, menus, maps, obituaries, junk mail, etc.
 Start by writing down all the prose you’ve found. Write it out so there’s lots of space in-between lines for editing and writing notes.It might help to use pencil at this stage so you can easily erase and rewrite items if you want.
 Go through the prose you’ve written down and remove anything you don’t like. Your goal at this stage is to remove about half of the words you’ve written down. If you wrote down 50 words, reduce it to 25 words. If you wrote down 100 words, reduce it to 50 words.If it helps, feel free to change the punctuation.
 Unlike other methods for turning prose into poetry, found poems should not contain any of your own words. They should only contain words you “found” in the first step.Having said this, if you need to alter a word to change whether it is singular or plural, or whether it is capitalized or not, that’s okay. Just keep these types of changes to a minimum.
 The best way to determine if a poem works is to read it out loud, the way you intend it to be read. This may also help you determine where certain punctuation needs to be, or where you need to include line breaks.Use this editing phase to rearrange the words and lines so you create a rhythm.
Try different line breaks to determine which words work best at the beginning and end of each line.
When reading your poem out loud, remember to pause slightly at the end of each ‘line.’ If the pause seems to be in the wrong spot, change the line break.
 Once you’ve had a chance to review the poem several times, try to come up with an appropriate title that describes the poem or the poem’s theme.Your title could simply be a description of where you got the words, for example, “Overheard at Starbucks.” Or “From Chapter 5 of Lord of the Rings."

, If you want to get even more creative, you can rewrite or retype your final poem with different fonts or font styles. Maybe there’s a font that matches the theme of the poem really well, or maybe you want to bold all the keywords in the poem. There are no rules.