 Locate the Twitter application on your home screen or app drawer. It is the flying bird icon with a blue background. Tap this to launch.;
, Tap “Log in” to access the login screen. Here, provide the Twitter handle and password of your primary Twitter account. Tap “Sign in” to continue.
 On the top right side of the screen are 3 dots. Tap this icon to open the menu, and from this menu, select “Settings” to open the Settings menu.
 A screen will open where you will need to enter the details of your other Twitter account.
 Enter the Twitter handle and password of your second Twitter account in the fields provided. Click on “LogIn” (located right under the LogIn fields) after you are done to connect the account.


If you have other Twitter accounts, you can go back to the Settings menu and tap “Add account” again. You can add as many accounts as you want.
 Now that you’ve added Twitter accounts, you can now switch from one account to another, without even having to log out of the first account. To begin, open the menu again (three-dot icon).
 A list of all your accounts will be displayed.
 After selecting the account, the timeline for the same account will appear in the application. You will be able to Reply, Retweet, Favourite, and Share the tweets of that particular account, without interrupting your other account(s). Your actions from one account will not impact the other accounts.
 You can reply to any tweet of your timeline if you wish to add your comment to the tweet. Tap the Reply icon (curved left arrow) below the tweet you want to reply to open a comment box. Enter your comment, and then tap “Tweet” to post your reply.
 This can be used when you want to share any tweet of your timeline to your followers. To retweet, tap the Retweet icon (two curved arrows, one pointing up and the other pointing down) below the tweet you want to retweet. #* You can now select to “Retweet” or to “Quote tweet.” The latter allows you to tweet the post directly. “Quote Tweet” will let you add your comment to the tweet, and your comment will appear above the tweet in your Timeline and to your followers.
 You may find a tweet interesting enough to save it. If you find one, just add it to your favorites, by tapping the star icon below the tweet. When you favorite a tweet, the star of the tweet will turn Yellow in your Timeline.
 Now that you’ve added Twitter accounts, you can now switch from one account to another, without even having to log out of the first account. To begin, open the menu again (three-dot icon).
 The Settings screen will open, which will also list the accounts you’ve connected.
 This will open the Settings menu specifically for that account. There are several options here you can adjust for that account, like Notifications, Phone Number, Security, Privacy, Change Password, and Log Out.
 Now select the Settings option that you wish to manage for that particular account, and more options will appear as stated below:


Manage notifications—Tap the “Mobile notifications” at the top and a list of different notification types will appear. Tap on the checkbox of the notification type you want to enable for that account.
Add a phone number—If you want to link a contact number to your account, tap the “Phone number” option. In the text field, enter the contact number, and then tap “Add phone” to save the changes.
Security—This option allows you to verify all logins to the Twitter account with the Android device you are currently using. Note that the phone’s contact number must be added and verified; if not, you will be asked to do so. If this option is enabled, whenever you or anyone else tries to log into the account, a login request will be sent to the linked phone number, which contains a verification code that will be needed to continue the login.
Manage the Privacy—Tap “Privacy” to set “Who can tag me in photos,” “Find by email,” “Find by phone number,” and “Receive messages from anyone. Each of these options will have a checkbox next to them. Just tap on the ones you want to enable.
Change Password—If you would like to change the password for the account, you can do so here. Just tap the “Change password” option, enter the current password in the top field, and then enter the new password twice. When you’re done, tap “Change password” to save.
Log Out—Want to disconnect the account from the Twitter app? Just tap “Log out” from the options. Whenever you need to access it again, you will have to add the account and log in.

