 If you are truly committed to getting your significant other back, the first thing you need to do is end any relationship and cut off all contact with the other person. Let them know that you are not interested in any further communication with them, and remove them from your phone, email, social media, and anywhere else you may have their contact information.It can help to rebuild trust in your relationship if you involve your significant other in this step. You can remove the other person from your contacts in front of your significant other, and allow your significant other to read and/or hear your ending dialogue with the other person.
If you are not ready to completely remove this person from your life, you will likely be sacrificing your relationship with your partner. Do not expect to be able to maintain any relationship, even non-romantic one, with this person moving forward.;
, If you’ve cheated on someone, you have completely betrayed their trust. Prove that you want to earn it back by admitting your mistake to them openly and honestly. Be honest about why you cheated, and allow time for your partner to ask questions or simply to process the information.Think carefully about what you will say before you begin the conversation with your partner. You should have a clear idea of what you've done, what you feel sorry for, and how you want to tell them before you start a dialogue.
Your partner will likely be very upset at this news. Allow them time to process in whatever way is most helpful to them. This may include giving them days or weeks to think about what you’ve said.
Let your partner know that you want an honest conversation about the matter. Tell them, “I will answer any questions you have whenever they come up.”
Your significant other may have very personal questions about the nature of your relationship with the other person. It will be important to answer their questions honestly regardless of how ashamed, frustrated, or embarrassed that you are.
 Admit your fault for your actions. Your partner does not hold agency over you, and nothing they did made you cheat. Let them know that you understand this is your fault.


Tell your partner, "I know I have hurt you immeasurably, and I will do whatever it takes to rebuild our relationship. I am truly sorry, and I want to talk about how we can move forward."
Do not make an insincere apology. Apologize only for what you mean and what you feel you've done wrong. Your partner will be able to sense any insincerity, so the apology needs to come from your heart, not from your sense of guilt.
 Forgiveness won’t be fast or easy. If it comes at all, it will likely take a long time; however, if you are looking to win your partner back it’s important that they know early on that you want forgiveness and are willing to work for it.


Let your partner know, “I don’t expect you to forgive me right away. I know I have to earn that. But I am committed to doing whatever it takes to earn back your love and trust."
Allow your partner to tell you what they feel, as well as what they expect and need from you before they feel they can reasonably forgive you. Ask your partner about their feelings, and actively listen to their responses.
Your partner may initially feel shocked or be in disbelief. Allow them time to adjust to what you have told them, and let them know that you ready to talk about the matter whenever they are.
 Your partner may want space away from you after your confession. Show your love and respect by letting them have it. This does not mean that they will want you gone for good, but it is important to allow them the time and space to heal, and respect that part of the healing process means getting distance from you.If your live-in partner indicates they want distance, arrange to stay with a friend or family member or at a hotel for awhile. If your partner prefers to be the one to leave, allow them to make that call. This is unknown territory for both of you, and they may prefer some distance.
Do not pressure your partner to come around or let you back in. Show your respect for them by allowing them the space they request.
If physical intimacy was a part of your relationship, expect that it will be slow to return. Do not pressure your partner into anything. Let them come to you only when they are ready.

