 Clear, established rules are important for changing your child’s behavior. By letting your child know exactly what you want, they know what is expected from them and there are no grey areas. You should also establish clear consequences for any rule breaking. Sit down with your child and talk about the new rules. Don’t say, “You only get to play video games a few hours each day and not too late.” That is too vague. Instead, say, “On school days, you can play video games for one hour. You cannot play after 8 p.m.”;
, Your child needs clear, defined consequences for breaking the rules. Make sure that when you set the rules, you give them consequences they understand. Don’t be vague with consequences because that will just cause confusion.For example, tell them, “If you don’t have any outbursts or act out when you turn off your video games, and if you don’t play after 8 p.m., you can continue playing for one hour each school day. If you give problems, play longer than an hour, or play after 8 p.m., you will lose your gaming privileges for the next day.”

, After you set limits and establish consequences, you must follow through. If you let your child get away with breaking rules without consequences, they will not take you seriously and not follow your rules. Make sure to stick to your word if your child breaks the rules.Don’t change the consequences, even if you get mad. If the rules and consequences are not working, discuss new rules and consequences with your child and why they have changed.
 Using a timer and giving your child warnings can help them prepare for the end of their designated time. Children can be very resistant to change, even if they know it’s coming. Warning them that their time is about to be over will help them transition.Give your child warnings when they have 15 and 10 minutes left.
Set a timer for five minutes before the end. When the buzzer sounds, tell them, “You have five minutes left. It’s time to get to a point where you can save your game.”

, Your child should have responsibilities they have to complete before they are allowed their video game time. This includes homework and chores. After all the responsibilities have been met, then they can be allowed to begin their video game time.


Help your child see video games as a reward for finishing their homework and chores each day.
 One good way to set limits on your child’s gaming and monitor them is to place the systems in a common room instead of their bedroom. This makes it easier for you to enforce the rules and for your child to follow them.Placing a game console in a child’s bedroom gives them too much freedom to play when unsupervised. Additionally, it can cause too much temptation, especially for a younger child who has difficulty following rules.

