 Contact information should include name, address, phone number and email address. Let the customer know that you are requesting his information so that he may receive additional discounts in the future in reward for his patronage.;
,


Arrange for the letter to come from someone within the company who holds a management position. Owners, presidents and customer service managers are often the writers of these welcome/thank you letters.
Include basic information about your company within the letter. Customers like to know who they are dealing with when spending their money with your business. The mission statement, history of the business or interesting details about your company should be included in the letter.
Specify information of concern to your customers within the letters. Good information to include might be special annual sales promotions, customer service policies, daily hours of operation and any other details that may be of interest to your customers.



Send a catalog for the customer's review. Providing information about other products or services your company provides may help her see your company in a broader scope.
Insert a flyer with your letter. The flyer might advertise an upcoming sale or other special additions to your inventory or services.



Give your customer a discount on her next purchase. The discount must be enough to give your new customer an incentive to come back to make a purchase. A discount of 15 to 25 percent is sufficient to make a difference in a customer's purchase.
Include coupons for special products or services that relate or are complementary to your customer's first purchase. Coupons for similar items show that you paid attention to the customer's purchase, and it also creates a more significant likelihood that the coupons will be used.
Send a free item to your customer. Free pens, notepads or other inexpensive items make nice promotional gifts. Additionally, you can include a voucher for a complimentary bag, hat, sunglasses, umbrella or other item imprinted with your logo that your customer can collect the next time he is in your business.
 Encourage your new customer to refer a friend for a special discount or other incentive.

