 A BitTorrent client is an application that uses a BitTorrent peer-to-peer file-sharing protocol, and is required for you to download content from Pirate Bay. Examples of BitTorrent clients you can use are uTorrent, qBittorrent, Vuze, Deluge, and BitComet.,,


Thoroughly read through all terms and conditions, and opt out of any additional third-party services you may not want installed on your computer, such as browser toolbars and extensions. In many cases, these types of programs are installed as add-ons at the same time you download and install BitTorrent clients.
, For instance, you can determine whether you want the client launched upon startup, indicate whether you want items to begin downloading automatically when added to the client, and choose where you want torrent files saved after downloading the files using the BitTorrent client.
 You can now start downloading files from Pirate Bay.



Pirate Bay often changes its URL frequently to avoid being penalized by countries in which downloading torrents is considered illegal. If the Pirate Bay link provided fails to work, go to Google or your preferred search engine and search for “pirate bay” to find the new, updated URL for the site.
There are also proxy sites that allow access to the Pirate Bay when the main website is blocked.
 You can enter the name of a movie, television show, music album, video game, ebook, or any other type of content as desired. A list of torrent files matching your search criteria will display on-screen.


Place a checkmark next to the category of the items you want downloaded to narrow your search results. For example, to search for music videos featuring Lady Gaga, place a checkmark next to “Video” to confirm you want to view results for videos, and not audio music files.
Alternately, click on the categories displayed above the search box to view torrents arranged by recently uploaded, top 100 torrents, TV shows, and music.
 Seeders are users who share files using a BitTorrent client so the files can be downloaded by other users. In most cases, the more seeders a file has, the faster that file will be downloaded to your computer.
 A page featuring more details about the torrent file will display on-screen, such as the language of the file, file format, audio specs, magnet link, and comments from other users about the torrent file.


Browse through existing user comments to gain more insight about torrents before downloading the files. Comments will often reveal whether a torrent file is legitimate and matches the description, and provides details about the overall quality of the file.
,, The torrent file will begin downloading to your computer.
 In most cases, your BitTorrent client will label the file as “Seeding” or “100%” to indicate the file has finished downloading. The amount of time it takes for the file to download will vary based on the file size, the amount of seeders, and the speed of your Internet connection.



If you want to become a “seeder” so other users (known as leechers), can download the file from you using the BitTorrent protocol, leave the file as ”Seeding” in your BitTorrent client.
 The torrent file you downloaded will now be displayed in the downloads folder.
