 High-intensity exercise can be a great way to stay fit, but it can also trigger your rosacea. Luckily, a lot of exercises that keep you fit are lower intensity, such as swimming, walking, yoga, and low-impact cardio routines. The goal is to avoid over-exerting yourself and fatiguing your muscles.Avoid anaerobic activities, such as weight-lifting, that fatigue your muscles.
Swimming can be a good aerobic exercise option, and the water in swimming pools may be good for your skin.
Walking typically is a good exercise as well, just make sure you're keeping your walking to a low or moderate intensity. You shouldn't get out of breath and you should be able to carry on a conversation while walking.;
, Your dermatologist may be able to give you some tips on exercises to try, or products to use that can help you avoid rosacea flare-ups while exercising. Your doctor also may be able to write you a prescription.Make sure you tell your doctor exactly what activities you've attempted that have caused flare-ups and aggravated your condition. You also want to detail the conditions under which you were working out at the time.
Your doctor also may have suggestions about other things you can do to lessen the risk of flare-ups when you exercise with rosacea, or other therapies you could try.
 Even at a low or moderate intensity, working out for a long period of time can cause you to get too over-heated, which could result in flare-ups. You can prevent this by working out for short bursts of time periodically throughout the day.For example, if you normally walk for an hour, but it causes flare ups, you might go on four 15-minute walks over the course of the day.
Keeping the length of time you exercise to between 10 and 20 minutes typically presents the least risk that exercise will aggravate your symptoms.
 When your heart rate increases and you perspire more heavily, you increase the possibility of a rosacea flare-up. Figure out what you can do before you get to that point, and then don't go beyond that.This is going to differ from person to person, so you'll have to experiment a little before you can find the level that works for you. For example, if jogging aggravates your symptoms, maybe you should try walking instead. If walking still causes flare-ups, walk more slowly.
You may still be able to do exercises of the type typically done during interval training, such as push-ups or lunges, but instead of doing them quickly in short intervals, do them more slowly and deliberately for longer intervals (think two-minute intervals instead of 30-second or one-minute intervals).

