 In order to get a copy of the death certificate, you must be direct kin to the deceased. Puerto Rico law defines direct kin as parent, child, heir, or legal representative.To verify that you are kin (and thus qualified to get a copy of the death certificate), you should provide a copy of your own birth certificate.
If you use a spouse’s surname, then you will need to provide a copy of your marriage license. The office will need to see this to verify your maiden name.;
, This central registry has maintained duplicate copies of vital records since 1931. To request a death certificate, you will need to download an application, which is available at https://serviciosenlinea.gobierno.pr/Salud/Death%20Mail-In%20Application.pdf. You can print it out and then fill in the requested information.


If you need a death certificate from before June 22, 1931, then you need to contact the local registrar of the municipality where the death occurred.If you do not know the number or address, then call the central registry at (787) 765-2929 ext. 6131 and ask.
 You will need to present a photocopy of a valid form of personal identification. Acceptable identification includes a valid (non-expired) state ID, driver’s license or passport. Be sure to photocopy both sides of the identification., You cannot use a personal check to order the death certificate. Instead, you need a postal money order. Make the payment out to “Secretary of Treasury of Puerto Rico.”The cost is $12.00., You should put the application, copy of personal identification, and payment into an envelope. Include a self-addressed stamp envelope as well. Make sure that you have clearly printed your address.


Mail the packet to: Department of Health Demographic Registry, P.O. Box 11854, San Juan, Puerto Rico 00917.
If you have questions or need help, then call (787) 765-2929 ext. 6131. You may also email regdem@salud.pr.gov., This company has an option for you to purchase your copy of the death certificate by completing a form and mailing it in. VitalChek is a good option for those who want to pay by credit card or personal check. VitalChek accepts both, whereas the Puerto Rican Department of Health only accepts money orders.A copy of the death certificate costs $14.00 plus additional shipping costs. Shipping rates vary. VitalChek offers only overnight mailing options, which range from $16.00 to $37.00.You can download the Mail-In Death Certificate Application from https://www.vitalchek.com/Fax-Phone/PR_Death_Application.pdf. Once completed, you can return it to VitalChek, P.O. Box 222130, El Paso, TX 79912. If you pay by credit card, you can fax it to 866-301-6208.You must submit the same identification documents (personal ID and birth certificate) as you would to the Puerto Rican Department of Health.

