 If you are buying a wool or textile product within the United States, the Federal Trade Commission (or FTC) requires that the manufacturer have a proper label on it that lists the fiber content, country of origin, and the manufacturer's or responsible company's identity in order to protect the consumer.If you do not see a tag at all, or if the tag on the item is nothing but a sticker, or the tag's authenticity seems questionable (perhaps it is pinned on with a safety pin, or the tag is a large piece of paper with handwriting on it), reconsider making a purchase., Cashmere is an expensive wool to produce because it costs companies so much to get it: for every two pounds of cashmere, which is enough wool to make around 3 sweaters, it costs companies about $100 on the supply end.So even before a company has to start factoring in the cost of labor, overhead, and a margin for profit, there's a high cost involved. The only way to cut that price is if the producer combines the cashmere fibers with another, cheaper fiber. If the price tag seems too good to be true, then it probably is.


Depending on the brand and whether the blanket is 100% cashmere or a cashmere blend, the price will likely vary. For a 50/50 wool and cashmere blend blanket, you might pay between $112 and $200. A 100% cashmere throw could cost anywhere between $250 and $1200.
 The Textile or Wool Act and Rules requires that products be labeled to show the exact fiber content with names and percentages by weight for each constituent fiber, with the exception of fibers that make up less than 5% of a product.This means that you should know exactly what you're getting when you make a purchase. If price is not a mitigating factor, you will want to select a blanket that has a higher percentage of cashmere to other fibers, with 100% or All Cashmere being the ideal, and something like 95% Cashmere to 75% Cashmere being adequate.
 Some industry experts like to use the country of manufacture to determine what they buy. If a brand's goods originate in Japan or Europe, particularly Scotland and Italy which have long been considered the best of the best for spinning and knitting cashmere, that tends to be a good sign of quality. On the other hand, while China does turn out some items of decent quality, by and large their manufacturing for cashmere has only taken off in the last 30 or so years; they still lack the finesse of high-end luxury mills elsewhere., You'll want to see that the manufacturer's label of the blanket in question has the brand name of a large, recognizable company with a good reputation for quality cashmere. Banana Republic, J.Crew, Bloomingdale's, Macy's and Nordstroms are among the list of retailers that sell items at a price-point many people will find more affordable, but Saks 5th Avenue, Queen of Cashmere, and Loro Piana sell quality cashmere for a steeper price point., Ply refers to the number of threads of yarn twisted together to make a single strand.Because this twisting offsets the turns in the single bit of yarn, two-ply yarn or fabric is considered to be better than a single ply. However, two-ply is the ideal: subsequent plies (3-ply and 4-ply) don't really add any extra quality, only extra potential for color and weight (in addition to an increased price). Unless you need the extra warmth a 4-ply blanket can offer, or you've fallen in love with its particular color and look, there's no reason you couldn't go with a cheaper 2-ply blanket.
 Some of the terminology thrown around can be confusing: a lot of people seem to want to refer to "pashmina" and "cashmere" interchangeably. However, this is misleading: "pashmina" simply refers to "wool fabric," not specifically to cashmere.While a blanket could theoretically be 100% cashmere if it is made out of pashmina, that is not a guarantee--it could also be a cashmere blend, or not even cashmere at all.


If you find a blanket, especially online, being sold for less than these prices and described as "cashmere plush," or "cashmere soft," take a careful look at the product description and customers' feedback: chances are it is not cashmere at all but a synthetic fiber.

