 The game can be accessed online through Facebook or on the mobile apps. Load it, then hit the “Play” button.;
, When the game maps loads, find level “258” and hit the button to begin.
 Once you’re in, study how your board is set up. Do you have any good moves that can get you a Striped candy or two? Do you see any matches that can free up the Fish Candies early?

, If you’re not comfortable with your board, you can restart the level. You won’t lose a life as long as you haven’t made a move yet., The center cross area is the only place where you can make your moves and matches. Forget about the four corners with the jellies, since you cannot really touch them.
 A Fish candy is a special candy that cannot be made within the game. These are provided in the levels where they can be used. When you use a Fish candy as part of a match in this level, it will swim to a jelly and clear it. Using these in this level is key to winning it since the jellies in the four corners cannot really be reached by matches. The Fish candies are all encased in gelatin. Make any match with the Fish candy to melt the gelatin and free the Fish candy.
 A Wrapped candy is a special candy created by matching at least three vertical and three horizontal candies forming a plus, T-shape, or corner-shape. When used as part of a match, it will first explode and knock out the nine candies surrounding it, and then it will drop and explode again, knocking out another nine candies the same way. This special candy by itself in the center cross area can be useless, but it is very useful when you use it as a combo with a Fish candy.
 A Candy Bomb is a special candy created by matching five candies in a row. Color bombs do not need to be matched in order to be used. and you can just swap it with another candy. All similar candies will be taken from the board. This special candy by itself in the center cross area can be of little use, but it is very useful when you use it as a combo with a Fish candy.
 The six Fish candies aren’t enough to clear out all the jellies on the four corners. You have to save them and make combos out of them so that you can multiply their use and effects.


Combine a Fish candy with a Wrapped candy—This combination is very useful. Having the Wrapped candy in the center cross area is useless, but combining it with a Fish candy will do wonders. The Wrapped candy will be multiplied by three, and they will all swim towards the different jellies on the board. If you’re lucky, they will hit three different corners of the board and blow up there, clearing all the jellies in one move.
Combine a Fish candy with a Candy Bomb—This combination is also very useful. Having the Candy Bomb in the center cross area is of little use since it can only clear similar-colored candies. However, if it’s combined with a Fish candy, the Fish Candy will be multiplied by three and swim to different jellies. Afterwards, each of the Fish Candies will again multiply by three and swim to different jellies again. One Fish candy is multiplied several times, giving you lots of Fish candies.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before doing a move. The candy time bombs start counting from 35, so you have 35 moves to get rid of them. Focus on clearing the jellies and the candy time bombs will be taken care of with them.