 Accutane can cause your skin and hair to become extremely dry, and this can lead to hair that is brittle and breaks easily. In order to combat this, make sure to moisturize your hair and scalp regularly.Leave-in conditioners are great for adding moisture to dry hair. Try wrapping your hair in a warm towel to help the product soak in better.Look for conditioners and other hair care products that contain nourishing oils, like argan oil, avocado oil, or olive oil.You can also add moisture with hair masks made from everyday ingredients that you probably have in your kitchen right now. Egg yolks, honey, coconut oil, and olive oil are all great for treating dry hair., Be cautious of harsh ingredients in shampoos, like alkaline and alcohol, that might strip too much moisture from your hairYour hair may be much less oily while you are taking Accutane than it previously was, which may mean that you don't need to shampoo your hair as often. Shampooing your hair too often can worsen the dryness, so only shampoo it as often as necessary to keep it looking clean.
While many alcohols are bad for dry hair, Cetearyl alcohol, Cetyl alcohol, and Stearyl alcohol will actually help it retain moisture.Look for a shampoo that will help lower the Ph of your hair, as this will also help it retain moisture.Fragrance-free shampoos are a good choice for dry hair.Sulfates are not necessarily bad for your hair, but they are known to strip the oil from your hair. If your hair is excessively dry while you are taking Accutane, you may want to look for sulfate-free options., Chemical processes like hair dyes, perms, and bleaches cause the hair to become dry and brittle, as does excessive heat. This can worsen the hair loss you are experiencing while taking Accutane, so steer clear of these treatments while you are taking the medication., Brushing wet hair can cause it to break and split the ends, which makes it more brittle. Try gently running your fingers through your hair to detangle it while it is wet, and waiting to brush it until it is dry. If necessary, use a detangling product., Sun exposure can also worsen your dry hair, so you may want to try staying out of the sun while you are taking Accutane. If that's not possible, take care to protect your strands when you are outside on sunny days by wearing a hat or a scarf on your head.