 They're too tense, busy, and hurried to take time to clear their minds of life's overflowing clutter. Take a cue from your younger self and daydream away.


Worrying does not count as daydreaming. If you find yourself sitting back and planning out how your life should be going, you're not doing it right. Some people just aren't daydreamers -- if you're one of them, don't force it. There's about a bajillion more tips you can try down this page.;
, Have a picnic. Play frisbee. Try flying a kite. Sometimes the simplest things are the most rewarding -- and the most surprisingly fun. Even a walk is healthy and entertaining!


If you don't have a ton of time to kill, just take a walk around your neighborhood. Make an effort to be observant -- how many things can you spot that you never noticed before? Think about all your senses -- what can you hear, see, smell, touch, and taste? You might discover something interesting.
 The next time you're in a group full of people who is killing time, take note of how many don't have their phones whipped out. You definitely won't need a calculator. Even the ones who know each other will have their phones in hand and head down, playing Candy Crush, Words with Friends, or just pretending to be texting someone they like better. We've become a society that doesn't engage. RESIST. YOU CAN DO IT!


Or cave and take pictures of people staring at their phones. It's hard being the only one with your hands not clutching some lit-up piece of plastic, isn't it? That way you're still making a statement...sort of.
 Anyone. Whenever someone asks you to do something, say "Would you like some fries with that?" Annoying to them, but fun for you. Annoying people is the best. Try it! Axe bombs, anyone?


This one must be done with care. Staring at people until they're visibly uncomfortable, while fun, can result in confrontation. Holding your finger two inches from someone's face while saying, "Not touching you!" is entertaining, but risky when done with strangers. Pick your battles.
This doesn't have to be done in person. You could always Rick roll people online or start trolling. If they have any sense at all, they'll thank you.
 If you've been listening to the same playlist of 15 songs on your iPod nano since 2004, it's time to switch it up. Finding new music is easier than ever before. Sites like Noisetrade.comoffer free music downloads from budding artists, all at the click of a button. And being trendier than your friends is always rewarding.


You're already on Spotify and Pandora, right? Good. Now just make efforts to go outside your zone of aural comfort. Gems are just waiting to be found. Ask your friends for ideas or look up similar artists to ones you already like on the web.
 Even if you're not the best at it, it's fun to practice! And it makes a great conversation starter. Sure, that conversation might be, "Oh, hey! Rubik's cube! I can do it way faster than you!" But it's still a conversation.


Don't move the stickers and don't look up the answers. Then you'll just finish and have more time to kill. But if you're going to do it...might as well use wikiHow's Solve a Rubik's Cube article.

