 Depending on the specific type of surgery you are receiving, your doctor may have some recommendations for you to follow the week before you have surgery. Always consult with your doctor on your diet and habits before surgery. Some questions you may want to ask your doctor:


“Can I take all of my normal medications this week?”
“Are there any foods or supplements that might interfere with my surgery?”
“How should I prepare to heal after the surgery?”
“At what point should I stop eating and drinking?”
“Should I take my medication the morning of the surgery? If so, how should I take it?”, Between one and two weeks before your surgery, you should stop all natural herbal and vitamin supplements unless otherwise directed by your doctor.Ask your doctor specifically if you should do this. Some immune-boosting supplements such as calcium, iron, and vitamin D may still be taken with a doctor's approval.You should avoid certain herbs that may increase your chance of bleeding, such as:


Turmeric
Willow Bark
Chamomile
Cod Liver Oil, Depending on the type of surgery you have, you may not be able to wash properly for days. While nurses may give you a sponge bath, you should probably wash yourself the night before you go into surgery to help ensure that you are clean., Your doctor may tell you to stop eating and drinking after midnight the day of your surgery. This is to avoid complications with your anesthesia. In many cases, however, you may be allowed to drink clear liquids up to two hours beforehand. This liquid diet will provide some energy and sustenance before your surgery.This is to prevent you from going on a total fast, which may hurt your immune system.Some good clear liquids include:


Water
Gatorade
Broth
Ginger ale
Seltzer
Apple, cranberry, or grape juice. Avoid citrus drinks, prune juice, or any juice with pulp.Your doctor may recommend carbohydrate rich drinks such as Ensure or Pedialyte. In certain, specific medical cases, these drinks can boost the immune system before surgery.