 Sunlight can damage a perfume bottle. In general, they tend to last longer when stored in darker places. A closet or a drawer is a good way to store perfume to make it last.Perfume that comes in a colorful bottle, rather than a clear one, may be susceptible to less damage from light. However, it still may not be worth the risk of displaying bottles. You do not want perfume, especially expensive perfume, to lose its scent.;
, Extremely high and extremely low temperatures can affect the quality of your perfume. You want to store your perfume in an area of your home that is not subject to dramatic temperature changes.The kitchen and the bathroom are strictly off limits when it comes to storing perfume. The kitchen may get very hot during cooking, and the bathroom tends to warm up when people shower or bathe.
A closet in the living room or in a hallway is a much better place to safely store perfume.
 Humidity can really affect the quality of perfume. This is why storing bottles in the bathroom is generally a bad idea. Pick an area of your home not subject to extreme humidity in order to keep your perfume safe.If you have a dehumidifier set up anywhere, like your bedroom for example, this can be a great place to keep your perfume.
 Some people find success storing perfume in the refrigerator. While it may feel odd to have vials of perfume next to your food, the temperature is generally consistent and not too cool. If you have room, try popping your perfume in the fridge.However, very cold fridges can damage perfume. If you frequently notice drinks, fruits, and vegetables freezing slightly in your fridge, do not store your perfume here.
 A closet is usually the ideal place to store perfume. A closet is away from light and generally has a consistent temperature. Try clearing a space in your closet to store your best perfumes.Remember, however, to consider the area of your home. A bathroom closet or kitchen cabinet is not a good place for perfume.
A closet near your front door or by a window may also be a bad option. Such areas may be prone to drafts, and changes in temperature can affect the quality of perfume.
 If you still have the storage container your perfume came in, keep the perfume in this bottle. Do not transfer it to another container, as this will expose it to air. This can cause it to lose some of its smell., To best store, you should place bottles in boxes before placing them in storage. Boxes will further protect perfume from things like heat and sunlight. Before placing your perfume in a closet or on a shelf, put all the bottles in a box.Make sure the caps on all the bottles are firmly sealed. You do not want perfume leaking in a box.
Decorative boxes can be a fun way to store perfume.
 If you want to travel with your perfume, travel containers can help keep it safe. Opt for travel friendly bottles of your favorite perfumes before a trip, especially if you have to fly. If you can't find travel sized bottles, buy an empty bottle and transfer the perfume here.Travel containers are a good idea because there's always a risk of losing your perfume while traveling. You do not want to use an entire bottle of good perfume.
While it's generally best not to transfer perfume to another bottle, it's acceptable if you have to travel.
 Never leave the cap off after using your perfume. The less exposure perfume has to open air, the better it will keep.Make sure the cap is firmly in place when putting it back on the bottle.
 Many people shake perfume prior to use. Shaking the bottle can expose the perfume to excess air, which can be harmful. Unless there are specific instructions to shake perfume before use, avoid doing so before applying the perfume., Perfume applicators are wands people often dip in perfume and then swap on their bodies. Applicators can provide precision. However, reusable applicators can damage perfume by introducing bacteria and oils to the bottles.In general, opt for using perfume as a spray.
If you do want to use an applicator, use disposable ones.
 If a box falls from a high shelf, a fragile bottle could easily shatter. This will ruin an entire bottle of perfume. Always keep delicate bottles on the floor of a closet or on a lower shelf.This is especially important if you live in an area prone to earthquakes, like California.

