 It isn't required, but it can help you feel more like your favorite assassins. Assassins are usually able to perform physical activity for long periods of time. You should try to learn parkour, since assassins usually free run over buildings.

If you do decide to be athletic, try doing push ups and, if possible, pull-ups everyday. Run for fitness.;
, There are many assassin outfits you cam buy, but many will draw attention to you. It's best to wear a white or black hoodie and pants that allow you free movement but don't make too much noise. Preferably go for a zipper hoodie, that has a hood that can somewhat come over your eyes.
 Find somewhere you can practice your moves like a playground or old house. Make sure you have permission if you're going to practice on another property.


Learning free-running (parkour) is not always required. You have Assassins such as Shaun and Rebecca who do not know how/need to do free-running. Sure, it does help to know it to make you feel more like Desmond, Altair, Ezio, or Connor, but there are positions that do not require it, such as Shaun's position as a historical aide and researcher, or Rebecca's position as Lucy's team's tech specialist. This step probably will take the longest to accomplish, if you decide to learn it. And lastly, be careful if you decide to learn free-running! No leg-breaking here!
When doing parkour/ free-running, make sure to know what your surroundings are. Also make sure you have a good grip on the surface that you doing this on.
 It's a good idea to do this, considering it has many things about the Assassin's Creed Universe that you may not have known. It also might be a good idea to get your hands on the Assassin's Creed Encyclopedia when it comes out.
 Also, it might be good if you went to real-life events such as Comic-Con, and got involved with cosplaying communities. This allows you to connect with like-minded individuals.
, It's not recommended to get a hidden blade, but if you must have one, you can buy one from Museum Replicas or you can create your own. Remember, a true Assassin does not murder innocents. And by the way, murder is illegal in most parts of the world, with the sentence often being either life in prison or the death penalty, so please, just use your hidden blade for ceremonial reasons.
 For reminder reasons, the Creed is as follows:


1. Stay your blade from the flesh of the innocent. (In other words, do not kill innocent people.)
2. Hide in plain sight. (Don't draw attention to yourself. Use the crowds and environment to your advantage.)
3. Never compromise the Brotherhood. (Don't create a bad name for the Assassins and get Assassin's Creed banned from being played).
 Try to spare whoever is attacking you, and try to inflict the least amount of pain as you can. Use your mind as your primary weapon, and your fists as a secondary, and by no means should you use your hidden blade for any other reasons but ceremonial reasons.
 It's best to not go rogue, because if you are injured, caught, or killed, you're in trouble.
 Do not attempt to jump off of the tops of cathedrals or stab people with a knife. Either way, you could die.

