 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as Aspirin and Ibuprofen, which provide quick, effective relief for most minor toothaches.Having a throbbing tooth can impede your ability to eat, speak, and get to sleep. It's also more difficult to treat the toothache when you're in pain, so getting some relief from an over-the-counter pain medicine can help.

If the pain is intense and/or you can feel it radiating to other neighboring areas such as your ear, head, or throat, then an emergency appointment to your dentist is necessary.
Use only the recommended dosage printed on the package, or the dosage recommended by your doctor.
Tylenol is another effective over-the-counter painkiller.;
, Fill a food storage bag with ice, cover it with a thin cloth or paper towel, and apply it directly to the tooth or the cheek area just outside the tooth. The cold temperature will help ease the pain. Using a ice pack instead of a bag will have the same effect, but be sure to cover it with a towel.









There are cases of pulpitis when the pain calms down with a warm temperature. If the pain increases with the cold pack, switch to a warm compress.
Do not apply the ice directly to the tooth. This will increase the pain, especially since teeth inflamed by toothaches are often quite sensitive to hot or cold temperatures.
 Buy an over-the-counter tooth and gum numbing gel to help ease the throbbing for a few hours. These gels are applied directly to the affected area and usually work for several hours, but saliva dilutes the effects of the gel and spreads it down your throat or over your tongue so do not swallow any.
 Sometimes toothaches are caused by small pieces of food that have gotten lodged in the tooth and are exacerbating the pain of cavities or gingivitis. When this is the case, thoroughly cleaning your mouth can go a long way toward eliminating the pain and making the problem go away.









Floss around the tooth. Make sure the floss goes up to your gums. Sweep it back and forth across the tooth so that it picks up any particles that have lodged there.
Brush the area. If your ache is caused by gingivitis, this is one of the best ways to ease the pain. Brush your teeth for several minutes, concentrating on the painful area. Keep brushing until the area no longer feels as sensitive.
Use a rinse. Finish the cleaning by using mouthwash to rinse away dislodged particles. Or, or pour a few drops of bee propolis into a half of a glass of water and use this to rinse your mouth.
Keep it up. Use this routine twice a day, every day, and keep using it after the pain subsides.
 A toothache caused by a blow to the tooth or a mild infection might go away on its own. To help it along, make a rinse with warm water and a spoonful of sea salt. When the salt dissolves, gargle the water in your mouth, making sure it splashes around the affected area. Repeat several times daily until the pain subsides.








