 Breathing is critical to jazz and is required if you want to sing for an entire set. Open up your chest and stand up straight, with your shoulders back, while you take deep breaths to perform the correct breathing technique.Your rib cage should expand when you are singing. You can feel under your rib cage with your fingers to feel how much they should be expanding when you sing.


Learning the proper breathing method will also prevent your voice from becoming wobbly or breaking.Having a large lung capacity and being able to breathe correctly allows you to project your voice.;
, To determine your voice register, sing without music at first. Experiment with your voice, and figure out what feels the most comfortable for you. Once you've practiced and determined your comfort zone, use a tuned instrument like piano or guitar to determine what key your voice normally sings in.


Having this knowledge will enable you to pick out music that is right for your voice and will allow you to tell other band members which key they should play in.
Knowing basic music theory will help you determine the key that you're singing in.
 Jazz standards are classic jazz songs that many jazz singers incorporate into their sets.If you're going to become a jazz singer, it's critical that you learn how to sing traditional jazz standards.


Some jazz standards include "Autumn in New York," "Cry Me a River," "Manhattan," "Route 66," and "There's a Small Hotel."There are hundreds of jazz standards that exist, so it's unlikely you'll be able to learn them all. Start by doing research on the songs that are local to the region you live in., Jazz music differs from other music because singers usually utilize a unique syncopated rhythm with their vocals. Syncopation occurs when the musician emphasizes the upbeat or the offbeat.


An easy way to understand this concept is to tap your foot to a song in a 1-2-3-4 pattern. The syncopated beat occurs when your foot is in the air.Jazz music utilizes both syncopated and non-syncopated notes. Mix up your rhythm to keep the listener excited and engaged.
 If you have no singing or performing experience, then it's a good possibility you'll need to take singing lessons to learn the basics. Even if you are good at singing in other genres, jazz is a very particular type of music, and you'll have to adapt to its unique rhythm and sound. Look for any classes offered by a local university or community center in your area and sign up for classes.Jazz classes will teach you various vocal techniques, as well as the vocal inflections required to be a good jazz singer.As you take singing lessons, you'll discover your vocal range and what your voice is capable of doing.
There are online universities that offer classes in jazz singing, like Berklee University or The New York Jazz Program.