 Use a box cutter or craft knife to cut out the bottom of the box first, and discard it. Then, cut the corners straight down using a sawing motion. Flatten your box so that you get something that looks like a + sign.Pull the plastic out from the tissue slot, if there is any. If your tissue slot is an oval, you might want to stick masking tape across the sides and bottom to make it a rectangle.;
, Choose two types of fabric, one for the outside of the tissue box cover and one for the lining. Pin them together. You will be tracing and cutting everything all at one time. This way, you can be certain that everything will be even.

Choose a nice fabric for the outside, such as patterned cotton, linen, or even curtain/upholstery fabric. Choose plain cotton or muslin fabric for the inside.
 Add ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowances to the inside corners. Keep the top, bottom, left, and right edges flush against the template. Finally, trace inside the tissue slot hole, add a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance., Trace the entire template first, including the tissue slot hole, then take the template off. Next, trace ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) inside the corners; these will be your new cutting lines and will help reduce bulk. The top, bottom, and side edges should still be flush with the top, bottom, and slide edges on your template., Keep the fabric pieces pinned together as you cut them, then remove the pins when you are done. This way, both pieces will match up. Cut the batting separately., Make the slits at 45°. You will eventually be folding the edges in, and these slits will allow you to do so., Place the lining fabric down first, right-side-down. Place the batting down on top of it, making sure that it is centered. Finally, place the outer fabric on top of it, right-side-up. Pin everything in place., When you look down on top of your tissue box cover, you will see a rectangle, with another rectangle sticking out on each of the four sides. These four rectangles are the side flaps. Use your sewing machine to topstitch across the top of your tissue box cover, right where the side flaps connect to the top panel. This will help the batting fold nicely.

Use a thread color that matches the outer fabric, and a bobbin color that matches the lining.
 Flip the tissue cover so that the inside fabric is facing you. Fold each of the tissue slot edges in by ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter), and pin them in place. Don't worry, you won't see the hems when you are done., Fold the beginning and end of your bias tape under by ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) to hide the raw edges. Start pinning the bias tape at one of the corners. Remove the old pins as you go, and use them to hold the bias tape in place.

Choose a color that goes well with the outside fabric. It can match the print, or contrast it.
 Sew ⅛ inch (0.32 centimeter) away from the inside edge, and remove the sewing pins as you go. Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing to prevent the thread from unraveling., Fold the bottom and left flaps together, and pin them together. Repeat for the remaining flaps until you get a box shape. The seams should be on the same side as the inside fabric.

The batting is cut smaller than the fabric pieces. You won't be able to pin it; try to keep it sandwiched between the inner and outer fabric pieces.
 Remove the pins as you sew. When you are done sewing, snip the seams at the corners to reduce bulking, and turn the tissue over right-side out.

Again, the batting is cut smaller. You won't be able to catch it with your needle. This is fine because it reduces bulk.
 Secure the bias tape with sewing pins. As before, fold the beginning and end of the bias tape under by ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) to hide the raw edges.

Match this color to your first bias tape color.
 Match the thread color to the bias tape, and remove the pins as you go. Do this for both pieces of bias tape.

Backstitch a few times at the start and end of your sewing. This will prevent the thread from unraveling.
 Slide it over the top of your tissue box, and pull the first tissue out through the slot.