 This is the easiest and most common way to layer sheer clothing. Put on a bra or tank top (if you don’t want to show your stomach) for the underneath layer. For the top, sheer layer, you can wear a sheer t-shirt, button-down, or a lace shirt. You can find lace shirts with designs, such as flowers, for a more interesting look.Consider the occasion when choosing your shirts. A bra and sheer shirt would be great for going out. A button-down is better for a dinner.;
, A sheer dress is a great way to pull together an outfit. There are several options for the bottom layer. You could wear a slip, a bra and tight skirt, or a tight shirt and leggings/pants. Just be sure that the bottom layer is form-fitting. Mesh dresses, sheer, slip dresses, and button-down chiffon dresses are some dresses that can be worn over the bottom layer.Consider the colors you’re wearing for the bottom layer when choosing a sheer dress. White under white looks classy. Black under white gives a more dramatic look.
 Wearing sheer layers doesn’t have to just be about showing skin. You can also wear sheer layers made out of different materials to add texture to your outfit. For example, you can wear a chiffon dress with a mesh long-sleeved shirt. Or, you could wear sheer material pants with a lace shirt.Not every material will style well together. For instance, a mesh jacket may not look good over a lace shirt.
 This works best if one layer is more translucent than the other layer. You could wear a very sheer short with a mesh or lace jacket over it. Or, you could wear very transparent pants with a shirt that does not show as much skin.Another option is to wear a sheer jacket with a sheer skirt over an opaque skirt.
 This is a more uncommon way of layering sheer clothing, but it is fashionable. You can wear tight shorts or leggings as the bottom layer. Any bottom layer that fits tightly will work. Then, wear the sheer pants of your choice. You could choose basic sheer pants, shimmery, lacy, or printed pants.