 Teenagers experience huge hormonal shifts; acute stress in their interpersonal lives due to budding romances, friendship turmoil, and bullying; and a growing sense of independence. Unfortunately, they still lack emotional maturity and their brains are still developing to understand long term consequences of their behaviors.These factors make a volatile environment for many parents of teens, who struggle with their children's stubborn and rebellious attitudes on a regular basis.


Puberty is a process lasting several years, not a one-off experience, and it usually starts between the ages of 10 and 14 for girls and 12 and 16 for boys. During that time, changes in behavior are typical for both genders., Just like toddlers and children, teenagers thrive in an environment with clear expectations and boundaries for their behavior. While many teens will test the limits, they crave consistency on your part. Create and enforce family rules with clear consequences.Let your teen give input on the rules and consequences, and put them in writing. This helps your teen to feel like you take his opinions seriously and that he has some personal investment in behaving well.For example, if your child runs up his cell-phone bill by using too much data, the consequence might be that he has to pay the bill or that he loses his cell phone for the following week.
Be consistent, but be willing to make adjustments as necessary. If your set of rules and consequences is not working for the family, sit down with your teen and reconsider other options. Also, be willing to relax your rules on occasion if your child is responsible and respectful (for example, letting him stay out late for a special event)., The teenage years can be especially trying to a parent's emotions. Volatile, emotional teenagers often do and say things to hurt those they love and get a reaction. But yelling at one another and letting your emotions get out of control is counterproductive to effective discipline.


Prepare responses ahead of time. If your teenager tends to say hurtful things during arguments, prepare your response ahead of time to prevent yourself from saying something hurtful back. For example, you can simply say, "That was hurtful. Let's take a break and revisit this issue when we're calmer."
Take a time-out if you need to. If you find yourself becoming overwhelmed with your teen, tell her you need to take a break and come back to the discussion later. Be sure to follow through and sit down with her when you are more clear-headed so she knows that you will not let issues slide.
 If your teenager's behavior is not just stubbornness but veers into the area of self-harm or harming others, it is vital that you seek help from professionals.


A psychologist can help you determine the best course of action for a self-destructive or otherwise troubled teen, who may be experiencing early symptoms of mental illness or depression.