 Consider the pros and cons, the facts, the consequences, and all of your options.


You might even want to write all of these things down or enter them into a Word document or spreadsheet.
 Once you’ve thought about your decision logically, switch your focus to your heart. Clear your mind and breath deeply, then think of someone or something you love. Say a word that opens your heart (e.g. “love” or “gratitude”).Once your heart is open and your mind is clear, reconsider the same situation you just considered using your brain.
Again consider the pros and cons, the facts, the consequences, and your options. Are any of these different when you view them from an emotional angle?

, Once you’ve considered the situation with your brain and your heart, it’s time to see what your gut thinks. Sit up straight, breath deeply, and relax. Think about a time when you were particularly gutsy, and say the word “courage” to yourself as you exhale.With your gut engaged, think about your decision once more, considering the pros and cons, facts and consequences, and all of your options.
Ask yourself what will happen if you fail? What are the risks involved?
How do your thoughts differ this time from when you considered your decision using your brain and your heart?

, Distract yourself with something fun, then return to your decision with a fresh mind and see where your intuition weighs in compared to the data you’ve collected.For distractions you might go for a walk, take a shower, cook a meal, play a musical instrument, or whatever else it is that you enjoy doing.
 Now that you’ve listened to your brain, heart, and gut, try to find a decision that balances all of your answers.Maybe you’ll find that your brain, heart, and gut are all in line with one another. In this case, your decision will be pretty easy!

, If you’re really struggling with making a decision after considering it from all angles, try flipping a coin. You don’t have to follow the result of the coin toss. What’s more important is how you feel when you see the result.


For example, if you’ve done a pros and cons list, and you’ve agonized over taking that new job but still can’t decide, flip a coin: heads is yes, tails is no. If the coin lands on yes and you feel sick about it, or it lands on no and you feel relieved, you’ll know that you actually don't want the new job and probably shouldn't take it.
 To do a blind reading:


Think about a decision you’re struggling with and write 3 possible solutions for it on individual index cards — 1 solution per card.
Turn the cards over and shuffle them, then assign a percentage to each card based on how much you’re drawn to it.
Make your decision based on the card with the highest percentage.

