 For this method, you will need the following supplies.









A foam wreath base made for use with fresh flowers
Fresh flowers
Foliage and/or leaves
Ribbon (about 2 yards)
Florist shears or scissors
Florist wire

, Before you begin, it's a good idea to think about how your want your finished wreath to look. If it's helpful, you can sketch it out and use the sketch for reference later.
 Dip the entire wreath base in water. You want it to be damp, but not saturated. (If you saturate it with water, it will drip when you hang it.)








, It is much easier to make a hanger for your wreath before you begin to decorate it. It also provides you a visual reference point for the top of the wreath.









Pass a length of florist wire through the center of the wreath base.
Bring the two ends together and twist them several times to secure.
If it is helpful, hang up your wreath while you work. This way you can see what it will look like when it is hung.
 The foliage or leaves will cover the base and serve as a visual backdrop for the flowers.









Leaving the stem on, clip each individual leaf from its branch.
Beginning at the edge of the wreath and working inward, insert the stems of the leaves into the form.
Make sure all the leaves point the same direction, and that you overlap them so that the base does not show through.
Continue inserting the leaves in a clockwise direction until the entire base is covered.
Make sure the leaves slightly overlap the inner and outer edges of the form so they do not show.
 Adding flowers to your wreath is where you can really let your creativity shine.









Clip the stem of your flowers to a length of about 3". Strip away any leaves toward the bottom of the flower stem.
Insert the flowers into the wreath form according to your sketch or your design concept. Look for places between the leaves to insert the flower stems.
Every so often, step back from your wreath and view it from a short distance. This way, you can make sure it is taking shape the way you want it to.
Continue until you are satisfied with the way your wreath looks.
 As a final touch, wind a length of ribbon around your wreath in soft curls. Tie or glue it to the back of the wreath form so it stays in place.








