 You want to make it as difficult as possible for your dog to escape the bath, so closing bathroom doors will help you in this endeavor.
 A leather collar can shrink when wet and irritate your dog’s skin. You can replace it with a temporary nylon collar.


Leashing your dog will keep them in place and help prevent them from escaping. This will help keep things less messy, and it can prevent injury from a wet dog running around the bathroom or house.If your dog tends to bite when in the bath, consider using a muzzle at bathtime., Water can irritate the delicate membranes in a dog’s eyes and ears. Keep this in mind as you’re bathing your pit bull.


Because pit bulls are prone to ear infections, you need to keep their ears dry. Place a cotton ball in each of your pit bull’s ears to keep out water. Be sure the cotton balls are large enough not to be caught or lost in the ear canal.Avoid spraying water directly on your pit bull’s head. This will help keep your dog’s eyes, mouth, and ears dry during the bath as well.
 Like people, dogs want to be comfortable; keep this in mind when setting your water temperature.
 Use a detachable shower spray nozzle or pitcher to completely wet your dog’s skin from the neck down (thus avoiding the eyes and ears).


Use a washcloth to gently wipe off your pit bull’s face, head, and around the ears., Gently massage in the shampoo and distribute it thoroughly. Some dog owners like to use rubber bath brushes or massage gloves for applying shampoo. They can help distribute the shampoo more evenly and stimulate circulation., Watch the water as it goes into the tub, and rinse until it runs clear.


Rinse your dog’s head first, making sure to cover their eyes with one hand to prevent water from getting in them.
If your dog is really muddy or dirty, you can repeat the shampoo step.
 After you’ve both survived the bath, you can relax and enjoy your fresh-smelling pit bull.


Use your hands to squeeze or pat away excess water from your pit bull’s body.Gently remove the cotton balls from your pit bull’s ears, and dry them to remove any lingering water.
Wrap your dog in a large, absorbent towel to thoroughly dry them.
Some owners use a pet dryer or blow dryer on a low setting, but you must take care to watch the heat so your dog isn’t burned.
Give a few treats and kisses for their good behavior in the tub.
You can also crate your dog on a towel to help them dry without getting water all over the house.