 Crows are easily spooked by random noises, so items like bells, wind chimes, and even squeaky loose gates can keep them away.Additionally, crows are frightened by reflective surfaces that move in the breeze, creating random flashes of light. Figures like scarecrows or owl decoys can be frightening to crows at first, but they are intelligent birds, and will not be fooled for long., If it looks like one crow is in your yard, others will want to follow. It should appear natural and alive, and figures hung upside-down, or otherwise appearing dead, like some Halloween decorations, will scare them off.
 You can either purchase an electronic caller, or attempt using a hand caller yourself. There are a variety of different calls used by crows, many of which will draw a nearby group. Some popular calls are the Attention Call, the Rally Call, and the Distress Call, all of which will draw curious crows to your location.


Hand calling is difficult, but can give you greater flexibility in calling and communication with the birds. Place the call between your thumb and index finger, making a cup around the end with your hands. Rather than blow through, you will want to make a growling noise into the call, as if you were clearing your throat., Crows like horizontal places to rest, like fences and tree branches. They are sociable birds, so you will need many places for them to sit and stay. Crows are large birds, so any roosting place should be very sturdy. Old fashioned concrete birdbaths can be very useful.You can also create an artificial structure if you do not have enough natural spaces. Drive or set poles into the ground, then place a cross-bar between them for more roosting room., Crows will eat just about anything, so you are pretty safe regardless of the food you put out for them. To first attract crows, you will want some noticeable, like peanuts in the shell. Once they become regulars in your yard, you can use a wider variety of foods, including kibbled pet food or meat scraps. Crows can eat a lot of food, so don't be afraid to spread more if they eat it all.
 Crows are intelligent, and will quickly learn if you provide food regularly, and a regular source of food is very attractive to any wild animal.
 Keep it in small, shallow containers for the crows and other birds to drink. You will want it to be sturdy, so that cats looking for a drink, or a bird, will not knock it over easily. Make sure the water stays ice free during the winter.
 You may not get crows right away, as your food supplies may attract squirrels, blue jays, and other small birds. You may need to spread food for several days before crows follow the blue jays to your food supplies.

