 There are plenty of self-tanning products on the market. Before choosing a brand, look up reviews of products. Some self-tanners are more likely to be streaky and unnatural in color than others. When choosing a product, you should also look at the skin tones the tanner is recommended for. If your skin is pale, don’t choose a shade that is meant for medium to dark skin tones. Choosing the wrong shade makes it more likely that the self-tanner will turn your skin orange.Self-tanners can be bought at cosmetic stores and most supermarkets that have a cosmetic section.
 Exfoliating your skin makes the self-tanner appear more even and smooth on your skin once it has dried. Use a wash cloth or exfoliating product. Exfoliate every part of your body. Spend more time exfoliating the parts where the skin is thickest, like the elbows, knees, and ankles.If you have used an exfoliating product, make sure it has been washed off completely. Dry your skin with a clean towel.
 It is best to use gloves during the application process. You can purchase gloves made specifically for self-tanner, but plastic or latex gloves will work. Apply the self-tanner in sections. For example, start with the arms, then legs, and then the torso. Rub the tanner in with circular motions.If you don’t use gloves, make sure to wash your hands after every section.
 These parts of your body or more likely to hold the color and turn out streaky. You don’t have to use extra tanner for your wrists and ankles. You can just extend what product you’ve used on your legs and arms. For your joints, use very little lotion or use a towel to apply the tanner.Have someone help you apply the self-tanner to your back and other areas that are difficult to reach.
 Wait at least ten minutes for the self-tanner to dry. If after ten minutes any party of your body doesn’t feel dry, wait for up to an hour. After, that wear light and loose clothing for the next day. Avoid wearing white. Try to avoid sweating or swimming. The self-tanner usually lasts for about a week.Reapply the tanner lightly if it becomes streaky in some areas.
 If you are not satisfied with the self-tanner, you can opt for a spray tan. You can also choose to get a spray tan instead of applying self-tanner. With spray tans, a fine mist is sprayed on your body that makes your skin appear tan. Spray tans are performed by professionals with a spray gun, or applied in a booth. You can make an appointment at your local tanning salon.Spray tans typically last three to seven days.

