 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cake, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, grease two 8-inch (20-cm) round cake pans with butter and lightly dust them with flour to prevent the cake from sticking.If you prefer, you can use nonstick cooking spray to grease the cake pans.;
, Add 1 cup (227 g) of softened, unsalted butter and 2 cups (400 g) of sugar to the bowl of a stand mixer. Beat the two together on medium for 2 to 3 minutes, or until the mixture is light and fluffy.If you don’t have a stand mixer, you can use a handheld electric mixer to mix the cake batter.
You can also mix the cake batter by hand, but it will take more time and effort.
 Once the butter and sugar mixture is light and fluffy, mix 4 large eggs into the bowl, but add them one at a time. Continue mixing the batter on medium for another 1 to 2 minutes, or until the eggs are fully incorporated., Add 3 cups (300 g) of sifted cake flour, 3 teaspoons (12 g) of baking powder, and ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt to a separate large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they’re fully combined.You can substitute all-purpose flour for the cake flour. However, for the best results, measure out 3 cups (375 g) of the all-purpose flour and remove 6 tablespoons (48 g). Replace it with 6 tablespoons (48 g) of cornstarch and sift the mixture 4 to 5 times to ensure that it’s light and airy.
 Once the flour mixture is blended, add it to the butter mixture alternately with 1 cup (237 ml) of coconut milk. Blend the mixture on medium-low until all of the ingredients are incorporated.Coconut milk is available in both cans and cartons at most mainstream grocery stores.
Be sure that you’re using coconut milk and not coconut cream, which has a thicker consistency.
 After the flour mixture and coconut milk are mixed into the batter, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of coconut extract and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of pure vanilla extract. Mix them in on medium-low until they are completely blended in., When the batter is fully mixed, carefully divide it between the two greased, floured cake pans. Use a rubber spatula to make sure that it’s spread evenly in the pans.It’s a good idea to tap the pans on the counter or table after you add and smooth the batter. That will get rid of any air bubbles so your cakes don’t fall.
 After you’ve poured the batter into the pans, place them in the preheated oven. Allow the cakes to bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until the tops are a light golden brown.To be sure that the cakes are finished baking, insert a cake tester or toothpick into the center. If it emerges clean, the cakes are done.
 When the cakes are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Let the cakes cool in the pans for 10 minutes on a wire cooling rack.When they’re finished cooling, the top of the cakes should feel firm.
 After the cakes have cooled partially, run a butter knife or small offset spatula around the edges of the cakes to loosen them from the pans. Turn them out onto the cooling rack, and allow them to cool completely for at least another hour.It’s important to ensure that the cakes are completely cool before you frost them or the frosting may melt off.
 Add 8 ounces (225 g) of softened cream cheese, ½ cup (113 g) of softened butter, 2 cups (250 g) of powdered sugar, and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of coconut extract to the bowl of a stand mixer. Cream the ingredients together on medium until they are fully blended.You can also use an electric handheld mixer to mix the frosting.
 When the cakes are cooled completely, place one of the cakes on a platter or plate. Apply a generous amount of frosting to the top of the cake, and use a butter knife or small offset to spread it evenly across the surface.To keep the frosting from getting on the plate, place several pieces of wax or parchment paper just beneath the edge of the cake, all the way around, to cover the plate before you frost it. When you’re finished icing the cake, you can simply pull the paper away and the plate will be clean.
 Once the frosting is spread over the top of the bottom cake, place the second cake on top of it. Use the butter knife or offset spatula to smooth frosting all over the sides of the cakes and the top of the second cake so the entire surface is covered., When the cake is completely frosted, garnish the top of it with some shredded, sweetened coconut. You can add as much or as little of the coconut as you like.If you like, you can press some of the shredded coconut along the sides of the cake as well.
You can toast the shredded coconut before you add it to the cake if you prefer.
 After you’ve garnished the cake with the shredded coconut, use a sharp knife to cut it into slices. Place the slices on plates, and serve.Tightly cover any leftover cake and store it in the refrigerator. It should keep for up 5 to 6 days.

