 As this is a chronological resume, your jobs should be listed in reverse chronological order with your most recent employment first. Include the name of the company, its location, your title, your duties and responsibilities while working there, and the dates that you were employed there.


It may be beneficial to list your title first, to show off your position in each job. You can also choose to list the company name first. Regardless of what you choose, be consistent down your entire list.
For each listing, write a “major achievements” or “accomplishments” section with a brief description of something important that you accomplished for that job.
 Same as with your jobs, you should list all of your education in chronological order with your most recent schooling first. Include any college degrees, trade schools, or apprenticeships you might have participated in. If you graduated with a degree, list the name of the degree as well as the year you received it. If you have not yet graduated, simply state the years you have attended the program as well as an expected graduation date.


For each listing, give the university/program name, their address, and your degree or area of study.
If you had a cumulative GPA of 3.5 or higher, be sure to list it along with your school/degree information.
 Once you’ve listed the most important information - your work experience and education - you can essentially choose to list anything else you find important. Create a section titled “Special Skills” or “Unique Qualifications” with a list of these things.


If you are fluent in more than one language, list the multiple languages here. Be sure to make note of your level of knowledge - for example, beginner, intermediate, novice, advanced, fluent, etc.
If you are well versed in a special area of work that other applicants might not be - such as computer programming - be sure to include your level of expertise here.
 You will need to provide 2-4 professional references (people who aren't family or friends)with their name, relationship to you, and contact information including their phone number, address, and email.


The best references to use are a manager or superior to you in your work, or perhaps a college professor whose class you did well in.
The place you are applying to may contact these people, so always call them in advance to let them know that you are using them for a reference and are currently applying for a job.

