 Don’t shy away from interacting or initiating conversations with her mom. It might seem like the logical thing to do is to talk to your girlfriend more since you know her, but it is actually isolating to the person you’re trying to get to know, which in this case is her mom. Speak to her mom directly and ask her things about herself.Expound on things that you’ve learned about her through conversations with your girlfriend. Don’t forget to ask about what inspired her career, where she likes to go for travel, etc. Ask her what your girlfriend was like as a child. It’s a great conversation starter to break any initial tension.
If you find yourself in the middle of awkward silence, ask basic getting-to-know-you questions like how long she’s been married, interests, or hobbies.Be genuinely interested in what she has to say.
Resist the temptation to use conversation lulls as a window to mess with your phone. Texting, looking at your phone, playing a game, checking updates in different apps – all of these are considered rude practices in social gatherings., While a quick peck on the lips or occasional hand hold is not enough to alert the PDA police, as a sign of respect, it’s best to keep PDA to a bare minimum. Touch the small of her back affectionately or whisper something in her ear – but do not touch one another inappropriately, even if you think no one may be looking. It’s another form of respect.When trying to find the line between what’s too much PDA and what’s just enough, consider the things that make you considerate: open doors for her, pull out her chair for her, fix her plate for her, etc.
If you are coming from out of town and are staying over at her mom’s house, continue to err on the side of respect and oblige to requests to stay in separate rooms or at a hotel if it’s asked of you.However, succumb to requests that her mother might have if she wants you to stay at the house and allows you to stay in the room with your girlfriend. Let the mother set the tone for how you are to regard your girlfriend in intimate circumstances under her roof.
 Even though your girlfriend is bringing you to meet her mom, this interaction is about you as well since it’s for the two of you trying to get to know each other. Talk to her about yourself so she can get a better idea of who the man her daughter is in love with is.Talk about what you like to do, what you’re interested in doing, your ambitions, your career, your goals, etc.Show her that you make a suitable match for her daughter by giving her confidence in you.
Include your girlfriend in your conversation as well. Talk about how the two of you met, what you love about her, what the two of you like doing together for fun. Seeing your apparent love for her daughter will be very encouraging in how she feels about you., If you know that her mom has been cooking all day, preparing for the two of you to visit, offer to help out in any way possible. Take out the trash if it’s full, ask if you can help with the dishes, help her make dinner, or help her set up for dinner. Hosts and hostesses tend to say “no”, but the thought will stick out in her mind and she will appreciate you for it., Meeting her mom might have gone seamlessly or it might have been a disaster, either way, it’s important to be polite and compliment her mom for having you that day or night. At the end of the night, say “Thank you, I had a wonderful time. Hope to do it again sometime soon.” This keeps the door open for future plans and for you to be kept in mind for any social gatherings her mom might host later.