 Set up a mini salon for your doll and have her visit for some hairstyles. Have her change her mind several times before finally settling on a style she loves.
 Dress her up in different outfits. You could set up all sorts of fun reasons for constant clothing changes, such as modeling on the runway; visiting a friend and going swimming, then cycling, then walking, then having dinner, etc.; a fashion shoot; a reality TV show; a concert; a parade or pageant; and so forth.


Come up with awesome outfits that match her personality.
 Set the game up and have her choose her team, color or marker. Take it turns to play and move the pieces for her. See who wins!

, The two dolls can get to know one another and perhaps even have a sleepover or party together. They could do chemistry experiments or chart the night sky together.


Another alternative is to give your doll a friend from one of your other toys, such as a stuffed toy or another doll.
 You could even buy some things as well. Try out her new clothes and accessories when done.
 Go out shopping, visiting the zoo, solving math problems together or do some baking.
 Perhaps give her a makeover as well and turn her into a new personality.


She could become a sporty girl, a scientist, a member of MENSA, etc.
 Maybe it's her birthday or perhaps she just got her degree in astrophysics. Throw a party to celebrate.


Other occasions could include holidays, seasons and the fabulous grades you've got for science and math.
 There are lots of possibilities here, such as school, preschool, riding school, pet shop, American Idol, getting ready for a trip to the International Space Station, etc.
 Choose ones suitable for her intellect and age.


Make videos with your doll too. For example, make stop motions. Do the doll's hair, make clothes for her (sew the clothes or even make them out of a sock), then film some action sequences with her. If it's good enough, upload it to YouTube. If not, try harder next time.
 Make a mini hospital from a box or closet. Find bandages, crutches, doctor's gear, etc. Have a notebook and stickers to take notes. Make a Get Well Soon sign.

