 While hiking alone can be wonderful, it’s important to take someone along with you if you can. This is especially important if you are new to hiking, or if you are visiting a new trail for the first time. Having a partner hiking alongside you means that you have a safety net should you get injured or lost.;
, Hiking is a fantastic way to work out. But before you head out on the trails, it is important that you choose a hike that fits your experience and fitness level. If you’ve never been hiking before, start small. For example, you could choose an easier, two-mile hike on a local trail. If you can’t run or walk a mile, have asthma, or suffer from joint or heart problems, you should consult your doctor before hiking., You will burn more calories and get a more comprehensive workout if you choose a trail that isn’t completely flat. Instead, aim for a trail with some gain in elevation such as hilly terrain or even a mountain. Hiking uphill is one of the best ways to turn your outdoor adventure into a regular workout., If you want to turn your hike into a workout, you should make sure you’re out hiking for at least 45-60 minutes at a time. This means you can get into a groove at a pace that will allow you to burn some calories while enjoying nature. Depending on the hike you choose and your fitness level, 45-60 minutes of hiking is equivalent to about 2 to 2.5 miles on the trail.
 A surefire way to turn your hiking workout into a search and rescue nightmare is to start out too late in the day. Once the sun goes down, it is easy to get lost. To avoid mishaps that might result in local law enforcement trying to locate you on a rocky hillside, be sure you give yourself plenty of time to complete your hike. A good rule of thumb is to estimate you will cover between one and two miles per hour., Before you decide to turn your hike into a workout, it is critical that you check the weather forecast. If it is forecasted to rain or snow, or if other potentially hazardous weather like high winds is predicted, you should reschedule your hike for another day and head to the gym instead. If you encounter bad weather on your hike, turn around immediately., You don’t need a lot of special gear to go on a hike, but it is important that you are dressed appropriately. Make sure you have comfortable hiking boots or sneakers, clothing appropriate for the weather, and a raincoat in case of inclement weather. You should also take plenty of water and make sure you are wearing sunscreen.

