;
, All tires sold in the United States and other countries have what are called "tread wear bars." These are small bridges that form between your treads. Look at the tread pattern and you'll see the beginnings of these bars start to form between the treads, or running across the tires. As the tires wear, these bars will become flush (level or even) with the tire's tread. At this point, it's time to replace the tires.
 Take a penny and place it upside down with Lincoln facing you in the center of the tread (at the thickest part of the tire).


If you can see the very top of Lincoln's head or the copper above it, replace the tires immediately.
If Lincoln's hair on the top of his head is partially visible, it is time to go shopping for tires.
If you cannot see the hair on the top of his head (if the coin is inserted enough that the tire tread is at least as deep as Lincoln's forehead), your tires do not need replacing yet.
 You can use a special tread depth indicator or gauge tool to measure your tire's tread. If you don't already own one, the gauge is cheap to purchase from an auto parts dealer and it's easy to use.


You may be able to find a downloadable tread depth gauge by searching online.
Alternatively, it might be easier to pop in to your regular tire place and ask them to check it for you; likely they'll do this for free if you're regular customer.
 Worn tires should be replaced as a matter of common sense to assure safety, but in some jurisdictions, there are also legal requirements to replace worn tires. In many US States, tires are considered to be legally worn out when they have worn down to 1/16" (1.6mm) of their remaining tread depth.In the UK, the minimum depth of the tread on tires (tyres) is 1.6 millimeters across the central ¾ of the tread around the whole tire (tyre)., This could indicate a wheel misalignment, the need for a tire rotation, or both. Uneven tread wear is a sign that you need to take your car in for servicing.


If uneven tire wear is extreme or if tires wear out much faster than expected, have a competent tire workshop check your suspension and correct it as necessary before replacing tires. Improper alignment or worn suspension parts can dramatically shorten a tire's life.
It is a good idea to rotate your tires from front to rear in pairs. Take both front tires and move them to the rear and vice versa.
 A sidewall bulge indicates that the rigid internal frame of the tire has been damaged and cracked, allowing air pressure to reach the flexible outer layers of the tire. Such damage could be caused by driving through a large pothole or over a curb, or by driving with low tire pressure. Continuing to drive on a tire that has a sidewall bulge is dangerous. The structural integrity of the tire has been significantly reduced, greatly increasing the likelihood of a sudden failure or blowout at highway speeds, which could cause a serious accident. Any tires with sidewall bulges should be replaced immediately, regardless of the tread status.
 If you're not sure, the minimum replacement time that is recommended by the NHTSA is six years regardless of use, with 10 years being the maximum service life for tires. Check your owner's manual for specific recommendations related to your car. And always err on the side of caution if you suspect your vehicle has tires that are over six years of age.
 If your tires are worn unevenly, you may feel a vibration in the steering wheel when you are driving. Your tires probably need to be rebalanced. If that doesn't stop the vibration, more than likely the tire is damaged.


Vibrations may also be caused by tires that are "cupped," meaning they have a cupped or scalloped appearance around the tire. This occurs when tires haven't been rotated regularly.
 If you see little cracks all over your tires, it means that the rubber is breaking down. Tires with dry rot can fall apart, separating from the steel belt causing damage to the exterior of the car.

