 Your sentence will need a citation if you paraphrase or quote parts of the Constitution. You can use information from the Constitution to back up an argument, such as arguing for a certain freedom in an opinion paper.For example, you might write the following: "In the United States, citizens are guaranteed the right to freedom of religion."
You may also write the following example that quotes the Constitution: The U.S. Constitution notes that "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.";
, An in-text citation generally goes at the end of a sentence, though in some cases it follows an author's name or article in APA. Nonetheless, for the Constitution, it will often go at the end of the sentence.Start with the open parenthesis, followed by "U.S. Const." and the amendment or article number. For an amendment, use "amend." and for an article, use "art." and "ยง" for the section. Follow with a close parenthesis. The citation goes before the period but after any quotation marks.
Use Roman numerals for amendments and articles, and Arabic numerals for sections and clauses.
The first example would look this way: In the United States, citizens are guaranteed the right to freedom of religion (U.S. Const. amend. I).
In the second example, you could add the citation after the mention of the Constitution: The U.S. Constitution (amend. I) notes that "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof."

, While you've noted where it came from in your paper, you also need to add it to your citations at the end of your paper. The basic format for citing the Constitution is the same for both in-text citations and end references.An end citation would look like the following example: U.S. Const. amend. I.
 If an amendment or clause is currently in use, you don't need to add a date. However, if you're referring to an out-of-date part of the Constitution, you should add a date stating when it was repealed.The date will go after the citation: Prohibition was the law of the land in the 1920s and early 1930s (U.S. Const. amend. XVIII, repealed 1933).
The end citation would look like this example: U.S. Const. amend. XVIII (repealed 1933).

