 As convenient as e-mail and text messaging is, hand-written love letters are far more sentimental. Letters are often more romantic and thoughtful. If you feel awkward saying these words out loud, your girlfriend will appreciate hearing them on paper.


If you wear a certain type of cologne, add a spritz to the paper before you mail the letter.
Try placing the letter in her lunch bag or slipping it into her locker.;
, Plan out an entire day meant to comfort and pamper her. Prepare her meals, do her chores, and offer to give her a massage. You can schedule this day on a weekend, or you can make it a weekday.


This type of surprise works best if you and your girlfriend live together, but there are still ways to pamper her if you do not live together. For example, you could offer to buy her a cup of tea (if she likes tea) after school or give her a shoulder rub after her workout.
 Boxes of chocolates, toy animals, jewelry, roses, or a bouquet of her favorite flowers are classic romantic gifts. However, don’t buy something at random – pick something she will like.


For example, if her favorite flowers are yellow roses, then give her yellow roses. If she is a big fan of peanut butter cups, then surprise her with a package of peanut butter cups. If she really likes giraffes, then give her a stuffed giraffe.
 Get her a book by her favorite author, her favorite band’s latest album, or tickets to a play she is dying to see. These gifts show your girlfriend that you understand her well enough to know what she likes. They also show that you put more thought into your gift than settling on a typical romantic token.
 This is an especially nice gift if your girlfriend has a commute that lets her listen to music or if she likes to listen to music while she is exercising. Burn a CD with songs that mean something to your relationship or songs that remind you of her. A third option is simply picking songs that you know she enjoys.


If you think she might like an extra personal touch, then you can even include a personal message to her at the beginning of the CD.
 Do something she enjoys, even if it is not something that you like to do. For example, you could take your girlfriend out for a full day of shopping. If shopping is not something she enjoys, take her to a play or concert she would love, or try a museum, zoo, or botanical garden. Try to make whatever you do something that often comes up for discussion, but you never follow through with.


For example, if you have been meaning to see a new movie, check both of your schedules to find day that would work for both of you. Tell her you have cleared your schedule, and want to see the exhibit if she has time that day. If you were correct about her availability, she should be excited that you made enough time for the outing., An album filled to the brim with memories of you and her together is sure to surprise your girlfriend. The simplest route is to give her a simple photo album filled with pictures that span the length of your relationship. For something a little more in depth, you can make a memory album that includes both photographs and notes about your thoughts and feelings toward her.


You can make this more of a scrapbooking exercise by adding, for example, ticket stubs and food labels that have sentimental meaning.
 Even small gestures will show your girlfriend that you care about her. Watch for little opportunities throughout the day to surprise your girlfriend. For example, you could:Charge her cell phone when she is not looking. If your girlfriend sometimes forgets to charge her phone, then charging it for her can be a nice surprise. Just plug it in before you leave her house or before you start watching a movie.

Give her a compliment. Compliments are always a welcome surprise. Try to give your girlfriend complements when she least expects them. For example, you could tell her she looks beautiful first thing in the morning or tell her she is brilliant after she describes the book she just finished reading.

Leave her a note in an unexpected place. Something as simple as “You’re the best!” or “Have a great day!” will put a smile on her face. Try putting the note in her planner or somewhere else that she is sure to find it.
 Don't throw a surprise party unless you're sure your girlfriend will enjoy it. This can be a great way to surprise her on her birthday or graduation day, but only if she enjoys being the center of attention. If she can be shy, anxious, or introverted, choose a more intimate way to show affection.


Remember to invite her friends and family, not just your own.
 If there has always been somewhere you have wanted to visit, within reason, do some research. Get some brochures and figure out the costs of the trip. Find a way you can afford it and show your girlfriend that you think you can finally go on that dream vacation. Make sure it is a place both of you want to go, not just yourself.