 Before you leave the hospital, ask your nurses and doctor to go over post-operative instructions with you. Ask them about how to to take your medications and how mobile you should be when you return home.Ask, “Will I be taking any anticoagulants, or blood thinners? What time of the day should I take them, and should I take them with or without food? What are some mobility exercises I can do that won’t cause pain, damage my stitches, or otherwise compromise my surgical site?”

, Walk around your house, stretch your legs, and do any exercises as you’ve been instructed. If you’re confined to a wheelchair or otherwise unable to move around on your own, ask your caregiver or a friend or relative to help you stay mobile.If you have a home health worker or other physical therapist, they will guide you with mobility exercises and any manual manipulations you’ll need.
If you have a friend or relative with you at the hospital, have them talk to your care team about helping you stay mobile. Say, “Please talk to the doctors about how you can stretch my arms and legs and help me move around when I go home. Let’s have them show you how to help me without upsetting my stitches.”

, If you’re on an anticoagulant medication (especially Lovenox and Coumadin), you’ll need to ingest less vitamin K so your medicine works properly. Cut foods like spinach, kale, and other deep green leafy vegetables from your diet. In addition, ask your care team about and other applicable dietary changes you should make., The risk of developing a blood clot remains for 90 days following hospitalization. Continue to be aware of the signs of symptoms of a blood clot throughout this duration.In addition, continue to self-monitor for any complications related to your specific procedure, including an infected or compromised surgical site. Go over your specific risks with your doctor prior to leaving the hospital.
If you’re on blood thinners, avoid any activities that could result in cuts or bruising, as your body will be less able to stop excessive bleeding.

