 You'll need:;
,

,

,,,,,,,, Go to sleep a little earlier than usual, especially if you are skating in the morning. Set your alarm clock for around an hour to an hour and a half before you'll have to leave the next day.
 Shower if you need to, and then do your regular morning routines. Have a small, healthy breakfast, and don't eat too much. Some is better than none, as you don't want to feel faint before skating. It's a good idea to have some water or juice as well. After that, you can do anything you need or want to do until around twenty or thirty minutes before you will have to go.
 Do not have anything to eat or drink unless you absolutely need to from here until when you are done skating, as you don't want to ruin the dress. You should also do your hair (wear it up; never leave your hair down, unless it's very short, at skating competitions) and make-up now. It's a good idea to still bring along all of your hair items and make-up along, as you will probably want to touch up there.
 Once you are at the rink, register, get your gift bag if they are giving them out, and relax until you have practice ice or your group warm-up. You can talk to other skaters or coaches, watch other programs, explore the rink, or look through the racks of skating items that vendors are usually selling.
 Don't spend time talking to fellow skaters, or working on moves that aren't in your program, especially riskier ones. Run through your program as much as you can. Remember to look up and smile, and time yourself using the stopwatch if you will be having a time limit.
 Use the restroom, spray on some more hairspray, touch up your make-up, brush your teeth... whatever you need! This is a good time to start stretching.
 Hold your stuffed animal or favorite item if you brought one, visualize yourself winning, practice your program on the ground, talk to your coach, jump around to get your jitters out; whatever makes you feel good is fine. Remember to take off your warm-up jacket and gloves and take deep breaths. Believe that you're going to win; a positive attitude helps!

, Look up and smile like you practiced, and don't feel rushed. Do all your elements as best as you can, and be proud of yourself, no matter what place you take.
, But if you had placings on the program, get ready for your exhibition program later in the day or even after the awards ceremony, which mean you have to get changed all over again.