 Most grasses are either cool season grasses or warm season grasses. It's important to find out which kind of grass grows best where you live to ensure a healthy lawn all year round.


Cool season grasses prefer areas with cool summers, and grow best in spring and fall when temperatures are between 60 and 75ºF (16–24ºC). They often turn brown and dormant in summer, but if properly watered will return again and may retain some color even in winter.Cool season grasses include the following:

Kentucky bluegrass, is a fine, dark green grass that grows well in shade.
Tall fescue, a low maintenance grass,is coarse.
Perennial ryegrass grows well in full sun. It is medium-textured.


Warm season grasses thrive in warm climates, from the southern U.S. down to tropical zones. Planted in spring, they will wait until summer temperatures of 80 to 90ºF (27–32ºC) to really take off, then go dormant as the weather cools.Warm season grasses include the following:

Bermuda grass likes full sun, not shade. It is fine-textured.
Zoysia grass is a medium-textured grass that is hardier than most warm-season grasses during winter.
St. Augustine grass is a coarse grass that cannot survive cold winters.

;
, The conditions in your yard will affect the health of your grass as much as the climate in your region. Hundreds of seed varieties have been developed to grow in specific environments. Consider the following variables when choosing a type of grass:


Does your yard have good drainage? Or does it dry too quickly? Some seeds are engineered to survive waterlogged soil. Others are drought-resistant.
Does your yard have abundant shade or full sun?
How much foot traffic does your lawn get? Some grasses hold up well to high foot traffic, while others have trouble recovering if trampled.
Is your grass for decorative purposes, or do you want to walk on it with bare feet? Some grasses are beautiful but coarse. Others are soft, perfect for lounging outside.
How often do you want to mow your lawn? Some grasses grow quickly, and need to be mowed every week while others can be left alone longer.
 Buy from a reputable source.


Calculate how much grass seed you will need. Each kind of seed provides a different amount of coverage. After you calculate the square footage of the area where you're planting grass, talk to the salesperson at the home / garden lawn care store. Ask how much seed you will need to buy.
Some seed sellers provide online grass seed calculators.

