 Weigh factors like the driver's knowledge of the area, the speed of his service, his extra effort, and his general demeanor. These indices are absolutely subjective – so follow your gut and adjust your tips on a case-by-case basis. Follow these general guidelines for tipping based on quality:


Tip 5-10% (or not at all) if the service was particularly poor. Perhaps the driver took the longest route to get you to your destination; perhaps he was rude to you, or made you feel uncomfortable.
Tip 15% for a solid, middle-of-the-road cab ride. The driver brought you to your destination in a reasonable amount of time and made you feel comfortable, but didn't do anything exceptional. 15% is acceptable in most cases.
Tip 20% or higher if this was one of the better cab rides you've ever had. Maybe you had a great conversation with the cabbie, and s/he gave you some interesting ideas for exploring the area; maybe s/he took a lesser-known back-road that got you to the airport much faster than if you'd sat through traffic; maybe s/he helped you haul your bags to the doorstep.
 A driver should take the most efficient route to get you to your destination on time. If the ride took longer than expected, but there was a lot of traffic, it probably wasn't the driver's fault. However, keep an eye out for drivers who intentionally drive slowly or take detours to hike up the fare.
 If the cab driver doesn't offer to help out with your luggage, don't feel obliged to tip any more than normal. If s/he goes above and beyond to get you to your destination, or if s/he gives you useful insider tips about local attractions, s/he may have earned a higher tip than the average cabbie.
 Consider how friendly and helpful the driver was. If s/he was nice and provided helpful information, s/he's earned a higher tip. If the driver was rude to you, or if the driver brusquely demanded a tip, s/he may have earned a lower tip &ndash or no tip at all., The cab driver should not need to ask for directions, and s/he should know which routes to take to make the ride as quick as possible. The driver should be aware of alternate routes in case of accidents and traffic jams. If you are a tourist, your driver should be able to suggest attractions and activities for you to check out while you're in town.

