 During a hurricane, it's important to remain under cover. Once there has been a hurricane warning issued in your area, or you suspect that a hurricane is building, you should bring your pets inside your home. Giving them shelter alongside your other family members is key to taking care of them during a hurricane.If your pet is hesitant to come indoors, pick them up if you can or put a leash on them and pull them inside. It is better to use a little bit of force with your pet than to leave them outside during a dangerous hurricane.
Don't let your pets leave your shelter. Keep doors and windows closed, and restrain your pets if necessary.;
, If you are not home during a hurricane you may need to find it shelter somewhere other than home. Find someone nearby, such as a neighbor, who is willing to take in your pet if you are away from home.If you live in a hurricane-prone area, it is a good idea to plan ahead with a neighbor who would be willing to take your pet in an emergency situation. Make sure this person has your phone number, instructions for your pet's care, and a signed authorization from you that they can seek veterinary care for your pet.
 Not all pets can fit in your home during a hurricane. If you have nowhere to shelter a large animal, such as a horse, at home, you will need to find it shelter elsewhere. Contact neighbors or family members to see if they have room to shelter your horse, or other large animal.

If moving your animal to a safer location is not possible, you will need to decide between moving large animals to whatever shelter you have or turning them outside., While you are in a sheltered area with your pet, it's a good idea to keep a hold on them. Letting your pet run free will increase the risk of it getting loose or that you won't be able to grab it if you need to evacuate quickly.

If your pet is used to being on a leash, such as most dogs are, then that may be your best option. This will allow you to bring your pet along with you without having to carry it. However, if your pet has never been on a leash, such as is the case with most cats, then a carrier is probably your best option.
Even after a disaster you may want to keep your pet on a leash for a few days. Your pet may not recognize its normal areas and could run off due to confusion., It is important to try and keep your pet comfortable and calm while you are taking shelter. Try petting it, talking to it, and giving it items that it is used to, such as a blanket or bed that it typically uses.

Your reassurances can go a long way towards lowering your pet's stress in this type of situation.

