 Use a cleanser for dogs, a saline solution, or a simple mix of water and shampoo. The only requirement is that it should be mild and ideally fragrance-free so that it won’t dry out or irritate your bulldog’s skin.If your bulldog is not that dirty or prone to infections, you can simply use water.
If you’re mixing your own solution, combine one part water with one part shampoo. Mild, hypoallergenic shampoos work best.;
, This applicator can be anything from a clean cloth or rag to a makeup pad to a cotton ball. You just need something clean and absorptive that will hold your cleaning solution.For a convenient tool that mixes the solution with the cloth, use baby wipes with aloe.
 You will need a thin towel or cloth to dry out your dog’s folds after you wash them. It should be as clean as possible since you don’t want to rub any dirt or bacteria back into your bulldog’s wrinkles after cleaning them.
 If your bulldog’s folds are prone to dryness, you will want to keep a moisturizer on hand to use at the end of their cleaning. Likewise, if your bulldog’s wrinkles tend to hold in moisture, you’ll want a common astringent, such as baby powder or cornstarch to help them stay dry.In terms of moisturizers, a simple tub of Vaseline, bottle of aloe, or a mild ointment for dog’s skin will do.
 The process will go much faster if you have a still and obedient pet. Be sure they’re settled down and sitting before you attempt to clean them.


Your bulldog is more likely to accept this process and behave while you’re performing it if you start doing it while they’re still a puppy. Once it’s a familiar part of their routine, it won’t seem like a distressing experience.
 You want your cleaning cloth to be damp, not wet, so only add a small amount of solution to it.
 Glide your cleaning tool through and around the crevices of your bulldog’s face and neck. Gently hold open the creases that are difficult to reach with your fingers so that you can clean inside them. Be sure to avoid their eyes to prevent irritation.Don’t scrub or apply much pressure since that can damage your bulldog’s skin or encourage infections by rubbing debris into it.
If your dog also has folds around their tail, you should clean those, too.
 The deep fold that surrounds your bulldog’s nose is the most likely place for them to collect dirt, debris, and microbes. Pay special attention to this pronounced groove when cleaning their face., You don’t want any moisture or soap residue tucked away in your dog’s facial folds since that can lead to discomfort and bacterial infections. Use a clean towel or cloth to wipe away any lingering moisture from your bulldog’s wrinkles.Alternately, you can use a blow dryer on a cool setting to dry out their folds. Hold the folds open, and gently apply the flow of air up and down them until they’re dry.
If your dog’s folds are prone to moisture, you might also consider applying some baby powder or cornstarch to them after washing and drying to ensure that they stay dry.
 If your bulldog’s folds look dry, red, or flaky from frequent washing, try adding a bit of moisturizer to them after drying to help maintain their skin’s balance.You can rub a bit of Vaseline, mild ointment, or aloe in the folds to protect and refresh their skin. Only use a slight amount since you don’t want them to be moist.
 Lavish your pet with a treat and affectionate praise for sitting through their cleaning. Doing so will give them positive associations with getting their face cleaned, which will make it a more pleasant experience for both of you in the future.
 The frequency of cleaning will depend on your pet and the condition of their skin, but it’s best to do it more than once a week.Keep in mind that dogs who are prone to infection or have immune systems compromised by sickness or old age may require more frequent cleanings.
If your dog tends to be sloppy with their food and/or water, you might also want to clean them on a daily rather than weekly basis.
 Obese and overweight dogs have a higher risk of skin infections because their folds are deeper. Monitor your dog’s weight, and consult with your vet about necessary dietary changes if you see any significant increases.Your pet's ideal weight will vary according to its age and sex, but the average adult bulldog should weigh between 22-25 kilograms. Consult with your vet about the ideal weight for your particular pet., When you’re cleaning your bulldog’s folds, be sure to inspect them for signs of infection like rashes, redness, swelling, inflammation, discharge, and/or unpleasant smells., If you notice any symptoms of infection in your bulldog’s wrinkles, make an appointment with your vet. They can prescribe any necessary treatments, such as anti-fungal or antibacterial creams, and advise you about how often you should be cleaning the infected areas., If your bulldog has infected folds, you will need to clean them twice a day rather than twice a week. Swap your cleaning solution for a mild cleanser that contains benzoyl peroxide. Dry their folds completely, and then apply any ointments or other topical treatments, such as diaper rash cream, that your vet recommended.You may also want to clip the fur around your dog’s infected folds so that the skin is easier to access and can stay cleaner.
Be sure to consult with your vet about this routine first to see if it will be effective at treating your dog’s infection.

