 Real food is produced from real seeds, not GMO – genetically modified; Real food has no poisons, it is organic, with no preservatives, no coloring, nor additives. Real food is seasonal and it is local. Real food does not travel 1,000s of miles to reach you; Real food is not processed, frozen, or pre-packaged.;
, Replace your white processed ingredients with brown whole-meal unprocessed foods. Use fruits instead of sugars, water instead of juices, sea salt instead of table salt, home-made ingredients instead of pre-cooked, pre-packed, tinned or frozen ingredients.
 Japanese macrobiotics emphasizes the principle of balance between YIN and YANG. Foods that have yin and yang in balance should be used regularly. Whole grains and whole-grain products such as: brown rice, barley, millet, oats, quinoa, spelt, rye, a variety of cooked and raw vegetables, beans, mild natural seasonings, nuts and seeds are recommended. Foods that are too Yin or too Yang should be avoided. Yin Food Items that should be avoided are: Sugar, Alcohol, Coffee, White flour products, Very hot spices, Drugs, Any additives and preservatives, Milk Products. Foods that are too YANG should also be avoided, they are too heavy, and create stagnation. These are: meat, eggs, refined salt.
 Add nuts and seeds to your vegetarian meals. Most plant foods are not complete proteins, they only have some of the amino acids. Consuming various sources of amino acids throughout your meals provide you with all the protein you need. Soy and quinoa are complete vegetable proteins. Some good sources of protein are: beans, peas and lentils, pumpkin seeds, nuts and other various seeds. A great source of proteins are whole grains.


Sesame seeds beneficial effects are great. It is one of the cholesterol lowering foods. They are naturally rich source of fiber, minerals and healthy fats. Sesame seeds contain minerals important in anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant processes within our cells.
Flaxseeds or linseed. Great seeds to add to your miracle seeds mixture. They help the body detox. Ground flaxseeds (linseed) are a wonderful source of fibre and a great source of omega 3 oils. Some researches suggest that flax fiber suppresses appetite helping weight loss. Some other researches link linseeds as a healthy medication to fight heart disease, diabetes to breast cancer.
 We all have different ability to absorb nutrition. To help our digestion, we should regularly absorb good bacteria (probiotics) – natural yogurt, and we should soak, and sprout our food (especially our seeds and our grains). Leave your seeds soaking over-night and use them in cooking the day after.
 When you eat raw, all foods are alive. Heating food over 42 C destroys much of the nutrients within your food. A diet that regularly includes uncooked, unprocessed plant foods enhances your body's ability to prevent diseases, especially chronic ones. Have in mind that raw and living foods contain essential food enzymes. Include a fresh salad in all of your vegetarian meals.
 Create your-own herbs and spices health miracle mix. Use: cinnamon, turmeric, nutmeg for sweet tasting vegetarian meals, and rosemary, basil, oregano, paprika, ginger for savory vegetarian meals.


Basil has anti-bacterial properties, and it’s full of antioxidants. It is great for digestion and detox.
Cinnamon is one of the highest antioxidant and together with honey it acts as an antibiotic. It is researched that this miracle spice helps the growth of bacteria as well as fungi.
Ginger is used in China as one of the best disease fighting miracle foods. It is recommended when you have a cold, it boost the immune system and cleanses the metabolism. You can either chew on ginger root, or make a delicious ginger, lemon and honey tea.
Parsley is said to protect your kidneys and bladder. It is also used to relieve bloating during menstruation.
Seaweed is used at all times in Asia. Seaweed binds to heavy metals within our body and helps body cleanse from them. It is an antioxidant, full of proteins, a wonderful add-on to your meals.
Tumeric is used in Ayurvedic medicine to treat liver and digestive disorders. It is an antioxidant that is wonderful to use at all times.

