 Emo and scene are quite different in terms of dress - emo clothes tend to be dark colors, such as black or red, and tight-fitting.Scene clothing consists of bright colored t-shirts, tight neon-colored jeans and bold accessories. Emo clothing tends to be minimal in prints, and if the shirt does have a print, it’s usually a band's logo or album. Scene clothing is extremely flashy and usually features bold prints.Decide which type of clothing you want to wear, and try mixing and matching the different styles.
Wear a top that’s emo with bottoms that are scene and vice versa.;
, Emos’ wardrobes are almost exclusively limited to black and dark colors. In general, they aren’t trying to stand out. For scene kids, the opposite is true – they like to wear head-to-toe neon and tons of accessories. The goal is to be noticed. If you mix up your color combinations, you can fit into both crowds.Scene kids love bright, flashy colors – you can wear neon shirts, shoes and accessories with a pair of black drainpipes and fit into both groups comfortably.
Consider doing the opposite, as well – getting a few pairs of neon drainpipes to wear with black shirts, shoes and accessories.
 Both scenes wear a lot of zip-hoodies. Emos consider dark colored zip-hoodies to be a crucial clothing item. Often these garments are plain, but occasionally they will feature graphic icons that are characteristic of emo fashion – bleeding hearts, skulls, ribs, stars and broken hearts.Naturally, the scene kids gravitate toward eye-catching neon versions of the zip-hoodie that feature loud graphics and bright prints that repeat, such as stripes or checkers.


Have a few in each style and alternate them.Look for versions that straddle both tastes. You could also get neon zip-hoodies and screen-print them yourself with emo icons like skulls and stars.
 Hairstyles from both cultures are very similar, with the major differences being in the colors. The common hairstyle features a long fringe (bangs) brushed over to one side of the head, covering one or both eyes.Emos usually have their hair dyed jet black and style their hair to be straight and smooth. Occasionally a few bleached blonde stripes are dyed in. Scene hairstyles are very similar, except they dye theirs in all colors of the rainbow and backcomb it to look much bigger and fluffier.Consider merging the concepts – style your hair in an exaggerated scene way, but dye it all black.
Conversely, you could style your hair to be emo-smooth and straight, but dye it bright colors.
You could also keep your emo cut and dark color, but dye in a streak or two of bright color. You could make the streaks wider than what's usual for the emo look, so that the style definitely has both an emo and scene vibe.
If you need to get the basic haircut, ask your stylist for choppy layers and side bangs. Bring in a picture so that what you want is very clear.

