 Decide whether you want to plant your vegetable garden directly in the ground or build a planter box to raise your vegetables a few feet above the ground. Alternately, you may want to plant different vegetable varieties each in their own pot. Your decision should depend on the quality of your soil and the tendency of your planting area to flood. If you have poor soil quality and poor drainage, you probably want to build a raised vegetable garden bed.


Think about how big you want your planting bed to be. Depending on the type of vegetables you plant, you'll need to make sure that the box is wide and deep enough. Conduct a bit of research on the types of vegetables you are planting to see how much space they need to grow. Broccoli, for example, utilizes a wide area to grow, while carrots simply need space to grow down.
To build a raised planting bed, you can use lumber, plastic, synthetic wood, bricks, or rocks. However, cedar planks are generally recommended because they do not rot when exposed to water. Keep in mind that your vegetable plants will have to be watered regularly, and some weak woods like simple plywood may not last very long when constantly drenched.






Round the top of your planting bed to achieve the maximum surface area for planting. This means that the tops are rounded to form an arc rather than a flat surface.Lay a barrier between the bed and the ground in order to prevent weeds from growing. You can use gardening plastic, a mat of some sort, or several layers of newspaper and/or cardboard to reduce the chance that weeds will grow.
 Most vegetables require a rich, fertile, fluffy soil to grow well. Use a quality garden hoe and/or a shovel to intensely break up the soil and prepare it for planting. You can avoid this labor altogether if you choose to build a raised vegetable garden box and fill it with pre-mixed, store-bought soil.


Make sure your planting area is free of any rocks or clumps of thick soil to allow the roots to expand and your seedlings to grow into healthy, productive plants.
Be sure to remove any weeds or unwanted voluntary plants from your growing space. These will just compete with your plants for space and can potentially bring in harmful pests.
 Soil pH is based on a scale of 1 to 14, with a pH of 7.0 being neutral, any values below 7.0 being acidic, and any values above 7.0 being alkaline. Most vegetables like a slightly acidic soil between 6.0 and 6.5. Soil that is too acidic will damage plant roots and cause your vegetables to under produce. Test your soil's pH by visiting your county's agricultural extension office and obtaining the necessary testing supplies and instructions. You can also pay to have your soil tested.


The pH of the soil tells you if the soil needs limestone added in order to bring it to the desired pH value. Limestone is cheap and effective when it comes to improving soil.
Evaluate the soil's calcium and magnesium levels in order to determine what type of limestone to add to your soil. If the soil is low in magnesium, add dolomitic limestone. If it is high in magnesium, add calcitic limestone.
Add the limestone two to three months before planting to allow the soil to absorb it. After adding, check the pH again. You will probably need to add limestone to the soil every year or two to maintain a proper pH level., Most vegetables like soil that is rich in organic matter. You can increase the fertility of your soil by adding peat moss, mature compost, blood meal, fish emulsion, etc. The most common fertilizers recommended for vegetable gardens specifically are nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.


Use soil test results to let you know what you need to add. Do-it-yourself soil tests are readily available from most home improvement and garden stores.
Try one of these common fertilizer compositions in your vegetable garden: one pound of a 10-10-10 fertilizer or two pounds of a 5-10-5 fertilizer per 100 feet (30.5 m) of garden. The first number refers to the percentage by weight of nitrogen, the second number explains the percentage by weight of phosphorus, and the third number denotes the percentage by weight of potassium.
Alternatively, you can use a longer lasting, more sustainable fertilizer such as manure compost or aged animal manure. Add it to your garden before tilling and it can feed your plant for months.
Too much nitrogen can damage the plants, however, causing a reduction in production yield. Alternately, too much phosphorus can increase the chances of chlorosis.
You can also add iron, copper, manganese, and zinc in small amounts to nourish the soil., Most vegetables do not fare very well in times of drought. Make sure to water the soil before planting your vegetables seeds or seedlings and keep the bed moist throughout the growing process.

