 Submitting a casting reel can boost your chances at getting on the show. While this is typically done if you can’t attend an open casting call, you also submit a video in addition to attending a casting call if you’re really determined.Your reel shouldn’t be extremely long, but long enough to showcase your “bad girl” attitude.


Introduce yourself and explain why you’d be an excellent cast member. Don’t tell them why you think you’re a bad girl, tell them why you ARE a bad girl.
You can film a video just speaking to the camera, or you can enlist a friend or family member to film a more active video, following you around.
 Even though Bad Girls Club is reality TV, at the end of the day, it is still a story. Embrace the character you think you’d play on the show. If you’re an aggressive woman dealing with anger issues, highlight that. If you’re a sweetheart with a wild side, show that off. Additionally, highlight the interesting things in your past that have made you a bad girl today. Make sure that your online form, your presence at the casting calls, and your optional filmed reel all create a cohesive image of who you are.


Personal tragedy might not be fun to talk about, but it can make you a fascinating and relatable television personality. Open up about any heartbreak in your life.
Reveal anything about yourself that you think no one else can say. Casting directors will get thousands of videos, so make sure yours stands out.
 Don’t hurt your chances by second-guessing, doubting, or censoring yourself. Give yourself a pep talk before you begin your auditioning process, and remind yourself that you’re an interesting, strong, entertaining person. If you aren’t confident in who you are, and if you can’t hold your own in a room filled with outspoken women, you’ll probably be overlooked by the Bad Girls Club casting directors.


Fake it ‘til you make it. Even if you feel shy and unsure of yourself, mimic someone you know who is uninhibited, candid, and strong-willed. Soon, these traits can rub off on you and it won’t be “fake” anymore.

