 Instructions for making a simple border are in each of the methods above, but this section addresses a few more interesting ways add the finishing touch to your blanket.
 Fringe is one of the easiest ways to decorate a blanket. Here are instructions for simple fringe.


Decide how long you want your fringe, then find a piece of cardboard or something else (a CD case, a book) that is the same size. (E.g., if you want a 3" fringe, find something that is 3" wide.)
Wrap your yarn several times around the cardboard.
With a pair of scissors, cut the yarn in half. You now have several pieces of yarn that are double the desired length of your fringe.
Take a crochet hook and insert it into the top of a stitch at the end of your finished blanket.
Take two pieces of fringe yarn, hold them together and fold them in half so there is a loop at the top.
Insert the crochet hook through the yarn loop and pull the loop through the fabric of your blanket.
Remove the hook and pass the ends of the yarn through the loop to make a knot. Tighten gently.
Skip two stitches and add another fringe. Continue to the end of your blanket, then add fringe to the other end.
 A simple single crochet border is more interesting with two colors. Here's how to do it. Follow the instructions above to make a simple single crochet border all around your blanket. In the last stitch, you will switch colors.


To switch colors, work the last single crochet with Color A until you have two loops remaining on the hook.
Drop Color A, and pick up Color B.
Yarn over with Color B, and pull the hook through the remaining two loops to finish the stitch.
Leaving a long tail, clip Color A.
Continue sc around the blanket with Color B until you reach the end of the round. Slip stitch into the first stitch, end off and weave in all ends.
 A shell border is a classic and fun way to finish a baby blanket. To make a shell border, follow these directions.


Single crochet all around the edges of your blanket, making 3 sc in the corners.
Slip stitch into the first stitch.
Skip a stitch, then make 5 dc in the next stitch, then slip stitch into the next stitch. Follow this pattern to the end of the row.
When you get to the corner, ch 1, make a slip stitch in the first stitch on the other side, and continue the pattern.
Continue around the blanket until you reach your starting point. Slip stitch into your first stitch, end off, and weave in the ends.

