 These instructions are designed for worsted-weight yarn, often labeled "4" in the United States. You may use a different yarn weight, but the flower may end up with an unusual shape.









If you're a newbie, pick a light color. This makes it easier to see how the stitches line up and what you need to fix.;
, A size H hook is a good choice for this weight of yarn. If you have some crocheting experience, you may adjust the size of the hook to match your personal crocheting style.
 This is the first step to all projects.









This is abbreviated as "ch" in most pamphlets.
If you don't know how to crochet or how to hold a hook, practice before making this flower.
 This stitch is used in every project as it can join work, finish rows by binding off, reinforce edges, or even move yarn over to a different position without interrupting the pattern.









"Sl st" is the abbreviation for "slip stitch."
In this project, the slip stitch creates the initial ring of the flower.
 This counts as your first double crochet. It'll be the base to your petals.
 You should see the next ring start to form.









"Double crochet" is abbreviated to "dc."

, The first part is done. Wahoo!









That slip stitch joins the second circle into a ring. That's the center of your flower!

, You're onto the petals!








, The abbreviation you'll find on patterns or crocheting websites is "hdc."








, The petal is starting to come to life!









"Dc" and "tc," respectively.
You may find that you want to vary the triple or double crochets, depending on the weight of your yarn and the size of your crochet hook. Three can be a bit wide for a smaller yarn.
 At this point, if you want a more elongated, sharper petal, add an ordinary chain ("ch"). If you prefer a rounder petal, skip this step.

Remember the choice you made. Use the same method for every petal, or your flower will look lopsided.
 This will round out the shape of your petal.
 Do you see the distinct shape of the petal?








, Return to the first step labeled "make a slip stitch" and run through the same steps to make each additional petal. Start in the next stitch every time you finish a slip stitch, until you have 5 petals.
 Voila! That's the last petal!









If you want a smaller flower, next time choose a smaller hook and a finer yarn. It's a little more difficult to work with and requires a bit more expertise.
 Run the yarn tail through a few stitches on the backside of the flower with your crochet hook and trim.








