 The selection criteria outline the qualifications, skills, abilities, and experience needed to successfully do the position. Once you understand the job description, you can begin to develop the criteria.The criteria will also help you evaluate potential job candidates. As you think about the position, ask yourself some questions:


What types of experiences would prepare someone to do this job?
What type of education would prepare someone for this job?
What skills are necessary to complete the job?
Are there any policies or regulations someone needs to know to do this job?
For example, if you are filling a managerial position, your selection criteria may include phrases like "demonstrated ability to manage financial resources and develop budgets," or "proven ability to manage a team.";
, Essential criteria are absolutely necessary to fulfill the position. The desired criteria are qualities and skills that would make a person more successful. The essential criteria should help applicants decide if they are well suited for the position. The desired criteria can help you identify the top candidates for the job.List the essential and most important criteria first.
 Key expressions are usually used to write selection criteria. These expressions will let candidates know what you are looking for and what level of experience is needed to fulfill the criteria. "Background in" refers to education. "Experience in" and "proven record in" means you want a candidate with actual experience that can be proven and with verified outcomes. If you are referencing a transferable skill or potential to do something, you would use phrases like "aptitude for" or "capacity to.""Knowledge of," "awareness of," and "understanding of," indicate that you expect familiarity and/or comprehension.
 A large number of selection criteria may deter people from applying to the position. Try to limit yourself 10 criteria or less.Also avoid using jargon and acronyms as some applicants may not be familiar with them. Write using plain, simple, and concise language.


Include only one skill or qualification in each criterion.
Using jargon can also create a bias towards internal candidates that are familiar with your company and industry.
Don't use gender specific language in your criteria.
 Because you are using the criteria to choose the best applicant, it is important that the criteria can be measured. This will help you compare applicants to others. Avoid including personal qualities in the criteria. Criteria such as "hard-working" and "reliable" are difficult to quantify. Stick with specific behaviors and more outcome based criteria.Using key expressions will help you avoid including personal qualities.
 Before you begin addressing the selection criteria, you should have a thorough understanding of the position you are applying for. As you go through the description, make sure that your background and interests are aligned with the description. If you have any questions about the job, contact the name listed on the job application or the human resources department to get more information.As you read, think about how your skills and experience make you a good fit for the position. If you are unable to think of specific examples, you may want to consider applying for a different position.You should also research the employer that you are submitting your application to. Your responses will be better if you have a thorough understanding of the culture, needs, and expectations of the company.
 Common phrases are used in selection criteria. These phrases will give you an idea of what the employer is looking for. It is helpful to highlight the key words in the selection criteria before you develop your answers. Some of the phrases to look for include: "background in," "experience in; proven record in," "knowledge of; understanding of; awareness of," "ability to; capacity to," "must have.""Background in" usually refers to your education and training.
"Experience in" refers to having practical experience in the area.
"Proven record" means you should be able to confirm and/or demonstrate the skill or experience.
"Knowledge, understanding, and awareness" are usually in reference to regulations, policies, and procedures."Ability and capacity" refers to how suitable you are to perform a task or being able and qualified to perform a task.
 The selection criteria will be listed as either "essential" or "desired." You must meet all of the essential criteria to make the interview list. You do not have to have the desired criteria to make the interview list. However, having these criteria will make you a stronger candidate.If you do not meet all of the essential criteria, you should not apply for the position.
 The job description usually provides directions for responding to the selection criteria. If you are unsure, ask the employer for more information about how to respond to selection criteria. Inquire about the preferred format and required length before composing your response and writing your selection criteria.Some employers have a specific format that you must follow.Always check before getting started.
A separate document is usually used to submit your responses to the selection criteria. If a separate document is not required, you can format your cover letter and resume to address the selection criteria., Your responses should do more than restate what is in your resume. Instead, they should build on the information presented in your resume. You want to give the employers a clearer picture of your skills and experience.Think of your responses as an opportunity to include all of the information that you were not able to put into your resume and cover letter.


Never refer the reader to information in your resume as part of your response (e.g. see resume).
 Each criterion should be addressed individually. You can use the exact wording of the selection criteria as the heading.Under each heading, write one to two paragraphs explaining how you demonstrate the skill. Your writing should be clear, concise, and specific to the criterion.Try to keep your responses between 60 and 120 words.It may be helpful to brainstorm your response and write down 2 to 3 sentences about how you meet the criterion.
Bullet points can also be used to differentiate between examples. If you gained the skill in two separate jobs, you may devote one bullet point to each job.
For example, if the criterion is "excellent interpersonal and communication skills," begin your response by saying, "I have developed excellent interpersonal and communication skills, including..." Then provide specific examples of each of the skills that you just listed., The STAR model is the suggested format for responding to selection criteria. This model will help you develop complete answers. You will outline the Situation, Task, Action, and Result.Specify the "Situation" in which you developed or utilized the skills represented by a particular criterion. Explain the circumstances surrounding the experience to give the employer a greater ability to envision your situation.
Demonstrate the "Task." Write about the role you played in the situation and how you performed the duties related to the task, using as much detail as possible. Include individual actions, tasks performed with a group and the outcomes experienced.
Elaborate about the "Actions." Explain the actions you took and how you completed them to fulfill the specific criterion.
Show the "Results." Write about any achievements and the positive outcome from your efforts relating to the criterion. Use quantifiable results, if possible.
 While the STAR model is the most common, there are other methods that you can use. These methods may be more helpful depending on how the criteria are written. For example, some criteria are written as application questions with specific scenarios. Other formats include the CAR (Circumstance, Action, Result), SAR (Situation, Action, Result) , and SAO (Situation, Action, Outcome) model.An example of an application question is, "Describe a situation where you had to deal with an angry customer. Describe how you met the customer's needs and how you developed skills in this area."
Criteria that focus on knowledge, understanding, or qualifications can be answered using these other response methods.
Criteria that start with "ability to" are best answered using the STAR method.
Choose the response format that helps you write the best answer.
 Your responses will be more impressive if you avoid some common errors. Never claim an experience or skill that you cannot support with examples. Your answers should also be specific instead of just making general statements. Lastly, do not just reword information from the selection criteria or the company's website.These responses should reflect how your specific background and experiences have prepared you to do the job.
 It is important that you respond to each of the criteria listed whether essential or desirable. Even if you do not satisfy a criterion, still write a response. Your response should show any theoretical or best practice knowledge about the area, your ability to acquire that knowledge or skill, and how you plan to do so., Look for incomplete sentences, misspellings, inappropriate word use, formatting errors and awkward wording. Rephrase sentences to make them active tense using strong, descriptive verbs.Also make sure your responses are within the word limit.


Ask a friend or colleague to edit your statement. Encourage him or her to make comments, look for errors and analyze it for run-on sentences or fragments.

