 Pour the vegetable oil into a kadai or large skillet, then set the pan on the stove over medium heat.


Note that sesame oil is common in South Indian cooking, making it a great choice for tomato rice. Any vegetable-based cooking oil will suffice, though.;
, Add the cumin, cinnamon, whole cloves, curry leaves, and green chillies to the hot oil. Cook, stirring constantly, until the seasonings begin to sputter and pop.The seasoning base should heat up very quickly, so you'll need to watch it closely. Letting it cook for too long could cause this base to become burnt, which may result in a bitter flavor.
 Toss the chopped onion and minced garlic into the other seasonings. Cook, stirring frequently, for another 2 to 3 minutes.


You can vary the amount of onion used, but aim for 1/2 to 1-1/2 cups (125 to 375 ml) of chopped onion if you wish to maintain an authentic flavor.
The onions should become translucent and notably soft during this time, and the garlic should deepen and color and release a stronger aroma.
 Add the chopped tomatoes to the pan, followed by the chilli powder (or sambar powder), turmeric powder, and salt. Switch the heat to medium-high and cook, uncovered, for another 4 to 5 minutes.


Note that the exact amount of tomatoes can vary slightly according to personal taste, but try to add at least 1-1/2 to 2 cups (375 to 500 ml). You can either remove or retain the seeds; both options work, but including some of the seeds will result in a thicker gravy.
Firm tomatoes are ideal since the skins won't peel as much when cooked. Alternatively, you can blanch and peel the tomatoes before adding them to avoid the skins altogether.
Continue cooking the tomato mixture at a steady simmer until the tomatoes become mushy.
 Pour the water into pan and stir to combine. Cover the pan and reduce the heat to medium, then cook for another 5 to 7 minutes.The flavors should mix together during this step, and the ingredients should break down into a thick gravy. You can taste this gravy before continuing and adjust the seasonings accordingly. If it seems too sour, mix in 1 to 2 tsp (5 to 10 ml) of sugar and simmer an additional 2 minutes.
 Once the gravy thickens, reduce the heat to low and add the cooked rice to the pan. Carefully mix the rice into the gravy until it appears thoroughly saturated.The rice should already be cooked before you add it to the dish. Leftover rice works well, but freshly cooked rice will also suffice as long as it isn't mushy or sticky when you add it.
Also note that basmati rice is ideal, but any type of white or brown rice can be used if basmati rice isn't available.
Add the rice in three equal portions, mixing after each addition. Make sure that there is enough gravy to coat the rice. If you have more rice than gravy, don't add all of the rice.
Stir the rice into the gravy carefully to avoid breaking apart any of the grains. If the grains break, the resulting dish may seem mushy and unappealing.
 Cover the pan and allow the tomato rice to heat through for another 3 to 5 minutes. The rice should be hot and moist.


You can skip this step if the rice has been freshly cooked and is still hot, but following it regardless will allow the flavors to sink further into the grains of rice.
 Open the lid and add the ghee to prepared tomato rice. Stir well until the ghee melts and spreads throughout the dish.


The ghee is only optional. It can enhance the flavor of the dish, but if you don't have it or if you follow a vegan or dairy-free diet, you can choose to omit it.
 Switch off the heat and serve the tomato rice while it's still hot.


Tomato rice can be enjoyed on its own, but it's typically garnished with cilantro leaves and served alongside other dishes. Common accompaniments include papads, potato chips, raita, curds, vendakka curry and spicy pickles.

