 Place three succulent plants in your colander, leaving them in the pots in which you purchased them. Fill the colander with pebbles or gravel, and shift the pots into positions you find attractive as you fill. This solution works well if you just need a quick centerpiece, such as for an impromptu lunch or picnic.If the gravel or pebbles you have on hand are smaller than the colander's largest holes, try lining it with sheet moss, cut plastic, or tightly packed soil before adding the pebbles or gravel.
 To make a more permanent planter, you’ll need to prepare the colander to host whatever plants you’ve chosen. If you’ve opted for succulents, place a layer of gravel about a half inch thick at the base of the colander. Then add cactus soil until the colander is about three-fourths full, leaving enough room for your plants.


Succulents need plenty of drainage, and the gravel base will help drain moisture. Pack the cactus soil in tight where you need to if you have trouble with grains slipping through the colander holes. If the holes are too large, just use gravel throughout.If you’ve chosen seasonal flowers or plants, like pansies or petunias, you’ll need to line the base of the colander with sheet moss, so it retains moisture better. Add potting soil to the lined colander, again leaving enough room for the plants.In a pinch, you can make a liner by cutting a plastic bag so it fits the colander base, but poke a couple small holes here and there so it can drain a bit.
 You can plant a few species of succulents for a chic but low-maintenance centerpiece. You’ll only need to water these plants every few weeks, or when the soil is completely dry. Just be sure to take the colander planter to a sink or other safe place for watering so you don’t make a mess on your table., If you go with plants other than succulents, try mixing spillers and fillers in with your blooms.


Spillers, such as ferns or sweet potato vine, tumble out of the container and add more interest.
A filler, like a dusty miller or begonia, adds volume to your composition and may or may not have flowers.
Use a spiked plant or colorful bloom as the thriller, which adds a pop of drama and variety to your container.Depending on the exact plants you choose, you’ll need to water them every couple days. Again, be sure you take the planter to a safe place for watering to avoid messes.

