 Showing up to your vet appointments prepared will help to build goodwill with your vet. They will likely appreciate that you took the time to make a list of questions to ask them so the appointment has a focus and is productive for you, your cat, and the vet. If you start to notice symptoms or issues in your cat, write down questions about the symptoms or issues to then ask your vet during the appointment.For example, if you notice your cat has a skin issue, you may write down questions like, “What are the possible causes of the skin issue?” “How can the skin issue be treated?” “How can I prevent the skin issue in the future?”
You can also write down general questions that you want to ask the vet, such as, “When is the best time to give my cat their meals?” or “How often should I be brushing my cat?”

, Preparing your cat properly for the vet will make the appointment less stressful for all involved. Always bring your cat into the vet in their carrier, as this will ensure your cat is contained and make the waiting area safe for other animals. Acclimatize your cat to their carrier and to car rides so they stay relaxed and calm on the way to the vet. Get your cat to associate positive feelings to being in their carrier so they are less stressed when they are taken to the vet.You can also try using a pheromone spray on your cat to calm them down on the way to the vet. The pheromones can help your cat relax.
Maintain a calm, relaxed demeanor when you take your cat to the vet, as they will often sense if their owner is stressed or upset and respond in kind.
 Do not bring your cat into the vet’s unannounced or without calling and setting up an appointment in advance. If there is an emergency and your cat needs to see the vet right away, you should still call the vet’s office to make sure they are available. Showing up unannounced can lead to a negative response from your vet and throw off the other appointments they already have scheduled.If your vet is not available during an emergency, you should bring your cat to an emergency animal clinic. Your vet may be able to suggest a good one near you when you call them.

