 Your platform should not be too high off the ground, but it should also not be too low to the ground. Something about waist height is preferable, although something higher can be used, if you're feeling courageous.


Do NOT use anything lower than waist height if you cannot perform a backflip prior to attempting this stunt. To do so could cause you to under-spin, and result in landing on your neck, and serious injury
;
,


Move around, shift your weight, and make sure that your platform does not move. If it shifts under your weight, or wiggles when you lean, you should not perform a flip off of this surface. It could fall over, and end up in a severe injury on your part.



The best stance is to have your heels slightly over the edge of the platform, so that you are leaping from the balls of your feet.
, That is, bend your knees and balance on the balls of your feet while leaning your upper body forward. Jumping while standing with your foot flat on the ground is not recommended, as you will gain maximum height and spin by jumping from the balls of your feet. Also, raise your arms behind you, keeping your forearms at a ninety-degree angle with your upper arms.


To give an idea, your forearms should be perpendicular to your upper legs. Just make sure that your arms are pulled back, so that you can fling them forward and up to add to your spin.
 While your knees are unbending for the jump, you should also be throwing your arms, to begin the spin. Straighten your back, and then arch it as you make it into the air.


The arch of your back and the location of your arms should be similar. -- I.e., if your arms are pulled all the way back, your back should be completely arched.



Pulling yourself into a tight ball will increase your rotation speed, and can help when you're jumping off of a low platform. Don't try this when you're jumping off of something high, however, or you might over-spin.

Knowing when to slow your rotation by leaving this balled position is the key to landing correctly. Just before the rotation is completed, unfold your legs, and hold your arms out to your sides, to slow the spin.
 Keep your arms raised at your sides, to keep your balance, so you don't fall over when you land.


If your backflip is from a high object, such as a balcony, do not attempt to remain standing. Instead, as soon as you land, bend your knees, and perform a backward roll, to continue your momentum.

Attempting to land a 'high-risk' backflip without rolling is dangerous, and can result in a broken ankle(s) or leg(s).
,