 Iron-on labels are relatively inexpensive and can significantly cut down on the time it takes you to label fabric. These kinds of labels can be ordered online or can sometimes be bought at craft or hobby shops. For this project, you'll need:


A cloth or light towel
Iron (for clothes)
Iron-on label
Ironing board, First wash the fabric you'll be labeling. Once it is clean and dry, set up your ironing board and select the "Cotton" setting on your iron (or 400°F (204°C)). Then lightly iron the fabric where you plan on applying the iron-on label until it is smooth.After ironing out the fabric, it's a good idea to lay out the patch to check that its placement is satisfactory.
Many kinds of iron-on label are intended only for cotton fabric. If the fabric you are trying to label is not cotton, you may need a special iron-on label., Lay the patch on the fabric so the design faces up and is positioned where you want. Put a cloth or light towel on top of the label, then press the iron firmly on the label, using slow, circular motions for approximately 30 seconds at a time. Then:


Turn the fabric inside out and repeat this process to the back of the patch. Once complete, allow the label and cloth to cool for about a minute.
If, after ironing both sides, the edges of the label still lift from the fabric, reapply your iron to the fabric for another 30 seconds in the fashion described.Always follow the directions that came with your iron-on label for best results. Some labels may require more or less time ironing, or more or less heat.
 If iron-on patches sound like more work than they're worth, you can always take a needle and thread and sew a simple label of your own into the fabric.


If you're inexperienced at sewing, you can make a simple "label" by sewing an identifying mark in the fabric instead. Passing your needle and thread through the fabric a few times and tying off the end should be sufficient.
Use scissors to cut any loose threads. With especially young children, thread pulled free from labels could be swallowed and lead to choking.

