 Before obtaining a Burmilla cat, you should find out all you can about them. You should be able to recognize Burmilla cats immediately upon seeing one, and should also know what sort of care the cat needs. Consult veterinary literature, encyclopedia entries, and other trustworthy sources to learn more about Burmilla cats., Obtaining a cat of any sort is a serious investment of both time and money. Once you’ve researched Burmilla cats thoroughly, evaluate your situation to determine if it is the right cat for you based on its temperament and attention requirements. If you conclude that it is right for you, decide if you’d like to raise a kitten or if you’d prefer the company of a full-grown cat.While it might be more difficult to obtain a full-grown cat, it is not impossible.
 You can locate a reputable breeder by soliciting recommendations from vets, family members, or other trusted members of your community. You can identify a reputable breeder by certain practices they engage in. For instance, a reputable breeder will not sell to wholesalers or pet stores. If the breeder sells cats online, you should also steer clear.Breeders of repute should provide all shots and vaccines necessary during the cat’s first weeks of life, and have the cat screened for illnesses before selling it. If your breeder doesn’t provide medical documentation that demonstrates the cat is free of illness and has receive its requisite vaccinations, look elsewhere for a Burmilla cat.
Ask your breeder questions. A reputable breeder should be able to answer any questions you might have. You might want to ask, for instance, “Is this cat energetic?” or “How old is this cat?” Questions regarding whether or not the cat is litterbox trained and whether it is friendly are also appropriate.
 Because Burmilla cats are a relatively uncommon breed, it is unlikely you’ll obtain one from a pet shelter or a private seller. But if you do, hold them to the same standards you would a breeder. Contact your local animal shelter or animal rescue organization for information regarding whether they have Burmillas available for adoption., When you meet the breeder you’re working with, check the premises. Is the cat kept outside where it could contract fleas or interact with sick cats? Is it kept crammed in a tiny pen with a bunch of other cats (or even alone)? Does it have bald spots on its fur, wounds, or other signs of ill health? These are all red flags that you should look elsewhere for a Burmilla cat.Good breeders will raise their cats indoors and allow them plenty of opportunities for socialization and play.
If the breeder you’re working with refuses to allow you to see where the cat is being raised, you should be suspicious. This is usually a sign that the breeder is trying to hide something.
 When working with a reputable breeder, you will likely not be able to get a Burmilla immediately. Even if one was born recently, they need to stay with their mother to nurse for about 12 to 16 weeks. Plus, as reputable breeders are much in demand, you may get your name on a wait list, which could further delay your Burmilla experience.If the breeder you’re working with offers you a Burmilla and any other sort of cat you request right away, you should be suspicious about their business practices.

