 Place the document in the feed tray on the top. This is the best option if you have multiple pages. Make sure that the text is facing up.

Note – make sure that the pages are not stapled together and that they are all facing the same direction.
Another alternative is to lift the head of the machine and place the document portrait size on the upper left side of the glass text down, close the head of the machine.;
, If the machine’s control board is a touchscreen, the icon you are looking for is labeled as GS-NX. It looks like this: Touch the icon on the screen., You will be sending this document to yourself as a PDF then sending it on to the recipient you choose.

User ID Touch line for user name. Enter user name. These units are linked to your company’s intranet, your User ID will be the same as Novell / Internet log in. Press shift for symbols, if needed. Press OK.
 This password will be the same as it is for the system you use it with at your company. Press OK., On the left side of screen, press subject. Enter the subject you would like this document to be known as; this will be the name that appears in the subject line of the e-mail that is received. Press OK in the upper right corner of the touchscreen. Press OK in the upper right corner again., Press the scan settings in the lower left corner. Scan type (on the right side, second line). Scroll down and touch the option full color (text/photo).



 

, To send your document, press the Blue Start button. Press OK. Follow the prompts if you have multiple pages and you opted to put your document on the glass., When all of your documents have been scanned, log out by pressing OK. Press “logout” in the upper right side of the touchscreen. Press the Home button (top left of the screen), The document will be sent from you with the document attached. Similar to this image:

,, Forward the document to the recipient you choose. Select Forward Forward with attachment. Enter the name of the recipient and select send.





