 You will also need to have chess pieces, and a chess clock. Try going for a simple and small-sized board. A smaller board will make it easier to move the pieces across the board. Plastic or wooden boards are okay.It is also an option to play online. For this you will need a computer, tablet, or mobile phone that has internet connection.
Make sure the clock you choose is durable enough to handle the punching during the last few seconds of the game.;
, You will need to learn the rules before playing blitz chess. First, familiarize yourself with the rules of standard chess. The rules are basically the same in standard and blitz chess. The only differences are the number of illegal moves allowed, and the timing formats.One illegal move can mean a loss in a game of blitz chess.
 Anyone that knows how to play the game will do. Consider your level of playing when choosing an opponent. Don’t start off with someone that is much more advanced than you when you are a beginner., Players sometimes lose because of finger fatigue. Stretching your fingers will help circulation as you play.Make a gentle fist. Hold for thirty seconds. Then, release and spread your fingers wide. Repeat four times.Place your palm flat on a table. Straighten your fingers as flat as you can against the surface of the table. Hold for thirty seconds. Release and repeat four times.
 The person playing White gets the privilege of moving first, but the person playing Black chooses which side of the table to sit on.
 This includes how the pieces are set up, the time on the clocks, and the clock's orientation. Once play begins, none of these can be changed.


The time on the clocks should be set to the amount of time you want to play the game. In a blitz game, you should set the clock between one to ten minutes.
The clock should be placed on either side of the chess board. Black decides which side of the board to place the clock., Wait for your opponent to move if you're playing Black.


After every move, you must hit the plunger on your side of the chess clock with the same hand you used to move the chess piece. This pauses your clock and starts your opponent's. If you forget to hit the clock, your opponent moves, and you catch it before they correct the mistake, it is considered an illegal move and your opponent loses the match.
Remember that the point of Blitz chess is playing a fun, fast chess game. If you take too long to agonize over your moves, you'll lose. You should only take a few seconds at most to make a move.
 Ways of winning include:


Mating (checkmating) the king, by threatening to capture him on the next move in such a way that he cannot escape.
Your opponent can resign if there is no way to win.
The small plastic flag on your opponent's clock falls before yours, indicating that he has run out of time. According to some rule sets, he can keep playing until you notice the flag fall and comment on it.
You notice that your opponent made an illegal move before your next move.
The chess game can also be declared a draw by mutual agreement, if there's no way for either to win, if the kings are stalemated, or if your opponent runs out of time or makes an illegal move, yet you don't have sufficient resources on the board to checkmate his king.
 A game of blitz chess is not that different from any other game of chess. Blitz chess is just played much faster. The fast-paced game of blitz chess may be too overwhelming for someone who is new to the game of chess. A good way to get better at blitz chess is to improve your game of standard chess., Blitz chess can often seem harder than standard chess because the short time of the game makes the player emotional and excited. Try playing a slightly longer game. Playing a longer game will help you train to think clearly and rationally while playing., The best way to improve at blitz chess is to play with more advances players that challenge you to better your game. It may get tiring to play with much more advanced players too often, so practice with other players of mixed levels of strength.Try playing with a player that you beat 1 out of 4 to 1 of 8 games against.
Occasionally play with weaker players. This will build your confidence, and help the weaker players improve their games.
 Chess is thought to be 80% tactics, and it is not any different for blitz chess. Pay attention to your and your opponent’s positions while playing. Spotting your opponent’s tactics and tactical mistakes will give an advantage in the game.