 Self-affirmations can help you to start seeing the good qualities that you possess. These may include things that you like about the way you look, your talents and skills, or your personality traits. Take a moment to do a self-affirmation every day to start feeling more confident in who you are.Look at yourself in the mirror when you do self-affirmations.
Make sure that your affirmations are in the first person, such as by using “I” or “My.”
You might say something like, “My hair looks so shiny and pretty today!” Or, “I am a talented writer.” Or, “I am a kind and compassionate person.”

, Often when you are depressed, you lose interest in what you used to enjoy. You stop doing what interests you, and you may not think you are good enough to pursue your passions. Return to your interests, hobbies, and passions. Doing things that you enjoy helps you regain your confidence.You may need to identify your passions or interests. Start by writing down what you enjoy, what you enjoyed in the past, things you’ve always wanted to do, and your positive qualities. Use that as a jumping off point for following your interests.
For example, maybe you used to be passionate about your art and painting, but stopped because of depression. Now you can start painting again, which will help your confidence.
 Misery loves company, and if you surround yourself with negative people, it’s going to make you feel worse about yourself. To help keep your confidence high, spend time with people who make you feel good about yourself.This doesn’t mean the people should always reassure you or give you empty platitudes. Instead, the people should help you focus on the positive things in your life and make you feel good about yourself. Don’t stay around people who make you feel bad about yourself.
 Depression hinders you by making you not want to do anything, much less try new things. You may not feel like you are good enough to try something new, but that’s just your negative thoughts talking. Trying something new can help you build your confidence and self-esteem.For example, you may have always wanted to try weight lifting. You can join a gym and hire a personal trainer or join in group weight lifting classes. Perhaps you want to learn a foreign language or how to sew. You can sign up for lessons to learn.
Remember, you don’t have to be great at this new activity, especially at first. Instead, focus on the fact that you are getting out, trying new things, and meeting people while enjoying yourself. That is what important.
 Socializing is a good way to help build your confidence. One of the symptoms of depression is wanting to be alone, so after depression, you may need to get back into the habit of socializing. You can go to dinner with family or friends, visit each other, or do activities together.If there are friends or family members who contributed to your depression or brought you down, don’t spend time with them. Surround yourself with people who will make you happy and feel confident.
 Surrounding yourself with positive, inspiring, or funny things can help you let go of negativity and stop dwelling on unhealthy thoughts. You can get a calendar with a joke or inspiring quote, visit inspirational websites, or read funny memes throughout the day.Whenever you start to feel down or start to focus on your failings or shortcomings, read something inspirational or look at something funny. This can help you stay positive.

