 Kissing your partner is among clearest signs of affection.You also want to include more subtle physical contact, too ― especially in public places. Holding hands and giving hugs are a less restricted in public than kissing your partner.

If your partner has had a particularly stressful day and needs extra affection, offering her a back massage can be a great way to show your love, too.
Even small gestures like sitting close to your partner while watching TV can let her know that you care.;
, Communication is extremely important to a healthy relationship. Show your partner affection by complementing the things that he does well,and telling him how much you care about him. It also never hurts to slip him a note or send a text just to show that you are thinking about him even when he isn't there.If your partner is struggling with something in his personal life or at work, these kind words will let him know that you support him.


This could be as simple as telling your partner that you missed him as soon as he comes home from a trip.
 This can be during a holiday, but doesn’t have to be. If your partner needs a pick-me-up, you can give her a gift whenever you want! Make sure that your gift is thoughtful and really tailored to your partner. Even a generic item, such as a CD that your partner really wants, could be spiced up with a letter or picture to make it more personal.Making your partner a gift is a great way to show affection. Not only does it show that you know your partner well enough to choose a great gift, it also shows the dedication to spend your own time crafting something that she will love., This means putting away cell phones and other distractions and giving your partner all of your attention for a while. Be sure to make regular dates with your partner, but if you notice that he is going through something difficult (e.g. transitioning to a new neighborhood after a recent move) then you should amp this up even more. You will be showing your partner affection by simply giving him your time and energy, and this will make your bond stronger.A date night can certainly be out in town, but if your partner needs a quiet evening, you can always stay in and watch a movie together.
 In the high speed world of text and email, we are “connected” all the time. The problem is that we often forget to make these types of connections personal. When your partner is in need of true personal connection, you should be aware of it and make sure you’re providing that connection. Instead of sending abbreviated texts like “omw,” you could say something like “I’m excited to see you. I’ll be there soon.” While this is saying essentially the same thing, the first is very dry and impersonal, but the second shows that you actually care that your are on your way to see this person.Thank your partner when she does something thoughtful, or for the everyday things she does that she may think go unnoticed (like taking out the trash).
Give compliments that are tailored to your partner to make them even more meaningful. Instead of saying "You're beautiful," try something more specific, like "You have the most amazing smile." Call attention to the specific things that make your partner who she is. Try, "You always have such an interesting take on things. I love talking with you," or, "You make me laugh harder than anyone else."

, We all have a chore or two that we like to do. Aside from that, the rest are just chores that need done. When you’re stressed out about something like whether or not you are getting that big promotion, doing these chores can sometimes be daunting. Helping your partner wrap up a few chores so that he can go on with his day is a great way to show that you care.This could be as small as doing the dishes, or you could help him paint the house.

