 Your policies will only be effective if they are explained in clear terms in an employee handbook or guide. This guide should be easily accessible to all employees and define what your policies are and what will be done in the event that they are not followed. For any monitoring policy you have, like internet or phone monitoring, you may want to also explain the thought process that led to your policies. Explaining why you are doing so may help to reduce employee mistrust caused by monitoring their activities.Set clear policies on timekeeping, billable hours (if applicable), personal phone calls, and personal internet use at work. Encourage employees to take off-the-clock breaks where appropriate.;
, If any type of monitoring is taking place beyond standard checking-in on progress, such as if you are using phone or internet monitoring, you should inform your employees directly. Hold a meeting or send out a mass email to explain changes in monitoring policy and explain exactly when and how information will be recorded, saved, and deleted.


In some states, like Connecticut and Delaware, you are legally required to inform your employees of any internet monitoring.
Even if you are not required to inform your employees about monitoring, there may be backlash if you don't tell them and they find out on their own., When an employee fails to follow your policies, make sure that the stated disciplinary action for that infraction is taken. Make sure to apply policies equally to all employees. Be clear about your intentions. Document the disciplinary action and have the employee sign disciplinary plans. If you fail to properly follow these guidelines, employees will come to believe that your carefully-set policies will not really be enforced., Don't check in too often or institute overly-limiting internet policies. A nosy boss can decrease morale and make employees feel nervous. Focus on results, rather than on process. If an employee is producing good work and works well in a team, don't harp too much on the details.Give your upper-level staff more freedom. While it might be appropriate to give a temp or administrative assistant who has little investment in your business a computer that faces an open space you can monitor, upper-level staff will expect trust.
Freedom to do work their own way will likely make upper-level staff more productive, not less.

