 There's nothing worse than getting a first date off to a bad start because you were not courteous enough to be on time. If you will be late, make sure it's because of a good reason, and contact your date with as much notice as possible. You don't want your date sitting alone.;
, You should be hygienic on a regular basis, but before going on a date, wash up and be refreshed. Take a shower if you have the time, but definitely wash your face, brush your teeth, and smell good. Don't go overboard with the scent, however, or you may risk the opposite effect.
 This doesn't mean that you should not be yourself, but just be a polite you. A man should open doors and allow his date to order first, but don't go to the extreme.
 Being comfortable in your own skin is very attractive. However, don't allow this confidence to become arrogance. In contrast, don't be self-deprecating. You can have a sense of humor and even laugh a little about yourself, but to be overly self-critical demonstrates insecurity. Show moderation in this area. Anything extreme is unattractive.
 Listen to what your date is saying. If you are interested, this should not be hard. Get involved in the discussion too, but don't talk too much. Try to balance out the conversation so that you and your date both get an opportunity to share information.
 You just met this person so you don't have to get personal. But don't lie about who you are and what you do. If there is a second date and a third date, or even more, your date will eventually find out the truth, and that may be the end of the dates.
 So refrain from looking at other attractive people in the vicinity, even if it's a harmless glance. You don't want to risk your date taking offense.
 This means avoiding deep discussions about past relationships, especially if they were bad. You should keep conversations light and focused on information about yourself, like schools you went to, your job and your interests. Don't talk about what you expect in a relationship or how many children you want, unless your date brings up the subject.
 It may be old fashioned, but being traditional can be endearing. If she persists, tell her if she is that concerned she can go Dutch "next time." Her response will give you an idea of whether there will even be a next time.

