 Bring up allergies as a general topic of discussion and ask if the guest has any personal of dealing with allergy problems. This discussion should take place a few days before you host any event so you have time to prepare your home to adjust to the special needs of your guests.;
, If possible, try to make sure that your pets will not cause any allergy problems. If your guests are allergic to certain pets such as cats, host the gathering at a location that is separate from where the cats usually reside.
 Carpets can attract dust and insects that can be a major cause of allergic reactions. Vacuum at least twice if you must use a location with carpeting, otherwise hard surfaces such as tiled floors are more suitable.
 Soft chairs such as cushioned sofas attract more dust and coming in direct contact with dust is a common cause of allergy symptoms appearing.
 Use sanitizers to wipe tables and counter-tops where you will be serving food.
 This will help keep your property clean during a party while keeping the insects outside.
 The air purifiers will keep the air clean, which is particularly important for people that can suffer from asthma due to allergies. Air purifiers reduce the amount of dust and pollen in the air to lower reactions to dust and pollen allergies.
 Dehumidifiers reduce the amount of moisture in the air, which reduces the growth of mold. Mold can be a major problem for a guest with allergies triggered by mold.
 You can serve in plastic plates and cups with plastic utensils so you don't have to worry about whether your cutlery has been washed properly.
 Refrain from serving anything that your guests may be allergic to (avoid serving peanuts, milk, egg and fish in large quantities since these are causes of the most common food allergies). You may want to consider labeling your dishes so guests know what is in them.
 You may want to use hyper-allergenic pillows and mattresses in your guest room that are specially designed to prepare a home for visitors with allergies. If you can't allergy proof your home entirely, at least make sure the bathroom as well as the bedroom that is designated for guests has been cleaned using disinfectants.
 You should try to get the contact information of a local allergy specialist who offers 24-hour emergency service. Add his or her phone number to your speed dial or put it on a sticky-pad that you can stick to your refrigerator door.

