 Add 1 cup (227 g) of pure aloe vera gel, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vitamin E oil, and 15 drops of your favorite essential oils to a medium bowl. Use a spoon to carefully blend all of the ingredients together. Set aside for the moment.You can substitute distilled water or herbal tea for the aloe vera gel if you prefer.
The essential oils are mainly to scent the lotion, so you can use any combination that you prefer. Lavender, eucalyptus, lemon, grapefruit, patchouli, rose, and jasmine are good options to consider.
The aloe vera gel mixture needs to come to room temperature. You may want to place the bowl in a larger pot with some warm water. That will help raise the temperature of the mixture so it will be closer to the temperature of the beeswax mixture that you’ll eventually add it to so it will blend easier.
 Place ½ cup (114 g) of grated beeswax and ½ cup (109 g) of sweet almond oil in a glass measuring cup, jar, or bowl. Set the glass container in a small pot with water, and bring the water to a boil over medium-high heat until the beeswax melts completely, which should take 10 to 15 minutes. Remove the beeswax mixture from the heat.Stir the beeswax occasionally as it’s melting to ensure that it heats evenly.
You can usually purchase beeswax at local farmers' markets, health food stores, and organic grocery stores. It's also available at a wide range of online retailers.
 Pour the beeswax mixture into the pitcher of a blender, and allow it to cool for 5 to 7 minutes. Next, turn the blender on low to gently blend the mixture., With the blender still on low, pour the aloe vera gel mixture into the beeswax mixture in a slow, steady stream. Continue blending the mixture until it has creamy, whipped consistency, which should take approximately 15 seconds.You may need to stop the blender periodically as you’re blending the lotion to scrape down the sides of the pitcher with a spatula so all of the ingredients are incorporated.
If liquid pools at the top of the lotion mixture, stop the blender and push it into the cream with the spatula before blending again.
 Once the lotion has reached the proper consistency, stop the blender. Use a spatula to carefully transfer the lotion to storage jar or container with a lid. The lotion should stay fresh for 2 to 3 months.If you don’t plan to use the lotion within 2 to 3 months, store it in the refrigerator. That can help prolong its life for another 2 to 3 months.

