 Some regions may have laws in place to protect the land surrounding bodies of water, even those that are manmade, like ponds. Check for restrictions like these with your local zoning board or Department of Natural Resources.

You might ask about regulations saying something like, “Hi, I’m planning on adding a manmade beach to a pond on my property. Are there any laws or regulations I should be aware of moving forward?”
You should inspect the area where you’ll build your beach thoroughly. Accidentally harming endangered plants or animals may still carry a stiff penalty., If you only layer sand on the shoreline of your body of water, plants will eventually spring up and reclaim the area. Similar to a backyard beach, you can use a plastic liner to prevent plant growth beneath your sand.As an alternative to the plastic liner, you can use regular applications of an herbicide to keep your beach looking sandy and pristine.
Some regions have laws against using a liner (or other kinds of plant barriers) underneath a fresh layer of top-sand., Generally, you’ll want the largest grain beach or mortar sand you can get. Outdoors, sand is more likely to be blown around your property or washed to the bottom of the body of water. Large-grained sand will be less likely to migrate away from your planned beach area.

For most outdoor beaches, you should plan to cover it in at least 6 in (15.2 cm) of sand, but do not exceed more than 18 in (45.7 cm).There are products you can buy, like sand mats, that prevent weeds from growing and sand from being washed or blown away.
 This may be a time consuming process if your beach area is large. A shovel, rake, and some elbow grease will eventually get the job done, but a rototiller, backhoe, or front loader will make weed removal a cinch.

Rototillers, backhoes, and front loaders can be very expensive. Save some money by renting one of these when you need it from your local hardware store or home centers.
 Moisture and gasses in the soil and air can cause your sand to be absorbed into surrounding soil, especially clay. A shade cloth with prevent this from happening. Purchase shade cloths at hardware stores and home centers., Unless you have some kind of wall or barrier where your sand transitions to the natural bottom of the body of water, your sand will quickly be washed away. A concrete curb, landscape timber barrier, or cross tie boundary all work well for retaining sand.

Be sure you clearly mark the retaining feature with buoys, flags, or similar things to prevent swimmers from stubbing toes or otherwise harming themselves., Now that all the prep work has been done, all you need to do spread out the sand. After that, rake the sand regularly with a sand rake (like the kinds used on golf courses) to prevent plant seeds from growing.

If your sand becomes flat and hard, use a rototiller, hoe, or pickaxe to break it up a couple of times every year.