 Sometimes called "lump charcoal," hardwood burns at high temperature for a short amount of time, making it ideal for cooking steaks. It's easy to light without lighter fluid, so just use a charcoal chimney and some newspaper to get it started.


Arrange a sear-side and a warm side by putting the coals to one side of the grill. This means you can cook steaks to a variety of levels of done-ness if necessary, giving you more control.
If you use a gas grill, turn the flame on medium-high. You'll probably end up having to cook the steaks a little longer on gas, but it'll still be great.
 Prepare the steaks as if you were cooking them in any other way, bringing them to room temperature and seasoning them a bit ahead of time. Instead of greasing the skillet or the grate, though, you'll brush some cooking oil onto the meat itself.


Some people will skip this step, but it's a nice way to get a crust on your meat.
Alternatively, some people like to put a dab of butter on the meat, after flipping it.
 Once the coals are ready, replace the grill grate and the lid of the grill, to give it enough time to come up to heat. The coals cook the grill, but the grate gives it it's tasty crust and grill-marks.


When the grill gets hot and the coals are ready, put the steaks over the hot part of the grill, so they sizzle.
Some people prefer cooking the steaks over the cold part of the grill first, then searing at the end. This works fine for cold steaks.If your steak is room temperature, like it should be, sear it first.
 Put the steak on the grill, put the lid on the grill and let the hardwood smoke flavor the meat and cook it. Wait for about 4-5 minutes until you do anything. Nothing bad is going to happen to the steak. Just keep an eye on the timer and let the grill cook the steak.


Flip the steak to the other side and let it sear and cook for another five minutes. Depending on your cuts and the temperature of your steak, it should be done after about 10 minutes total.Lot of people like to be hands-on with a nice piece of steak. Some people swear by the "don't touch it" method, while others prefer flipping regularly to cook the steak evenly. The truth is that neither method is wrong and they're both great ways to cook steak done properly. Flip it early and often, if you want.You're not at a restaurant and you don't need to rush.
 After searing the steak, it should be just about done, if it's not done already. Use your thermometer or your finger to check for doneness and move the steak to a cooler part of the grill if you want to cook it longer.


When the steak is done, remove from the heat, put it on a plate, and rest it covered for 10-15 minutes before slicing and serving.

