 Many budget airlines charge for every piece of luggage you travel with. Often this cost is not factored into the original price quote, which may be the reason why the flight looked so cheap at first. These fees are often tacked on to the total right before you check out.


Low-cost airlines often charge a specific amount for different bag sizes and weights, so read their policies carefully.Look out for airlines that limit how many pieces of luggage you are allowed to carry. Check into their policies and prices for carry-on baggage and personal items (such as a purse or backpack).
 Students under the age of 26 are often eligible for a variety of different discounts. Look for student discount codes when you're shopping on airline websites. Discounts and reduced fees are sometimes available for large families or groups booking flights.If you don't see anything listed online, you can always call the airline and ask them directly if any discounts are available to you., Visit a few budget airline websites and sign up for their email lists and newsletters. You will get information from each airline about flight sales, new routes with introductory rates and cheap fares on last minute flights, all delivered straight to your inbox. This can take a lot of the leg work out of hunting for the cheapest airfares.


Tuesday afternoons are a common time to receive email offers for last minute weekend flights, since airlines will know by then if the weekend flights are full yet.
If there are still a lot of empty seats, they often heavily discount the prices and send that information out to their email subscribers., Even if you only fly occasionally, you should still sign up for rewards programs. These programs allow you to collect “points” or “miles” each time you fly with that airline. Once you collect a certain amount of them, you are able to use these points or miles to pay for future flights and obtain other related discounts.Rewards programs are especially helpful to frequent flyers, since they are able to amass a large amount of points or miles fairly quickly, resulting in access to very cheap (or often free) airfare.
 It’s not unusual for low-cost airlines to provide discounted prices to those who purchase their airfare online. Call the airline and ask questions if you have them, but when you’re ready to actually purchase your flight, always do it on the airline’s website. Airlines typically advertise about current discounts and promotions on their homepage – if you call to book your flight, you may not be made aware of these offers.


Booking online also allows you to look over everything carefully before you purchase anything and easily opt out of hidden fees.

