 Though you can set privacy limits to who sees your photos, you can limit your Facebook profile exposure by limiting the amount of photos you post. If you want to share photos with your friends through another method, you can post them on another online photo-sharing website, or email the photos.;
, Though you can adjust your privacy settings so that only friends can see your comments, if you really want to limit your Facebook profile exposure, you should send private messages directly to the people you want to communicate with. If you make a post that is visible to even a few people, or to your friends, they will be more likely to remember you and to look at your profile.
 If you want to limit your Facebook exposure, then you should avoid popping up on Facebook chat. Any of your Facebook friends will be able to see that you're online if you don't manage your settings, which means that any of your Facebook friends who are also online will be able to message you. Here's how to customize your settings on Facebook chat:


To turn off your chat completely, just click on the little gear at the bottom of the chat box to the right of your screen and select "Turn off Chat."

To appear offline to many of your Facebook friends, just click on the little gear at the bottom of the chat box to the right of your screen and select "Advanced Settings." Then, select the second option, "Turn on chat for only some friends..." and type a list of friends who will be able to see you online. You can also create a list of friends who can see you online and add the entire list to this column.
 If you post a lot of links or random thoughts from your everyday life, you will be raising your Facebook visibility. If you want to share your ideas with a few people, you can send a group message or send them by email. If you're posting on Facebook a lot, then your friends will be more aware of you and your profile.
 If you want to limit your Facebook profile exposure, then you shouldn't friend every person who sends you a request. Set ground rules for who you will accept as a friend, whether it's someone you actually know in person or someone you know well -- whatever your rule is, stick to it.


The amount of random friends you've accumulated over the years can really add up, which can lead to many people having access to your Facebook profile.
You can even go through a Facebook friends "spring cleaning." Go through all of your friends and unfriend anyone you haven't communicated with in the last year -- or the last few months. Only keep the people you want to communicate with on Facebook.

