 Place 3 cups (306 g) of all-purpose OR bread flour into a large mixing bowl along with 3/4 teaspoon of yeast. Put 1 1/4 teaspoons of salt in the other side of the bowl so it doesn't touch the yeast. Whisk the dry ingredients together until they're combined.Combining just the yeast and salt could kill the yeast, so it's important to keep them separate.;
, Heat 1 1/2 cups (350 ml) of water so that it's warm to the touch. Pour the water into the mixing bowl with the dry ingredients. Use a wooden spoon to stir the bread dough well. The dough should be tough to stir and it will look shaggy.Avoid using boiling or hot water which could kill the yeast.
 Once the dough is in a shaggy ball, spray the dough with cooking spray. Turn the dough over and spray the bottom side with cooking spray. The whole ball of dough should be covered with the cooking spray to prevent it from sticking to the plastic wrap. Tear off a sheet of plastic wrap and cover the bowl with it.If you don't want to use cooking spray, you can spread a little olive oil over the dough. Just dip a pastry brush in the oil and spread the oil all over the ball of dough.
 Lay a clean kitchen towel over the plastic wrap-covered bowl of dough. Place the bowl in a warm part of your kitchen and let it rest for 6 to 8 hours. This proves the dough and lets the yeast activate so the bread will rise. You dough should start looking bubbly and bigger after 6 hours.If you don't have a warm space in your kitchen, turn on your oven's light and place the bowl in the oven. Close the oven door and leave the light on. This will create a small warm space to prove the dough.
 Use a pastry brush to lightly oil a clean counter top or work space. Scoop the dough onto the counter. Fold the dough over itself so that the dough is folded in half. Place the plastic wrap back over the bowl and let it sit in a warm place for one more hour.This will knock any air bubbles out of the dough before it does its final prove.
 Once the dough is about twice as large as when you began proving it, you can shape the dough. Use your hands to smooth the dough into a round ball. The dough doesn't have to be completely smooth or circular since you're making a rustic peasant bread.Try to shape the bread as quickly as possible so you don't overwork the dough.
 Although most peasant breads are free-formed and aren't placed in a pan, you can bake the bread in a pan if you want a sandwich-loaf style. Place the bread dough into a loaf pan and set the loaf pan directly into the slow cooker.You won't need to place parchment paper into the slow cooker since the loaf pan will contain the dough.
 If you'd like to make a decorative mark on top of the peasant bread, use kitchen shears or a sharp knife to make slashes or cuts in the dough. This will also help steam escape from the bread as it bakes.If you choose not to cut slits, the bread may form a crack as it bakes to let the steam get out.
 Tear off a large piece of parchment paper and place it in a slow cooker that's at least 4-quarts in size. Set the shaped loaf of bread directly onto the parchment and press the sides of the parchment paper against the sides of the slow cooker. Put the lid on the slow cooker.You don't want the parchment paper to fall down onto the bread dough. This could cause the bread to get stuck in the paper as it rises and bakes.
 Turn the slow cooker on to HIGH and bake the bread for 1 to 2 1/2 hours. Your bread may take less time or more time depending on how large your slow cooker is. You should check the bread frequently to see whether or not it's finished cooking.Pay close attention to the bread the first time you make it in the slow cooker. Once you know how long it takes, you can just set the cooking time the next time you make bread.
 Insert a thermometer into the center of the bread after it's baked for one hour. If the temperature is between 190 degrees F (87 to 93 C), the bread is finished. The fully baked bread should also have a soft, but not spongy top. If you tap the bottom of the bread, it should be hard and sound hollow. Remove the bread and let it cool completely before you slice it.If the bread needs more time, continue baking and checking the bread every 30 minutes.
 Since the bread will not brown much in the slow cooker, you can broil it to give it a darker crust. Just remove the loaf from the slow cooker and set it on a rack below your broiler. Broil the top of the loaf for 3 to 5 minutes.The bread will brown quickly, so monitor the bread as it broils.
