 Long exposure to blow dryer heat will damage hair. Reduce the blow drying time by absorbing some water with a soft towel. Pat gently until your hair stops dripping.


Avoid rubbing with the towel, which can cause frizz and breakage.;
, To make your hair shiny and smooth, rub hair serum into your hair ends.You only need to use a coin-sized amount for your full head of hair.









Rub this between your hands first to ensure you apply it evenly.Some people apply one or two drops of oil to their hair instead. This may cause damage during a hot blow dry session, so use this with low-temperature blow-drying only. Try a light oil such as jojoba oil or coconut oil., Spray heat protectant lightly onto your hair from at least 20cm (8 inches) away. Gently comb your hair with a wide-toothed comb to distribute the protection throughout your hair.








Do not use a narrow-toothed comb, and don't try to comb out tangles. These approaches may tear out wet hair.
 If your blow dryer comes with multiple nozzle attachments, compare the width of each one. If the nozzle is too wide (side to side), you may waste air flow directing it at short hair. However, the more narrow the nozzle opening is, the more likely it is to cause damage. Consider sticking to a wide nozzle if your hair is fragile or thin.








Reduce the air flow setting to low or medium as well.
 If your hair is easily damaged, reduce the temperature setting on your blow dryer to medium or low, until the flow of air feels comfortable on the back of your hand.If your hair is strong, or short enough to dry in a few minutes, blow dry on high heat.









See the guides below for specific styles.
 For a quick and easy dry, point the blow dryer downward. This reduces frizz and fly away strands. As you blow dry, drag a comb or your fingers through your hair to ensure even drying.








To keep straight hair smooth and well-shaped, pull the ends of your hair as you blow dry. You can do this with your fingers, but for best results, use a brush adapted to the length of hair. Pull very short sections with a small brush, and use a brush with longer, thicker bristles to wrap around the ends of medium-length sections.

