 Unless you also want to be cleaning mud off your car seats, toss your shoes into a shopping bag or trash bag to keep the mess contained.;
, You may be eager to clean your shoes off right away, but trying to wipe the mud off before it has dried can actually stain the fibers of your shoe. Put your shoes somewhere warm and dry--outdoors in direct sunlight, if possible.


Don't put your shoes by a radiator or other direct source of heat to dry, as this can warp the plastic and alter the shape of the shoe.If it's humid, damp, or there's no sunlight, dry your shoes with a household fan. Either put the shoes on a towel or plastic tray with the top facing the fan (so the air gets inside the shoe), or use an over the door hook (or "S" shaped hook) to hang the shoes directly on the grill of the fan.Don't leave your shoes outdoors overnight. They'll just get damp again.
 The mud will chip and flake off, and you should be able to get most of the mud off your shoe.


If you can get the shoes on your feet, stomping your feet will also cause the mud to fall off the exterior of your shoe. However, it may not be possible to even get them on if your shoes are filled with dried mud.
 A wet paper towel could grind the dirt into your shoes and stain the fibers. The dry paper towel should remove the fine, powdery dirt left from the larger chunks that fell off.
 Removing the laces will allow you to pull the tongue up and open the shoe a little wider, so you can really get into those hard to reach places. If there's mud trapped under the inserts, your shoe can become moldy and smelly.


Sometimes you can't remove the insert without ruining the shoe. If this is the case, then leave them in and just try to get them as clean as possible.
If your shoelaces are knotted and won't loosen or come out, you can always cut them and buy a new, clean set of laces wherever shoes are sold.
 Use water and a few drops of dish detergent and go to town on the exterior and the inside of your shoes. Get into every little crevice where mud might be lurking.


Use a dry rag or paper towel to wipe off the dirty water as you clean.
If you don't have a toothbrush other than the one you use on your teeth, try a nail brush or a shoe polishing brush.If you removed the inserts, don't forget to scrub them off as well.
 You don't want to do this very often--try brush the shoes clean whenever possible--but after a mud run you will probably need the power of the washing machine to thoroughly clean your shoe. You can wash them with towels or sheets to protect the machine and your shoes from damage, but the other items may need another wash afterwards.Wash the shoes in cold water only, and on a "gentle" or "delicate" setting.
You can machine-wash the inserts as well, just make sure they are not still in the shoe.
 Stuff your shoes with newspaper or paper towels to help absorb dampness.The same rules apply as before--try to let your shoes "bake" in direct sunlight and don't leave them outside overnight. Do not put them by a radiator or in the dryer, as this can ruin the shoe (and your dryer).


Your shoes should be dry in about 12 hours.If you insist on trying to dry your shoes in the dryer, lace them back up and tie the laces to something heavy. Hang the laces over the dryer door, with the weight on the outside of the door, and close the door. This should keep your shoes from banging around. You can also put each shoe in a pillowcase and try to dry them that way.
 Your shoes may look clean, but there could still be some lingering funk. Add a little baking soda, then let them sit for a few hours, and the smell should be gone.Make sure you get the baking soda out before you put the shoes back on. Bang them upside-down or use a vacuum with a hose attachment.

