 Jason’s hulking frame is usually clad in a dingy, soiled jumpsuit. Find a one-piece jumpsuit or pair of coveralls like mechanics wear. Go with a darker hue, like charcoal gray or navy blue, and buy about one size too big to get the right disheveled look. This is the easiest way to take care of the body portion of the costume.Jumpsuits and coveralls can typically be bought cheap in the work clothing sections at superstores like Walmart.;
, In some of the later films, Jason’s look evolved to include tattered black clothing and an oversized brown jacket. Snag a black button-down work shirt a basic pair of black trousers and rough them up yourself at home. Look for a loose-fitting brown coat to wear over the shirt. You won’t win any style points, but you’ll have the cheerleaders fleeing for their lives.Be on the lookout for cheap secondhand clothing to use for your costume.
Try to find a jacket made from a softer material like cotton so that it will better show the wear-and-tear you inflict on it.
 Jason needs sturdy set of footwear for stomping after terrified campers. Find yourself a pair of chunky black work boots made of leather, canvas or some other heavy material. If you desire, slather them with mud or fake blood to make them look old and used. These will complete the effect of your costume from top to bottom.Visit a thrift store to get an appropriate pair of old boots that won’t run you too much money.
If you can’t find the right pair, some black rubberized rain boots will do the trick, since they’ll mostly be hidden by your pant legs anyway.
 This is the feature Jason Voorhees is universally known for. The hockey mask you choose should be yellowed or slightly off-white and have red triangles on the forehead or under the eyeholes. Smear some black and brown makeup on the mask or dirty it up outside to make it look like it’s followed you to the grave and back.Since the hockey mask is one of the most important elements of the costume, you should be willing to devote a little more time, money and attention to making sure it’s just right.
Most Halloween costume stores sell masks that are designed to resemble the ones worn in the Friday the 13th series.
 Without his trusty machete, Jason would just be a lumbering mouth-breather with questionable fashion sense. Do the costume justice by purchasing a plastic costume machete and using it to terrorize your friends. A little dab of fake blood will make it look ominously like it’s been recently used.Never carry around a real machete or any other dangerous weapon or tool. You or someone around you could easily get hurt.

