 Ones by Adidas are durable and come in cute colors.;
, Start with your team uniform. This includes shorts/sweats, tank tops, Jersey, socks, padding, shoes, sports bras, and helmets/mouthguards. If you are a swimmer: swimsuit, swim cap, goggles, and nose plugs. You will also want an outfit for each day you will be there, clean underwear, and pajamas. You may also want to pack a couple nice outfits; if your team wins, you may go out to eat and you will want to look nice. Bring comfortable shoes, too.The amount of clothes depends on how long you are staying. Also, you may want to pack a small but strong umbrella and if you don't have one, then pack a waterproof. These are always needed during the day

, Bring two deodorants; one extra strength for when you're playing your sport, and a nice scented one for everyday use. Bring wipes and a small rag or towel. When you are about to play, wipe down any areas that are going to sweat (be discreet, please! Nobody wants to watch a girl wipe down her underarms!), and dry them off. Apply deodorant. During halftime or when you are on the bench, apply some more and, if possible, wipe down again. If you are playing more than one game, please bring more towels/rags or at least wash it between games! After the game or race or whatever, shower, wash your hair, put on some everyday deodorant, and (optional) spritz on some body spray or perfume.
 You can call or text important people or friends between games. Pack any chargers if they are portable, and an iPod if you have one. Also bring a book, some games to play with friends, and even some candy or gum or snacks. This will help you save money. Portable DVD players - and DVDs- are a good idea also, but can be rather cumbersome. Be extremely careful if you decide to take these items, there may be thieves around.
, You don't have to bring makeup. Also bring a hairbrush, headbands, hair elastics, bobby pins, and hairspray (optional). Shower gel, shampoo/conditioner, and hand/body lotion are very handy, too. Deodorants (see ' smelling good' above), body spray, and wet wipes/towels/rags are essential for smelling good. If you are a swimmer- waterproof makeup, hair stuff are needed. For gymnasts, the stuff you spray to prevent wedgies (I forget what it's called). Also bring tampons, pantyliners, pads, and anything else you may need. Also, Ointment, bandages, etc.
 Enjoy your sport! You are healthy and athletic. That's good. So get out there, enjoy your sport and win! (But don't become obsessed with winning).

