 You need to be as informed as possible about schizophrenia if you want to provide the best help you can for your loved one when you are together. This will allow you to make informed decisions about how your loved one is treated, understand her symptoms, and help her get treatment.


Ask your loved one’s doctor and therapist for any information they may be able to give if you are still fuzzy about your loved one's condition.There are also a plethora of helpful online resources, such as the Mayo Clinic and the Center for Addiction and Mental Health.
 You need a support system just like your loved one. Look for a support group aimed at the family and friends of those with schizophrenia. There are official organization, such as the Treatment Advocacy Center and the National Association for the Mentally Ill (NAMI), that have support groups, phone services, and smartphone applications that can help you when you are in need.


Your local hospital, clinic, or university may have support groups as well.If you aren’t sure about where to find a support group, ask your loved one’s doctor.
 Having a loved one with schizophrenia is hard and helping him, even on an occasional basis, can be even harder. You need to take time and acknowledge your feelings about the situation, even if these aren’t all positive. Once you accept them and learn to deal with them, you will be happier overall and be able to focus on your life and helping your loved one.


If you hold your feelings inside, you may end up resenting your loved one and taking your feeling out on him. This isn’t fair to either of you., You are only human and can only do so much to help your loved one. If your life gets hectic and overwhelming, make sure you know your limits and when to take a break from dealing with your loved one's situation. If you are helping your loved one more than you can handle, you may burn out and cause yourself to get sick or overly stressed. If you have taken on too much, make sure you figure out ways to lessen your responsibilities with helping your loved one.


Don’t be afraid to ask for additional help. Find another family member or friend that can help your loved one as well.