 It's important to take time to appreciate your spouse during your day-to-day life. There is something that initially drew you to this person and you need to make sure you nurture feelings of love. Take time to focus on the positive aspects of your significant other.


Fondness and admiration are among the most important aspects of a longterm relationship. Sometimes, day to day activities and responsibilities result in people losing focus of their affection for their spouse. Make time to nurture these feelings.One activity that encourages feelings of fondness is the "I appreciate" activity. You and your partner each write down three or more positive characteristics of one another, another with examples that illustrate these characteristics. You then take turns reading what you wrote to one another.;
, Everyone has flaws. There is no such thing as a perfect spouse and certain behaviors do not change, even after repeated requests. If the issue isn't major, sometimes it's better to let it go.


A lifelong bad habit is unlikely to change, even with persistent requests on your part. If your partner is sort of messy, for example, he or she may learn to tidy up more often but never quite remember to wash dirty dishes right away or take out the recycling on a regular basis. While such behaviors might be annoying, if they're not deal breakers it might be best to let it go.It's perfectly acceptable to ask your partner to change major issues that upset you. If, for example, your spouse has a tendency to make poor financial decisions this is a big enough factor that the two of you should work through it. Small flaws, however, are not subject to change and you should not go into a relationship expecting to perfect or improve your partner., Marriages are happiest when spouses encourage one another. You should support your spouse's hope and dreams and try to actively encourage him or her to pursue things that would help with long term goals. Try to listen and understand what your spouse wants in life and find ways to support him or her. Obviously, you can't achieve goals for another person but you can provide emotional support and advice throughout your spouse's path to success.