 The library is a great location of information and resources. Most libraries have grown beyond simply having books and periodicals. There are a ton of things that can be had for free at the library.Borrow DVDs and Blu-Rays. Checking out DVDs from the library eliminates the need for the movie theater, Red Box, and Netflix.
Use the internet. Get all of your job, work, and social browsing done at the library. Free yourself of an internet bill.
Checkout audio books. Many libraries have audio books on a variety of mediums, including options for some e-readers.Get free music. Libraries often have a vast supply of music available. Listen to a favorite CD and renew it until your heart is content., Depending on where you live, there could be a ton of free stuff going on. Many larger cities make it a point to get the city involved, particularly if they’d like to draw attention and visitors to a specific spot.


Go to movies in the park. Some cities offer free movies on huge screens for free. Bring a blanket, your favorite snacks, maybe a bottle of wine, and you’ve got entertainment for the night.Listen to restaurant bands. It’s not uncommon for live music to crank out of restaurant doors and windows until the wee hours. Find a comfortable location, order an hors d'oeuvre if you’d like, and you can listen all night long. You might even dance along!
Use free kids workshops. At many large-scale hardware stores, there are free weekend workshops. Great family entertainment! No tools or hard-hats required.Join local clubs. Look around your area and there are sure to be a variety of clubs. From book clubs to salsa clubs, you’ll meet great people, have wonderful conversation, and share memorable experiences.You may even pick up a great skill.
 If you’re trying to get by with minimal usage of hot water, and low-priced utilities, there are a few ways to accomplish that feat with free memberships. It all depends on where you live, but if these opportunities are in your location, take advantage of them while you're out and about.


Try the YMCA. Some locations do not require a membership fee. If you’re lucky enough to be near one of those spots, just get your pass or access to the facility, and the showers are included.
Go to a swimming pool. Skip the swimming part, and go straight to the showers. Many public pools require nothing but identification, and some just a single, up-front fee. After that, the showers are open all summer.
Hit a campground. Even though campgrounds are typically cheap to visit, you could easily hike into the location from a few miles out and walk into the campground showers.
Use showers at the beach. Easy access, free water, mostly for swimmers and surfers wanting to get the salt off. These outdoor showers are a perfect opportunity to get cleaned up.

