 If you do have to consider keeping in the confines of a monetary limit, set that amount firmly in your thoughts and proceed from there. If not, then you will be more likely to find something that is uniquely made and special, just for you.;
, The bigger the number of guests, the bigger the cake will need to be. Coordinating the wedding cake topper with the cake should happen at the same time. Assume that everyone you have invited has responded positively and will, indeed, be coming to the reception. Once you have this number in mind, you can more accurately figure out the size of the cake you will require to serve your guests.
 Look at the various wedding cake toppers to pick the one that you like best. If not, see if there are any bridal fairs being held in your area (many take place in the first month or so of the year) where you can go and see examples of what local speciality bakeries have to offer.
 If you see anything that particularly impresses you, be sure you get one of their business cards so you can make an appointment to meet with them and discuss your needs at a later time.
 At this tasting the bakery will offer you and any who accompany you (like your prospective mate, wedding planner, etc.) several different examples of the flavors of cakes and fillings that they can offer you.
 These bakeries have a good idea of how big a cake will be needed to serve the number of guests you are expecting.
 This includes the shape of the cake, what kinds of colors or special decorations you would like to see. Chances are the cake artist will make detailed sketches of what form the cake would take, including how simple or complicated the decoration would be.
 Depending on the ingredients used, the amount of labor that goes into the production, size and the use of non-edible decorations like hanging Austrian crystals, all will affect the cost of the cake. It is not unusual for a relatively modest cake to start at $500, with costs going up to $1500 and over for larger creations.
