 If you have a loved one with delusional disorder, one of the biggest things that you can do to help her is to learn about the illness. Research delusional disorder. Find out what your loved one is feeling and experiencing and what her prognosis is.Start online by searching for “Delusional Disorder” online and at reputable mental health websites like the Cleveland Clinic or the National Alliance on Mental Illness.
Try informational books, as well. Look at your local library or at bookstores for volumes on delusional disorder. Some titles include Delusional Disorder: Paranoia and Related Illnesses and Understanding Paranoia: A Guide for Professionals, Families, and Sufferers.
 Consider talking to experts about delusional disorder, as well. A doctor who specializes in mental health, a psychiatrist, or a psychologist may not be able to say anything specific about your loved one, but they might field your general questions or provide you with more literature or advice on what you can do to help.Did you know that there are different kinds of delusional disorder based on the type of delusion? Your loved one might have erotomaniac (i.e. false beliefs about someone loving him), grandiose (i.e. an inflated sense of worth), jealous (i.e. believing his partner is unfaithful), persecutory (i.e. paranoid), or somatic (i.e. belief that his body is abnormal or diseased) delusions.
You can ask a professional about the symptoms you see to get a better idea of what kind of delusions your loved one is having. They may also be able to instruct you on how to get your loved one a proper diagnosis.
 Don’t forget to learn as much as you can about how delusional disorder is treated. These days, treatment often involves medicine and/or psychotherapy. Try to find out about the different approaches but also about where your loved one might access these in your area.Be aware of different available psychological treatments, including individual psychotherapy, cognitive behavioral therapy, and family therapy. These can help your loved one and her family cope with the effects of the false thoughts.
Your loved one might also need to take anti-psychotics or newer medications like serotonin blockers to treat the delusions themselves.
 Another way that you can help on a day-to-day basis is by actively supporting your loved one’s treatment. Help your loved one get quality medical care, for example, by preparing for the first appointment or asking to go along to the doctor to later appointments.One thing you might do to help is to write up a list of questions for the medical team along with your loved one, e.g. “What sort of tests might I need to get?”, “What are the treatment options?”, and “What kinds of side effects do the medications have?” You can also encourage your loved one to get a second opinion, if need be.
 Delusional disorder can be accompanied by other mental health issues, especially depression. This might be from the delusions themselves, which can lead to things like financial or legal problems. Or it might be due to a general sense of alienation from others. Be ready to help your loved one through these low periods.Many people with delusional disorder end up on antidepressants. Make sure that your loved one is taking these meds if he is seriously depressed.
Try to help out with errands and household chores, if your loved one is going through a low period. Offer to pick up groceries, for example, or perhaps watch your loved one’s children.
Encourage activity, as well. Try to get your loved one up and active even when depressed. For example, ask your loved one to go for a short walk around the block or, if that is too much, to sit outside in the sunshine with you.
 Delusional disorder is hard to treat. For one thing, it's a chronic disorder that doesn’t always respond to meds and may require additional forms of treatment. Some people with delusional disorder don’t seek or continue treatment, too, because they don't recognize that they’re unwell. Help your loved one by monitoring and encouraging progress.You might help your loved one track the progress of treatment, for instance, by keeping a journal of diary with symptoms, setbacks, and milestones.
Remind your loved one to take medication when necessary. If your loved one wants to stop taking antipsychotics, listen respectfully but suggest having an informed discussion with the doctor first. Ask your loved one to wait and to make a smart decision.

