 Begin by placing the grill pan over a high heat and allow it to become very hot. While you're waiting, take your steak out of the fridge and let it warm to room temperature.









Another option is to put the pan in the oven and turn the oven to 500°F (260° C). When the oven reaches that temperature, take it out and place the pan on high heat on the stovetop.;
, Brush both sides of the steak with a light coating of oil (preferably olive) and season both sides with salt and pepper to taste. It's always a good idea to season your steak just before cooking it. Otherwise, the salt will draw all the moisture out of the meat and it will affect the taste.









If you're wondering just how much salt to use, a "generous pinch" is about right. Though it's ultimately up to you and your taste buds.
 Now that the grill pan is really hot, place the Rib eye onto it. If you are using a regular frying pan, pour a little oil on it (not too much!) before you add the steak. Then cook the meat until the bottom is brown and crispy. Check to see if it's ready to flip by turning one end up -- if a crust has built, it's time.









Brush once more with oil and turn it over to the other side. Don't ever turn the meat more than once; over-flipping it makes it very tough. Now reduce the heat to medium. The cooking time will depend on the type of pan you use, the steak's thickness, and how well done you like your steak.

For 3/4" (2 cm) thickness, about 5 minutes for the first side and 3 minutes for the second side is medium., Seasoned restaurateurs use a handy little trick to tell when a steak is done. Try this test to tell when your steak is ready:









Hold open your hand in front of you in a relaxed manner. Push on the fleshy part just under your thumb. For a rare steak, your meat should have that same consistency. For medium rare, push a little under the rare spot. For medium, push halfway down the fleshy part of your thumb. For medium well, move down towards the wrist and gently push just before the bone. And for well done, push on the bone. To make the comparison, prod the steak with tongs.
 When ready, remove the Rib eye from the pan with your tongs and place it immediately onto a rack. A tray will do, with a spoon inverted to act as a rack, if you don't have one. This will stop the meat from steaming (which cooks it further) and will keep it at your desired level of doneness. It is important to let the steak rest a minute or two before serving. This will give the juices time to flow throughout the steak, enhancing its flavor.









If available, wrap it up loosely in aluminum foil. This preserves all the juices, heightening the flavor and improving the steak's texture.
 Your juicy steak is now ready for serving and eating. Try it with French fries, vegetables, or even roasted potatoes. Serve whole or slice thin and fan on a plate.








