 Continue holding the lead rope. The horse may shift towards you, or swing its head to face you. Be patient, and use the lead rope to encourage the horse to stand sidelong to you. Once it is still, run the lead rope between the horse's front legs so that you can pull down on it while kneeling., If you must reach behind the legs to do so, make sure the horse can feel and see your arm. The horse may try to back up to avoid having to bend its knees to reach the treat. Do not reward this behavior, but insist that the horse remains still. If it can reach the treat without bending its knees, praise it and allow it to eat the treat, then repeat the process with the treat further back.Continue to use the lead rope to gently encourage the horse to lower its head.
If your horse is confused by this change, go back to reinforcing the earlier lesson from the front for a bit.
 Eventually, your horse should begin to bend one of its knees in an effort to reach the treat. This should be rewarded immediately. Be patient with your horse as it learns to kneel, since it is not a comfortable position for horses. Your horse may even stumble or fall while trying to kneel the first few times. Be encouraging, offering frequent rewards for obedience, and don't stress the horse out by forcing it to continue attempting the task for too long.The horse will naturally put one leg out in front of it as it kneels, and will lower its head beneath its body to reach the treat. Once the horse kneels to the ground you are ready to move on.
If your horse is reluctant to kneel you can use a second rope, tied around its foot, to gently encourage the horse to extend its leg and kneel. Simply apply gentle pulling pressure on the rope as you offer the treat below its nose.
 Do not change what command you are using, or alter it by adding words. Also, avoid repeating the command when you are not trying to get the horse to bow. This will help the horse associate the command with the task of bowing., As your horse begins to understand your command, you can begin alternating between using a treat during the exercise, and offering an empty hand, using the command and pressure from the lead rope to encourage the horse to bow.If your horse does not understand, or will not bow without a treat, continue training with treats and try again later.
Eventually, your horse should perform the bow simply upon receiving the command and receiving a little encouraging pressure from the lead rope. Continue praising and rewarding the horse each time it completes a bow.
 Just like people, horse's may forget tricks and skills you have taught them if they do not have a chance to practice them often. Even once you have moved on to teaching your horse other tricks, you should occasionally spend some time practicing kneeling and bowing, so that your horse's memory is fresh when it comes time to show the trick off.

