 Your horse is able to use many parts of his body (eg, legs, face, tail) and make many different types of voices to communicate with you and other horses. Understanding his body language is a key component of natural horsemanship; if you know why they move and use their body in certain ways, you will improve your communication and bond with your horse.


It can be helpful to initially watch your horse without interacting with him to get a better idea of what he’s trying to say.;
, Your horse’s eyes, ears, and face often work together to convey how your horse is feeling. For example, if your horse is feeling frightened, his ears will be pricked forwards and his eyes will widen.The way that your horse has his eyes open or closed often indicates his alertness and wakefulness; he is alert and attentive when both of his eyes are open, but is drowsy if his eyes are only half open.If he is keeping one eye shut or seems unable to open one eye, there may be something medically wrong with that eye; consult your veterinarian in this case. Horses are able to move their ears together and individually in response to their environment. For example, if one ear is positioned backward, your horse is probably trying to listen to something behind him.If his ears are flattened back or pricked forward, your horse is likely frightened or upset;flared nostrils and widened eyes often accompany these ear positions. Move back to a safe distance from your horse if his ears indicate that he is frightened or upset.
A horse’s facial expressions can convey different emotions or responses. The flehmen response (your horse may look like he’s laughing when he does this) is a way for your horse to pick up and process different scents in his environment; he will lift his head and curl his upper lip under itself. If your horse is young, he may softly clack his teeth (softly chomp his teeth together) so that other older horses won’t hurt him. To indicate that he is relaxed, your horse may droop his chin or mouth., Your horse can convey a variety of emotions by the way he positions his head, neck, and tail. Paying close attention to these positions will give you important clues as to how he’s feeling.


If your horse is holding his head high, he is feeling alert and curious. A lowered head could mean that he is submitting to a command, but it could also mean that he is depressed.Stiff neck muscles indicate that your horse is feeling tense or stressed. If your horse’s neck is stretched out and his neck muscles are feeling loose, he’s probably feeling relaxed.
When your horse swishes his tail, he could be swatting pests away (slow and steady swish) or could be feeling agitated (quick and aggressive swish). If his tail indicates that he’s agitated, give your horse some space to calm down. The height at which your horse holds his tail indicates that he’s feeling alert (high tail) or has some discomfort (tail tucked between the legs)., Just like his other body parts, your horse will use his voice differently in different situations. Take time to learn what each of these voices means.


Horses will neigh when they’re feeling anxious (high-pitched), confident (sounds like a bugle), or simply acknowledging their presence.Horses will also snort and nicker. Snorting indicates that your horse is either excited or alarmed about something.Nickering is a calmer noise that your horse will make when he’s anticipating meal time or, in the case of a female horse, communicating with her foal.Groans commonly mean that your horse is experiencing some type of discomfort, such as being ridden too hard or landing too hard. Groans can also indicate a serious medical condition, such as constipation or stomach pain; your veterinarian will be needed to diagnose and treat the medical condition.
Horses can also sigh and squeal. Just like in people, your horse will sigh when he’s feeling relaxed or relieved. In contrast, your horse will squeal when he is feeling playful or meeting another horse for the first time., Taking an overall look at how your horse is standing or moving can give you important clues as to what he’s trying to communicate. Use caution when observing how your horse uses his legs; horses are very powerful animals and can cause serious physical injury when they kick.


If you notice that your horse is walking very stiffly and has tense-looking muscles, he is likely in some type of pain.Your veterinarian can perform medical tests, such as a lameness exam, to diagnose the pain.
If your horse is trembling, he’s saying that he’s afraid of something. If his trembling is severe, a veterinary behaviorist can work with your horse to calm his fears.To express playfulness, a horse will buck (lifting his back legs) or rear (raising the front legs).Keep in mind that both of these leg movements can also indicate aggression or fearfulness.
If your horse’s legs are splayed, he may getting ready to bolt or may have medical issues that prevent him from standing properly. Your veterinarian can perform medical and behavioral tests to determine the cause of the splayed legs.Your horse will paw or stamp the ground with his front legs to indicate that he is feeling impatient or frustrated.Watch out if your horse lifts one of his front or back legs or starts swinging his hindquarters. This means that he’s getting ready to kick. Move as far back from your horse as possible to prevent injury.