 Moving around does so many great things for you and can be done in the comfort of your own home! Exercise for at least 30 minutes a day, even if it’s just in 10-minute intervals. It’s okay if you can’t exercise every single day, just aim for most days of the week. Choose activities that are fun and interesting for you. Try to do a variety of different activities to keep things interesting. You can:Take the dog for a walk.
Dance in your house.
Do yard work.
Join an exercise class at a local gym.
Stretch or do yoga.
 Eating healthy foods will help keep you energized and your body healthy. When you’re busy working or taking care of others, it can be difficult to plan and cook a healthy meal for yourself. Eventually though, the easy foods you tend to grab are going to drain you and leave you feeling unhealthy. Some ways to modify your diet a little to better take care of yourself:Eat whole grains.
Eat more dark green vegetables.
Eat a variety of fresh or frozen fruit.
Choose low-fat or fat-free dairy products.
Try a variety of lean proteins.
Eat regular meals and snacks.
 Make sure you’re getting enough sleep each night. Most people need about 7-9 hours to feel at their best the next day. It can be difficult to take care of your sleep schedule when your stressed, overworked, busy with work or school, or caring for a sick loved one. Try to:


Set a goal of when you want your bedtime to be and try to stick to it.
Make sure your bedroom is free of distractions, such as the television.
Get a sleep and exercise tracker, such as a FitBit, that tracks the quality of your sleep.
Make your bedroom a peaceful place, with clean linens, comfortable bedding, and soft lighting.
 Another practice of good physical self-care is ensuring you monitor your physical health. When you’re sick, take time off work or school. Schedule regular appointments with your doctor. Make sure you’re taking any prescriptions consistently and accurately.Take time to appreciate every amazing thing your body does. Remember that your body is working to keep you alive, so take care of it well. Pay attention to body sensations and notice spots of attention.
 Schedule time-off from your responsibilities. Vacations don’t necessarily have to be yearly trips to the beach, as those can be stressful and expensive. Vacations can be mini-breaks that you take from stress throughout the week or month. For example, schedule time off just for quiet and relaxation for half an hour every day. Find places inside or outside your home that are comforting to you.If you are able to take a trip away from home, plan your vacation so that it’s not more work and stress for you. Don’t schedule too many activities and over-extend yourself.
 Physical touch is comforting, reassuring, and stress reducing. Hug a friend. Cuddle or hold hands with your partner. Don’t neglect your sex life.