 Make sure people at work know that you’re not someone who will talk about politics. By doing this, you’ll minimize the chance of people purposefully including you in a conversation about politics.


Don’t entertain conversation about politics.
Never share your political affiliation or thoughts on politics. The instant you divulge this information, people may think you’re open to political conversation.
Display a humorous sticker or sign near your office that says something like “No Politics Here” or something similar.;
, The simplest way to avoid talking about politics is to simply decline inclusion in any conversation about it. By declining to participate, you’ll avoid the possibility of getting caught in a controversial discussion that could cause you problems in the future.


When the subject of politics comes up, simply say “While this sounds interesting, I don’t talk about politics publicly.”
After you’ve declined, make a comment that smooths your departure from the discussion and eases everyone’s feelings. For instance, say “You guys are great! When the conversation comes back to the sports, let me know.”
If someone ever insists that you participate, politely decline and excuse yourself. Say “Thank you, but no thanks. See you later!”, Perhaps the best way to avoid discussion of politics is to just stay away from people who may engage in discussion about it. By steering clear of these people, you’ll greatly minimize discussions that you may become a part of.


Avoid socializing or talking about your personal life with anyone who constantly talks about politics. If you don’t, chances are they’ll try to involve you in one of their discussions at some point.
Steer clear of people who talk about politics during election time. This might be as easy as avoiding the break room or walking a longer route to the parking lot to stay away from a part of the office.
Keep your distance from people who are vocal about sharing drastically different political viewpoints than your own. These people may say things to get a rise out of you, and to provoke you into debate over an issue you feel strongly about.