 County or city ordinances typically govern approved business zoning, including driving ranges. Research the zoning laws and ordinances in your municipality before selecting a location to build your driving range.


Locate land that can sustain a driving range's layout. The land should be at least 275 yards (251.46 m) long. It also needs to be wide enough at either end to house a building and plenty of stalls in order to accommodate customers practicing their golf shots.;
, Include a building where people will pay, a vending machine for practice balls, stalls for practice shots, an area for refreshments and the grassy practice field.
 Successful businesses start with plans outlining potential outcomes and the costs associated with running them.


Write a mission statement. A mission statement will define your business at the most basic level. All of the issues you want to address, such as your ideal profit margin and work environment, should be addressed in your mission statement.
Figure out how much money it will cost you to start your driving range business.
Decide on what to name your driving range.
Determine how much you're going to pay employees.
Figure out how much it will cost for a customer to use a stall.
Decide when your driving range will open and close for business.
 If you don't have the available funds to start a driving range on your own, consider obtaining a loan. Your business plan will provide the lender with the information necessary to apply for a loan.
 A lawyer will help you know what your rights are if you get caught in a lawsuit. A lawyer can also familiarize you with the local laws or regulations pertinent to business ventures like a driving range.



Acquire golf clubs, balls and tees for patrons to use.
Purchase tee mats. These will prevent worn areas in the tee box resulting from golfers repeatedly taking swings.
Buy a golf ball picker for the easy retrieval of golf balls on the driving range. A golf ball picker is a device you can attach to certain motorized vehicles like a golf cart or tractor that can retrieve all of the golf balls on the ground.
 Increase the exposure of your business venture with marketing materials.

Print brochures. Put them where golfers frequently go, like golf courses or golf equipment supply stores. Potential customers will pick up your brochures at these places of business and be aware of your driving range.
Advertise in media outlets. Your driving range will increase its exposure with advertising in your local media outlets.
Create a website. Developing an online presence will allow potential customers to access information about your driving range at any time.
Run specials, promotions and contests. Offer special rates and door prizes occasionally. This will bring more people through your door and encourage them to tell their friends about your driving range.

