 This should be done by adding a a teaspoon of water per cup of paste (just eye-ball it), and microwaving it for 10 to 15 second. The sugaring paste should become very fluid, so that it can be easily stirred with the stick.
 The result should be a thin paste, which will eventually thicken into an annoying blob if left unattended.
 While the paste is still warm, insert the stick into the sugar paste, flick the tip of the stick up to pull a mass of it up, and twirl as much as you can around the end of the stick. This may only be a little paste- much less than you would need to use if using fingers alone to apply it. The paste should appear golden, due to the sudden stretching motion.
 Apply it against the direction of hair growth. For the back, the direction of hair growth is likely to be downwards, like leg hair. Apply the paste up your back by pressing the stick into a part of the back, and pulling the stick upwards along the skin. If done correctly, it will look like a wide ribbon of paste in mirror; a little bit of paste goes a very very long way. If the sugaring paste breaks while pulling, place the stick at the bottom of the ribbon, and slowly pull it over the whole ribbon again.
 You may have already felt some hairs being pulled out while applying the paste. In order to flick off the sugar paste, make a small but violent downwards stroke or the wrist, and the ribbon of paste will come off. If the ribbon breaks, place the stick (paste and all) at the top of  the area left, and continue flicking downward. Ideally, the ribbon should not break.
 As soon as the entire ribbon of paste is removed, before it can drop full away from the body, thrust the stick violently in a vertical upwards motion, and a little away from the back. This is really just a flick of the wrist, and if you practice, you will find your own method. The entire ribbon of paste should quickly wrap itself around the top of the stick in one tight coil. It's the fastest way to "reset" the stick to sugar the next area.
 Unless you are an animal, the paste should stay workable, even with hairs in it. You can reuse the paste many, many times. Don't throw it away just because it is mostly hair. It's gross, but efficient, because you can save your sugar paste. In fact, unless someone else is going to use your paste, you can even replace lightly used sugar paste in the container. The same paste may be used until it is dark brow from hair, and light yellow from manipulation (when sugar is stretched, it forms fibers, and there is often reflection among these fibers, which causes stretched sugar to take on a golden appearance).
