 To prevent the flu, avoid coming into close contact with people who have the flu. Close contact includes coming close to the mouth, so avoid kissing or hugging those with the flu. You should also avoid an infected person if they sneeze or cough near you. Any bodily fluid can transfer the flu germs.


Also avoid touching surfaces the infected individual touched, which will be contaminated with germs.
 Proper hand washing is the best way to prevent all kinds of infections. When you are in public or around a sick individual, you should wash your hands frequently. Carry hand sanitizer with you to use when you may not have access to a sink. According to the Center for Disease Control (CDC), proper hand washing technique is as follows:


Get your hands wet with clean, running water. It can be either warm or cold. Next, turn off the tap and apply soap.
Lather the soap into your hands by rubbing them together. Don’t forget the backs of your hands as well as in between your fingers and under your fingernails.
Rub your hands together for at least 20 seconds, which is about the length of time it takes to sing the traditional version of “Happy Birthday" twice.
Next, turn the faucet back on and rinse off the soap with warm water.
Take a clean towel and dry them. You can also air dry them with a hand dryer., A healthy lifestyle can keep your immune system strong and help fight off infections. You should eat a healthy diet rich in fruits and vegetables. You should also decrease your intake of fats, especially saturated fats, as well as sugar.


Vitamin C is an immune boosting vitamin. Although there is mixed evidence on its effectiveness to reduce symptoms, a healthy diet rich in vitamins and vitamin C doesn't hurt. Eat more citrus fruit, such as oranges and grapefruit, as well as cantaloupe, mangoes, papaya, watermelon, broccoli, green and red peppers, and leafy greens., Practicing yoga, tai chi, or meditation can help you relax on a daily basis. If you feel stressed out, it's important for your health to take some time for yourself every day, even if it's just ten minutes at a time. This can give your immune system that boost it needs.


Stress also messes with your hormones and may reduce your ability to fight infection., Chronic sleep loss can have many effects, including lowering your immune system.To stay healthy, it's important you get enough sleep every night. Adults should get between 7.5 to nine hours of sleep., Research says that exercise may cut your risk of flu and make your flu shot more effective. Do at least 30 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise, or exercise that increases your heart rate, most days of the week. This keeps your body working in top form and helps your fight against different infections.


Researchers don't exactly know how or why, but there are a few theories about how exercise can help fight different bacterial or viral infections. It is suggested that it flushes out bacteria from the lungs, through urine, and through sweat. It also is suggested that exercising sends antibodies and white blood cells through the body at a quicker speed, detecting illness earlier, and that the rise in body temperature prevents bacterial growth.