 A kid might try to order an unhealthy meal, caffeinated beverage, or other item parents might disapprove of. Give the parent a chance to object before you repeat the order.


If the parents aren't paying attention, repeat the order back loudly and clearly, addressing the whole table. This gives them another chance to notice.
In front of young kids, after a parent has objected, you may be able to smooth the argument away by saying "Sorry, we're all out of soda, can I get you something else?"
If you personally disapprove of someone's choice, don't say anything. This is up for the parents to decide, unless the order clearly violates the law, such as serving a child alcohol.
 If you are serving hot dishes, putting down metal utensils, or giving the table some other potentially dangerous item, do so near the parents and address them with a "Here you are, sir/ma'am" if you need to get their attention.
 Babies and young toddlers typically have a short attention span, and if the meal drags on, the parents and the whole restaurant could suffer as well. Check in more frequently on them than on other tables, and multitask as much as possible to speed up the process.


Ask if you can take the drink and meal orders together instead of in two visits.
Suggest a more quickly prepared alternative if one of the customers orders a dish that will take extra long.
This is the rare situation in which you should bring the check when you approach to clear the final dishes. You should still ask if the customers are finished first.
Do not make the customers feel like you're trying to throw them out. Many tired and busy parents will appreciate your prompt service, but if they are getting annoyed, back off and let them continue the meal at their own pace.
 If multiple customers at one table request to pay, try to place the check in the center of the table instead of near one of them. Just smile and say you'll be back to collect it if they try to involve you in the argument.
 People get very serious about their tea and coffee, and it pays to know how to serve it in a way that will make most people happy. Disregard this advice when serving regulars if you know they like their drink a certain way (which you should pay attention to).


Tea drinkers are often finicky about preparation. Always be sure you know which variety of tea they ordered, and provide plenty of milk, lemon wedges, and sugar on the side so they can customize their drink.
Do not refill tea or coffee without asking the customer. You may be changing their carefully prepared beverage.
Don't place the spoon in the tea or coffee before taking it to the customer. This lowers the temperature of the drink, which some customers don't appreciate.
 This is more relevant for people eating a meal than for people at the bar. Many people like to drink water in order to counteract the dehydrating or mood-changing effects of these substances.


You may not be able to follow this rule in regions outside the United States, where serving water is less common or comes with a price tag.
 Even if it is just a paper advertisement or a salt shaker, you should replace it with a new one from the kitchen. Your customers do not want to have "floor germs" on their table.
 Most commonly, this involves opening a bottle of wine. Many serving tasks you find difficult can easily be practiced when you "serve" yourself dinner, so they don't take much extra time to learn.


Most waiters who are supposed to open wine are expected to do so in front of the customers who ordered it. Practice this task to make it seem smooth and natural.
 If you have control over the music selection, keep it at a relatively low volume and choose something appropriate to the mood. Never play a full album; mix it up so a customer who doesn't like that artist has another chance to hear something they do enjoy.


Customers at a cafe, or eating during the morning and early afternoon, usually enjoy calming, unobtrusive music. Classical music is a good choice.
Customers eating in the evening may enjoy more energetic music, but this varies greatly depending on the atmosphere of the establishment. Most still want the volume low so they can talk to their friends. In any case, waitstaff rarely make music decisions for the busiest or most formal times of day.

