 One way to note when you are using passive, instead of active, voice is to go through your writing and look for common words that are found in passive sentences. Though not every passive sentence contains these keywords, watching for these words is a useful way fix instances of passive voice. Watch for the following forms of “to be” that might show up in a passive sentence:“Is”: For example, “Biking is something I do.”
“Was”: For example, “The rope was used by me in the race.”
“Were”: For example, “The berries were eaten by the kids.”
“Had been”: For example, “The game had been played by the man since dawn.”
“Have been” or "Has been": For example, “The singing has been done by the group all morning.”

, Once you have identified passive sentences in your writing, you should adjust the sentence so the subject is doing the action. The subject could be a person, an object, or a place. You want to make sure the subject is always before the verb and is doing the action, not being acted upon.For example, you may have the sentence, “The rope was used by me in the race.” You may adjust this sentence so it is in active voice, “I used the rope in the race.” In the active sentence, the subject “I” is doing the action, “used the rope in the race.”
Another example could be the passive sentence: “The game had been played by the man since dawn.” You may adjust the sentence so it is active: “At dawn, the man started playing the game” or “The man started the game at dawn.” In the active sentence, the subject “the man” is doing the action, the verb “played.”

, Do not shift from active voice back into passive voice. Sometimes, you may fall back into the habit of shifting into passive voice after a few sentences in the active voice. You may also make the mistake of starting a sentence in active voice and then ending the sentence in passive voice. You should make sure that every sentence has a subject who is doing an action, with the subject placed before the verb in the sentence.For example, you may have the following sentence: “She wanted to act calm when she heard the jokes, but she was still jeered at by her friends.” This sentence begins in active voice, with “She wanted” and then ends in passive voice. You can adjust it to all active voice, resulting in: “She wanted to act calm when she heard the jokes, but her friends still jeered at her.”

, Many sentences in the passive voice lack a subject and contain dangling modifiers. Identifying the subject can help to clarify your sentences and move from passive voice to active voice.For example, you may have the following sentence: “To save time, the essay was typed on a computer.” This sentence uses passive voice and a dangling modifier, as it is not clear who is saving time or who is typing the essay. The revised version of the sentence would be: “To save time, Tyler typed the essay on a computer.”

