 To get the most out of your training experience, you should learn everything you can about Dalmatians. Read books or websites about the breed, or talk to professional organizations or breeders. Once you understand the temperament and personality of the Dalmatian, you can be better prepared to train.Learning about the breed can help you know what kinds of things to expect from your dog. You can be prepared for bad habits or negative behaviors. You may learn tips on things you can do to deter bad behavior.
Understanding the breed can also help you learn which training methods made be better for the breed.
 Dalmatians were originally intended to walk behind carriages. This means that Dalmatians need a lot of exercise and physical activity. Dalmatians who do not receive enough exercise become bored, and a bored dog is a dog looking for trouble. Bad behavior such as chewing, barking, or unruliness will be the result if an active breed such as the Dalmatian does not receive sufficient exercise.A Dalmatian can easily soak up two separate one hour runs a day and still have energy to spare. You can take your training to the park where you can throw a ball and have your dog learn to fetch and retrieve, running backwards and forwards in the process.
Avoid leaving your Dalmatian for hours unattended in the yard as he will use his energy to bark at passersby or dig in the flower beds.
 Dalmatians love to chew. Be sure to provide plenty of exciting chew toys for him at all times. They also get bored easily, so giving them chew toys to keep their minds active can help prevent behavior problems.Consider feeding your Dalmatian dry kibble inside a Kong or use a puzzle feeder so that he uses mental energy to get food, which helps to relieve boredom.
 Dalmatian puppies have a tendency to get over-excited. If your Dalmatian puppy gets over-excited, he will stop listening to you. This is when mouthing, biting, and general bad behavior creeps in. To prevent this, pause every 15 seconds or so during play and get your Dalmatian to calm down.


Calming your Dalmatian is easily achieved by offering a small piece of his meal kibble as a reward. You can make this work double time by asking him to sit using the piece of kibble at the same time.

