 Ideally, photograph or draw each layer or interesting find in context. This data can often be very important for a historians to learn from.
 Most people can recognise a coin and scrap of ceramic as the things they are, but a local historian can give a far more interesting and informative analysis of how old the find really is and may provide interesting historical facts with it.


Be careful to examine and record everything that comes out of your test pit. Chunks of wood may be remains of a dead tree stump or branch, but if they also carry tool marks, this shows human activity even if it was simply chopping up firewood and a piece fell behind. The same applies to stones, especially flint-like stones if you live in an areas with known or suspected ancient occupation. These stones may be plain and natural, but some stone may be "worked", meaning it has been shaped for decorative or functional purposes. Traces of cement, mortar, plaster or chiseling frequently reveal that a stone has been part of something, such as being part of a tool, or could denote a place that these materials were produced.
Anything very delicate should not be cleaned by a hobbyist if it may be of any historical or analytical importance. Most finds can be brushed clean or even lightly cleaned in water if they are robust enough to tolerate it.
 While the chances of finding an ancient treasure is rare, you may find some evidence of people being in your area many decades before you, perhaps even one hundred years ago. Don't neglect the banal––everyday objects help to rebuild a picture of life as it once was, revealing what people did in times now gone and can tell you things such as the level of wealth or lack of it, the technological state of the community and the reliance on local or imported products.
 Be sure to mark out where you made the pit––this is useful not only in case you found something or wish to return to the site later, but finding nothing is a result, so you wouldn't want to re-dig it when you already know what's there. It's recommended to either draw a map, or print out a satellite image of your backyard from Google Maps or other online map programs and to outline on this map where you placed your trench.

