 Entering conversations with a good attitude will lead to more positive interactions with others and make it easier to get along. Smile and talk about positive things to the extent that you are able.You don't need to fake happiness if your best friend has just died, but generally, try not to burden others with your problems, especially minor gripes.
For example, if someone asks how you are, and you've just gotten in from a long, difficult commute, try to think of something good that happened that day that you can tell him or her about rather than immediately expressing your frustration with rush hour traffic.
 Don't just talk about yourself when interacting with others. Find something genuinely interesting about what they have to say, and ask questions about them.


This will make other people feel more important and valued by you.Be a good listener. People want to feel that what they have to say is heard by others. This will make people enjoy talking to you more and reduce conflict in your day-to-day conversations., Be careful of other people's feelings when talking to them. Avoid unnecessary criticisms or mean-spirited jokes that might make others feel bad.Compliment others, especially at the start of a conversation. Starting a conversation off with some sincere flattery will get things off on the right foot., Each person walks, talks, and generally moves through life at a different pace than others. It's easy to feel like your own pace is the "natural" one, but try to match the pace of other people.

If someone talks slowly and quietly, avoid talking to him loudly and at a rapid pace. This will make it more enjoyable and comfortable for the other person to talk to you.
 It's important to respect people's differences, but it's also good to focus on what you have in common with others.This will make conversation smoother and easier for both of you.


This works at both the individual and cultural level. Whether someone comes form a completely different culture or just has a very different personality from yours, looking for similarities is a good way to bridge the gap.
If, for example, you meet someone with conflicting political or religious beliefs, but find you both like baseball or dogs, focus the conversation on baseball and dogs, at least until you get to know the other person better.
 Making promises you can't live up to is a good way to create resentment with people. It can be difficult to say no to people, especially when you want to get along with everyone and may whole-heartedly want to say yes to everything, but there are ways to say no without being mean. This is part of communicating assertively.Promising to do something you really don't want to do or don't have time for can build resentment. If you end up not following through or doing a bad job, the other person may not trust you or have his own resentments, too. If you can't or don't want to do something, it's better to just say no.
When you say no you are not rejecting someone — you are simply refusing a request.You can say no directly, without excuses or explanation — "No, I can't do that." Or try saying no while acknowledging the sentiment behind the request, such as: "I know you really want to go for a hike this afternoon, but I can't today."
If you have to say no to something you want to do, but simply don't have time for right now, you might follow up with something like, "I can't hike today, but is there another time you'd like to go?"