 How frequently you need to sanitize your cage depends on a number of factors including the size of the cage, the size of your birds, the number of birds you have, and how much time daily your birds are in the cage. Find a cleaning schedule that meets the needs of your specific set-up.Smaller cages with individual birds may only need to be sanitized once a month, especially if the bird is regularly let out of the cage.
Large cages for large birds or cages for multiple birds should be sanitized weekly.
 Move your bird into a safe area such as an alternate cage and take all toys and accessories out of the cage to wash as you would for a daily washing. Remove the old liner and leave the cage bare.It is important to keep your bird in an area free from any exposure to fumes or excess product while you are cleaning your cage.
Remember to wash any dishes and cage accessories in hot, soapy water before returning them to the clean cage.
 Remove debris and droppings from the cage using a pet-friendly soap or washing detergent and a scrubbing pad. Scrape them off of any of the cage surfaces, as well as off of perches and toys.Sandpaper can be useful in removing stubborn debris from wooden perches or toys.
 Use hot, soapy water to wash down the cage completely, then rinse thoroughly removing all soap and suds. This may be manageable in a sink for smaller cages, but larger cages may require a shower or use of a hose outdoors.An animal-safe dish soap or detergent is sufficient for this stage in the cleaning process.
For better results disinfecting, use a clean towel to lightly dry the cage and soak up any excess water pooling around the cage’s surfaces.
 Once the cage has been washed, spray the cage from top to bottom with a cage disinfectant spray. Disinfectant sprays meant specifically for bird cages may be bought online or purchased at a local pet or bird specialty store. Rinse the cage thoroughly with water and allow to air-dry completely before returning the bird.Some people opt to use a vinegar cleaning solution of one part distilled white vinegar and two parts water. Another homemade solution is three cups hot water, three tablespoons baking soda, and three tablespoons lemon juice.If you do not have the means to spray the disinfectant on the cage, thoroughly wipe down every surface with a clean towel soaked in the disinfectant solution. Remember to use protective gloves whenever handling the disinfectant.
 Once the cage has been sanitized, rinsed, and dried you are ready to replace all dry perches, toys, dishes, and other cage components. Place in the clean cage lining and make sure the apron and surrounding area are clean and free of debris before allowing your bird back in.


Do not put wet or unrinsed components back in the cage, as these may cause harm to your bird or otherwise hinder their movement and access to parts of the cage.

