 Search for Bitmoji in the Play Store (in the app drawer), then tap Install.
 You can do this by tapping Open in the Play Store, or the green icon with a winking chat bubble in the app drawer., After opening the app for the first time, you’ll see the option to log in. You have some options:

Select Log in with Snapchat to connect Bitmoji to your Snapchat account.
Click Sign Up with Email to create an account that’s not connected to a social media network.
 You can customize nearly every aspect of your character’s appearance, including facial shape and features, hair, makeup, accessories, and outfits.

You’ll begin by choosing a gender and selecting either Bitmoji or Bitstrips-style characteristics. You can get a little more detailed with Bitstrips-style (for example, you can change the hair length with this style), but Bitmoji-style is more cartoonish.
Your Bitmoji character preview will update as you select features.
When you decide on a feature, tap the right arrow to go to the next screen.
When you’re finished, tap the checkmark at the top of the screen. This saves your character.
 After saving your character, you should see several Bitmoji to choose from. Swipe left through the Bitmoji to see your character in various scenes. When you find the right Bitmoji, tap to select it.

You can also tap the magnifying glass icon to search for an action (e.g. dancing, hug), emotion (e.g. happy, sorry), greeting (e.g. happy birthday), and many other choices.
 The apps that support Bitmoji appear at the bottom of the screen. Tap any app to open your Bitmoji in that app, then use that app’s tools to send it.

You can also save your Bitmoji to your phone without sharing it. Tap Save in the row of icons. It’s the last icon, all the way to the right.
To share Bitmoji in the future, just launch the Bitmoji app and make your selection.
 If you use Snapchat, you’ll probably want to set it up so you can add fun Bitmoji to your snaps.Open Snapchat.
Tap the ghost at the top-left corner.
Tap the gear icon and select Bitmoji.
Tap Link Bitmoji, then follow the on-screen instructions to connect your character to Snapchat.
 If you want your character to look different, launch the Bitmoji app and tap the Edit icon (a person’s head with a pencil). You can select a different style (Bitmoji or Bitstrips), new features, and a different outfit.