 In short, the silent partner is an investor in a business partnership who does nothing except provide their capital. This type of investor, also known as a "limited partner," has no hand in the daily operations of the business. They are limited in liability to the amount of their investment, meaning that they could lose their investment, but not more. This type of investment provides passive income with the potential to be quite large if the company grows. However, there is no guarantee that the other partners will follow through on the promised growth.Always consult with a lawyer before investing a silent partner. This will help you understand your legal and financial obligations to the company.
 In order to be a silent partner, you will need active partners to grow and maintain the business. Usually, these are either friends or family members looking for a way to get their business idea off the ground. Other times, you may be able to seek out small business owners looking for investors. In either case, investigate the other partners and determine whether or not they are trustworthy and business-savvy enough to grow their proposed company.
 Being a silent partner is not a completely inactive position. You can still review business proposals and usually have the right to vote on important company matters. Before investing or deciding on a large growth push, review the company's financial projections and business plans. Calculate the potential returns you could earn versus how much you stand to lose if the venture fails.
 Limited partnerships can only be created by filling out official documents with your state. In many cases, you'll have to draw up a formal partnership agreement that determines each partner's rights, responsibilities, and percentage ownership, among other important details.Even if you are not required to do this, you should anyway to avoid any conflicts in the future. As usual, always discuss this contract with a lawyer before signing it to make sure that you are being treated fairly in the agreement.

