 You might be able to get away with tight, dark jeans for much of the summer, but when it gets too hot, it’s time to adapt. Get a pair of jean cut-offs or slim, dark denim shorts with a rolled cuff.Instead of buying a pair of shorts, you could make your own by cutting off a pair of old jeans. Simply measure the length you want and mark a line on the inside of the fabric with a ruler. Cut along those lines on the legs with heavy shears, wash your new shorts, and you’re done.
You can also wear skinny pants that are more breathable while still being stylish if you get some razor-slashed jeans.;
, T-shirts are perfectly compatible with any summer wardrobe, and what better way to express Emo culture than repping your favorite bands?To make the strongest statement, track down band T’s at a concert, or make your own.
 Retro is always in season when it comes to Emo style. Shop thrift stores, browse vintage shops, or raid your parents’ closets for summer-appropriate vintage apparel, like mini-dresses and short-sleeved or sleeveless tops.Remember to keep your vintage summer looks slim and tight.
Emo style tends to be androgynous, so don’t be afraid to sport both men’s and women’s retro clothing.
Western shirts are a popular Emo vintage item that translate well to summer months.
 These simple Emo staples are great tops for hot weather. Stick to a light-weight cotton fabric or blend for maximum comfort.The plainer, the better. Avoid brands, like American Eagle or Ralph Lauren, that advertise themselves with logos on their shirts. American Apparel or vintage polos and v-necks are better options.
 Traditional Emo fashion is generally associated with dark colors. However, heavy and dark clothing absorbs more sun, making you feel hotter in the summer. Hence, even if you stick to the same types of clothing, it’s best to opt for lighter shades and fabrics during the summer.Try embracing the contemporary Emo trend towards brighter colors, like pink and white.
Even if you wear dark clothes, stick to lighter, breathable materials like cotton or rayon.
If you don’t want to go completely bright or light, try stripes. Chunky, horizontal stripes--especially with a black accent--are always in style.

