 Sometimes when you are assigned a research paper you are given a specific topic to write about. However, if you are given a broader topic area, it’s your job to narrow down your own specific topic. Choose a topic that you are interested in and will enjoy researching. It’s much harder to type up a research paper if you can’t find a topic you’ll enjoy learning more about.
If you are given a more specific topic, you can and should still brainstorm a specific angle for that topic to research.
For example, if you are given the assignment of writing a research paper on World War II, you can find an aspect of WWII that appeals to you. Perhaps you’re interested in researching Pearl Harbor, Dwight D. Eisenhower, or the contributions of a specific branch of the military.;
, Once you have your angle for the paper, do some research. Go online and research your topic. Go to your school’s library, or the public library and check out books on your chosen subject.


Encyclopedias both in print and online are also good sources.
When finding information, make sure to stay on your topic as best as you can. If you’re typing up a research paper on WWII, you’ll find a lot of information, and not all of it will be relevant or helpful to you. Be selective about the information you gather. If you’re gathering information online, make sure that you are getting this information from a reliable source. Government sites with a .gov and sites with a .org are usually reliable. However, even the information on these sites should be cross-checked with other information.
Write down your sources so that you can easily go back and find information.
Look for information that is found in multiple sources. If you are doing a research paper on Dwight D. Eisenhower’s contributions to WWII, look for information that you see in multiple sources like books, and different websites.
Do not rely on Wikipedia to be a reputable source. Many teachers will not allow you to cite Wikipedia as a source. Since Wikipedia can be edited by anyone, there is a chance that information is incorrect. However, you can use Wikipedia to gather basic information in the early stages. Check to see if this information is reliable by going to the source site that the info you found on a Wikipedia page came from. You can then use that source to check your information.
 Interview someone who is related to the topic. Avoid interviews with family members, unless your family member is an expert on your topic.


If you’re researching WWII, it may be unlikely that you have a family member who fought in WWII, but you may have a grandparent who was alive during the war. You can still ask this person for anecdotal information. It may not be useful as a concrete fact in your paper, but may help you find an angle, or give you an idea on what type of information to research.
Contact your professor and ask if there are other teachers at your school who may be experts on your topic who you can talk to.
Contact institutions who may be able to help you as well. If you’re researching WWII, contact your history museum and see if you can talk to someone there. If you’re writing a paper on the effects of smoking or something that might be health related, contact a doctor’s office in your area. Explain your purpose for getting in contact and ask if you could speak with a doctor to get information.
 Before typing your research paper, you need to come up with a good thesis statement. Your thesis statement is your point of view on your topic. It will express one main idea that covers your topic.


Your thesis statement should be an objective statement which can be argued by a reasonable person.
To help you come up with a thesis, turn your topic or assignment into a question which your thesis can answer. For example, if you’re writing about Dwight D. Eisenhower, formulate a question to narrow your topic. Maybe you decide that your research paper will be about Eisenhower’s contributions to America’s success in Europe. Therefore, you might ask the question “How did Dwight D. Eisenhower’s military tactics and plan to invade Normandy affect the outcome of World War II?”
Your thesis statement will then be a statement which broadly answers that question. You will then use this thesis statement to help you build your paper’s outline and focus on relevant information and sources.
 Writing an outline will not only help the actual writing of your paper but will help you to stay on topic. An outline makes a difference in how your paper is structured and interpreted by the reader.


Unless otherwise instructed, following the standard MLA format is a great way to structure your outline. MLA (Modern Language Association) is a commonly used format for structuring your papers in your word processor. It dictates your margins, spacing, font type, etc.
At the top center is the title of your paper.
Below, on a left indent, is your introduction. This is roughly a three to five sentence paragraph which gives basic information on what your topic is and what’s included in this paper. The end of your introductory paragraph typically contains your thesis.
Each paragraph is denoted by a Roman numeral in your outline. On your first line, start with a complete sentence that expresses the main idea which supports your thesis.
Your next line is denoted by a capital letter, starting with “A” for each section. Here you write a phrase that represents what you offer as proof from your research to support this main idea.
On the next lines below your capital letters are supporting points denoted by numbers, starting at “1”. Next to your number you will write a phrase that contains a specific example of support, detail, or statistic to back up your previous statement.
Here’s an example of a potential beginning to an outline if you’re writing about Eisenhower’s contribution to America’s success in Europe during WWII:

I. “Dwight D. Eisenhower’s superior tactical abilities aided in the successful invasion of Normandy, France on D-Day, ultimately shifting the tide of the war in the Allies’ favor.”
A. Here you might have a sentence that discusses the outcome of D-Day.
1. Support your statement about the outcome of D-Day by providing statistics and details that prove this invasion was a success.


Continue your outline in this format for your other paragraphs. In many cases, you will have three body paragraphs that support your thesis if writing in MLA.
 If you are required to write your paper in the APA (American Psychological Association) format, you will include sections in your outline for your Title page, Abstract page, Methods, and Discussion.


The Abstract page includes a concise summary of the key points of your research. Include your research topic, research questions, people who participated, methods, results, data, and the conclusions you found.
Your Method section will discuss how you came to your overall conclusion and gathered your findings. Your Discussion section is where you express your opinions and views, explain your findings and offer evidence.
If you’re writing an APA formatted paper, you will have these different sections instead of body paragraphs. The body of your paper begins with the Discussion section. This part of your paper is identified by typing “Discussion” as a level 1 heading, meaning it is centered and bolded. , With your outline typed up, go through all your notes and information and organize so that each bit of research information corresponds to a specific part of your outline.


Organizing your notes in this chronological order will make typing the paper much faster. You’ll be able to quickly find the correct resource to use or cite.
Likewise, get rid of any notes or information that no longer serve your outline. You can keep these notes if you wish to use the information later. But separate these less important and relevant notes so you don’t waste time sifting through when trying to find relevant information.
 After you’ve organized your notes and sources to match your outline, go over and check to make sure everything is reputable and that you have enough resources to support your thesis.


Check the accuracy of your research and verify that all of the information is factual and up-to-date. Especially if your research paper is on a current topic.
You may find through fact checking that you come across a new or central idea that helps you better discover the central topic of your paper.
Reading over all of your notes once again before you begin typing up your paper will also help you to learn the information better, allowing you to concisely communicate your point of view.
Read over your thesis one more time, making sure that it still applies to your research and answers the question of the assignment. You may find that you have to tweak it a bit.
 With everything in place and more knowledge on the central idea of your research paper, look over the structure of your outline.


You may find that you would be better off rearranging some of the body paragraphs.
Perhaps you found a better or new supporting source or statistic to back up an argument. Edit your outline to include this new source.
You may also find that you have irrelevant information in your outline which now distracts from your main idea. If this is the case, take it out.
 You will most likely be required to type your research paper in either MLA (Modern Language Association) or APA (American Psychological Association) formats. MLA is used for most types of papers written in school. The APA format is common when writing a paper related to the social sciences. Both styles are intended for presenting your information and sources in a specific way.


For MLA papers, your document settings require 1-inch margins on all sides, double-spaced, and 12-point font size.

You will include a page header on the top right, or flush right, of each page. This header includes your last name and the page number.


On a left indent, or flush left, you will include a title block which includes on individual lines, your full name, your teacher’s name, the name of the class, and the date the paper is due.

Following this information is the title of your paper which is centered.


APA styled papers include a 1-inch margin on all sides, double-spacing, and 12-point font.

You will include a page header, also known as a “running head” on top of every page. The running head includes page numbers flush right, and the title of your paper in ALL CAPS flush left.
 If you are writing in the APA format, you’ll need an Abstract page which is a concise summary of your research and findings. At the top of your page center your cursor and write “Abstract”. On the next line you will write your summary which includes all the relevant information to your paper. This is like a preview to your research paper and includes sources, persons interviewed, stats, and your findings. Do not indent your first line and keep your Abstract between 150 and 250 words.
 Your introductory paragraph starts on the next line below your title and the first line is indented. Don’t add extra spaces between your title and first paragraph for both MLA and APA.
You indent the first line by pressing the tab key. This equals about 5 spaces.
Your introductory paragraph is like an overview of your paper. This is where you set the scene and give your paper some context. Describe what the question of your paper is, and how you plan to solve the problem or reach the answer. At the end of your introductory paragraph, include your thesis. This is the answer to the question posed.
You’ve now told the reader the general purpose of your paper, how you plan to address the subject, and what your point of view is.
Write your introduction as if you’re speaking to a smart person who has knowledge on the subject. Don’t go into too much detail trying to explain every thought you have.
Keep it short. Aim for 3-5 sentences where you cover the broad topic, ask the question or define the problem, and end by stating your thesis or hypothesis.
 Begin the first body paragraph on the next line after your introduction. Indent the first line with the tab key again. In a lot of standard research papers that you will write in school, you will have three body paragraphs as three supporting arguments.


Flesh out your outline. Your outline is the skeleton of your paper and already has your arguments, sources, and examples laid out. For your body paragraphs, go through this outline and flesh out these points into narrative arguments, and examples that your reader can follow.
Go back to the notes you have organized and use these to find quotes, data, statistics, and any other information which you can include to expand your writing.
Expand your information to back up the arguments and points you expressed in your outline. It’s also a good idea to get each paragraph peer edited several times, and once by your teacher before your final draft. Your peers and teacher will provide another pair of eyes which can help you fill in any gaps or show you where you may be going off topic; as well as checking for spelling and grammar.
When citing sources or using quotes in your paper, you must immediately include the proper citation for reference. If citing a text with an author, you can either include the author’s name or a reference number which corresponds to a source in your Works Cited or References page. Include the name or number in parentheses after your sentence, but before the period. If you are quoting an author, introduce the quote with a phrase that provides the author’s last name and the date of the publication. Put the date in parentheses. Then begin your quote. After the quote, reference the source by page number if you found the quote in a book.

According to Jones (1998), "Students often had difficulty using APA style, especially when it was their first time" (p. 199). , Your conclusion paragraph like all the other paragraphs starts on the next line and is indented. Your conclusion is a summary, much like your introductory paragraph, which briefly touches on the question or problem with which you based the paper on. Include your methods or arguments for answering the question, or solving the problem, and restate your thesis.


In your conclusion, make sure you restate your topic and explain its importance.
Restate your thesis. You don’t want to simply write out your thesis. Instead, it should be a re-wording so that it compliments the information you have provided throughout the body of your paper.
Then summarize your main points. Quickly explain the points that served as your larger arguments from each paragraph and tie this information back into your thesis. Explain how these points supported your thesis.
Like your introduction, your conclusion doesn’t always have to be as long as your body paragraphs. However, it can be longer than your introduction. You might go into more depth on expressing how your main points contributed to your thesis.
 After you finish your first draft, take a break. After some time away, go back and read over your paper checking for any content errors, facts, sources, and quality. Then revise your paper into your final draft.


Your research paper won’t be complete after one draft. You will usually have some errors and may have not fully answered your thesis or provided enough relevant information. Some research papers even take three or four drafts before being complete.
Go through a checklist and make sure that you have included not only the right information but done so in a way that your reader can follow. Ask yourself:

Is my thesis clear and concise? Does it answer the question posed?
Did I follow my outline? Am I missing anything from it?
Have I proved my thesis throughout my paper clearly and with strong supporting arguments.
Have I given enough documented support to my arguments.


Once you can check off each item in this list, go through and check your paper for spelling and grammar. Make sure that your paper follows your formatting as well.
 You will have different formats for citing your sources depending on whether you’re writing in MLA or APA. References which are cited in your paper must have a Works Cited page in MLA, and a References page in APA.
The way you reference a citation or source will also differ based on where the source material was found. Book sources include the authors, title, city of publication, publisher, and year of publication. Journals and magazines need the journal title, article title, authors, volume and issue number, date of publication, and page numbers you used from the article. Websites require the author’s name (if given), title, group who manages or owns the site, last update date, the date you accessed the site, and URL.
Sources should be ordered alphabetically. Do not include the word “and” or an “&”. Capitalize all major words.
Your sources page should follow the same 1-inch margins and double-spacing. Do not add an extra space between each new source.

