 After you visit your doctor, your insurance company will send you an Explanation of Benefits. You will receive this form for all of your claims, regardless of whether they were approved or not. When the insurer rejects a claim, a code should appear on your EOB.The back of the form should have a key that will help you understand the code.;
, You might be denied for a variety of reasons. However, there are some common denials patients frequently see. The following are very common reasons your insurer will not cover a procedure:Your procedure isn’t covered by the plan. For example, your insurer might claim that vision services are not covered. However, you might have received treatment for a medical condition, such as diabetes, that is covered.
You’ve maxed out your benefits. Some services you can only receive a certain number of times a year. Also, your insurance might only cover up to a certain dollar amount.
The treatment isn’t “medically necessary.” Instead, it is investigative or experimental.Your doctor made a coding or transcription error. This means the doctor’s staff didn’t submit the correct information. This type of error should be easy to fix.
You didn’t receive a referral or pre-authorization.Some health insurers require that you get a referral before visiting a specialist. If you don’t, then they won’t pick up the cost.
 You can appeal other types of denials, even if they aren’t common. For example, you can fight any rejection, such as those based on the following:You joined the insurance plan after your medical problem started.
You went out of the approved provider network to receive treatment.
You are no longer enrolled in the health plan.
Your insurer has cancelled your insurance policy because you gave incomplete or false information when you enrolled.
 If you don’t understand your EOB, or if you have other questions, then you should call customer service. A telephone number should appear on your EOB.Keep a call log and always write down the day and time that you talk to your insurer. Also write down the name of the person you spoke to and a short summary of the conversation., If your doctor or healthcare facility made a coding or other transcription error, then call them up and ask them to correct it. They should submit the correct information to your insurer promptly.If possible, gather your papers and go to your doctor’s office in person. Politely explain, “My insurer rejected the procedure I had done last month. I think you made an error when you submitted my claim.” Then show the office staff your paperwork.
 Many states offer Consumer Assistance Programs that can help you with your appeal. If a program exists in your state, you should call them. They have experience helping people fight insurance claim denials and can bring an appeal for you.Check if your state has a CAP by visiting https://www.cms.gov/cciio/resources/consumer-assistance-grants/. Click on your state to find the nearest office.
Even if your state doesn’t have a CAP, they may have agencies available to help you. You can also find them at the website above. For example, Maine offers consumer assistance run by the Maine Hospice Council., Take out a copy of your policy and zero in on the language in the policy that is in dispute. You should be able to point to language that covers the medical procedure you received.


If you don’t have a copy of your policy, then contact your insurer.
Also look online. Some insurers post their policies on their websites.
 Talk to your doctor and ask them to write a detailed letter explaining why the treatment is medically necessary. If your doctor has never written this kind of letter, then point them to sample letters provided by Patient Advocate, available here: http://www.patientadvocate.org/requests/publications/Guide-Appeals-Process.pdf.


Also gather the results of any tests or procedures that are related to the procedure that was denied.
Take control of the situation and do your own research. For example, you can research scientific evidence at the pubmed.gov website, which is sponsored by the National Library of Medicine. Make note of the names of the scientists who work on these studies.You can contact them and ask them to review your medical records.
 An insurer must cover experimental treatments in a few situations. You should check whether any apply and get your doctor to write a letter explaining the circumstances. For example, experimental treatment may be covered if you can prove it is the following:Medically necessary and the standard treatment according to the medical community. Your doctor can attest to this.
The sole treatment that will work. Gather medical records showing all the treatments you have tried, and their results.
Less expensive than the standard treatment.
Your plan has covered the procedure in the past for patients with the same condition. Your doctor can identify if this is true.
 You’ll want to emphasize that your network didn’t have a provider in the specialty or that you had to wait an unreasonably long time for a provider in the network to see you.Write down the names of in-network providers you spoke to. Note the dates and times and when they said they could see you.
Ask the provider who treated you to write a letter explaining that there were no in-network specialists who could treat you within your geographic area.Also explain in written form the severity of your condition. It is unreasonable to expect you to wait to receive treatment in an emergency.
 Typically, you probably didn’t wait for a referral or pre-authorization because you were suffering from an emergency. As with receiving treatment out of network, you should document the seriousness of your condition. Also show that there wasn’t an in-network provider in your geographic area.


For example, you may have suffered an emergency while on vacation. If so, then write down details: where, what, when.
Get a copy of your medical records that will show you really did suffer from an emergency.
 You might not need a lawyer’s help if your appeal isn’t worth more than $1,000 and you have a firm handle on the appeal process. However, you might want to meet with a lawyer if the procedure costs a considerable amount of money or if you don’t know what evidence will be helpful in your appeal.Make sure to find an attorney who specializes in healthcare law. You can contact your nearest bar association and ask for a referral to a specialist.
Always discuss fees upfront and read a fee agreement before signing.
Remember that you can pull in an attorney at any stage in the process.
 Before bringing an internal appeal, you or your doctor can call and request reconsideration. If your doctor calls, they can ask to speak to a medical reviewer for a “peer-to-peer” review.You should have all of your supporting documentation lined up.


If you feel nervous, then you can ask your doctor or the doctor’s support staff to call for you.
 Your insurer should have a form you can fill out to ask for an internal appeal. If they don’t give you a form, then you should write your appeal and include your name, claim number, and health insurance ID number. You must submit your internal appeal within 180 days of receiving the notice of your denial.


Sample letters are available from Patient Advocate here: http://www.patientadvocate.org/requests/publications/Guide-Appeals-Process.pdf.
Keep a copy of the form and send the original to your insurer.
Also send copies of all supporting evidence and keep the originals for your records., In urgent health situations, you can file your external appeal at the same time as your internal appeal. You may file an expedited appeal if waiting for the results of a standard appeal would jeopardize your life or your ability to regain bodily function.Talk to your doctor if you have questions about whether you qualify for an expedited appeal.
You can’t file an expedited appeal if you’ve already received treatment and are merely challenging the denial., Federal law requires that your insurer complete the internal review promptly. You should receive a written decision from your insurance company. In particular, you are entitled to a decision based on the following timetable:If you haven’t yet received the medical procedure or service, you should receive your decision within 30 days.
If you’ve already received the medical procedure or service, then you should receive a decision within 60 days.
If you filed an expedited appeal, then you must receive a final decision within at least four business days after your insurer receives your request. The decision must be made as quickly as required by your medical condition. You will receive a verbal decision, with a written notice to follow within two days.
 Any insurer who rejects an internal appeal must provide you with details for how to ask for an external review.An external appeal will be conducted by a neutral third party who does not work for your health insurer. Read your letter to understand the process. If you lost your letter, then call your insurer and ask for another copy.


The rejection letter should also tell you the deadline for requesting an external review. You generally will have 60 days, but your insurer may give you more time.
It’s possible that your health plan will require more than one internal review before letting you ask for an external review. Your denial letter should explain whether this applies to you., The process will vary depending on the state where you live. Some states have an external review process that goes above and beyond what the federal government requires. In other states, the federal government’s Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) oversees external reviews.You can request an external review through HHS by calling 1-888-866-6205 or emailing ferp@maximus.com. You can also complete the request form available at http://www.externalappeal.com/Portals/8/Forms/ExtReviewReqInfoForm_28Jun12-AC3.pdf.
You can also have a doctor or other representative request the review for you. You should appoint them as your representative by completing the appropriate form, which is available at http://www.externalappeal.com/Portals/8/Forms/Appointment%20of%20Representative%20Form.pdf.
 You won’t need to pay anything if your state uses the HHS external review process. However, if your state doesn’t, then you may be charged a fee for the independent review organization that will review your appeal.


The fee cannot be more than $25 for each external review., You’ll receive a final decision on your external review as soon as possible. In any event, you’ll receive a decision no later than 60 days after your request is received.Consult with an attorney if you have been denied. Your only other option is to sue in court.