 One way to prevent heatstroke in a cat is to never leave them in a car. This is true during the summer or winter. A closed car in winter months can get too warm for a cat. If you will have to leave your cat in a car, leave it at home instead.If you are travelling with a cat in your vehicle, make sure it is cool inside. Make sure there is plenty of air moving and your cat is not in direct sunlight the entire time.;
, If your cat spends time outside, make sure there is a place for your cat to get out of the sun or heat. This can include trees that provide shade, a porch, under a building or carport, or an area you build specifically for your cat.During the hottest months and the heat of the day, consider limiting the amount of time that you allow your cat outside. Even in the shade, your cat may get too hot and be unable to cool down.
 If your cat lives indoors, you should make sure your cat is able to get to a cool area inside the house. Close blinds and curtains during the day to help reduce the heat in the house. Use air conditioning or a fan to keep cool air circulating.Never leave your cat in a hot room, such as an upstairs room with limited air flow, a hot attic, or a sunroom.
 Another way to help prevent heatstroke in your cat is to make sure they have plenty of water. Make sure the water is fresh and cool. This is important if your cat is inside or outside. Proper hydration can help your cat stay cool and help prevent heatstroke.Keep the water bowl out of the direct sunlight so it doesn’t get hot. Consider keeping the water in a cool, shaded place.
On very hot days, place ice cubes in the water to help cool it down.
 Some cats may be more prone to heat strokes. Cats with a shorter face and nose, such as Persians or Himalayans, may have trouble breathing and cooling their bodies. Old, young, or obese cats may also have more trouble in the heat. If you have any of these kinds of cats, you should make sure to take extra precautions to protect them from heatstroke.Cats with medical conditions may also be at greater risk for heatstroke. Cats who are sick, who have heart conditions, or who have trouble breathing can be more vulnerable.

