 Mix a tablespoon of regular salt in a glass or warm water. Take some of the mixture into your mouth and swish it around or gargle it so that it reaches the back of your throat. Spit it out and repeat with the rest of the salt water mixture. The salt water will help to dislodge mucus from the back of your throat.Do this once in the morning and once at night.
 Inhaling steam can help soften dried mucus and throat linings. It also acts as a natural decongestant that widens your nasal passageways, making it easier for you to breathe. Steam can also help to loosen secretions in your throat, which reduces the likelihood that you will cough.To create a steam inhaler at home:


Boil water. Place the boiled water in a large bowl. Cover your head with a towel and put your head over the bowl of hot water. Make sure that the towel covers your whole head and the bowl. The towel keeps the steam from escaping and dispersing. Inhale the steam until the water cools down.
You can also take a hot shower. Keep all of the windows and doors closed so that it becomes super steamy in your bathroom.
 Ginger has anti-inflammatory properties that can reduce swelling in your throat that is caused by mucus irritation. When the swelling in your throat goes down, you will be less inclined to cough.To consume more ginger:


Drink ginger tea, take ginger supplements, or add more raw ginger to your meals.
 Garlic contains allicin, which helps to combat colds and other respiratory issues. If your cough is caused by a cold, garlic is a good natural way to fight the cold because it can help to kill the virus causing the irritation in your throat.To consume more garlic:


Eat two to four raw garlic cloves a day. You can also take garlic supplements, or add more garlic to your meals.
 Echinacea contains alkylamides, which are known to reduce the duration of colds and other respiratory infections. Echinacea also prevents your nasal and throat passageways from drying out, which means that they are less likely to become irritated.


You can increase your intake of echinacea by drinking echinacea tea, taking supplements (in tablet form) or using echinacea tinctures.

