 Although some dock supervisors may be kind enough to loan you mechanical pallet moving equipment, it should never be assumed they'll automatically do so. Therefore, you should prepare your body to handle unloading trucks, piece by piece, off each pallet. This process can take anywhere from a few hours or up to eight depending on how full the trailer is - it's best to discuss how much time the trucker has before picking up their next load to determine if you'll need to recruit some assistance.;
, You may need to trek several miles by car, bus or foot to get to the warehouse location. Yellow Pages, both online and offline, become useful in this situation as does Craigslist or truck driver social media sites. You can find the latter by searching Google.
 Loitering or trespassing is strongly discouraged, and could land you in jail. Simply request the opportunity to speak with truckers that have 'touch' (loads the trucker must unload) freight and help them unload their semis. If you're given the nod, ask about any safety rules or equipment needed to be around the dock to help the warehouse remain OSHA compliant. If told to scram, it's best you leave quietly and move on towards the next warehouse.
 Some drivers are armed, or may wish to engage in physical combat if they feel threatened. Since they'll need to hand their bill of lading to the dock worker to check while unloading, it's best to hang where the dock entrance is.
 If the former, you'll need to wait for the next driver because the warehouse crew will unload the goods. If the latter, engage in conversation by asking them if they'd appreciate some help unloading their truck so they can get back on the road. Most truckers will be elated to have such help, especially those with some age.
 Truck drivers aren't particularly 'rich', but they'll part ways with money provided you do the work as promised. Some drivers will pay you upfront; some will pay after the work is done, whereas an even smaller group of drivers may buy you lunch and pay you during your meal.
 Perhaps they'll call you when they come back into town, giving you residual employment for as long as they're employed by their current carrier.

