 How much are you willing to spend on a computer? If you're willing to spend more than $200, try reading Build a Computer. If you're spending less, then continue to read.;
, Try researching computer hardware online or in libraries. Understand what is necessary and what is not. You need a motherboard, a CPU, heat sync, and compatible memory. You also need a power supply, graphics card, and one drive (probably two). You need cables to mount the drives as well. You also need a keyboard, monitor, and external power cable with which to power on, see, and control your computer. Try looking at the following pictures to know what hardware looks like.
 Make sure everything is compatible. First make sure that you have a motherboard. Then make sure the CPU is compatible, then the memory. Then check to see that the graphics card will fit, and that any other cards (if you want to connect to the internet, ethernet/wireless/modem card) will fit in the slots on the motherboard. So, if you bought an older or even used or refurbished motherboard, you may want PCI and AGP cards, and if it's really old, ISA cards, if it's newer, you may want PCI-Express.Since you're being cheap, make sure that the motherboard supports IDE drives. Then choose a CD-ROM, Floppy, or Hard Drive to go with your computer. You may want to have a Hard Drive with either a CD or Floppy or even all three. If you're simple, all three of these drives together can be pretty cheap.
 Make sure they fit into your budget.
 Try going to your local computer supply store, , , or any other computer wholesale site you know. You can also try looking on a search engine for multiple people selling used parts. Used parts are usually cheaper and, if you're lucky, modded to have better performance.
 These will tell you if you need to move any jumpers on the hardware or install any drivers for them to work properly.
 The case will have holes for stand-offs (where the screws screw into). Make sure you place these stand-offs in the correct position on the case in relation to where the holes are at on the motherboard. A misplaced stand-off can ruin a motherboard if it touches the circuitry.
 You should be careful doing this, since this is pretty much the computer itself.
 Use thermal paste to evenly distribute the heat onto the cooler/heat sink. Having adequate cooling for your CPU is important, a CPU that is not cool will cause an unstable computer and shorten the life of the CPU.
 It saves your BIOS settings including your date and time. If you don't have one then you can visit your local computer store and ask for one.
, The colorful cables coming from the ATX power supply are the power cables, find the cables that fit the power slot on the motherboard.
 The graphics card is one of the extra cards off of the motherboard. This is the only necessary out of the cards unless your motherboard has one built in. It would be a good idea to plug in any other cards you have as well (again, if it's a web browsing computer, these cards would be your ethernet/wireless/modem cards).
 If you were being cheap you bought IDE drives. Set the IDE pins according to what they are (master/slave drives). If you have a Hard Drive and a CD-ROM, set the Hard Drive to master and CD-ROM to slave. Then mount the floppy drive. It has no pin set, just plug it in. Note that it requires a floppy cable, not an IDE cable. Make sure you flip the cable to the right orientation on all drives.
 Find the corresponding power cables and plug them in to the power slots on the drives.
 Plug in the monitor, keyboard, and power cable. Turn on the computer and enter the BIOS. On most computers, you can enter the BIOS by pressing DEL or one of the function keys (F1, F2, etc.). Tell the computer what you have done. Also set the date and time (if you installed a CMOS battery).
 If you have an operating system on Floppy, be sure to enable boot up floppy seek.
 Follow the onscreen instructions and format the C: drive to a filesystem according to the operating system you are installing. For information on file systems, contact Boidsie.
,