 What do you not like? Get rid of it. Go through your closet, and make a pile of things you don't like or don't fit you anymore. Put all clothes that fits in that category in it. Go through your makeup. What do you think looks best on you? Keep it! All of the makeup you think is ugly or doesn't look right on you needs to be given away. Go through jewelry, stuffed animals (If you have any), and everything, and just get rid of the stuff you don't want. Giving the stuff you don't like to charity - somebody out there wants all of the stuff you don't like, in fact, needs it.;
, If they let you, paint the walls a color you love. Is your favorite color pink? Paint the walls pink. Blue? Paint the walls blue. Or, if you don't think you'll be able to paint anything without messing something up, ask your parents to try painting, and if they say they can't, try looking for a professional painter by using an address book. And don't stop with painting! Look for furniture you really like, and put it up in your room. Get new blankets for your bed - the bed is a part of my room I really tend to focus on, and I think others should do the same - it's basically the part of your room others tend to look at first, plus you sleep in it, so get some pretty new blankets and pillows to put up. But make sure they're comfy! You don't want to sleep in a bed that feels like sandpaper, right? Also put up pictures of your friends. Doesn't it make you feel great when you walk into your friend's room and there's a photo of you with them on one of your best days of your life? Let your friends have that same feeling. And don't stop with friends - put up pictures of family members, pets, and other things that make you and others feel great!

, It doesn't have to be something that's 'in style', but choose a look you love and that's totally you, and go for it! Two words: be yourself. Go to a local salon or hair stylist, and get a new 'do. Ask them what would look best on you, and if you like it, go for it! Don't choose something you hate just because it looks nice on you - this guide is about living the way you want to, right? Right! So don't live with a hairstyle you hate. Go through the makeup you kept, and try putting some on. There's plenty of great articles here on wikiHow on makeup tips, so try using some! But you don't have to put on makeup if you don't want to - wearing a bare face is fine, too, and if you're younger than 13, you probably shouldn't even be wearing makeup, anyway. Try going to a spa for a relaxing facial or massage to make you feel great, or if you can't afford it, try giving yourself an at-home spa treatment. Like with the makeup, there's plenty of guides on at-home spa treatment recipes on wikiHow that will help. And if you don't like how your nails are looking, give yourself a manicure! Your nails can look just as good as they'd look at a nail salon if you do them at home, plus it's so much cheaper. And don't stop here - if there's any other things you'd like to do to groom yourself, do those, too. The sky's the limit!

, Go shopping, and buy clothes you love. Don't buy things that are 'in' if you don't like them - you can buy 'in' things if you like them, though. Shop at any place you want! There are many different clothing stores, so shop at ones with styles you love. Try not to buy things that are too expensive, you don't want to spend all of your shopping money on just one thing instead of clothing to replace the things you got rid of. Get jewelry, purses, shoes, and other things if you want! Just make sure you like everything you buy, and feel free to show your own personal style.
 Keep your attitude the way you like. Just one thing you should change if you're not already - be kind to others, treat them the way you'd like to be treated. And that's it! Don't care what other people think of you - it's just a small amount of people. Think of all of the other people who love and care about you, and ignore people who are mean to you - think of it this way. When you're out of college and have a job, you'll find tons of new friends, and by that age people won't be so immature just because they don't like your t-shirt.
 By now you're living the way you want to. You have a room you love, a new look you adore, and new clothing and accessories you think are great. You're being yourself, and even improved yourself on the way. You're like a human-goddess.

