 Sure, doing it in your drive will mean you don't need permission, but you won't get much money. The best way is to join a charity and ask permission to hold an event with their help. Whatever you do, get permission from either the council or whoever/whatever owns the land.;
, It is hard to run a successful Lucky Dip with one person. Get enough people that at least one person will always be at the stall - an unsupervised stall may turn into a police investigation.
 It'd be best if everyone chipped in for supplies. All the people running the stall should come to buy the supplies.
 Polystyrene balls are easily found in stationary shops, whereas the best wrapping paper to use is brown postage paper, as it can be easily bought, doesn't cost much and it may already be somewhere in your house. You obviously need adhesive tape.
 This part can be quite enjoyable. You can use either cash or credit/debit card. Make sure to keep a bit of spare cash if using card, not everywhere accepts it. The best places to buy it are at bargain stores, like The Pound Shop/The Dollar Store. An example is you could buy a pack of 20 stretchy men for £1.00 (around $2) at a bargain store when you can buy the same thing at a superstore for £5.00 (around $10). Worth it? Of course!

, If you can drive to the place, use a big pot and make sure it's held so it can't tip over. If you have to walk there, buy a big bucket with a handle and carry then. Just don't splash your money out on it.
 Clearly write something like this (replace p with whatever the equivalent currency is if you don't live in UK):


LUCKY DIP - ONLY 20P - ALL MONEY GOES TO CHARITY.
 Just wait and be patient until someone comes. When they come, greet them and ask whether they'd want to try the lucky dip.Remember service with a smile! If they say No, it doesn't matter. If yes, get the money and carefully observe their actions. If they pick out more than one, stop them from going away. If they escape, either tell whoever is supervising the room, get them, or not do anything.
 Then give to who you're supposed to give it to.
 You may wish to announce the money you raised (if possible). Put away the stall and perhaps give away the extra items. Congratulations!

