 You will need these pins for this style to work, so make sure you get u-pins before you begin. You cannot use bobby pins for this style; you will need u-pins specifically. They are about the same length as a bobby pin, but they are wider and the sides do not touch.


Purchase a pack of these at Target, Walgreens or online at amazon.
You will want to have at least 25 of these pins.
They do not need to be wavy u-pins. But, if you only have the wavy pins, they will work just fine.;
, You will want to use a medium heat setting instead of a hot heat setting for this hair style. You need to use the medium heat setting to keep from unnecessarily damaging your hair.


There are three general heat settings: low is for dry or damaged hair and is about 250-300 degrees, 300-350 degrees is for medium or average hair, and 350-400 will be for coarse or thick hair. If your hair is fine or damaged, you will want to use the low heat setting on your straightener.
You can buy a straightener with heat settings from brands like Hot Tools or Remington at a Target or Walgreens for as little as 20-30 dollars.
 This can also be called a tall comb. These combs will help you volumize at the root of your hair to create more texture if you want to add extra oomph to your style. , Because you want to protect your hair from heat damage, make sure you have a thermal heat spray. Additionally, you will want to give your hair some hold and texture with hair spray. You can find these two products combined into one, and if you want to buy that product, that would be ideal. However, you can use the two separately as well.


You can purchase your thermal hair spray from a Walgreens, Target or Amazon. , You will want to add fluff to your style after it is done by brushing through your hair with a good brush. Get out your vented brush to add volume if you have one, but any brush will do. , While you are working with sections of your hair, you will need to keep your rest of your hair out of the way. You can use hair clips specifically designed for hair styling, or you can use any clips that you would use to keep your hair back. If you don’t have any, a hair tie can work to keep your stray hair out of the way.

