 If you’re considering entering into a long distance relationship, make sure you’re prepared for the reality of what that will entail. If you know you’re at least willing to try it out, remind yourself that the distance may also facilitate your ability to get to know your fling for who they really are without the pressure and potential logistical challenges posed by dating someone you live near.Believe it or not, putting effort into making time for one another to stay in touch and having periodic, heartfelt conversations may actually allow you to learn a great deal about one another’s aspirations and sense of themselves in the world.
Often, the opportunities for the level of depth often found in intentional conversations passes people by when they’re spending time together face-to-face. In this sense, the distance may even be a blessing in disguise.
 All of the other media platforms aside, the utility of a webcam to a long distance relationship cannot be understated. They are also surprisingly cheap and easy to use. Further, plan specific times to video chat with one another – just as you would plan a date if you lived closer together.In fact, you can even treat a video chat as though it is a date. Ask them out, make a plan, and agree to get the same sort of food or beverage to “share” together.
You can really get into it by dressing up and lighting candles. As silly as it seems, it can go a long way to show how excited you are about spending time together – even if it is through a webcam.
 Long distance relationships often have slightly different parameters of exclusivity compared to people who are able to see each other more frequently. Talk about what the ideal relationship would be for each of you, and figure out an agreement that you’re both happy with. At the very least, discuss the degree to which your relationship is open or monogamous to establish the trust and communication that are necessary to maintain a long distance relationship of any sort.Consider allowing some openness within the relationship when you are not visiting one another, for instance. Complete monogamy isn’t for everyone – especially when you’re living far apart.
Don’t hesitate to bring up the specifics – open communication is vital. Talk about whether you’re comfortable with one another dating and potentially being physically intimate with other people.
If your feelings about the understanding you two have changes, be sure to articulate how and why you feel differently.
 It will likely be easier to see one another than you think. While longer distances will make it harder, you can always find an excuse to see one another. Extend your business trip and stop wherever they live on your way back home. Even better: go on vacation again, this time knowing you’ll be going together. Especially if distance or finances make visits less frequent, plan trips in advance so you can talk about them and have something especially exciting to look forward to together.If you're still living at home and unable to make your own travel plans, reconnecting might be tricky. Perhaps you can ask your family to make travel plans that will allow you to share another vacation rendezvous with your fling.
Visiting one another in person also helps in another extremely important way. When you’re only every communicating through technology, and especially if these conversations are infrequent at times, you may end up filling the gaps with your imagination. Getting together reminds you of the real person with whom you have a relationship – the good, the bad, and the just plain true.
 If your relationship continues to go as well as it had when you first met in vacation land, don’t miss the opportunity to see if living closer to one another is an option. If you never talk about the potential of removing the long distance from your relationship, the distance itself is likely to slowly come between you. As soon as you feel inclined to do so, simply ask about how your romantic partner feels about starting to plan to live closer to one another.Most importantly, be open about how you’re feeling every step of the way. All relationships take work, and those that happen unexpectedly may require a touch more effort initially – but may also lead to a romance that keeps you feeling as though you’re living in a permanent vacation.

