 Fresh beets often have bits of dirt on them, so use a vegetable brush if necessary to scrub it away. On a cutting board, remove the greens and stems using a sharp knife.


When you're choosing beets, make sure they're firm and unbruised. Beets that are soft to the touch or discolored are not fresh enough to pickle. Make sure to use high-quality fresh beets.
If your beets came with the greens attached, you can save them and cook them up for a tasty green treat. Beet greens are delicious chopped and sauteed in butter or olive oil.;
, It's necessary to cook them before you pickle them, and the most common way to do so is boiling. Place the beets in a medium-sized pot with water. Bring it to a boil, and then reduce to a simmer. Cover the pot and allow to cook for 25-30 minutes.There is another way to cook the beets: you can roast them. This will result in a slightly different final texture and flavor. Wrap them in aluminum foil and roast at 350ʡF (177ʡC) for about an hour, until the beets are cooked through., The beets should be tender to the touch, and the skin should come off easily using your hands. You may want to let them cool for a few minutes before handling.
 It's common to slice beets for pickling, but you could also cut them into quarters or bite-sized pieces. Whole beets will take longer to completely pickle than sliced beets. When you're finished, place beets into one or more large jars.


Glass mason jars are the best storage containers for pickled beets, since the glass won't react with the pickling brine.
Do not use a metal or plastic container, since these materials could react with the pickling brine and taint the beets.
 Add the vinegar, water, sugar, and garlic to a small pot. Bring to a boil, stirring occasionally, then reduce the heat to a simmer. Allow the mixture to cook for five minutes, then remove it from heat and allow it to cool completely.
 You should have enough to completely cover the beets. Cover the jar and place it in the refrigerator.
 Stir the mixture occasionally so the brine touches all edges of the beets. Pickled beets can be stored in the refrigerator for up to three months.

