 It's hard to change bad habits that you've acquired over an extended period. Take pride in small victories, like cutting out sugar from your coffee in the morning, or eating carrots instead of chips at lunch. Do not go off and try to change your entire lifestyle, because it will be unenjoyable and often unhealthy for you.Understand that dieting is a gradual change and doesn't happen overnight.


An example would be switching from whole milk to skim milk.
Find healthier alternatives to snacks that you'd eat throughout the day without starving yourself.
 It's unrealistic and unhelpful to create unattainable goals for yourself. Set realistic, short-term goals for your diet and work every day towards these goals. Create deadlines for your initial set of goals and work towards achieving them. Instead of aiming to lose 30 pounds in 3 weeks, set a goal to lose 1-2 pounds this week. Once you meet that goal, aim to continue the trend for several months until your ultimate goal of losing 30 pounds is met.


Make sure your goals are SMART, which stands for specific, measurable, agreed-upon, realistic, and time-based., Substantial reduction in your daily caloric intake could leave you hungry, which could lead to binge eating. Also, a lack of essential nutrients and vitamins like vitamins A, C, and E could cause acne, dry hair and skin, hyperkeratosis, and broken fingernails.Be wary of "crash diets" or diets that concentrate on restricting or eliminating your daily intake of calories. These unhealthy diets can weaken your immune system and can result in dehydration, heart palpitations, and cardiac stress., To get the best advice for starting and maintaining a healthy diet tailored to your individual situation, you should consult your doctor. Talk to them about the diet that you are considering and ask them if any existing medical conditions would make the diet ineffective or unsafe. Ask your doctor for a referral to see a registered dietitian. They can provide you with new tactics or strategies that could help you choose smarter food choices.Remember to stay hydrated, get enough sleep, and slowly alter your eating habits to form to your new diet.
 It's easy to want to quit after making a mistake. However, in dieting, this won't result in better health. Instead of getting down on yourself every time you violate your diet, take an objective view of how you messed up, and think of what you can do to prevent yourself from doing it in the future. Don't dwell on making a mistake, and continue to work towards your dieting goals even if you mess up occasionally.For instance, if you mess up on your diet because you went to a gathering that had cookies and cake, try to stay away from gatherings that have cookies and cake or make sure to fill up on healthy food before attending an event that has unhealthy food.

