 On the off chance that your parents awaken and lock all the doors, take a key. To be doubly sure of your re-entry, prop open a window (or two). Just make sure you cover your tracks once inside!

, In your haste and adrenaline, it'll be easy to get excited and to make poor decisions. Try to stay calm. The consequences are plenty if you don't!


Don't concern yourself with being late for your friends. If it's taking you longer to pry out that screen, they can wait. Text them you're having problems. Do not get harried and wind up falling down stairs or breaking windows just to get there on time.
 Use a spot that is in the center of your group's houses, but is also out of sight from any neighbors. You don't want them getting suspicious or calling the police either!


Many places have curfew laws; keep this in mind. While you may feel tax-free, you aren't necessarily. Always keep an eye out for possible mishaps and lay low throughout the night.
 This all depends on where you get caught, so use your environment as your alibi. If you get caught in the kitchen, you were hungry. If you get caught in the doorway, you heard something outside and were nervous there was a burglar. If you get caught on the lawn (hopefully still in your bedclothes), you were waiting for the meteor shower to start.


Be smart about it. If you're carrying a purse or your wallet, that could be a dead giveaway. If your cell phone is in hand, you're good as busted. Make sure your story is mostly believable, even if it is a bit strange.
 The show's not over yet, folks! Leave all of your obvious materials (phone, purse, jacket, wallet, hat, shoes) in a hidden place outside your house -- it is possible that your parents might be waiting inside for you. If you have your bedclothes stuck in the grill, great! Put 'em back on. They'll think you're crazy, but they may lessen your punishment in their confusion as to what the truth actually is.


Your story is up to you. What fits into your personality? Would a casual stroll be enough of an alibi? Do you have a tree house or similar place you could sneak away to that would lessen the blow? If they ask why you did such a stupid thing, say you were very stressed about an upcoming event like a test or talent show, etc. You may still get grounded, but it'll be much better than being grounded for sneaking out.
 In the event that your parents are either waiting up or are suspicious the next day, clear your phone. They may have the bright idea of taking it when you're not looking and going through it. You don't want to give them proof!


Clear all of them. It looks less suspicious if you have an empty inbox than if you have all texts deleted from the last 24 hours. Most people do periodic sweeps through their phones to clear everything out, and you did, too.

