 If you are co-dependent on others for your emotional health, lifestyle, or need them to tell you what to do, you are not in control of your life. Learn to solve your own problems and spend time alone to think and reflect. Only ask for help when you really need it, and learn from the people who help you so you can do more on your own next time.Learn to meet your own needs. Get a job so you can support yourself if you live off of someone else. Then move out, and live on your own.
Ask yourself, “What do I want to do today?” and make your own decisions. Think about what you love doing and what you feel passionately about. Don’t rely on others to tell you what to do or like., Organization is important when you want to take control of your life. If everything is chaos in your head and in your house, then it is difficult to know where to start to solve any messes. Keep everything as neat as possible at home and at work so you don’t have to deal with clutter, and remember to put things back where they should be. Make lists, use a calendar and make decisions often instead of putting everything off.Read papers, email and mail right away and take action right away, whether that means throwing it out, paying a bill or responding to a letter.
Set up a daily schedule throughout the week, such as shopping, family time, appointments, task lists, etc.
Throw things out that you haven’t used in six months. Don’t hold on to something because you could potentially use it in the future.
Work on one thing at a time, particularly something small like a closet, and organize that first. Then move onto the next thing.
 Devoting some energy toward the way you appear to others can go a long way to make you feel better and more in control. Get a haircut, dye your hair, or do your hair in a new style. Buy or borrow some new clothes, and be sure to smile as often as possible. Be mindful of how much you spend, though, so you can keep control of your finances.
 Pay attention to what you eat, how much you eat and try to get some exercise every day. For strengthening your willpower, you will want to eat small portions of energy-rich foods throughout the day (every 3 hours). These foods include lean proteins (meat and legumes) and complex carbohydrates (whole grains, fruit and vegetables). Avoid sugary, fatty, overly processed or salty foods that can make you feel bad and not have the strength to take control of your life.
 When you are tired, you don’t have the strength to maintain your self-control or do more than you have to. Taking control of your life requires being alert and aware of what is happening and where you want to go. Sleep for as long as you need to feel rested when you wake up — usually about eight hours. Start to relax at least 30 minutes before you go to sleep, follow a bedtime ritual (e.g. drink warm tea, brush your teeth, get into bed) and try to go to sleep about the same time every night and wake up at the same time each morning., Surround yourself with people who share similar values and goals. Try to get to know the people you admire, and spend time with them so their behavior can help influence you for the better. Meet new people at places or events that support your values or goals. Talk to people close to you, and enlist their help in assisting you to achieve more control over your life.


Communicate wants and needs and be sure that both people understand. Listen, and come up with solutions that work for both parties. Always express appreciation for the other person., If you feel like you are constantly up against time in a never-ending race to complete tasks, rushing through or being pulled in multiple different directions, it’s time to reevaluate your priorities. Take a look at all the things that demand your time on a daily basis. Reduce those commitments down to just a few of the most important things that you can really focus on.You may be resistant to dropping a commitment, but your choices in this situation are: continue to struggle to get things done, losing sleep, family time and impinging on other goals, do less-than-stellar or half-finished work, or letting something go.
It’s ok to admit that you took on too much and cannot complete every task as well as you could with less commitments. Often, what you fear will happen as a consequence to giving a project up is unfounded.
Minimize distractions. Avoid or get rid of the things that keep you from doing what needs to get done. If you’re trying to be more healthy, for example, throw away candy and garbage foods so you can avoid them more easily. Turn off phones and email notifications while working to keep your mind focused on getting the job done.
 Life isn’t all work and no play. Allow yourself time to pursue your hobbies, take vacations, and spend time with those you care about. Give in to a little selfish pleasure every now and then, such as an ice cream cone or buying a new pair of shoes. You’re in control now, so make the most out of your life experiences.


It can help to get up just a few minutes early each morning to spend five to 15 minutes on yourself. Work out, take a walk, or meditate. It is bound to make a difference in your life.

