 Is he over 16? If he is not 16 yet, don't date him yet. Mormons are taught in "For the Strength of Youth" not to date until they are at least 16. If the Mormon guy you want to date is 16 or over, that is great! You can ask him out.;
, It may be safer to get familiar with the church so that you can understand more of the guy you are dating. Get to know his culture and background. For example, don't ask "So, how many moms do you have?" because polygamy was stopped in the church in the late 1800s. Ask him questions. Mormons are usually happy to share their beliefs. Be respectful.
 All Mormon guys will admit they are often more attracted to and have more respect for girls who cover their bodies. Avoid wearing sleeveless shirts, low cut shirts, short shorts, short skirts, and anything that exposes your body immodestly. Always cover yourself, and have a nice appearance. The Mormon guy you are dating will highly appreciate you.
 Be kind, and respect his beliefs. You may find it difficult to be yourself while following this guy's standards; realize that some people just aren't meant to be together.
 Praying before meals. This is usually done at home and with family and not in restaurants. (If you don't know how what to do during a prayer being said, close your eyes and fold your arms. You will see others around you doing the same.)


Attending Seminary. Seminary is a religious class on the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and other scriptures. It is held before or during school. Children attend while they are in high school; 9th-12th grade. When in college, Mormons go to Institute, which is the same as seminary but for college students.
 Mormonism, along with many other Christian faiths, follows the law of chastity. This means Mormons do not have sex until after they are married. They also do not live with people they are in a relationship with until they are married. So do not participate in passionate kissing, lying on top of the other person or touching the private, sacred parts of another person’s body with or without clothing.

