 Whether you are in an uncontested or contested divorce, you need to be ready to discuss a settlement with the other side. Before you or your lawyer can effectively negotiate, you need to know what you want out of a settlement. Talk with your lawyer about what you find important and what you want to get out of the divorce. make a list of priorities that you and your lawyer can use to steer settlement talks.

For example, some people consider money and finances to be the most important aspect of a divorce. For these people, giving up child custody may be okay so long as they get to keep the retirement funds, stocks, and property.
Other people consider their children to be the most important thing in a divorce. These people may be willing to give up the summer home or alimony if it means they get custody of their children.
 While marriage is a personal relationship, it's more productive to treat divorce as a business relationship. Even though you might be negotiating with a person who gets under your skin, negotiating out of anger is only going to create a negative feedback loop that will render compromise on any one point more difficult.Treat your spouse like you might treat a co-worker you don’t like. There are always people you don’t get along with at work, but most of the time, dealing with them doesn’t degenerate into outright conflict. Just remember that the divorce settlement is the job that you and your spouse have to do.
 A lot of the negotiation might be done through attorneys and mediators. It will save you time and money if your financial information is in proper order the first time you meet with your attorney.Financial information includes deeds to real estate, titles to automobiles, mortgages, loans, retirement accounts, value of collectibles, and tax information for the past several years.
Before you speak with your attorney, write out a list of your goals for the divorce settlement. Include financial goals and custodial goals.
 Like negotiating out of anger, this is another short-sighted tactic that will most likely only make things more difficult down the road. You’ll probably get caught anyway, and when the judge finds out, they won’t be happy.While you’re in the midst of a negotiation, it’s easy to see it as a zero-sum game, where one person’s gain is the other’s loss. Especially if you have children, that’s probably inaccurate. Do you really want to inflict financial misery on your child’s parent, and by extension, your child?

, Remember, you want to think of the dissolution of your marriage like the dissolution of a business partnership. Your spouse may not have worked outside the home for several years, but that doesn’t mean that they weren’t performing work on behalf of the partnership.If it helps, imagine a business partnership where one partner does accounting, bookkeeping, and operations, while the other partner spends time in the field making sales. Even though the partner in the field seems to be bringing in the money, they wouldn’t have things to sell if someone wasn’t keeping track of the inventory and filling the orders., Each marriage is an individual entity. They are boutiques, not franchises. Comparing your friend’s divorce settlement to your divorce settlement is a recipe for dissatisfaction.Remember, divorces deal with private matters. Even if you can’t think of a single reason why your buddy’s settlement should have turned out differently than yours, it doesn’t mean that there isn’t a reason--there might be very good reasons. They might just be reasons that remain undisclosed.

