;
, Ask the teddy as you would if you were talking to a small child.
 Don't forget your stuffed animal too; brush its fur and teeth. Note that some stuffed animals (like a plush Rocket) don't have teeth. Wash both of your faces with a damp washcloth.
 Find a cute outfit for both you and stuffed animal! Baby clothes work great for twelve-inch bears or stuffed animals.
 Set a place for your stuffed animal to make him/her feel special.


Try taking a piece of paper, drawing lines in different colors all around the paper, crumpling it up, and tearing or cutting pieces off it to make teddy food. Give it to your stuffed pal for breakfast.
 Hold a conversation with your stuffed animal. Take it with you to play a game.
 Find a movie that's age appropriate for both of you. Avoid anything that might scare your toy.
 Go back to the table that you set for breakfast and make yourself some lunch. Talk to your furry friend about the day ahead.
 Give your stuffed animal a miniature briefcase and work on anything you have to do.
 Get your parents or an older sibling to take you somewhere with your stuffed toy. Not everything can happen at home! Maybe you both could go to the park or hang out at the bowling alley? Anywhere is fine so long as you both enjoy it. You could also take your stuffed toy to the bookstore or coffee shop.


Try not to get the stuffed toy dirty.
 Now it's time for a nice, relaxing spa experience. Put a damp cloth in the microwave for thirty seconds and drape it over your eyes. Make one for your stuffed animal and sit in a comfy chair. Simply rest.
, Eat dinner after relaxing and when the movie is done. Treat you and your stuffed animal to something special for dessert.
 Brush your teeth and hair/fur like you did in the morning.
 Before you and your stuffed animal decide to go to bed, be sure to do something relaxing with them to settle them such as reading or playing a family game.
 Tuck your companion into bed. Make sure he/she is nice and warm.
 Goodnight––sleep tight!

