 Although you might feel cold when you have a fever, your body temperature is actually too high, and you will need to lower it in order to feel warmer. Allow your body to release excess heat by wearing only a thin layer of clothing and covering up with a thin blanket or sheet if necessary.Piling on sweatshirts and blankets can actually be dangerous if you have a fever because it can raise your body temperature even more.;
, Keeping the room temperature excessively high may prevent your body from releasing its excess heat, but your room should also not be too cold. Shivering is your body's way of naturally increasing its internal temperature, so if your room is so cold that you are shivering, you will only be making your fever worse.If your room is hot and stuffy, open a window or turn on a fan.
 Dampening your skin is a great way to lower your body temperature, but you should make sure that you are careful not to make yourself too cold. Apply a damp towel to your forehead and extremities or sponge yourself down with some warm water. The water should always be lukewarm to prevent your body from shivering in response.Sponge baths are ideal for children who have a fever.
You may have read that applying rubbing alcohol to the skin can help reduce a fever, but the alcohol can be absorbed into the skin, leading to alcohol poisoning, so stick with water!

, If your fever is making you uncomfortable, you can take over-the-counter fever reducers, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen. Make sure to follow dosing instructions carefully.Acetaminophen can help reduce fever as well as the aches and other side effects in the body. If you have any liver problems, do not take acetaminophen without talking to your doctor first.
Aspirin can also be used to reduce fevers in adults, but it should never be given to children, as it has been linked to a serious disease called Reye's syndrome.Keep in mind that these medications might make you feel better, but they will not treat the underlying cause of your fever. If you suspect that you have some kind of bacterial infection, it is extremely important that you see your doctor and take all of your prescribed medications.
 Help your body in its battle by getting extra sleep and spending as much time lounging around as you can. This does not mean that you have to stay in bed all day, but try to avoid exerting yourself.Staying home from school or work is probably a good idea, both because you need your rest, and because you want to avoid passing on a contagious virus or bacterial infection to your classmates or coworkers.

