 As people age, bathing may become difficult. This may be due to a fear of falling, difficulty getting in or out of the tub or shower, difficulty washing themselves, or even a result of a cognitive disorder, such as Alzheimer’s or dementia.As you start to approach an elderly family member or friend about their hygiene, keep all of these things in mind and aim to be as respectful and tactful as possible.
 Approaching the situation indirectly will avoid putting too much pressure on your loved one or client. It is important to make them feel comfortable before going about suggesting a change in routine, which for many elderly can be upsetting and difficult.


For example, you can begin by asking whether they have enough grooming supplies, and if they respond yes, ask,”Well is that enough soap for your showers and baths this week? How many would you say you take on average?”, or if they respond no, “Just to get an idea for when I’m shopping, how many baths or showers a week should we restock you for?”

, If you find out that they’re bathing fewer than two times a week, change your tone of voice from casually inquisitive to concerned. Approach the issue from a medical, rather than a personal, standpoint, stressing the importance of hygiene to overall health.


Explain that doctors recommend bathing at least twice a week to prevent infection.Try something like, “You know I’ve heard on the news / from my doctor that not only should everyone bathe every week, they should bathe at least twice a week for better health. I think we should give this a try.”

, Bringing up body odor might disappoint or anger them, making it more difficult to convince them to change their routine. And since seniors can have a decreased sense of smell, they might not be aware that there is an odor problem.Pointing this out to them could cause anxiety if they’re unable to detect the odor and might wonder about it.
 Depending on their physical condition, bathing or showering may be a source of anxiety—undressing, getting in and out of the tub, washing, drying off, and dressing might require more energy than they have. They may be afraid of falling in the tub, have had a bad experience with scalding or icy-cold water, or easily lose track of time.Take note of these for consideration when arranging for help with washing, and improving bathroom safety.


To try to understand what anxieties they may have, ask questions such as, “Have you been hurt while using the tub, by falling, or by the temperature of the water?” or “Do you feel really tired after washing?” If fatigue or fear of falling seem to be issues, strongly consider either bathing the person yourself or hiring a caregiver.

