 Look at your horse's legs every day for any signs of irritation or scabbing. If you notice irritated skin or scabs, clean the legs with a good quality soap, like a chlorhexidine scrub preparation. Rinse your horse's legs and apply enough of the chlorhexidine to cover the area. Gently wash the legs and rinse off the cleanser.Avoid applying too many different mud fever products, which may make it harder for your veterinarian to diagnose your horse's condition. Many of these products are for prevention of mud fever, and work by moisturizing the skin or providing a barrier to dampness. Once you notice signs of mud fever, they are ineffective and medicated treatment is necessary.;
, Mud fever is a "secondary condition" caused by another issue, like skin weakened by constant wetting, that creates bacterial or fungal infection.These primary causes can include bacterial infection due to wet folds in the skin, fungus, mites, minor skin injuries and can also be autoimmune related (where the horse's immune system is attacking itself). If it's autoimmune related (which is rare), redness, inflammation, sores, and itching weaken the skin and allow bacteria to invade, leading to mud fever.


Your horse's skin normally has bacteria on the surface that doesn't cause problems unless the skin's surface is damaged or the immune system is compromised and can't deal with infection.
Constant wetness (such as standing in mud beside a gate) causes the skin to become soft and swollen, which weakens natural defences.
 You'll often notice that areas in frequent contact with mud show signs of the disease. It usually affects the back of the heels and the fetlocks, but mud fever can extend up the back of the legs, because mud can splash when walking over extremely heavy, moist ground. Look for the following symptoms:Scabs with moist lesions underneath
Swollen limbs
Thick white, yellow or green discharge that smells bad
Painful cracked skin
Possible lameness
Fatigue and loss of appetite (in severe cases and in addition to the symptoms above)

, Get your horse in out of the wet conditions and clip the hair away from the back of the heels. This will let you remove mud and apply ointments to treat the skin. Use fine clipper blades to clip the hair right down to the skin. This will also let you check the area for new scabs and monitor the healing of existing scabs.


You may want to stable the horse for a few weeks on clean dry straw, move him onto dry pasture, or improve the drainage system in the existing pasture.
 Soften the scabs by soaking them in baby oil, using a cold poultice, or applying a moisturizing cream. If using a cream or oil, cover the area with a loose wrap of clingfilm and let the scabs soften over a period of 1 to 3 days. Change the clingfilm every day and reapply the emollients. Once the scabs are softened, pick them away until they're completely removed.You'll need to completely remove all of the scabs in order to remove the bacteria which causes the disease.
 You should see open sores on the lower limbs after you remove the scabs. Disinfect and dry the areas by wetting the legs thoroughly with warm water. Work a disinfectant, like a chlorhexidine solution, into the area and let it sit for 10 minutes. This will give the solution a chance to kill the bacteria. Rinse the area until it's no longer soapy and the water runs clear. Use soft, disposable paper towels to dry the legs and repeat this process twice a day.


Avoid drying your horse's legs with a terry cloth or cotton towel. Using a towel can reintroduce the infection.
 If you're having trouble removing the scabs, even after softening the scabs for days, call your veterinarian. Otherwise, you may be causing your horse pain by trying to remove the scabs yourself. You should also call the vet if you're having trouble keeping the affected area clean. The vet will take samples of the affected area and test for the exact cause of the problem.


Since many things can cause mud fever, a correct diagnosis can determine the most effective treatment.
For example, if the vet suspects autoimmune disease to be the cause, your horse may need corticosteroids to suppress an overactive immune system. Or, if feather mites are suspected, your horse will need treatment to get rid of the mites and prevent the itching from recurring., If you notice signs of infection, like a moist area with sticky discharge, get an antibiotic ointment from your veterinarian. Apply a generous layer of the medication onto your horse's cleaned legs and loosely wrap the area with clingfilm. Do this twice a day and keep treating the skin for two weeks after it looks better.Completing antibiotic treatment ensures that the infection is totally gone. This is important, since stopping treatment too early is the biggest cause of treatment failure and recurrence of the condition.
Avoid riding your horse while treatment is ongoing. This allows the skin to settle and heal.
 If your horse regularly suffers from mud fever and you've unsuccessfully tried to treat the condition yourself, there can be several reasons why treatment failed. Factors in unsuccessful treatment include:Using preventative treatment which doesn't have the needed medication to cure the condition.
The horse remaining on the wet conditions.
Underlying problems such as feather mites or autoimmune disease that have not been addressed.
Incomplete scab removing which prevents the medication from penetrating to the skin.
Hair that wasn't completely clipped away, preventing the skin from being cleaned.
Stopping treatment before the condition was completely cured.
A deep infection that needs oral antibiotics instead of a topical treatment.

