 Your kitty likes a clean litter box, and even if you clean it daily, you need to make sure you have enough in the house. You should have one litter box for every cat, plus one more. That ensures your cats have enough space to go to the restroom. Plus, some cats like to use one litter box for urinating and one for defecating, and having that many makes sure your cats can do that., Since most boxes are plastic, they are prone to scratches. Kitties scratch the bottom of the box when using the litter, leaving little grooves. Therefore, it's a good idea to change out your boxes at least once a year, to keep them from harboring too many germs., Liners usually come in the form of plastic bags that fit over the litter box, much like a regular bag in a trash can. They can make it more convenient for you to pull the litter out. However, many cats don't like the way they feel. Even if they do, some cats will scratch them up as they try to cover up their business. You can try them with your cat, but be aware that he or she may not take to them.If you want, you can put a layer of newspaper on the bottom to help absorb any extra urine.
 Every cat is a little different when it comes to litter preference, so you need to find the right litter for your cat. Some cats prefer finer litter. Most clumping litters are fine grain, and some clay litters are, too, which are non-clumping. However, you have several categories of litter to choose from to find the right one for your cat.Clumping litter makes it easy for you to scoop, as you can scoop out both urine and feces.
Clay litter is cheap and easy to find, and it does absorb urine and therefore, odors. It's also relatively cheap. However, you do usually need to change the whole box of litter once or twice a week.You can also find other types of non-clumping litters that are made of materials like pine, newspaper, and corn. These litters are sometimes biodegradable.
Another option is crystal litters, made from silica gel. These litters are very absorbent without as much dust as other litters.
 Cats generally don't like litters that have a scent. While they may smell good to you, they may be too strong for your cat, discouraging him or her from using the litter box. A better option is to sprinkle a little bit of baking soda under the litter to help control odors.