 Anxiety disorders most frequently co-occur with ADHD. The most common symptoms of anxiety are a difficulty concentrating, feeling irritable or on edge, feeling restless, insomnia, nervousness, pounding heart, muscle tension, and sudden feelings of panic or doom.Keep in mind that there are a range of potential symptoms associated with anxiety disorder, and each disorder can manifest in a person differently. Anxiety may also range in severity from mild to severe, so for some people it may not be noticeable and for others it may interfere with daily life.
Possible anxiety disorders include generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, and social phobia.;
, If you have ADHD, you may notice problems with organization, attention, focus, and impulsiveness. You may have trouble sitting still or sustaining attention to tasks at work or school.These symptoms must have been present before the age of 12 to meet the criteria for ADHD. Also, symptoms must impact your functioning in more than one area of life. For example, you might experience problems at school and at home.
 It is not uncommon to experience the symptoms of both ADHD and anxiety—about 30 to 40 percent of people with ADHD exhibit signs of anxiety.When ADHD and anxiety occur together, the symptoms experienced may differ from when the disorders occur alone.

If you have ADHD, you are more susceptible to anxiety because you tend to be sensitive to different emotions and situations. You might develop anxiety because you fear always forgetting things or missing assignments. As a result, you constantly worry and fret.
 If you have not been previously seen by a mental health provider, your first stop should be your primary care physician. Many health conditions from allergies to brain disorder mimic the symptoms of mental illnesses like ADHD or anxiety. It’s best to be seen by a doctor to get a clean bill of health first.It can help to keep a log of your symptoms to help your doctor better understand what you are experiencing. Your doctor will probably conduct a thorough interview to assess your symptoms, medical history and family history. They may also run tests to rule-out any medical problems because anxiety can stem from many different physical conditions.
 Comorbid conditions complicate the treatment process. Therefore, you should be seeing an expert to effectively identify these disorders and treat them accordingly. If your doctor doesn’t find any signs of medical illness, ask them for a referral to a local psychiatrist or psychologist.These are doctors with advanced training in mental health conditions. These doctors will usually have more comprehensive experience dealing with comorbid disorders, which means they can adequately diagnose and treat them.

