 Aim to drink at least eight ounces of water every two hours. Your body can quickly lose moisture and get dehydrated by sweating or sneezing caused by illnesses, such as colds and flu, that are often associated with a fever. Dehydration can cause your temperature to rise and often leads to headaches, dizziness, muscle cramps, low blood pressure, and seizures.2 liters of water is the daily recommendation for the average adult.Caffeinated beverages in moderation are generally fine, but make sure they are not your only source of fluids. Get most of your daily fluids from pure water.Sports drinks are acceptable liquids for re-hydration, but use carefully. While these drinks do provide electrolytes, it is usually far more concentrated than necessary. Try diluting one part water to one part sports drink, or one glass of water for every glass of sports drink.

Rehydration solution. You do not need any commercial drinks to help re-hydrate--make your own.
For young children, consider a commercial electrolyte rehydration solution, such as Pedialyte, for young children, since these proportions have been specifically designed for children's bodies.To rehydrate children, offer at least 1 ounce per hour for infants, 2 ounces per hour for toddlers, and 3 ounces per hour for older children.;
, Wear loose, comfortable clothes when you have a fever to help your body relax and improve air circulation to help you stay cool. Remove excess clothing or blankets that can trap heat and make a fever last longer.Try one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight blanket or sheet for sleep.Natural fibers, such as cotton, bamboo, or silk, often breathe better than manmade fibers like acrylic or polyester.
 High temperatures can make a fever last longer and cause excessive sweating that can lead to dehydration. The room temperature should ideally be 73–77℉.If the room is hot or stuffy, a fan may help.
 Getting enough rest helps your body heal faster by strengthening the immune system. Avoid moving around too much. Take some time off work to get even more sleep than you usually do if possible.


Studies show that sleep deprivation can weaken the immune system, increase the production of stress hormones, put you at higher risk for chronic disease, and lower life expectancy.
For more information on how to create a better sleep schedule, check out How to Sleep Better.
 If the fever is very high or causing you serious discomfort, you can take a fever-reducing medication. Several medicines target fevers: acetaminophen, ibuprofen, and aspirin, for instance. Take these over-the-counter medications as the label suggests to help bring down your fever.


Check the dosing carefully. Take the smallest dose possible to relieve your fever.
Children under 18 should not take aspirin unless specifically recommended by a doctor. It is associated with the development of Reye's syndrome, a disease that causes the brain and liver to swell., A warm shower or bath that lasts for 5-10 minutes can help stimulate sweat that keeps your body cool, soothe sore muscles, and decongest sinuses that may be blocked due to a cold.Make sure the water is not too hot to avoid increasing your core temperature, which may cause the fever to last longer.Keeping your body clean can also help reduce the risk of further viral or bacterial infections.
 If bathing facilities are not available, or does not sound appealing, use a moist towel instead. Soak small towels in lukewarm water and dab them on your forehead or under your arms. This stimulates sweat that helps keep your body cool, improves blood circulation and can reduce nasal congestion caused by a cold or flu.Using cold water, an ice pack, or taking a cold shower can induce shivers, which can increase the core body temperature, making the fever last longer.Do not apply warm towels to an injury or inflamed skin, as it can cause bleeding and further inflammation.
 If your fever is caused by a cold or flu, it’s important to keep your nose clear to breathe comfortably. Difficult breathing can increase your fever. Do not blow your nose too hard, as the pressure can give you an earache on top of the cold. Be sure to blow gently and only as often as necessary.Experts recommend that you blow by holding a finger over one nostril and gently blowing the other into a tissue.If your child or infant has a cold, help them blow their nose correctly.
Wash your hands each time you blow your nose to avoid chances of other infections by bacteria or viruses.
 Unless you’re already outdoors when your fever comes on, it is best to curl up and rest indoors where the air is dry and the temperature won't change much. If you must be outdoors while suffering from your fever, stay in the shade and limit activity., In addition to the risks of lung cancer and other respiratory diseases, smoking also suppresses the body’s immune system.Smoking thus requires the body to fight harder against viruses and bacteria, which increases body temperature. It is best to avoid exposure to cigarette smoke, nicotine, and other tobacco products until your fever has reduced.


Children (especially infants) should not be exposed to secondhand smoke, especially while they have a fever.
 Too much caffeine can be bad for you when you have a fever. Caffeine overdose can cause fevers, headaches, insomnia, diarrhea, irritability, and dizziness. Caffeine also stimulates water excretion and excessive intake can lead to dehydration.When you have a fever, try to avoid caffeine or lower your intake to 100 mg.


1 cup of brewed coffee contains 133 mg of caffeine, and 1 cup of black tea contains 53 mg of caffeine. Avoid sugary soda as well as energy and sports drinks as these can cause nausea and vomiting during a fever.
Severe cases of caffeine overdose can cause nausea, vomiting, chest pain, hallucinations, difficulty breathing, and convulsions.Do not use caffeine supplements until you recover from the fever.
Children and infants should generally avoid taking caffeine.
 You should abstain from drinking alcohol, whether it is beer, wine, or another drink when you have a fever, regardless of severity. Alcohol weakens the immune system, making it harder for your body to recover quickly., Applying rubbing alcohol on your skin makes your skin feel cooler. However, it is a very temporary sensation. This cooling effect does not help when you have a fever as it can cause shivering, which raises your core body temperature.In addition, the skin can soak up alcohol. For small children (and infants in particular), this approach can increase the risk of alcohol poisoning., Though you can treat many fevers at home, there are specific situations in which you should leave the care to the professionals.




If you have a fever between 103-105℉ that doesn’t come down with an over-the-counter medication (such as ibuprofen and aspirin) or a fever of any temperature that lasts over seventy-two hours, then you should see your doctor immediately. Other reasons to see a doctor immediately when you have a fever include:Children under 3 months with any fever
Children under 2 with a high fever, or a fever that lasts more than 48 hours
You’ve recently traveled, had a surgery or vaccine, or come into contact with known allergens or hazardous substances
You have a disease such as diabetes, anemia, cystic fibrosis, or any heart or lung diseases
You experience mild-to-moderate fevers frequently
A new rash or bruises appear on your skin without any known causes
You experience painful urination

, Physical activity, mood swings, hormonal changes, irregular or heavy eating, tight or heavy clothing, medications, and exposure to high temperatures can also increase your body temperature. If you suspect you have heat stroke, you should call 911 and seek medical care immediately, as it can lead to seizures and heart attack.


A raised temperature can occur with heat stroke, but this condition must be treated differently. If you think heat stroke might be the actual problem, then you can find more information at: How to Treat Heatstroke


, You may want to talk to your doctor for children with lower fevers than you would for an adult. Always consult a pediatrician before giving a child a medication for a fever. You should additionally seek medical care for your child if the child:Is younger than 3 months old and has a rectal temperature of 100.4 °F (38 °C) or higher
Is 3-12 months old and has a fever of 102.2 °F (39 °C) or higher
Is under age 2 and has a fever that lasts longer than 48 hours
Is not alert, cannot be awakened easily, has had fevers come and go for up to a week or more (even if they are not very high or if fever symptoms come back after they had gone away)
Does not make tears when crying or cannot be calmed down when crying
Does not have wet diapers or has not urinated in the past 8 hours
Has other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated, such as a sore throat, earache, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting, or a cough.

