 Using a tractor or hoe, form mounds of earth (hills) to plant seeds in. Space these 2-6 feet (60cm-1.8m) apart, depending on the amount of space you have. Building the soil up at individual planting locations helps assure that the soil is loose enough for the roots to grow, allows oxygen to each them with ease, and lets excess moisture drain away from direct contact with the roots of your plants. It also helps to conserve available moisture in dry weather.
 Form a flat, slightly concave surface on the top of the hill, then poke three or four holes in the soil with a tool or your finger, about 1 inch (2.5cm) deep. Place one to four seeds in each hole, then rake the dirt flat over the top of the seeds, and lightly press the soil to pack it sufficiently to keep the moisture from quickly evaporating around the seed.
 The seeds should germinate and plants will emerge in about 7-10 days, depending on the soil temperature and the depth they are covered when planted. Keep the soil moist around the seeds during the germination period; water close enough so that the water reaches the small roots forming.


When the seedlings grow, thin to the two strongest, to give the strong one room to grow.
Don't let the soil dry out; you should water at least once daily.
 You can choose pine straw, lawn fabric, or compost. Try to apply the mulch as close to the plants as possible to help prevent weeds, to retain moisture, and to keep the soil from being overheated from direct sunlight around the shallow, new roots.


Another option is to lay black landscaping fabric or plastic cloth down after you have made the hills, and then cut holes on top of each hill where you will plant seeds. You can also lay mulch on top of the cloth. This method helps to retain soil moisture and keep weed pressure down.
 After the flowers bloom, water approximately every 3 days if dry. However, don't over-water, as watermelons have a low water requirement.


Keep the foliage and fruit dry. You can place fruit onto a clean piece of wood, large smooth pebble, brick, etc.
On very hot days, the leaves will probably wilt even in moist soil. If this limpness can still be seen in the evening after a hot day, water deeply.
Sweetness in watermelons can be increased by holding off watering for a week prior to harvesting. However, don't do this if it causes the vines to wilt. Once that crop is harvested, restore the usual watering to enable the second crop to come through well.
 Be sure to weed around the base, along and ahead of the vines. Maintaining a thick layer of mulch around the plants can also help to keep weeds down.

