 Making your dog relaxed will only happen if all of its basic needs are met and the dog feels safe enough to let down its guard. If your house in chaotic with a cacophony of noise from a too-loud stereo, screaming children, or indeed arguing adults, the dog will pick up on the vibe and find it difficult to relax. Make the home a peaceful place, without raised voices.


Also, make sure the dog has a place to withdraw from the activity of the home, such as its crate. It needs a safe place to go if it all gets to be too much. Not having a hiding place or den is very stressful for a dog, as its natural instincts are to hide if it feels threatened.;
, For example, breeds such as the Jack Russell or the Border collie that have a heritage as working dogs, need plenty of exercise. If they are crated for many hours at a time, or left home alone all day, then they are likely to be hyper by the time you come home.


Expect to take the dog for long walks to burn off energy, before the dog's mind turns to relaxation. After all, if the dog had nothing to do all day but sleep, rest is the last thing on its mind., Again, a tired mind is one that is ready to relax and a bored mind is more easily distracted. Stimulate your dog's mind by holding regular impromptu training sessions, of about 5 - 10 minutes duration, 2 - 4 times a day. If the dog can concentrate for longer, then great, do that.Also, give the dog puzzle feeders, or put its dry kibble inside a closed cardboard box, so it has to work out ways to get the food and will be stimulated at the same time.
 Feed a good quality food (meat listed first on the label) that is right for your dog's life stage. If your dog is over energetic, check with your vet and consider switching to a lower protein food.


You may want to consider trying a hypoallergenic diet in case the dog's hyperactivity is due to a food intolerance., A dog in pain, such as from arthritis, finds it more difficult to relax and may become snappy. If your dog's character changes, such as it goes from being placid to aggressive, schedule a vet checkup in case there is a medical problem that needs addressing., Your dog may not be able to relax because you are doing things that it dislikes. For example, many dogs dislike having their head petted. This is because the hand comes over the head and eyes, which is a threatening gesture in dog language. If your pet shrinks away or its body stiffens when you go to pet its forehead, then consider that it may not like it.


Instead, form your hand into a fist and hold it just below the dog's nose level. Let it approach and sniff the hand. If the dog wags its tail, raises its head, pricks its ears forward, or moves closer, these are all good signs you have his permission to pet it.
 Your dog may sense if you are in a rush to try and calm it down. Instead, work on calming the dog down when you have time to spend with it. A great time to make your dog relax is when you are watching TV in the evening. You can gently pet the dog while watching a favorite program.Remember that dogs have sensitive hearing, so don't have the volume turned up high.
 Wherever it is, the dog should have open access to this space but should not be forced onto into it. This might be a blanket on the floor or on the sofa beside you.


Decide if you have a 'no pets on the furniture' rule or not. Be aware if you invite the dog up onto the coach it will get the message it's OK to jump up, so only choose that option if you don't mind the dog on the furniture.
 Stroke gently, gliding your hand over its coat, following the direction of the lie of the coat. Do not brush against the lie of the hair or pet roughly, as this is unpleasant and equivalent to having your hair pulled or someone smack your face. Make the movements long and flowing. The dog will appreciate if you use both hands, one following in the trail of the other.


Be aware that some areas are more ticklish than others, and dogs feel vulnerable when certain areas, such as the belly, are touched. Work with the area the dog presents to you. Thus if it lies on its side, stroke its flank, rather than pushing the dog onto its back. The dog may interpret this as a sign of hostility, since you are forcing it into a submissive posture. However, if the dog voluntarily shows you its belly, then stroke it.
 If all is going well, try a gentle massage. Use deeper pressure using the palms of your hands and rock them backwards and forwards over the dog's neck, shoulders, and spine. If the dog shows any sign of discomfort, such as growing tense, looking up repeatedly, flicking its head or a leg away, or getting up, then stop.


Be aware that older animals may have sore joints, especially elbows, so never apply pressure here unless shown how to do so by your vet or vet physiotherapist.
Don't end a relaxation session abruptly. It may frighten or shock the dog. Instead, let the pup doze peacefully in the full knowledge of a job well done.
 This gives off soothing dog pheromones (chemical messengers) that give the dog an olfactory message that it is safe and secure, and that it can relax.
 Another popular relaxation technique if T-Touch or Tellington Touch. This is a massage therapy designed especially for pets. It can be learned at home and involves making repetitive circular movements with the fingertips or palms, over the dog's body. For starters try making small circular movements over the dog' ear flap and cheeks, and as you build confidence and your dog starts to relax, then experiment with other areas such as his shoulders or back.