 This will buffer your stomach so alcohol won't be absorbed into your blood too quickly. This could cause a spike in your drunkenness. Spikes like these may temporarily leave you unable to act sober. The goal is to not get to that point. Acting sober is largely a matter of maintaining a level of drunkenness that does not prohibit you from controlling your behaviors.
 This is an objective way to keep from getting too drunk to act sober. You need to know your limits. When you start drinking, make a mental note of the time. Then keep a count of how many drinks you have had since that time. If you know you are no longer able to act sober, remember how much you had drunk and try to stay below that next time.


How your body deals alcohol will vary by drink count, time, weight, and biological sex.Your body will metabolize alcohol continuously but only at a certain rate. If you keep up with your drinks over a period of time, you can calculate your blood alcohol level (BAL). This can later help you identify a BAL at which you are no longer able to act sober. Stay below that.
Drinks come in roughly standard sizes. A can of beer will have about the same amount of alcohol as a glass of wine and a shot of liquor. If you are at a party drinking beer, save the bottle caps or aluminium tabs to keep a count of your drinks. If you are at a bar, ask the bartender how many drinks you've had.
 This will help not only keep from getting too drunk but also reduce the severity of a hangover. The goal is to help keep the alcohol diluted in your blood by continuously adding water to your body. Alcohol will cause your body to lose water. This helps keep your body from becoming dehydrated.
 You may find that having a designated driver will help you avoid drunken behaviors. For example, getting lost going back to your car. There are some mobile phone apps that can help with some of these situations.However, a sober buddy can also let you know when you've had too many. They can tell you when you are no longer able to act sober. Have them keep an eye on you so you will know your limits. This way you can keep your alcohol consumption to a level that allows you to act sober.
 Our bodies develop a tolerance for alcohol over time. If you've been sober for a while, you may notice it takes fewer drinks to get an effect than it has in the past. Regular drinking will increase your tolerance. This increase in tolerance will allow you to drink more over a period and continue to successfully act sober.


Of course, don't just drink for the sake of building a stronger tolerance. Doctors recommend a daily limit of two alcoholic drinks for men and one for women.