 If you have previously experienced psychosis and are at risk for relapsing, identify your triggers (the stimuli which push you toward a psychotic state). This may be difficult to do if you cannot remember what your life was like immediately before the onset of psychosis. Talk to a friend, family member, or coworker about what you were doing or feeling during that time. Triggers are usually events which occurred immediately before onset of psychosis.


Construct a timeline charting the objective events you experienced (such as breaking up with your partner, starting a new job, or graduating from college) and the subjective feelings you had about them at the time (especially if you were feeling dejected, miserable, lonely or confused).You could also use notecards to create a timeline. Write corresponding emotional and objective events onto notecards. Lay them all out on the floor or table, and try to sort them into chronological order.
 Find positive ways to manage your triggers. If possible, avoid the situation(s) which prompted the initial psychotic break. Find a workplace and home environment which limits stress. In addition to reducing stress and learning to relax, you should:


Practice self-instruction.This is a technique in which you consciously reject negative, defeatist thinking with positive affirmations. For instance, when an idea like “I will never be healthy,” enters your mind, let it slip away and counter it with a thought like “I am a strong person and I will overcome my psychosis.” Self-instruction can and should be practiced even in the absence of negative thoughts.
Distract yourself. Use different sensory inputs such as television or the radio to prevent hearing voices or switch your attention away from obsessive thoughts.
Develop personal coping strategies. Not everyone will feel their stress relieved by the same activities. Some people may take a warm bath to relieve stress, while others may go for a bike ride. Some might paint a picture, while others might go swimming. Find out what works for you.
 In cases where medication is not taken or taken incorrectly, relapse occurs in about 80% of cases. If neglecting to take your medication or forgetting to do so is a common occurrence, ask if it's available as an injection which will prevent any lapses. Taking medication properly and on a regular schedule each day will dramatically improve your chances of staying healthy and avoiding relapse. Use a pillbox with each day clearly labeled to ensure you take all the pills you need each day.
 Preventing a psychotic relapse requires a strong support team composed of doctors, therapists, family, and friends. Surrounding yourself with people who care for you and understand your condition is crucial to preventing a relapse and ensuring good mental health.


Inform your family about your struggles with psychosis and open up to them about how it makes you feel. Let them help you financially and materially if necessary, and encourage their feedback.
Enlist your family and friends to stay vigilant in looking for changes in your behavior which may indicate that a psychotic break is close. Direct them to consult you and your doctor in the event your condition deteriorates.
Get a list of certified therapists from your general practitioner. He or she can also recommend the best therapy for your specific situation.
Attend therapy regularly. Therapists are specially trained to address mental health issues, and can provide a more objective point of view than a friend or family member. Your therapist can help you better understand the reasons for your condition and offer specialized coping strategies. As you build a relationship with your therapist, they will be better able to identify changes in your condition.
 You need to be able to talk to someone who can help every hour of every day in the event that you begin feeling overwhelmed and noticing changes in your behavior which precede a psychotic episode. Ensure you have backup plans in place, and account for various scenarios like being at work, home, or school.Carry a crisis card with you at all times.A crisis card should be a laminated, pocket-sized card with your name and emergency information on it, including your doctor’s name; the address, phone number, and hours of your medical clinic; names and phone numbers of family members; a list of symptoms which may indicate you are beginning to experience psychosis; and a list of steps to take in the event you might be relapsing.

