 When your dog is suffering, it can be extremely frightening. Further, you need to act quickly to determine the cause of your dog’s symptoms and act accordingly. If you need to, take a moment to center yourself and keep yourself from panicking, as you will be better able to help your dog if you remain calm., If it is not immediately apparent whether your dog has been poisoned or what may have poisoned them, carefully observe any symptoms they are exhibiting. Write them down, and include the frequency and degree of each symptom.For instance, if your dog is vomiting, note how many times they throw up, how much they throw up, and the color and consistency of their vomit.
This information can help you and your vet determine what the cause of any symptoms are, and take the appropriate steps to treat your dog.
If you suspect that your dog ingested something in particular, note what time you believe they ate it.
 If you catch your dog in the act of eating a bar of chocolate or your seasonal flower arrangement, you may want to induce vomiting to ensure these potentially poisonous items don't hurt them. As a rule of thumb, it's likely worth inducing vomiting if your dog has just eaten potentially dangerous human foods or plants. However, you should not automatically induce vomiting when you suspect poisoning.Do not induce vomiting when your dog has eaten something caustic (like bleach or drain de-clogger), something acidic (like battery acid), something pointy or sharp, or any petroleum-based product. Further, do not induce vomiting is your dog is having trouble breathing, has a slow heart rate, is experiencing seizures or convulsions, or is visibility depressed, shocked, or unconscious.
When unsure, call your vet and ask what to do. There are also several animal poison control hotlines to call, though there is a fee for doing so.
 If you are sure that vomiting will not pose further risk to your dog or you are directed by veterinary or poison control personnel to do so, you can easily and safely cause your dog to vomit. A 1:1 solution of 3% hydrogen peroxide and water will do the trick.One teaspoon (5mls) of this solution per 10lbs of his body weight is ideal. Using a turkey baster can make measuring and administering the solution easier.
Provide another dose of the mixture every 15 minutes or so, up to three times, until the dog throws up.
Use unexpired hydrogen peroxide from an unopened bottle for maximum effectiveness. If you do not have hydrogen peroxide, drop a teaspoon of table salt into the back of the dog's throat.
Save the vomit to bring with you to the vet. Depending on what your dog ate, the vet may still need to see your dog.
 Unless you are able to establish that your dog’s symptoms are unrelated to poisoning, you should bring them to the vet immediately. If you vet is not open, bring your dog to a 24hr emergency animal care facility.If you know or suspect that your dog has ingested something poisonous but is not yet showing symptoms, seek veterinary care immediately. While some poisons do not lead to short term symptoms, it may be too late to save your dog once symptoms become apparent.

