 Thin patterns of fat throughout the muscle will dissolve into a more flavorful cut. Round steaks, chicken breasts and pork chops may be less flavorful, because they don’t have much fat inside the cut of meat. , Buy pork shoulder instead of pork chops, chicken thighs instead of chicken breasts and round steak, instead of fillets when you braise. The meat will break down over the extended cooking time, making it taste just as good, or better, than more expensive cuts.
 You can save money by learning how to cut sections of meat at home.
 Bison is a low-fat alternative to beef. Ostrich is a low-fat alternative to chicken.


Venison and elk can be cooked like cuts of beef or lamb. They are better when seared on high heat, rather than cooked longer at lower heat. , Place it into an airtight plastic bag and allow it to slowly defrost in the refrigerator for 12 to 24 hours.


Larger cuts of meat, such as whole turkeys and roasts may require 2 or more days to defrost in the refrigerator.
Microwave defrosting can ruin the taste and texture of meat. It may not defrost evenly, and it may start to cook the meat.
Never thaw meat at room temperature on your counter. , A roast or pork chop will benefit from up to 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) of fat. Anything more than that should be removed with a boning knife and discarded. Leave the skin on a chicken or turkey. Then, remove it before you serve it. If you season it underneath the skin, it will trap the seasoning and keep moisture in the bird.
Also remove any connective tissue, which will harden when cooked.
 While fillets or pork chops may taste better with a little salt and pepper, most cuts of meat benefit from 1 to 12 hours of marinating in the refrigerator. Use marinades with wine, herbs, spices and juices to tenderize and flavor meat.
 It is better to apply a sprinkling of salt directly on the meat after you remove it from the marinade. Salt is a more powerful tenderizer and seasoning when used directly than in a mix. , The larger the cut, the longer you need to let it sit. Failing to bring a cut of meat to room temperature may result in an uncooked center and burned exterior. , Once you form your patty, don’t keep working with them, or they can get dry. Press your thumb into the center to form a nickel-sized divot and they won’t shrink in the center. , The following are good guidelines for the most common types of meat.


Pork should be cooked to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 degrees Celsius).
Poultry should be cooked to an internal temperature of 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius).
Ground meat should be cooked to 165 degrees Fahrenheit.
Beef and lamb should be cooked to 145 degrees Fahrenheit.
Seafood should also be cooked to 145 degrees Fahrenheit. , Beef, seafood and lamb are usually more flavorful if cooked at higher temperatures (400+ degrees Fahrenheit, 204 Celsius). Pork and poultry benefit from medium temperatures (300 to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, 149 to 177 degrees Celsius).


Slow cooking at very low temperatures (180 to 200 degrees Fahrenheit, 82 to 93 degrees Celsius) for 6 to 8 hours is recommended for some cuts of pork and beef, as well as poultry. Try a crock pot first, and then start braising your meat in sauces in a Dutch oven.
Slow cooking works great with tougher cuts that have a lot of connective tissue and fat.
 Use a model that allows you to insert the probe into the center and then keep the monitor on the outside of the oven. You can observe when it reaches the perfect temperature and you will minimize the loss of heat from opening the oven door. , Remove it from the pan and place it on the counter. Tent it with foil to retain warmth.


The result will be juicy and moist, because the moisture remains inside the meat, rather than dripping onto your plate.
Rest meat between 5 and 20 minutes, with resting time being proportionate to the size of the cut. , You can remove pork, beef and lamb when it is 5 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately 2.5 degrees Celsius) under the internal cooking temperature. It will finish cooking as it rests. , Look for the pattern in the surface of the meat. Then, cut perpendicular to it. Cutting the meat fibers makes the meat tender because it is easy to chew. , Place the meat in a pan with a lip. Then, hold the roast in place with a large fork and carve in 1-inch (2.5 cm) slices against the grain. , This rule is good for both uncooked and cooked meats.


If you are going to cook it within a week, you can freeze it in the supermarket packaging.
If you may not use the meat for several weeks or months, put it in a freezer bag and squeeze out all the air before storing.
Use meat within approximately 9 months. Ground meats will last 3 to 6 months, while roasts and steaks will last 9 to 12 months. , Food-borne bacteria grows best between 40 degrees and 140 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 to 60 degrees Celsius). , Bacteria that develops at room temperature may lead to illness.
 Poultry, seafood and ground meat can be stored for 1 to 3 days, while beef, pork and lamb can be stored for 3 to 5 days. Larger cuts of poultry can be stored for 3 to 4 daysStore it in a sealed bowl or freezer bag.

