 An astringent is a substance that shrinks body tissues — in this case, your pores. When they shave, most people use warm water, which opens up the pores. Using an astringent in your aftershave is important because it reverses that process. Astringent also sterilizes any cuts or nicks you accidentally give yourself while shaving.


Many DIYers choose rubbing alcohol because it's cheap and readily available. It usually has an ethanol content of 70-99%, making it effective but rather harsh on the skin.
You can also use potable spirits as your main astringent. Increasingly, people are turning to vodka, rum, and even the incredibly botanical gin for astringents. These astringents are usually a little more forgiving on the skin than rubbing alcohol, but will also end up more expensive.;
, Because alcohol is usually very hard on the skin, a second, more mollifying astringent is usually paired with alcohol to offset some of the stinging. Witch hazel is a great secondary astringent.


Witch hazel is made from the bark of a plant. Distilled, the witch hazel contains tannins which help soothe irritation, fight redness, and even fight acne-causing bacteria.Unlike alcohol, witch hazel does not sting on skin and has a very refreshing feel.
 An emollient is a substance that softens and moisturizes the skin simultaneously.Not only do emollients help skin retain water, they also reduce itching, redness, and flakiness that is common after shaving. Some emollients that you might consider in your aftershave recipe include:


Glycerin.Glycerin is a great emollient that is used in virtually every high-end shaving product. Pre-shave soap? Glycerin! Pre-shave lotion? Glycerin. Shaving cream? Glycerin! Glycerin is cheap and makes skin feel silky smooth.
Lanolin.Lanolin usually comes in a wax. If using for an aftershave, be sure to look for liquid lanolin. Otherwise, your emollient and other ingredients won't coalesce.
Mineral oil.Probably the least popular of the three, but nonetheless workable, mineral oil is odorless, tasteless, and is commonly used as a laxatives (yikes!) in addition to an emollient.
 A styptic is any substance that, when applied to the skin, staunches bleeding. If you or your man often cuts himself during the shaving process, it may be a good idea to introduce a styptic into the aftershave. A great styptic that dissolves easily into aftershaves is potassium alum. Also used as a deodorant, and a possible treatment for acne, alum staunches small nicks and cuts with a magical effortlessness.
 As of now, your aftershave likely doesn't smell like much, or very good. Essential oils are a great way to add fragrance and kick up the medicinal content another notch. Especially if used in combination, essential oils need only be used sparingly.



Eucalyptus oil produces a wonderful cooling and tingling sensation, and has a very distinct aroma.
Menthol is a signature scent that never fails to cool. Very nice when used in combination with eucalyptus.

Lavender oil has a rich, grassy smell that instantly smacks of summer. Very versatile, and supposedly great for the skin.Citrus oils are known for their acne-fighting properties; they are graced with a sweet, fresh scent.
Cedarwood oil, redolent of smoky, sweet wood, is known for its antifungal properties. It makes a great oil to experiment with.

