 There are many playing factors that you must consider when placing a bet including:


Performance of the the starting pitcher.
The strength of a team’s bullpen.
A team’s record at home vs away.
A team’s record in head-to-head play.
A team offensive output.;
, Baseball betting lines are available everyday. You may choose from a variety of options depending on where you place your bet. Options typically include betting on moneylines, totals, runlines, and futures., Don’t settle on just one place to bet, often called a sportsbook. Place different wagers at different sportsbooks to ensure you are getting the best odds. Seek out the sportsbook that will give you the best payout for your bet. Shop around to find the best payouts.If you find that a sportsbook in a casino 30 minutes away is paying 5 cents better than your favourite local sportsbook, it's best to go with the one 30 minutes away.
Maximize your dollar. Join at least one betting exchange in addition to your favourite dimeline sportsbook. A betting exchange is similar to a sportsbook except players determine their own betting lines with one another. In other words, you will determine the payout with the person you are betting against.
 Dimeline odds ensures that the odds on favorite and the underdog are separated by 10 cents on the dollar, thus the term dimeline. For example, if the favored team is given -150 odds, then a line of +140 will be given to the underdog, which is a 10 cent difference.If you choose the favourite the payout will be less than if you bet on the underdog to win. The team with the negative sign in front of it is the favourite. The team with the plus sign is the underdog. Dimelines work in your favour because the sportsbook can’t over-shade the favourite without exposing themselves on the back side with a large underdog line. If a sportsbook offers 15 or 20 cent odds, the favourite and underdog will be separated by 15 or 20 cents. This puts you at a disadvantage so be weary. Choosing a dimeline book ensures that your winnings will be higher over the long term, regardless of who you bet.
 Betting exchanges cut out the middle man and let bettors from around the world offer their own money lines directly to other bettors. This results in lines that are more favourable than any sportsbook.Additionally, a betting exchange won’t straddle the line. This means it won’t always separate the favourite and the underdog by exactly 10 or 20 cents. It may even be common to find no or almost no separation between the favourite and the underdog. You can’t get better than equal odds.

