 As a relatively populous island nation with diverse regions, Puerto Rico offers a variety of options for travelers. Before planning the specifics of your trip, you need to decide on the purpose of your trip. Think about if your trip to Puerto Rico will be:


A relaxing vacation.
An adventure, full of hiking, urban exploration, and activities like snorkeling.
A romantic get away for two.;
, Puerto has a rich history rooted in native and Spanish colonial history. When visiting the island, you’ll be hard-pressed to visit a region, city, or town that does not host some sort of historical site. Some of the most popular sites include:


The Centro Ceremonial Indigeno in Ponce. This location, dating to 400 C.E., is one of the most important indigenous cultural sites on the island.
The San Juan National Historic Site. This site, located in the capital city of San Juan, encompasses a Spanish fort dating from the 1630s.
The San German Historic District. This is the historic core of the city of San German, established in the late sixteenth century. Here you’ll find a wide variety of historic buildings and landmarks to suit your tastes and interests., While Puerto Rico offers a wide variety of traditional activities for tourists, such as its history and beaches, it also has beautiful natural wonders that are worth visiting. Some of the best examples for the eco-tourist in you include:


The Rio Camuy Caves Park. This park hosts a network of caves with impressive natural formations.
San Cristobal Canyon. The canyon offers ecotourists the opportunity to view stunning waterfalls, hike, and rock climb.
The Mosquito Bioluminescent Bay. At Mosquito Bay, in Vieques, you’ll be able to take night-time tours to view glowing organisms that light up the bay., Puerto Rico’s beaches are renowned worldwide for their beauty. Thus, tourists visiting the island can pick from a wide variety of beaches to suit their tastes. Consider:


Isle Verde Beach in San Juan. This beach’s location in San Juan and proximity to hotels, clubs, and more make it very desirable.
Crash Boat Beach in Aguadilla. This beach’s beautiful sand, water, and laid-back feel make it a great option for tourists looking for a slower-paced experience.
Hidden Beach in Fajardo. This beach is off the beaten path, but is a must-see for people looking for a more authentic experience., As a populous nation, Puerto Rico’s large towns and cities offer a variety of cultural activities and entertainment for visitors.


Visit restaurants throughout the island.
Enjoy the night life of San Juan.
Watch the Ballet de San Juan.
Experience the art and cultural resources of Puerto Rico. One great experience is the Museum of Art in Ponce.
Listen to local music in San Juan or elsewhere. For instance, consider visiting the music scene at the Sala Sinfonica Centro De Bellas Artes., While international travel is an exciting experience, it can also be one fraught with perils. As a result, you need to spend a little time considering your safety when traveling to exotic destinations like Puerto Rico.


Learn about the zika virus. As a tropical island, the mosquito-born virus zika is present in Puerto Rico. Pregnant women and others should consider their risks before visiting the island.
Learn certain key phrase in Spanish, such as "Yo hablo ingles" (I speak English) or "Donde esta el bano?" (where is the bathroom?).
Always stick to well-traveled paths when hiking in parks and other recreational areas, such as El Yunque.
There are not many public transportation options on the island -- be prepared to travel by rental car or taxi.
Avoid parts of city that seem dangerous or where locals do not travel.
Do not display money
Be careful walking around in the city at night time., Your first step in planning your trip is to determine the basics of your trip. Without figuring a few key factors, you won't be able to move on and plan your trip.


How many days will you be on vacation?
How many people will be in your party? Travelling in a group may save you money.
Does your home location dictate any extra travel costs? For instance, if you live in a small town in western Kansas, you may need to drive several hours to a major air port. This could add substantial costs, depending on your circumstances., Before you begin to think about travel or lodging accommodations, you need to put together a budget for your trip to Puerto Rico. Without a budget, you won't know what you can afford to do, and what you can not.


Determine the total amount of money you have for the trip. This includes trip savings you may have put aside, cash, and any credit card debt you are considering taking on for your trip.
Figure out how much of your money you have to devote to travel and lodging. This will help you decide what type of vacation you can take. For instance, if you have limited money for lodging, you might consider a cruise because that will bundle travel and lodging together.
Think about how much money you'll be able to spend on food.
Factor in 10% cost overruns. This is important, as you will undoubtedly experience unexpected costs during your trip.
Consider using a travel budget calculator like the one at independenttraveler.com, Cruises are one of the most popular ways of vacationing in Puerto Rico. Not only do cruises eliminate many of the logistical problems associated with planning a vacation, but they offer value-added entertainment solutions for tourists.


Most cruises won’t be limited to Puerto Rico and will include stops to other locations in the Caribbean like Antigua, Barbados, and the Dominican Republic.
Cruises to Puerto Rico are available from Cape Canaveral, Miami, and Tampa.
Consider signing up for excursions planned by the cruise company. These excursions will allow you to have experiences most people on your cruise won’t have., As an island, Puerto Rico is only accessible by boat or air. Thus, air travel is the most common way that tourists arrive in Puerto Rico. Air travel comes with positives and negatives, consider:


Most major airports in the U.S. offer direct flights to Puerto Rico
Connecting flights are available through regional airports in the United States.
Puerto Rico is accessible either direct or by connecting flights at most airports internationally., Many people choose a single destination from which they will base their vacation, such as a resort. Consider staying at all-inclusive resorts in Puerto Rico such as:


Wyndham Gardens at Palmas del Mar.
Copamarina Beach Resort and Spa.
La Concha Renaissance San Juan.
Hilton Ponce Golf and Casino., Another great way to see the island is to rent a car and drive around on your own. This will give you the flexibility to see things on your own schedule.


Follow a pre-planned road-trip. For instance, follow a 7-day road trip available at the Matadornetwork.com.
More freewheeling visitors might try renting a car in San Juan and exploring on their own. For instance, follow Highway 2 west out of San Juan along the northern coast and south toward the southern coast. Then take Highway 3 east and north back into San Juan. Stop along the way., When it comes to booking your trip, you may choose to contact a travel agent who will take care many of the details for you. Historically, travel agents have been a popular way for people to arrange their vacations to places like Puerto Rico. When booking with a travel agent, consider:


The convenience they offer may result in higher costs – since the agent themselves need to be compensated.
Picking a travel agent who has experience booking trips to Puerto Rico. If they do, they may have knowledge or contacts that will result in you getting a better deal and having a better trip.
Try using websites like Travelleaders.com to search for travel agents with substantial experience in booking trips to Puerto Rico., National and International booking websites are perhaps the most common way that tourists book trips to Puerto Rico. When using booking sites, consider:


Popular websites like Travelocity, Priceline, Orbitz, and Expedia.
That booking services may offer the most competitive prices.
That sometimes your reservations may be nonrefundable, or that you‘ll have to pay extra for a refundable option.
That you’ll have to deal with relatively unresponsive customer service., When booking your trip, you may choose to cut out middlemen and book your travel and accommodations directly. Consider other benefits and draw backs such as:


It may take more time and effort than using other options like a travel agent or a booking website.
You may or may not be able to get in touch with a representative of the hotel, resort, or airline that is especially helpful.
You may be able to secure lower prices.
You should spend time looking for coupons and discounts.
You may not take advantage of bulk rates that travel agents and booking websites make available.
You may need to time your call appropriately as to take advantage of hotel, resort, and airline promotions and seasonal discounts.