 You can copy things from books, or make up some funny images of completely imaginary creatures or characters.


Draw a picture for a friend or a family member.;
, Whether it's a short story or a giant novel, grab a notebook or a laptop and start a story. Maybe you've got random inspiration but don't know when to let it out on paper but when you're bored, it's a perfect time to write a story.


You could also write jokes, letters to the editor, comments on blogs or YouTube videos (keep them positive) or poems.
 Maybe you have a small pet, like a mouse, gerbil or hamster. If so, you could set up some Lego bricks or building blocks in a maze formation. Or, use cans to make a little labyrinth. Put a treat at the finish for your pet and see if he/she gets it.


Don't put your pet into a maze if it doesn't want to do it.
 Write in it or read what you wrote in the past. It's always fun to see what you went through before and what your thoughts were.
 Look for things around the house that will give you an idea of what to do. For example, if you saw a pencil, it could inspire you to write. Almost any object can inspire you to read. Or, a spoon could encourage you to cook or a needle to sew.
 Fill it with comfy stuff, like pillows, blankets and cushions. Add a comic/book or a tablet, some snacks and a drink. Tumble inside and relax away reading or playing games.
 Even if you're not tired, it's a way to kill time, and you never know what you'll dream of. Try some lucid dreaming for a change.
 Look back at some funny times you and your friends had, or look at some scrapbooks, or old photographs.
 If you have permission to use the stove without adult supervision, cooking can be fun. Throw some stuff together, as long as it's edible, and make something good. Or you could make a salad. Maybe you can't use the stove, so? Cut up some lettuce and make a salad or make a no-bake cake.
 As long as you have permission to do so, go online and edit or write a wikiHow page, a fun way to pass time. If the topic already exists, consider what you can add to an existing one to improve it.
 Try text game emoticon. Text your friends random emoticons like: (I love him) and then they have to guess your emoticons. Then they do it to you.


Example: so&so: other person: you wish you were royal!

, You could just make something fun up, say you have a cat, you could crawl by your cat and pretend to be a cat. Or be a wolf, a mermaid or a hero.
 Or just text them and ask for some news. Staying in touch can pass the time. You could Skype them while playing games together.


Arrange a sleepover and have your friends excited about the upcoming event.
 Spend some time on your laptop/computer. Watch TV shows that you normally never watch, like reality shows or Animal Planet. Play video games or with your gaming console or on the computer.


On your mobile phone, have a look around, there may be stuff you haven't seen before. If you were looking at pictures, and never had a good look around the options menu, you could find something like insert clipart or add border. You learn something new every day, if you're open to this.
 Put yourself through it several times, trying to beat your last best time. Ask a friend over to compete with you

, Do some dancing to your favorite music. Make up a whole new dance and film it, upload it to YouTube and wait for reactions.



Dancing is a great way to make time fly, and is great exercise too.
 No, not the boring kind of cleaning. Do the declutter of your clothing or hobby items kind of cleaning, so that you can rediscover what you have, what you love and what you no longer need. Try on clothes or go through your hobby boxes/storage. Get rid of things that don't fit you or aren't of interest to you anymore. Arrange the things you're keeping neatly. Then plan for what new things you need.

