 If your cat miscarries late into her pregnancy, veterinary help is necessary. A late stage miscarriage can result in an infection.The average length of a cat's pregnancy is 65 to 69 days. If a miscarriage occurs in the later parts of the pregnancy, take your cat to see a vet.;
, If your cat is infected with parasites, this can cause a miscarriage. A cat who had a miscarriage should always be checked for parasites. If your cat has contracted a parasite, such as tapeworms, it's important to provide your cat with the right medication to treat the infection.If your vet wants to test for parasites, you may need a stool sample. The vet may also want to perform a blood test.
Treatment varies depending on your cat's age, health, and weight. Your vet may be able to administer de-worming medication in the office or you may have to give your cat medication at home. De-wormers are usually pastes, gels, or tablets., Cats usually recover from a miscarriage without trouble. However, in some cases medications may help manage pain and discomfort. Your vet will be able to determine whether medication is necessary for your cat.Usually, antibiotics are administered to help with a miscarriage. This is because a cat that miscarries may develop an infection.
Pain medication and anti-inflammatory medication may be reccomended if your cat seems to be in pain.Follow all your vet's instructions carefully regarding how to safely administer medication. Make sure to give your cat a full round of antibiotics, even after symptoms have passed.
 Sometimes, miscarriages have no underlying causes. However, a variety of medical issues can lead to your cat having a miscarriage. Things like herpes, low levels of progesterone, or uterine problems can lead to a miscarriage.Your vet will ask you about your cat's general health, as well as any unusual behaviors or concerning symptoms. If your vet suspects there is an underlying health problem at play, they will do the tests necessary to diagnose that problem.

