 If you’re concerned about your children’s health and safety, do what you can to keep them safe. If you’re concerned about their health, make an appointment with a pediatrician. If there’s an immediate threat to your children or family, keep them nearby or within reach via cell phones.

For example, if there’s a risk of serious infection, start preventative measures to keep your children safe. Treat symptoms immediately and seek medical attention.
 If there’s a situation that you need to clue your children into, do so gently and carefully. Children can create irrational fears, so be clear in explaining the situation and how it may affect them. Sit down with your children and get on their level. Use age-appropriate words and phrasing and ask if they understand you. Be direct and let them know, “Yes, you are in danger” or, “This is scary, but you won’t be hurt.”if your children are different ages, you may consider talking to them separately. An older child may handle more in-depth news while a toddler or young child may just need to know that there’s danger and that you’re worried.
Some things don’t need to be spoken of to children if it’s inappropriate. If a parenting tragedy occurs on the news, you may wish to turn off the television or radio so that they do not hear it.
 After speaking with your child, allow them to ask questions or voice their concerns. Children often want to know the immediate danger or threats, so let them know honestly. Show that you’re willing to listen to them without judging them, and don’t laugh at their questions or comments. Acknowledge the feelings they may have such as feeling sad, confused, angry, or frightened.Say, “I know this must be scary for you, and I’m sorry you have to go through this.”

, If there’s something the schools can do to help children cope with any threats, write or call your children’s schools to get their involvement. The school may issue warnings, hold an assembly, or take extra health precautions depending on the situation. Get involved with the school parent-teacher organization and make sure that student health and well-being is prioritized.

For example, if there’s a whooping cough outbreak, encourage the schools to send out letters and enforce health measures to protect other children.

