 This is often the hardest part to remember. But the bottom string is the first string, not the top one. The bottom string is always the thinnest. Again, this might not feel intuitive, but it is easy to get used to. The bottom string the 1st string -- and it is an E.









You can learn the strings up or down -- but you need to remember which string is which number to help read guitar tabs and talk about notes.
"Heavy" strings are thicker, often wound with a different type of metal, while lighter strings are thinner.;
, If you're a visual learner, you can quickly memorize the following chart. The top of it, the line closest to this paragraph, is for the 6th string, the heaviest. A lowercase "e" is used for the first string to differentiate it from the thicker E on the sixth string.










Sixth: E

Fifth: A

Fourth: D

Third: G

Second: B

First: e

, If it helps, you can try to make up your own acronym or find some others on the internet:









The thickest string is the E string. Remember this as "Eddie".
The next string is the A string. Remember this as "Ate".
The next string is the D string. Remember this as "Dynamite".
The next string is the G string. Remember this as "Good".
The next string is the B string. Remember this as "Bye".
The thinnest string is another E string. Remember this as "Eddie".
 The best way to know you know something is to teach it to others. Teach your mum, teach your sister, even teach a guitarist. They can help you if you get it wrong. If you don't want to teach anyone, post a post-it note on your wardrobe with the string names on it, reviewing every day.









Play each string, then name the note. You can make this little test harder by having a friend play the string while you have to get the right answer.
Learning the rest of the notes as well is key to moving forward as a guitarist.
 The acronym for this way is "Easter Bunny Gets Drunk At Easter" or "Every Body Gets Drunk At Easter". Inventing your own acronym can help too:









The thinnest string is the E string. Remember this as "Every" or "Easter".
The next string is the B string. Remember this as "Body" or "Bunny".
The next string is the G string. Remember this as "Gets".
The next string is the D string. Remember this as "Drunk".
The next string is the A string. Remember this as "At".
The thickest string is another E string. Remember this as "Easter".

