 You may have a friend who wants to come over and stay all day. Or you may have a buddy who would like to cry to you for hours each day about their ex-lover. Being a good friend doesn’t mean doing everything they want you to do. You have every right to decide what you feel comfortable with. You don’t have to cut them off completely, however, you can offer alternatives.


For instance, you can say, “You can come over, but only for a few hours because I have things I need to do.” Or, you can tell your friend, “We can talk about your ex for 15 minutes. After that, I would like to talk to you about what’s going on in my life.” You’re still there for them, but you’re also not subjecting yourself to only what they want., You may be that friend who consistently makes themselves available to help out. But you may also find that you are always asked for help but never receive any in return. Let your friends know that you expect the same amount of help that you give.


For example, if your friend always bums a ride, you could say, “I don’t mind taking you places, but I’ll need some gas money if this is going to continue.”
Or, if you have a pal who always asks you to babysit their kids but never wants to watch yours, say, “Sure, I’ll babysit, if you watch my kids next weekend.” You’re still helping, but you’re creating a clear boundary that shows you would like some help, too., Let them know you’ll be there for them, with conditions. Some “friends” want to use up all you’ve got, but never offer anything in return. They may continually break promises, constantly borrow things from you but refuse to return the favor, and so on. These are “friends” you don’t need, and you’ll need to let them know now.


Offer a warning about boundary violations to let your friend know when they occur. You might say, "Hey, you stood me up last night and that wasn't cool. I'll stop making plans with you if this happens again."

, In the course of establishing your boundaries, you might learn that some friends simply do not align with the values you uphold in life. These friends may push your limits continuously, and just aren't worth the hassle. Be clear that you can no longer maintain such a friendship.


You could say, “I feel like our relationship is one-sided. I won’t be able to continue putting all I have into our friendship if you don’t do the same for me.” Be prepared to give examples of what you’re talking about, and to possibly lose that “friend.” Chances are they weren’t worth your time in the first place.