 It may be rare to find a perfect place unless you live out in the country so make the best of what you have already.;
, Whether you're lying down gazing at the sky or sitting up meditating, just be sure that your posture allows for correct breathing.
 If a person or non-natural sound distracts you, be happy for the occasional reality awakening. Finding yourself and connecting with the universe is beautiful, but it might become too easy to slip away from what's real.
 They may be of an earthly substance, but if you're using nature to accompany you in the process, this is the best way. It is a very pleasant experience when you are aware of what really exists. You will begin to realize and be thankful for the true beauty that surrounds you.
 It's important to know who you are and to occasionally find time to walk inside the beautiful temple of love that was given to you by the eternal creator. This is not to be associated with religion. It is spirituality and it is all you need to survive, because it provides you with the essence of life.
 The plants love the voices all around them. Tell them you are thankful to have them. Even so sing to them. They are like us in so many ways. We just don't always notice right away. Calm your thoughts and your body and embrace their beauty. Connect your soul with theirs... and you will find happiness within yourself. When you connect your soul and all your thoughts are clean and free.. you may feel energy passing through them to your soul. It can happen. Just believe in yourself. You can accomplish anything that comes your way.Ask yourself:


What are they in reality?
Who, what designed them?
Was it you or me?

, Blue above you, with white on it and a golden globe, closing your eyes because it is to sharp to look into.
 What we think are only words; they have no meaning for another, ask the bird the name of the yellow globe. And what will be his answer? In Hindi, they call the sun Surya, in Dutch Zon, yust in another. When you have a bowl with green soup, and you throw a firecracker in it, you know it did not change into tomato soup. Thus how can it be that there is all the variation on this planet, like wind lighting? We are all the same shape, even with the difficulties of understanding each other when we are together, we are still the same.

