 If you feel like life is overwhelming you and you have no other options left, you might be headed for a serious emotional or mental episode. Signs of an upcoming mental breakdown include:


Violent or suicidal thoughts
Chronic lack of concentration
Mood swings and depression
Lack of caring and disorder
Feelings of intense pressure
Extreme weight fluctuations
Substance abuse , More often than not, insanity comes from a feeling that you don't control your own life. When things get hectic, out of order, or stressful, take a deep-breath, slow down, and look at life in the long term.


Resist the urge to cram more things into your schedule, thinking that you are "missing" something.
Return to the list of things that make you happy, and pursue them if you haven't been. It is easy to get sidetracked from your passions, but make an effort to return to them.
 If you are on the cusp of mental collapse, you need to be focusing on your own needs, not someone else's. Do the things you want to do, and don't be afraid to say no to commitments.


If your boss needs you to work more, tell them respectfully that "you need to take care of yourself right now." If you need to speak with HR, do so.
Don't worry about hurting your friends' feelings — they will understand if you need some time to feel better.
 This does not need to be with a paid therapist, it could be with a friend, spouse, or family member. If you communicate your feelings regularly then you can take control of your mental well-being and get a new perspective on your problems. Just being listened to can make us feel less alone and more sane.


These conversations do not have to be dramatic events. Oftentimes they feel better when they come up naturally.
If it feels awkward at first, don't give up. Learning to talk about yourself is crucial to long-term sanity. , More often than not, losing your cool will make problems bigger and tension higher. In fact, stress hormones linger in your brain for more than two hours after a confrontation. Take a breath and think about the pros and cons of losing your composure.


Count to ten, go to a "happy place" in your brain, or just put headphones on and play a song you love. Find what helps you calm down.
 Even 5 minutes to yourself in the parking lot can put your problems in perspective and give your mind the rest it needs. While you should never run away from problems, take some time away from them to clear your head when things get crazy.


Use your vacation time. It is build into your work for a reason, and avoiding the "rat race" is easy when you're away from home for a week.
 There is absolutely no stigma about seeing a trained psychologist or psychiatrist. If you are caught in a cycle of negativity or despair, talking to a doctor is often your best option. If you hurt your knee, you would see a doctor, so you should do the same with your brain.


You can look up free call-lines online if you are in immediate distress.
Most college campuses and many cities have free counseling centers where you can make an appointment.

