 Before holding your breath, inhale and exhale slowly from deep within your diaphragm. By doing this, you're ridding your lungs of low-quality air.Spend five seconds breathing in, then hold the breath for one second, before breathing out for ten seconds. Continue deep breathing for two minutes, and be sure that when you exhale, you push out every last "drop" of air.


As you exhale, push your tongue up against your teeth.This forms a valve which helps to control the release of air. Your breath should make a hissing sound as it is released.Deep breathing allows your body to take in excess oxygen, which it can then store in the blood cells. This helps when holding your breath as your body can use the stored oxygen to continue functioning, even when you are not breathing.;
, When holding your breath, the pressure you feel in your lungs is not the result of a need to breathe, but rather the result of a build-up of CO2, fighting to be released. This build-up of CO2 becomes increasingly painful as time goes on. To minimize this build-up, it is necessary to purge any pre-existing CO2 from your lungs, before holding your breath. To do this:


Exhale forcefully, pushing as much air out of your lungs as possible. Puff out your cheeks as you do this, and imagine you are trying to blow a toy sailboat across a stretch of water.Once you have exhaled completely, inhale quickly and repeat. Try to keep your body as still as possible while you do this, to avoid expending any of the stored oxygen from the previous step.
 This is a practice run which will allow your body to adjust to the sensation of going without air. Use a timer to count down the 90 seconds, and don't attempt to hold your breath for any longer just yet.


When you inhale, don't breathe in so much that you're about to pop; this creates tension in your body and causes you to expend more energy. Instead, fill your lung capacity to about 80-85% capacity so that you still have room to relax.
Once the 90 seconds is up, exhale briefly to rid your lungs of the used air, then take three breaths, inhaling and exhaling fully. This is known as semi-purging.
 Once the first 90 second practice run is up, repeat the deep breathing and purging exercises. Perform each exercise for a duration of one minute and thirty seconds.


Once this is done, take a breath and hold it for two minutes and thirty seconds, timing it on a stopwatch. Do not attempt to hold your breath for any longer than this.
Once the time is up, exhale to release the used air and take three semi-purge breaths. Follow this with two minutes of deep breathing and a minute and a half of purging. You are now ready to try holding your breath for as long as possible.
 At this point, you may decide to splash your face with some cold water before attempting to hold your breath. It has been observed that putting a person's face in contact with cold water triggers bradycardia, or the slowing of the heart rate, which is the first phase of the mammalian diving reflex.However, this step is purely optional.


You don't need to actually put your entire head underwater, though. Just splash some cold water on your face right before you hold your breath, or try using a cold, wet washcloth.
Don't use an ice pack instead of water, though; the same study suggests that the shock of something too cold triggers other reflexes. Just make sure the water is at a temperature of approximately 70 °F (21 °C) and that the rest of your body is in a relaxed position.
 Assume a comfortable seated position and take a deep breath, filling your lungs to about 80-85% of capacity. Hold your breath for as long as possible, staying completely still to avoid expending unnecessary energy and wasting oxygen. It is usually better to have someone else timing your progress, as time will pass more quickly and you will be able to hold your breath for longer if you are not constantly watching the clock.Holding your breath for long periods of time can be painful, and it usually necessary to find a way to distract yourself if you are to successfully achieve your goal. One popular distraction technique is to move through the alphabet from A to Z, thinking of a friend, celebrity or historical figure whose name begins with each letter. Aleix Segura Vendrell, who set a world record for holding his breath underwater for 24 minutes and 3 seconds, is a proponent of this very technique.Don't hold air in your cheeks. This method is meant for an air reserve, which requires "letting go" of the air in your lungs and switching it with the air in your cheeks. This is known as "circular breathing" and can be very difficult to achieve, usually resulting in the breath-holder losing both air reserves. Therefore, it may be best to avoid this method for the time being.
 It is vital that you relax completely and release any tension from your body as you hold your breath. Close your eyes and focus on releasing the tension from each body part in turn, starting with your feet, and moving slowly upwards along your body, all the way up to your neck and head. By doing this, it is possible to significantly lower your heart rate and increase the time you are able to hold your breath for.Concentrate on something that's relaxing to you. When you can't concentrate anymore, distract yourself by doing something with your hands, like counting to 99 with your fingers.

Try not to move during any point when holding your breath. When you move, you waste oxygen and that will cut down the time you're able to go without breathing. Stay still.
 When you can't hold your breath anymore, try to avoid exhaling all the air in your lungs in a mad rush. First, exhale about 20% of your air, then inhale again so that oxygen gets to your most critical areas faster. Then you can exhale and inhale completely.
 It is not recommended to do this any more, as it could damage your lungs and body. Try one session in the morning and one session at night if you wish. Keep practicing and before you know it, you will be able to hold your breath for several minutes.

