 Pat your steak dry with paper towels and allow it to come to room temperature during the seasoning process. Yes, it takes a little extra time to get the finished product, but when that finished product is more tender, is juicier, and boasts a quicker cooking time, the extra time is well worth it.









Why let the steak come to room temperature before cooking? First, a steak that has come to room temperature will cook more evenly.You won't have a hot exterior and a chilly interior. Second, the steak will cook quicker. This means less time on the grill, or the frying pan, or in the oven, and more time spent sipping wine.
Will letting your steaks come to room temperature affect their taste or make the cuts go bad? No. Letting a steak sit for 30 to 60 minutes shouldn't affect the taste or smell of the meat, and will not cause the meat to go bad. More bacteria will multiply the longer you let it sit out, but those bacteria will be killed on contact with proper heat.;
, Since you obviously cannot "salt to taste," it's sometimes hard to know how much salt is enough. Many chefs recommend this benchmark as a good guide for pre-seasoning meat.








Salt your steak at least 40 minutes before you cook it. Most cooks salt their steaks right before placing it on the grill. Because salt is a desiccant, this draws the moisture out to the surface of the steak, where it gets seared off immediately. This produces mostly an underwhelming steak. Instead of seasoning with salt right before you place it on the grill, salt at least 40 minutes to an hour ahead of time. This allows the moisture to return into the steak as well as tenderize the meat.
When you salt at least 40 minutes in advance of cooking, the moisture drawn out to the surface by the salt has time to seep back into the meat.This process is called osmosis, and it happens very slowly, which is why it takes time. The moisture that travels back into the steaks is now well-salted and flavorful.
This salting process also tenderizes the meat by breaking down proteins. Broken-down proteins mean a softer, more succulent steak.
 Olive oil has a distinct, crisp flavor that many cooks love, although you might prefer a more neutral oil, such as groundnut or canola oil. Use no more than a teaspoon for each pound of meat.
 Many chefs prefer to season their steaks after they've finished cooking them because pepper can char while cooking and impart a slightly burned flavor. Some chefs don't worry about charring, believing it to give the steaks a heartier flavor. Experiment with both methods and see which one turns out best for you.









For the best flavor, grind your peppercorns yourself in a pepper mill immediately before use. Do not buy pre-ground pepper, as it will get stale. Freshly-ground pepper makes a world of difference.
 Great-tasting cuts of steak don't need fancy seasonings or marinades to taste good. In fact, great-tasting cuts of steak probably taste worse-off after a complex bath of herbs, aromatics, and spices. If you're frying a nice T-bone or porterhouse, or grilling a filet-mignon, stick with nice and simple for best results.
 Chances are you already have most of the ingredients in your own pantry, so why not try to make it yourself? Combine:









2 tablespoons crushed black pepper
2 tablespoons kosher salt
1 tablespoons paprika
1 tablespoon granulated garlic
1 tablespoon granulated onion
1 tablespoon crushed coriander
1 tablespoon dill
1 tablespoon crushed red pepper flakes

, If you want to give your steak a not-so-average rub, try this flavorful blend of spices and seasonings:









4 teaspoons salt, or to taste
2 teaspoons paprika
1 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper
3/4 teaspoon onion powder
3/4 teaspoon garlic powder
3/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
3/4 teaspoon ground coriander
3/4 teaspoon ground turmeric

, This seasoning has a little bit of everything in it — heat, spice, sweetness, and tang:









1 tablespoon kosher salt
1 tablespoon ground black pepper
1 tablespoon ground coriander
2 teaspoons mustard powder
2 teaspoons ground coffee
1 teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder
½ teaspoon ancho chili powder
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
½ teaspoon ground cloves
⅛ teaspoon cayenne pepper

, Grilling is the quintessential summer cooking method. Grab a few beers, heat up the barbecue, and get at it. If you can, make sure to use charcoal instead of gas, and for goodness sake, make sure your grill has different heat stations for best results!








, Probably a little less fussy than grilling, pan-frying allows you to get your steak out of the refrigerator and into your stomach in record time. Although pan-frying is less healthy than oven-roasting or grilling, some contend that nothing's better than a fresh fried steak.
 Heat up your broiler for a healthier and no-nonsense steak. Cooking over high heat makes this method a little more risky than other methods if you're after medium-rare meat, but with the right technique, broiled steak often tastes unparalleled.
 Start your steak off in the pan and end it in the oven for a ridiculously juicy steak that's crisp and brown on the outside and succulent on the inside.








