 The three credit reporting agencies are Experian, Equifax and TransUnion. You can call them on the phone, or you can visit the fraud page of any of their websites. It doesn’t cost anything to file an initial fraud report.In an effort to make it simple for victims, the law states that anyone who needs a fraud alert need only contact one of the three credit reporting agencies.
Although you are only required to file one fraud alert with one credit reporting agency, it might be a good idea to file one with all three. This way you don’t have to worry about one credit reporting agency not sharing your fraud alert information with another one.
 Call 1-888-397-3742 or visit their credit fraud protection page online. Follow the steps to place a fraud alert on your credit report.Check the box next to the option “Add a Fraud Alert Message” and click on the blue “Continue” button.
Check the box next to “Add an Initial Security Alert (90 days) and click on the blue “Continue” button.
Fill in your personal information, including your name, address, social security number, birthday and employer’s name and address. Click on the boxes to agree to the terms and conditions, and then click on the “Submit” button.
 Call 1-888-766-0008 or visit their Alerts Online page. Fill out the requested information on the page.Select the type of alert. Check the box next to “Initial 90 Day Fraud Alert.”
Fill in the personal information, including your name, address, social security number, birth date, e-mail address and additional contact information.
Fill in the security code verification.
Click “I Accept” to agree to the Terms of Use and then click “Submit.”

, Call 1-800-680-7289 or visit their Fraud Alerts page. On the right hand side of the page, click on “Place a Fraud Alert” and follow the steps.Log in or register to create a new account. If you have placed a fraud alert, placed a security freeze or disputed an inaccuracy on your credit report within the last year, then you already have an account. In that case, enter your user name and password. If you don’t already have an account, click on “Register” to create a new account.
Enter your name and address and click on “Continue”
Create a user name and password, create a security question, enter your social security number and date of birth, agree to the Terms of Use and click on “Continue.”
Follow the steps to finish submitting your fraud alert.
 Once you place a fraud alert on your credit report, you can either let it expire after 90 days, or you can remove it at any time within the 90 day period.


To remove a credit fraud alert placed with Equifax, send a written request to Equifax Consumer Fraud Division, PO Box 740256, Atlanta, GA 30374. Include your name, Social Security Number, current and previous addresses, date of birth, and telephone number.To remove a credit fraud alert with Experian, you must submit your request in writing to Experian, P.O. Box 9532 , Allen, TX 75013. Include your name, address, Social Security number and date of birth, along with copies of two documents verifying your current address, such as current utility bills and your driver’s license.To remove a credit fraud alert with TransUnion, visit their Remove a Fraud Alert page. Enter your user name and password, and follow the steps they outline.