 Hilary started out as an actress first. If your school is putting on a production, play or musical, take part in it! Even if it includes singing, because you never know, one day you might be discovered. Hilary started out in a Disney Channel show "Lizzie McGuire", for younger audiences. Remember to start out slow, and be patient! Don't rush into anything.;
, In this way, you can relate to her characters and you can see the way she acts in a depressing role, or maybe in a happy and bubbly role, or maybe even a down-to-earth typical girl like you role. Watch everything: her expressions, her moods, and the way she acts, so that you can be inspired to do some similar acting, if you ever break into showbiz.
 She's a Texas girl, and even if you're not from Texas, it's okay! Because Hilary's got a lot of things in common with you. For example, she has two ex-boyfriends, she has an older sister Haylie, she loves spending time with her family and she keeps a puppy as a pet! A lot of these things may be similar in your life, so don't think she's from another planet. She's a normal girl, just like you!

, No, you don't have to be a perfectionist when it comes to acting and singing, but you might as well try stretching out your vocal cords. You can go on Google to look for tips on how to sing well, or how to practice singing. You could join the Choir in your school, or maybe even just practice singing by yourself in your bedroom or even in the shower. You'll eventually get a nice voice, and you could take part in musicals or offer singing for charity, or something similar.
 Change your greediness and selfishness and replace it with love and care. And if you can't do that, turn into an optimist. Look at the bright side of things. If you think somebody's got a better life than you and is more appreciated, be thankful you're not alone. Don't look down on yourself!

, Hilary supports a stack of charities, and is constantly visiting orphanages, hospitals and homeless people. I bet you didn't know that Hilary and her older sister Haylie Duff invited a few sick orphans to the set of their movie 'Material Girls'. Help people's wishes come true. If a friend needs help, help her! You don't have to say no or tell her to go away just to be cool in front of your friends. Well, that's not cool at all. What is cool is to help somebody when they need it. Someday you'll be rewarded for that.
 When Hilary Duff changed her sweet girl look to a more sophisticated look, in 2008, there is no need to be critical. A lot of people reported that it didn't look nice, and she should remain the sweet daddy's girl always. However, it's HER decision to change her appearance. After all, everybody grows up eventually and changes their looks, personality and appearance, so why not Hilary? Besides, she's twenty three years old and she needs her space. You can introduce changes as well, but if you're younger it's probably better not to do things like dye your hair or wear black leather jackets.
 It will take time just to become a successful business woman, let alone create two perfumes and your own fashion line. However, anything is possible if you just believe in it. Hilary is a spokeswoman and a businesswoman, and allowing yourself to be inspired by that, you could always take subjects in school, such as Economics, Business Studies, Travel and Tourism, etc. Being smart and working hard now can help you achieve your goals in the future, believe it or not!

, Hilary is a modest person and an overall sweet girl. If there were any bad rumours flying around about her, Hilary would snap them off by declaring them untrue. She also surrounds herself with wise people and is a very strong person herself!

,