 Unlike sewn-in extensions, clip-in extensions must be removed before you go to bed. The tiny combs can dig into your scalp while you sleep, which can be painful. They also tend to be more fragile than sewn-in extensions.;
, Place the extensions in a tub or sink, and dampen them with lukewarm water. If you can, use a handheld shower head. Apply a small amount of shampoo and gently massage the fibers. Rinse the lather out, and repeat with the conditioner.


If your extensions are synthetic, use a wig shampoo intended for synthetic fibers.
If your extensions are real hair, use a mild shampoo and conditioner, or a shampoo intended for extensions.
 Pat them dry with a soft towel first, then clip them to a pants hanger. Place the hanger in your shower, or in a well-ventilated area. Wait until the extensions are dry before you brush or style them. If you brush them while they are wet, the fibers will frizz.
 Make sure that the extensions are dry. Start combing them from the ends first, and work your way to the top. Never comb straight down from the top to the ends.
 When your extensions are dry, comb a little bit of leave-in conditioner evenly. Don't overdo it because they'll become greasy easier than your natural locks.
 It is best to avoid heat styling, such as straightening or curling, all together, especially on synthetic extensions. If you must heat style them, be sure to use a heat protecting spray, and a lower temperature.


Make sure that your extensions are dry before you heat style them.
Avoid blow drying extensions. This can cause them to tangle.
Style the extensions before you clip them to your hair.
If you can, get two sets of the same extensions. Keep one pair "just for curling" and one "just for straightening." This will cut down on style time and damage.
 Some extensions will fall apart in a ponytail. Read the labeling when buying new extensions to see if you can use them in a ponytail. If it doesn't say whether or not you can, it is best to be on the safe side and do not put them in a ponytail.
 Fill a spray bottle with two parts fabric softener and one part water. Close the bottle, and shake it to mix. Spray the extensions with the solution, then comb through them. Use a wide toothed comb, and work in small sections, starting from the ends first.

