


Interviews are also a time to assess your personality. And no one wants to work with a conceited braggart. Therefore, your self-introduction is not the time to brag and list every awesome thing you have ever done.
Awesome things that are okay to share are those immediately relevant to your seminar. But even with those, many should be subtly worked into the body of your talk.
It would, however, be an appropriate time to share your pedigree. You should share your name, you current work/school affiliations, and current training/educational state. If relevant, share about some past training.
 After all during an interview seminar most of the audience already knows who you are. What your interviewers want to know is what you can do for them, they want to know your skills. So get on with it and to the talk.
 I am from Initech. I trained under Bill Lumbergh. Recently I lead a team that designed and implemented new cover sheets at Initech that have increased productivity. Today I am going to talk about my work in this new cover sheet development, my methods for monitoring the adoption of the new cover sheet system and the outcomes of this new workflow method."

, I am from Initech. I trained under Bill Lumbergh."

The speaker incorporated some subtle bragging, "Recently I lead a team that designed and implemented".

The speaker then subtly shared some skills ensconced in an introduction of the talk. "Today I am going to talk about my work in this new cover sheet development, my methods for monitoring the adoption of the new cover sheet system and the outcomes of this new workflow method." Implied in this sentence is that the speaker knows how to develop and implement new managerial systems and monitor their adoption. Skills presumably his interviewers are interested in.
 Now that you have decided you are giving a Job Seminar and identified your goals, it is time to craft your own introduction. You can use the above example as an outline when writing your own. Of course you will have to customize it for your own unique background, qualifications and goals. Remember that your Job Seminar introduction is a good time to state your credentials and brag a little, just make sure it is subtle.
 Once written, rehearse your introduction for friends or colleagues. Enlist their honest feedback before the big day. Rewrite and re-rehearse your introduction as needed based on feedback.

