 Networking is probably the most important task you can do; you should have started well before you graduated. Networking gets your name on hiring managers' minds. When networking, you aren't looking for a job, but rather, getting information. This gives you valuable contacts for future reference. The most rewarding jobs oftentimes are not even advertised. Sometimes they never existed in the first place, until someone talks to you and decides they could use you somehow. Never underestimate the power of networking.;
, Hopefully, for you, these are very closely related. You should really love what you do and you won't feel like it's work. Love what you do and the money will follow. The point here is, you need to have a finite target of jobs you want; this should only be a couple, maybe three at the most. You have to have a razor sharp focus in your job hunt and your subsequent interviews. Any more than this and you will get burned out and your interviews will start becoming lackluster and that is exactly what the other guys want from you. They have just gained that coveted edge-up. The last thing that you need is to accept an offer just because you are tired of searching and interviewing. Soon enough, you will find yourself in a job you really hate.
 If you know what you like to do, a list of all the companies, large and small, that do that very thing is going to be extremely beneficial. Having a targeted selection list will help keep you focused and efficient in your search. You will assure yourself that you are only searching for and interviewing with companies that you know you want to work for.
 It is generally considered a bad thing to send a cover letter or job interest letter starting with "To whom it may concern." You really need a contact name; it shows that you have done your homework and you are serious about working for them. Try the various business network sites or social network sites or professional organizations until you get some names.
 Remember that these people are the people that just happen to be working in the very field that you are interested in for the very companies that you have targeted. So, while you are asking for advice, you are also gathering information from them about them, about their company and about what they do. They, in turn, are getting to know you, getting your name and contact information. Should they have an opening in the near future, guess who will immediately come to mind?

, Do not forget to ask them if they would refer you for an opportunity that they might come across in the near future. This last point is essential; it virtually doubles your search efforts as your contacts will now keep an eye out for a career for you as well.

