 In side control, you’ll be lying across your opponent, keeping your body weight pressing down on them. Clamp your knees against your opponent’s side to restrict their movement. From there, reach around their opposite shoulder and clasp your hands together. This will prevent them from squirming out.Since you’ll already be controlling your opponent’s arm to maintain side control, you’ll be in a perfect position to secure a kimura.
Be prepared to adjust your technique depending on which side you’re controlling—grip your opponent’s right wrist with your left hand and vice versa.
 In dominant side control with your opponent on their back, securing an arm will be as simple as reaching down and grabbing it with your bottom hand. If they’re attempting to escape, you’ll have to first flatten them out. You can do this by angling your legs toward their head and driving your weight forward until both of their shoulders are on the mat.If your opponent is braced and pushing against your chest, quickly take hold of their wrist before you flatten them out. This will make it easier to complete the submission once they’re on their back.Be careful not to let your opponent slip out or turn over onto their knees while you’re setting up the leg drive.
 Now that you’re controlling your opponent’s wrist, snake your top hand around the back of their upper arm and grip your own wrist. To put yourself in a stronger controlling position, step over the opponent’s head with your nearest leg, drop your weight and turn so that you’re facing their feet.Twisting the wrist so that the palm is facing upward will take away your opponent’s leverage.
Keep your knees pulled in tight. Otherwise, your opponent may turn inward, neutralizing the submission., Hugging the arm tight to your chest, use the forearm of your top hand to lift straight up on the elbow. You should pull with the full strength of both arms, not just your top hand. Imagine that you’re trying to pinch your shoulder blades together.The submission will work best if there’s a little bend in the arm. If it’s completely straight, you’ll have apply much more rotational force in order to tap the opponent out.

