 Most libraries have a mission statement that helps to identify their goals, acquisitions, funding, organization and more. Although this need not be a formal document, it is a good idea to clarify your goals before starting to build a personal library.;
, Unlike city or school libraries that are at least partially publicly funded, a personal reference library relies on your own funds. If you have a small budget, you may want to look into acquiring used books, rather than new books.
 Unless you have a very large budget from the outset, you should follow the general rules of all libraries and create an acquisition plan.


For example, if you have $100 per month, you may plan to acquire at least 3 new books per month, every month for 2 years. You will have 72 books after 2 years, if you follow this plan. If you plan to buy used books because you have a budget of $50, you may be able to find 4 books per month, resulting in 98 books in your reference library after 2 years.
 Most reference libraries are somewhat defined by the personal interests of the people creating it. After plans are made to acquire the staples of a reference library, such as an encyclopedia and an atlas, you may want to start collecting based on your interests.


For example, possible specialized topics include biblical studies, natural science, psychology, music, travel or art.
 This may be a room, or a large corner of a room, but it should be dedicated to the reference library, in order to preserve organization and provide a quiet study space. Include the following items in your library:


Find sturdy bookcases with adjustable shelves. Many reference books are larger and heavier than fiction books. You can hire someone to build in your bookcases, or you can buy freestanding bookcases at most furniture stores. If you have freestanding bookcases, make sure they are anchored to the walls.
Add a computer and computer desk. An online database is the best way to catalog your books. An online research center is also a necessary part of any reference library. The computer desk should be set up with a chair.
Make room for a library table. These tables are long and flat, so that you can lay out more than 1 book at a time when you are doing research. The table should be large enough so you can lay out large atlases, with room to spare for a notebook.
Find a comfortable reading chair, if you plan to do extensive reading in your library. Many people prefer to have a well-upholstered chair where they feel comfortable sitting for a couple of hours.
Add incandescent lighting to limit eyestrain. Your room should have task lighting above work stations and the reading chair, so that you can see your pen, paper and book pages. Task lighting can be provided by pendant lamps or standing lamps. It should also include ambient lighting that fills the room with enough light to see the book spines on the shelves. This is usually provided by overhead lights or fixtures near the ceiling.
Choose ambient lighting that is separate from task lighting. It is not a good idea to place lighting directly on the books themselves for long periods of time. Over time the books will be damaged by harsh lighting or sunlight. Turn off the ambient lighting when you have collected your books and you are under your task lighting.
Buy a library ladder or stool, if you have tall, custom built shelves. This will help to avoid falls and allow you to access your entire library.

