 Start with the left leg in front and outstretched with your right leg bent behind you. Bend forward as far as possible. Slowly unbend your back leg (right leg). Hold for 30 seconds. Repeat with your right leg in front and left leg bent behind you.









Practice to be able to do regular splits with both legs extended.
 Make sure you have perfect turn-out and point your toes. Hold each split for 20 seconds.Do rights splits by putting your right leg in front of you and your left leg behind you.
Do left splits by putting your left leg in front of you and your right leg behind you.
Do center splits by extending each leg at a right angle to your body.
 With your legs extended in a V in front of you, press your inside ankles against the wall, forcing your legs to stretch wider. Hold the stretch for 10-15 seconds.








Do not over-stretch. Stop if this exercise is painful.
 Lie on your back and put your feet up in the air. Cross your ankles then widen your legs into a split. Repeat 10 times, alternating the ankle cross.
 There are several kinds of lunges which can be done to stretch. Two of the most popular are Standard and Side lunges. Do 10-12 repetitions for each leg.








Standard lunges: Stand with legs hip-width apart. Maintain a straight posture. Step forward with one leg and lower your body until your front thigh is parallel to the floor. Your rear knee should touch or nearly touch the floor. Repeat with other leg.
Side lunges: Stand with legs hip-width apart. Maintain a straight posture. Take a big step to your right side, bending your right knee and lowering your body until your right thigh is parallel to the floor. Your left leg should remain straight with your foot in contact with the floor. Repeat with the other side.
 Complete a full turn while balanced on one foot. Think about “pulling up”: imagine there is a string coming from the top of your head attached to the ceiling.








Perform pirouettes en pointeor demi pointedepending on your skill level.

