 Under your account's security, you can request notifications whenever anyone logs in to your account. Getting these notifications can alert you if your account has been breached by a hacker, so you can take precautions to minimize the damage.The notification will provide a date, time, and location of the access on your account, so you can determine whether it was you or someone else. For example, if you log on to your account at school, you would get a notification of that log on when you logged into your account later at home.
 If you have a simple password that anyone could guess, it may be time to change it to something more complex. Your password should be a lengthy series of upper- and lower-case letters, numbers, and special characters.You can change your password under general settings.
 Keeping hackers from accessing your profile also means changing your password every few months or so, just to be on the safe side. You should do this even if you have no reason to suspect anyone has accessed your account., With two-factor authentication (or "Login Approvals," as Facebook calls it), you'll receive a text message with a code when you enter your username and password to log in to Facebook.The text message includes a code that you must enter before you can access your Facebook account. This makes your account more secure because even if your password is hacked, the hacker still must somehow get your phone as well.
 If you use a lot of apps with Facebook, you should check every few months and see what permissions those apps have. Some of their default settings allow you to post on your profile or access all of your information.Go to your app settings under your account settings, and you can review the permissions each app has. If you don't agree with the information that is shared with the app, you can always remove it.
Change the privacy settings to "only me," and then anything the app posts will only be visible to you, not to any of your friends or to the general public.
 Targeted advertising looks at your Facebook and general browser activity to figure out what you're interested in so relevant ads will be placed on your feed. If you don't want advertisers to have access to all this information about you, you can deny targeted advertising.You also can decide whether your friends are able to see products or services you like. For example, if you like a page on the internet using the Facebook "like" button, or if you like a company's Facebook page, when those things show up on a friend's Facebook feed it will say that you liked it. You can turn this off if you wish for a little more privacy.

