 Make sure you have enough room to move freely so that you do not strike anyone if you are swinging an object in the air.






;
, Use sandpaper for latex paint removal and mineral spirits for oil-based paint removal.
 For instance, colored paint painted over white paint, when distressed, will reveal some of the white layer beneath.
 Start hitting the wood at one end and work your way to the other end. The sock creates a buffer so that the wood's surface is marked up gradually.
 The hammer will leave deep impressions while the mallet will make slight dips in the surface.
 Attach the drywall screws to the 2x4 so that they're sticking out at a uniform level. Hammer the piece of wood repeatedly to create the wormhole effect.









For a lighter wormhole effect, use a small screwdriver to puncture the same portion of the surface of the wood lightly. Piece surface of the wood randomly rather than in the same area.
 The ring left behind by the glass is a nice effect for either a table or a bar.
 Petroleum jelly, like Vaseline or Vicks VapoRub, can create a distressed look when you're using multiple coats of paint. Lay down one layer of paint, and let it dry. Add the petroleum to areas you want distressed; be conservative with how much you use. Add your second coat of paint, let dry, and then go over the petroleum jelly areas with a bit of steel wool.
 The pointed tip of the heel will create a nice crater. Hit in random spots and use different amounts of force.
 Using a metal chain will distress the surface and will mask fresh cuts in the ends of a piece of wood.









Secure wing nuts and bolts onto your chain for a more random look. Regular chain will leave a more uniform distressing pattern on wood, whereas chains with add-ons such as small bolts will leave a more variegated distressing pattern.
 Put a strip of 0000 steel wool in a glass jar filled with plain white vinegar. Let stand overnight. In the morning, the steel wool should be mostly dissolved. Paint the steel/vinegar mixture onto bare wood with a brush. Watch as the vinegar solution reacts immediately with the wood.









This distressing technique is used primarily to grey or age the wood, as opposed to distress the wood, although it has a very similar feel. Spot test on a different piece of wood to experiment before you apply to your desired piece.
 You can also create deep grooves in the wood by dragging one of these tools across its surface.
 Create a distressed look merely by applying two coats of contrasting paint — no hitting, scraping, or scuffing. Paint the lower layer on and let it dry completely. Paint the top layer on and wait until it's nearly dry. With a damp, not wet, cloth rub the top coat of paint away from the wood in even strokes until the bottom coat of paint sees through. This creates a nice two-tone distressing effect.









If you use this distressing technique, skip the wood staining process below. Wood that has been "distressed" by painting does not require any stain.
 Alternatively, make random passes over the wood's surface with a power sander.
, Strike the threads of the screw with a small hammer.
,,, Rub this across the surface of the wood, making sure to cover the areas with deep grooves and nicks.


Use a stain that compliments both the color and type of wood you are using.
Let the stain dry and apply additional coats as needed.
 Brush the glaze over the wood with a dry brush, and buff the color with a lint-free rag. Make sure to push glaze into the joints and corners of the furniture.
 If the sealer appears too glossy, use a buffing tool to dull the shine.

