 One of the major causes of dry hair is damage to the protective outer layer. Once this layer is damaged, it allows moisture to escape and your hair to dry out.The main culprits are dyeing, perming, and heat treatments from blow dryers, straightening and curling irons, or crimpers. Consider some new hair styles that don't require heat to achieve, or cut back on how often you wear your hair like that.


When blow drying your hair, keep the blow dryer six to 10 inches away from your hair.Try rollers instead of the curling iron.
Use a thermal product that protects your hair from heat when you do style your hair with hot irons or blow dryers.;
, Comb out tangles with a wide-toothed comb or a brush that has protected plastic bristles, but don’t continue brushing once the tangles are gone. The friction caused by brushing will actually damage your hair,and if your hair is already dry and brittle, the damage done by over-brushing will be even worse.
 There are many things that can dry out your hair, and avoiding them will help keep your hair healthy and moisturized. Swimming, for example, is excellent exercise for your body, but the chlorine in pools can wreak havoc on your hair.Try a swimming cap to protect your hair if swimming is part of your regular routine. Similarly, avoid hair products that contain alcohol, as this too can dry out your hair. Stay away from products that contain:


Mineral oil and other petroleum-based products, which actually prevent your hair from absorbing moistureAlcohol, which dries your hair
SulfatesFragrances, which can be derived from thousands of sources, and are common irritants

, You may love the feeling of the sun’s warm rays on your skin in summer, but too much sun will damage your skin and your hair. Protect your hair with sun hats in the summer and warm hats in the cooler months, especially when it’s windy.
 Since heat treatments, chemicals, and some everyday beauty product ingredients can all strip moisture and oil from your hair, it’s important to pick hair care products that won’t leave your hair dull and lifeless. Choose a mild shampoo, nourishing conditioner, and leave-in conditioner that won’t leave your hair looking and feeling like straw. Look for products that contain ingredients like:Glycerin
Sorbitol
Argan oil
Olive oil
Shea butter

, Once a week, work a dime- to quarter-sized dollop of deep conditioner into your hair. These conditioners are meant to restore moisture, but make sure yours matches your hair type (such as curly or fine). Alternatively, you can also make your own deep conditioner using liquid coconut oil,or a ripe avocado mashed with two tablespoons (29.6 ml) of olive oil.Towel dry your hair, squeezing the water out instead of twisting it.
Apply your deep conditioner, wrap your head with a shower cap or plastic wrap, and allow it to rest for 30 minutes to an hour. Try adding the heat from a blow dryer that’s no more than 95 F (35 C).Rinse out the deep conditioner with water when your time us up, but shampoo out a homemade conditioner.
 This can be a relaxing bedtime routine that also helps put some necessary oil back into your hair and scalp. Cover your fingertips with a dime- to quarter-sized amount of oil, such as jojoba or coconut, and gently rub your scalp for 10 to 20 minutes. With a wide-toothed comb, comb your hair from root to tip to help distribute the oil.
 Dry hair is prone to split ends, and this makes your hair more unmanageable, and makes it look thin and damaged. Trim your hair once every eight to 12 months,and get rid of damaged ends to help your hair look healthier. Continue with your healthy hair treatments, and eventually all the dry and damaged hair will be cut away and replaced with healthy, luscious hair.
 A healthy body means healthy hair, because your body is responsible for distributing the nutrients needed to keep your skin and hair in good shape. At mealtimes, fill half your plate with vegetables of all colors. Choose water instead of juices or sodas, eat whole grains, eat lean proteins like peas, nuts, and seeds, and avoid processed foods that are high in added fat, sodium, and sugar.A healthy diet isn’t everything when it comes to dry hair, because genes and hormones determine how much oil your hair produces.But if your dry hair is caused by a lack of oil, try supplementing with foods that are rich in essential fatty acids, like avocado and olive oil., Exercise, like a healthy diet, is beneficial for all body functions. While exercise won’t specifically treat dry hair, it will improve circulation and blood flow to your scalp, which will help make your hair healthier, and can mitigate some of the effects of dryness.


For people who are too busy to hit the gym every week, try adding some extra fitness to your day by taking the stairs instead of the elevator, walking or biking to work, or doing a few exercises while you're relaxing in front of the television at the end of the day.
 There are medical and genetic disorders that can cause dryness and other hair problems. The most common medical conditions that cause dry hair are malnutrition, anorexia, and thyroid problems. Consult your healthcare practitioner if you’re also experiencing symptoms such as:Muscle cramps and spasms
Join pain
Obesity or extreme weight loss
Fatigue or weakness
Depression

