 Stretching before, during or after exercise does not appear to reduce overall muscle soreness or aches following exercise.However, stretching and improved flexibility does reduce the potential for injury which causes aches.Stretch large muscle groups prior to any sporting event or recreational activity as a part of your warmup routine. Stretching can also be done during your cool down period.


Although there is some controversy about how long stretches should be held, 20 to 30 seconds is adequate to stretch the muscle group and improve flexibility.
Gently stretch before each workout and during your cool down period.
 Warm up before exercises to reduce delayed onset muscle soreness in the following day or two. This is especially important before engaging in any new exercises.Warm up using the same muscle groups you’ll be using in your workout. For instance, if you are biking you can bike more slowly for 10 minutes. If you are running you may walk briskly for 5 to 10 minutes prior to your workout. In other words, your warm up can use the same exercise but at a slower pace.


Warming up increases your core body temperature, increases the blood supply to the muscles you’ll be using, and increases the flexibility in your muscles., Cooling down incorporates the same concepts. Use the same muscles you were just working hard, but at a slower pace until your heart slows. However, you can also use walking to cool down from almost any other activity you were doing as well. Use a slower pace to cool down for 3 - 10 minutes, depending upon how quickly your heart rate slows.


Research does not support the idea that cooling down after a hard workout will reduce soreness or muscle aches.But cooling down does have other benefits, such as providing time for your heart rate to go down to a normal level, allowing time for the adrenalin in your blood to reduce to a normal level.
 Take up to 3,000 mg of Taurine a day after a strenuous workout to help alleviate the soreness and aches associated with exercise.Taurine is found in abundance in the human body but can be depleted during exercise. Taking it post-workout can help improve muscle regeneration and healing,thus also reducing delayed onset muscle soreness.


Check with your doctor before incorporating taurine into your supplement regimen, especially if you are taking any prescription medications.
 What you eat after a workout can affect your level of muscle soreness in the following days. Whey protein has been found to decrease muscle soreness when taken within 30 minutes after a workout. A whey protein shake may also help when taken the next day as well., Including tart cherries or cherry extract in your daily diet may help to reduce inflammation, muscle aches, and soreness.Tart cherries have the highest amount of anthocyanins, making them the best food choice for relieving muscle aches and pains. Try eating a bowl of tart cherries after a workout to help decrease delayed onset muscle soreness.
 Omega 3 fatty acids are anti-inflammatory in nature and therefore are great additions to any diet, but they can be especially beneficial after a strenuous workout.You can use Omega-3 supplements or increase the foods you eat which are high in Omega 3 fatty acids. Some of these foods are salmon, trout, herring, sardines, flaxseed and walnuts.

