 Homecoming queens are voted by their peers, so if everyone likes you, you have a good chance of being chosen. That means being nice, not fake. If you're nice to people but then talk about them behind their back, they still won't like you. Even if everyone else around you is saying bad things about someone, say something like, "Guys, I hate talking about people, could you please stop." This way, you're not being rude to them. Keep up the "ultra-sweet-can't-help-but-love-me" attitude and you'll see a difference.;
, Looks count. You don't have to be model-thin or anything, but do try to look attractive. Know what makes you look good, and what you should stay away from.
 Your look should be natural without looking like you've tried too hard.
 It gives off an air of self-confidence, ease, and chicness. That way you will know that people voted for you because they like who you are, not who you pretend to be.
 You want to be the girl everyone loves and this includes guys. If you have a boyfriend, though, don't flirt, that'll just get you a bad name. Regardless, remain equally friendly to everyone.
 Again, this will just get you respect and people will like you more. Remember that keeping your grades up is important so you'll even get to that homecoming. You may lose votes from those who consider those who slack academically "losers."

, In other words, don't let others tell you what or who to be. If you're shy, still be yourself but try to relax and be more outgoing. Learn to be assertive and confident.
 Try to relax, be more outgoing, and have fun around people. There's no reason why you should be nervous - try to see everyone as friends and treat them equally.
 Get yourself involved in a lot of activities. That way, you know a bunch of people. Join other extra-curricular activities in your school like dance, basketball, soccer, etc.
 Make an effort to get to know everyone, but don't become friends just to snag the homecoming crown. Be friendly, relaxed, and open.
 Towards teachers, principals, kitchen staff, janitors, peers, everyone! You won't only be respected by your peers but also your elders.
 No! To be the homecoming queen, you don't need the best date around. If you don't have a boyfriend to take, then go with friends. People will see this as you being confident. And if someone you aren't interested in going with asks you, don't be rude - turn them down with grace and gratitude.
 You can't win unless people know you want them to vote for you! Make your poster nice, readable, and not too flashy! An idea: Try doing something FOR the voters. Such as, giving out cupcakes to everybody at lunch, or, buy them hats that say vote for yourself. (But they don't have to be hats! they can be badges, jewelry,T-shirts, etc.) You could also stay simple and just say "Vote for me!" in the hallways.

