 Different low-carb fruits grow best at different times of the year. While today’s modern, globalized food system allows access to many foods year-round, low-carb fruits that are grown and obtained during peak season will taste better and be priced more affordably than they would be if grown and obtained during the off-season.Use a peak-season map like the one at http://www.epicurious.com/archive/seasonalcooking/farmtotable/seasonalingredientmap to identify low-carb fruits that are at peak season in your area.
 Many low-carb fruits have certain telltale signs regarding their freshness that can only be evaluated through handling them. These signs indicate whether a low-carb fruit is ready for consumption, ripe, or rotten. For instance, when evaluating blueberries, feel them for firmness and ensure they are dry.Learn to identify the feel of ripeness in low-carb fruits you are interested in, and before obtaining them, turn them over in your hands to ensure they are fresh.
 Low-carb fruits tend to have a slightly sweet and aromatic smell if they are ready for consumption. Low-carb fruits that are rotten often have a foul stink to them.For instance, if you smell an orange, you should be able to detect a distinct citrusy scent characteristic of an orange.
Learn to identify the correct scent of the low-carb fruit you are interested in and check for that scent before purchasing.
 Low-carb fruits that are past their prime are often blotchy or discolored. Low-carb fruits that are ripe and ready to eat tend to have a consistent color. For instance, bananas are often greenish before they are ready to eat. When they are ripe, they are yellow. Once they go off, they are mushy and brown.Color is not always an accurate indicator of whether you should choose a particular low-carb fruit. But many low-carb fruits — especially bananas, red berries, cherries, and apples — are good candidates for visual examination when trying to determine freshness.
Before purchasing a low-carb fruit, give it a once-over. If your low-carb fruit is packaged, turn the package around in your hands and look at the fruits or berries on the bottom. Do not buy low-carb fruits that do not appear fresh.
 Frozen low-carb fruits stay good for much longer than fresh low-carb fruits. They are a great choice if you prefer to incorporate low-carb fruit into your diet in the form of smoothies or baked goods.Frozen strawberries, raspberries, and blueberries are readily available commercially, and you can easily chop up and freeze banana slices in resealable containers that are perfect for making smoothies or topping your ice cream.
Frozen low-carb fruits do not have added sugar, so they are a great option for keeping carb counts low.

