 Take some time to think about your wine and what you want your wine label to accomplish. Is the wine is for an occasion, like a wedding or Christmas? Or is it an all-season wine? Do you want the wine to be perceived as serious or fun? Make a list of any visual images that come to mind that you’d like to incorporate in your design.It can be helpful to visit your local wine store and take note of any labels you feel particularly drawn to. Note what you like about them and take a few pictures for inspiration.
You can also explore wine merchants and check out labels for inspiration online.;
, Wine label paper comes in any number of sizes up to standard letter (8.5 in by 11 in or 26 cm by 28 cm). This is much larger than any potential wine bottle. Experiment with different size labels by buying a full sheet of labeling paper and cutting out sample labels of different dimensions. This will help you determine the size and shape of label you like best., Draw a “label” of the shape and dimensions you’ve determined are best on a sheet of blank letter paper. Sketch a design based on the ideas you brainstormed. You can try experimenting with a few designs to narrow down your favorite. Once you’ve determined the direction you want to go, draw a clean copy of your design to the right dimensions.


This will be your template for label creation.
 Use artist tape to secure a piece of graphite transfer paper on top of an actual label you’ll be using for your wine bottles. Ensure all the edges are secured tightly and that there is no movement between the two pieces. Place your design template on top, and begin tracing firmly with a pencil. This will transfer your design to your label seamlessly., Use permanent markers to color in or add wording to your design on the label as desired. This will ensure your label is colorfast., Remove the backing off the wine label to expose the sticky side. Start at one side and press the label smoothly over the surface of the bottle, taking care not to trap any air bubbles.

It can be helpful to let the labels and bottles come to room temperature for the best application., Use a clear acrylic sealant, such as Krylon Crystal Clear, to waterproof your new label. Follow the manufacturer’s directions regarding any ventilation, spraying distance and curing time to ensure the best result. Most sprays take at least two hours to dry completely., Use your template to make more labels as desired. Seal your wine labels to prevent smudging.