 The script is the blueprint of any film. That said, a filmmaker's job is to turn words on a page into a story with cinematography, sound, lighting, actors, costumes, and much more. A director starts with only the script as well. They try to find the best way to keep the spirit of the words intact (funny, politically-charged, dramatic, etc.) while still telling a unique story. When reading the script, think about:


How would you set up a scene? What kind of props, lighting, and music would you use in the background?
What is the key image or idea of the screenplay? How would you show it on film?
What sort of tone would fit the dialogue? Fast, bright, and witty, or slow and dramatic?
Are there places the movie breaks from the script? Would you have made the same choices?, When is the first big climax? Where is the monster first revealed? At what point do you start to see things from the villain's point of view? Films have to fit in a small time frame, usually under three hours, and thus have developed a rhythm that you need to tap into as a director. Try to keep track of the push and pull of emotions in a good movie. How does timing make or break key moments, like big joke or climactic emotional catharsis?, The easiest way to do this is to ask, "what did that scene or shot accomplish?" As a filmmaker, this is your fundamental question -- how do you make the images on screen meaningful? The easiest way to do that is to make sure that the audience is in a different place at the end of a scene or shot as when the begun. When watching great movies, try and find out the motivation between cuts and scenes that may seem unnecessary.


There is no right answer here-- you're just trying to see other filmmakers in action. Even if you don't think a scene is useful, can you see why the director might think it is important?

, If you see a camera angle you love, try and break down how you would recreate it. Think about how you might use a similar special effect in your own films. If you're stuck, look up behind-the-scenes clips and specials online or on the DVD.
 Once you know how a movie ends you can focus on how it got there. On the second viewing, you can focus in on smaller details, like lighting or sound design. You already know the main action. You might see clues and bits of clever foreshadowing now that you know the ending. You can catch how certain shots were set up or filmed without focusing on the acting skills. You haven't watched the movie until you've re-watched it., There are many cinematographers with enormous books composed of their favorite shots and ideas. When you're on set trying to mimic that incredible dolly shot in The Shining, don't just describe it to your camera crew. Show them the shot in action. Just like great writers hold on to quotes and ideas in journals, you should "quote" and record great movies.