 You can choose whatever categories you’d like, but some common options include bricks, plates, roof pieces, wheels, and windows. It’s also a good idea to have a miscellaneous category for any odds and ends that don’t fit into a specific grouping.While you’re sorting your LEGOs, you may want to have interim containers to separate them into, so you stay organized. Plastic grocery bags are an ideal option.;
, You can sort your bricks and other pieces by hand, eyeballing them to ensure that you get all of the same size together. Sometimes, it can be difficult to judge, though, so you may want to use a LEGO ruler and sorting worksheet to help.If sorting by size seems too difficult to do by hand, you can purchase a tool such as the BOX4BLOX, which sorts the LEGO through a series of trays that have different sized grids in the bottom. You won’t need to spread your LEGOs all over the floor or table because the pieces can be easily found in the individual trays, especially the hard to find pieces which end up in the bottom tray.
 Sorting by color alone can make it difficult to find specific bricks or accessories that you want, but dividing your collection even further can help organize it effectively. You might sort by color and type, so all your red bricks are in one spot and all your red beams are in another. You can also sort by color and size, so all of your blue 2x4 plates are in one container and your red 2x4 plates are in another.


Start by sorting the LEGOs according to type or size, and then further sort the pieces by color.
Sorting your LEGOs by color is best for collectors who like to build sculptures and mosaics., It’s easier to have pieces stored together when you want to build the original sets over and over again. If you’ve kept the LEGOs in their original packaging, you’ll easily be able to sort the pieces. If you haven’t kept the boxes from your sets, it helps to locate the instruction booklets from your sets because they include a listing of all the pieces from the sets, so you can identify the LEGOs that should be gathered together. Spread your LEGOs out on a large, flat surface to make it easier to locate individual set pieces.When you don’t have the original packaging on hand, you may want to sort the LEGOs into small containers before placing them in the larger storage system. That’s because storing them each in their own bin, basket, or other storage option may take up too much room if you have many specialized sets. Ziploc bags or other small plastic storage bags are inexpensive and work well.
It’s a good idea to place the instruction booklet from each set in the bag with the pieces. Not only will it prevent you from losing the booklet, it can help you identify which set is which when you have several bags in a single bin, basket, or container.Creative builders may be frustrated if they store their collection by set because it’s more difficult to locate specific pieces when you’re building your own creation.
 You may instinctively know which LEGOs are your favorites, but it can help to keep track of the pieces you’re using for a week or so to give yourself a concrete idea. It helps to create specific categories, so you know how to sort the pieces. For example, you might decide on “Most Frequently Used,” “Used Regularly,” and “Used Rarely” categories.


Sorting by favorites or frequency of use is a good method if you’re organizing a child’s LEGO collection because it can help you identify pieces that you may be able to get rid of when your child needs room for other toys, books, or belongings.
Place the LEGOs into containers based on accessibility. You’ll want to put your favorite or most used pieces and sets in the bins or containers that are easiest to access. That might mean placing them on the top shelf of your storage unit -- or the lowest, if you’re sorting for children.

