 Autistic people can be traumatized by the same things that cause trauma in non-autistic people. Consider whether your loved one has experienced severe stress such as...Natural disasters
Abuse (emotional, physical, sexual) and neglect; witnessing others being abused
War
Injury or life-changing health problem
Death
End of an important relationship
Sexual assault
Trauma in the family (e.g. a boy traumatized by watching his father's trauma)
Bullying: physical or emotional
Witnessing or being impacted by a violent crime: burglary, mugging, road rage
Exposure to adverse environment: bad educational environment, unsupportive group home, living in a country which treats disabled people poorly;
, Unfortunately, autistic people are vulnerable to bullies, as they may stand out more, and lack the social skills to handle the situation. Bullying incidents over time can lead to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder in victims.(This includes teasing, violence, rumors, exclusion, and cyberbullying.) Autistic people are at high risk for bullying, and this may lead to trauma.
 There are many different "schools" of therapies aimed at helping autistic people. Unfortunately, some practitioners, types of therapy, and methodologies can end up psychologically harming the people they are supposed to help. For instance, compliance therapy, holding therapy (grabbing and restraining a person against their will), restraint, and seclusion can all cause trauma symptoms., Autistic people can experience severe psychological pain from being mistreated, even if they do not show signs the same way that a non-autistic person might. In addition, autistic people may be mistreated in ways related to their disability, including...


Adults who label any emotional distress as a "tantrum" and push the person harder are being abusive.People who have experienced compliance training are at greater danger for sexual abuse, because they do not know how to say no or set boundaries.If having their needs met is conditional upon certain behavior (e.g. no access to food unless they have a certain amount of tokens for obedience), that is abuse.

