 If you do not, you may find that you are competing with other local food banks and religious charities, which would do harm to both. Once you assess the needs of the community, it will be easier to work toward meeting them.


Define a mission for your food bank. This could be a religious, secular or community-based mission statement. It should lead the goals of your organization and help other people to be inspired to get involved.;
, This can be as easy as a couple of friends deciding to start a small bank or asking more important members of the government and community to be on your board. It would be a good idea to ask an attorney and a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) to be part of your organization to oversee the paperwork.
 This information is usually available through another local food charity. Call to ask how they comply with the state's standards.


See if there is a Food Bank Network in your state. If so, they may provide a guide to setting up a new food bank in your town.
 This requires you to file for 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization status with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Your CPA can help to obtain this status by filling out governmental forms.
 This could be anything from a sturdy storage shed to a warehouse. This building may need to have temperature controls to keep it cold enough for food storage, and it may need to abide by other regulations.
 This should cover costs for food, food distribution, leases and organizational expenses. The budget may need to change as the months progress, but you should have an initial amount of money needed to support your pantry.
 Ask for food donations of canned goods, bread, fresh fruit and vegetables. Let the people know that their donations are tax deductible.


Some food banks ask local farms to donate any surplus produce to their food pantry. You must keep in mind that this food must be distributed fairly quickly.
Invest in a freezer if possible. Meat, bread and other items will need to be frozen until there is time to distribute them.
Be specific about the type of goods that you need. Many food pantries suffer for certain types of food and must buy them when their stock is low. You may also want to consider accepting coats or other food items.
 You may be able to rely on volunteers to distribute the food or you may need to buy your own van. Set up regular donation periods and times when people can come by the food pantry to ask for donations.
 Let the community know how, what and when donations are needed. Set up social media accounts and ask for volunteers regularly. Many high school and college students are required to have volunteer hours.
 Charities are often subject to audits by the IRS.

