 Some of the most common questions include asking about the evidence documents you need to submit, how long it will take, or where you can submit the application. You can call the Social Security Administration at 1-800-772-1213.;
, Once you decide to adopt your spouse's name, you will also need to get a new Social Security card with your married name. This document will also smooth the way to getting your new driver's license.


While you can complete the application online at https://www.socialsecurity.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf, you must print it out and submit it with your identity documents to get your new card. You cannot apply online.
Complete the application by typing in the information online or print it out and fill it in either black or blue ink.
 Your application and a certified copy of your marriage certificate can be submitted either in person or by mail to your local Social Security office.Your original documents will be returned to you with your new card.
There is no charge to request a corrected or replacement Social Security card.
 Driver's licenses are exclusively regulated by the states and the licensing procedure may vary somewhat. You need to know the procedure for the state where you want to get a new license.


Starting in 2013, the Department of Homeland Security implemented a phased roll-out of the REAL ID Act, including Enhanced Driver's Licenses.As a result of this law, some states have heightened the document requirements for issuance of driver's licenses. Contact the licensing authority in your area to double-check the document requirements.
 Based on your conversation with the licensing agency and whether your state has moved to Enhanced Driver's licenses, you will need to gather the information needed to successfully change your name on your driver's license. You may not need all of these documents, but they are the most commonly requested ones.


Order a certified copy of your birth certificate from the vital records office of the state where you were born. Expect to pay $15 to $25 for this document.If you have been previously married and took your spouse's name in that marriage, you will need certified copies of your marriage certificate.
If you reverted to your birth name after the divorce, you will need a copy of the court order restoring your birth name. These documents will be on file with the court clerk in the county where you filed the marriage and divorce. You may have to pay a small copy fee and postage.You will need proof of your home address. You can use bank statements, utility bills, mortgage or rental documents, and other official documents that show your name (married or single) and address.
Finally, you will need to show proof of your citizenship. Your old unexpired driver's license and new Social Security card will usually be enough. If you were not born in this country, you will need to produce your Green Card showing that you are a permanent resident of the United States.or your naturalization documents., You cannot get a new license online, by mail, or by phone. Most agencies operate on a first-come, first served basis, so arrive as close as you can to opening time.


Bring all the required documents with you, including your updated Social Security card.
In many smaller towns and counties, the agency may only be open on certain days. Call ahead if you are not sure about the operating hours.
If you have a current, unexpired license, even if from another state, it is unlikely you will have to take a driving test or written test. That is completely at the discretion of the agency.
 You may have to either complete a written application or the clerk will enter your information directly into the computer. Present your documents as requested and sign the application, either on paper or by electronic signature. At this time, you will likely be required to surrender your old license.
 Some states use the old-fashioned wall-mount vision charts and others use an electronic test. If you normally wear glasses when you drive, you should wear them for the vision test., This is the photo that everyone dreads, but everyone has to do it. As facial recognition software improves, driver's license photos are being standardized. In general, you can't wear a hat or sunglasses, make any sort of goofy face, and your hair can't obscure your eyes.If you have clothing or headdress standards for your religion, discuss it with the examiner. However, your face cannot be obscured.Some states don't mind a neutral natural smile, but will not allow a big grin. Ask the clerk what type of expression you should have., Per Homeland Security, your license must include your signature. Most agencies use a digital pad that you sign with a stylus.Fees vary, but will typically be less than $20.


Bring a check or cash. Some agencies, especially those in smaller towns and counties will not be able to accept payment by credit or debit card.
A few states will make and laminate your new license on-site. Most will mail it to you in about a week.
In most states you can also update your registration to vote at the same time.

