 Though you may struggle to accept your teen's clothing choices, you should try to pick your battles and not fight them on every outfit they come up with. As a parent, you may have a completely different aesthetic and sense of style than your teen. Try to accept this reality and focus on how you can support your teen as they try out different styles and fashion choices. If you really feel strongly about a certain fashion choice, perhaps that is when you can put your foot down and be firm about disagreeing with their clothing.


For example, you may tell your teen that they should wear certain clothing for certain occasions, such as black to a funeral or a formal dress for a formal event. This could be a good way to encourage your teen to wear what they want, but within a certain limit and with a certain image in mind.
 As a parent, you should also avoid trying to pressure your teen into wearing clothing they find uncomfortable or that does not fit with their style. Though you may have a certain idea of how your teen should dress, you should try to accept your teen's choices and let them where what they find comfortable. Doing this will ensure your teen does not feel stifled by you or limited by your opinion. It will give them the freedom to express themselves through their clothing.


For example, you can tell your teen, "I am trying to support your fashion choices and I want you to feel comfortable in what you wear."

, A big part of your teen’s fashion choices has to do with their search for identity and self-image. As a parent, you should try to accept their choices. But you can also encourage your teen to embrace a healthy self-image and good self-esteem. Sit down with your teen and talk to them about how they can cultivate healthy self-esteem. Tell them they are feel free to express themselves in their clothing and their sense of style. But also remind them that dressing in a certain way could create a self-image they may not want or intend.For example, you may tell your teen, “Don’t be afraid to express yourself in your clothing and your style. Embrace who you are. But also remember that dressing in a certain way may create a certain image that you may not want or intend.”

