 From birth, your newborn will have a reflexive ability called the palmar hand reflex. This means that when you put an object into your newborn's palm, it will instinctively wrap its fingers around that object. However, after about three to four months, those reflexes go away.You can help encourage your child to develop a palmar hand grasp as the palmar reflex disappears.


Put your finger against your baby's palm. Your baby should curl their fingers around your finger.
Continue doing this on a regular basis, even as the reflex disappears.
If your baby has a hard time controlling finger grip, try gently guiding your baby's fingers with your other hand to wrap around your finger.;
, After about three months, your baby will have lost the reflexive ability to grip. You can help encourage your baby's muscle development by assisting your child in trying to pick up or hold objects.Between three and four months of age, babies will start choosing objects to pick up, though they will not yet be able to do so on their own.
Babies will typically bat at objects that they'd like to pick up. This will be your clue that your baby wants to hold a given object.
Try putting lightweight objects in your baby's hand. A rattle would be an excellent starter object.
Use gentle strokes to touch the backs of your baby's knuckles with the rattle. This should prompt your child to open their hand.Gently place the rattle in your baby's hand and see if your child can hold it for a few seconds. If your baby doesn't have the strength or coordination yet, try gently wrapping your baby's fingers around the rattle to encourage grasping.
 When your baby learns to feed himself or herself, it helps develop fine motor skills and promotes muscle development in the hands. This stage of development should not be rushed too quickly, though. It's important to remember to be patient with your baby and to show them by example if they're struggling to catch on.You can switch your baby from a bottle to a sippy cup at approximately six to nine months of age.Your baby may need you to help them grasp the cup, or you may need to dribble the contents onto their lips before your baby gets the hang of it.
Most babies learn to self-feed with their hands by around 8 to 12 months of age.
Babies can typically learn to use a spoon by 13 to 15 months of age.
Always supervise your baby at all times, especially if they are around food or utensils.
 Raking objects encourages hand use and hand-eye coordination.This task may be difficult, depending on your child's age. Babies typically learn to do this on their own between four and eight months of age, but with a little guidance, your child might be able to learn this skill a little early.


Scatter some toy blocks on the floor in front of your child. Make sure they're large enough that they will not pose a choking hazard.
Gently take your baby's hand and rake the objects towards your child.

