 You can use butter or cooking spray to grease the pan.


You can use a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02 centimeters) pan, or a 10 by 15-inch (25.4 by 38.1 centimeters) pan.;
, You can do this using a handheld mixer, an electric stand mixer, or even a food processor. You can also do it by hand, but it will take longer. Keep mixing the butter and sugar until they are evenly combined.


To make the process go by faster, cut the butter into smaller cubes first.
 If you are using an electric mixer, set the speed to low, and add the eggs in while it is beating. Keep beating until the eggs are evenly mixed in.
 Pour in the vanilla extract and chocolate syrup, then stir it until everything is evenly combined. There should be no streaks or swirls of chocolate syrup.
 In a large mixing bowl, add the flour, baking powder, and salt. Stir them briskly together using a whisk or spoon.
 Keep stirring until everything is evenly blended together. Make sure that there are no lumps or clumps of flour. If there are any, use a whisk to break them up.
 This is not completely necessary, but it will add some extra flavor and texture to your brownies. For the chocolate chips, consider dark chocolate chips or semi-sweet chocolate chips., Use a spatula to help spread the batter evenly across the bottom of the pan.
 The brownies are ready when the center springs back if you press down on it lightly. Another way to check for doneness is by sticking a toothpick in the center. If it comes out clean, the brownies are ready.


If you are using a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02 centimeters) pan, bake the brownies for 35 to 40 minutes.If you are using a 10 by 15-inch (25.4 by 38.1 centimeters) pan, bake the brownies for 22 to 30 minutes., While the brownies are cooling, you can start preparing the frosting.
 Pour the milk into a medium-sized saucepan, then add the sugar. Cut the butter into smaller cubes, and toss it in. Cook the mixture over medium hear, stirring occasionally, until the butter melts and the sugar dissolves.
 Stir the mixture often to prevent it from scorching or forming a skin on top.
 Keep stirring until the chocolate chips melt. If the chocolate chips are not melting at all, place the saucepan back onto the stove, and turn the heat on to low. Stir the mixture until the chocolate chips melt, then remove the saucepan from heat.
 The mixture will thicken a little as it cools. This will not only make it easier to spread, but also prevent it from soaking into the brownies.
 How much chopped walnuts you add is entirely up to you, but you still want to be able to see the fudge frosting.
 The frosting will eventually harden up like fudge. Once the frosting is set and the brownies are completely coo, you can cut them into squares and serve them.