 If you charge into a sale-strewn store without a game plan, chances are you’ll exit the store with a cart full of cheap, unneeded items. Avoid impulse purchases and unnecessary spending by thinking about your priorities and making a list before you head to the store.For example, ask yourself who you’re shopping for and what specifically you want. If you’re shopping for yourself, are you looking for electronics, apparel, or seasonal décor? What items specifically?;
, Be it Halloween, Christmas, Valentine’s Day, or New Years Eve, there will be big sales on seasonal decorations once the holiday has passed. As the stores want to clear their shelves of dated merchandise, such as wrapping paper, wreaths, costumes, candies, and colored lights, you can take advantage of steep markdowns and shop for next year’s holiday.Look to big box stores, such as Target and Costco, for the best deals, as well as drug stores, such as Walgreens and CVS.
 No matter how many friends or family members you have, you can bet that you’ll have at least a few presents to buy in the upcoming year. Things like specialty wine or food baskets make great January or February birthday gifts for your favorite adults, while discounted toys can be saved for children's birthdays or next Christmas.If you’re big on Valentine’s day, look out for Christmas gifts that could easily be transformed into romantic presents, such as red or silver candles or gourmet chocolates.
 On-sale items decorated for a particular season, such as candles, beauty products, or towels, can be a great way to save money after the holidays. For example, apple-cinnamon candles marketed for Christmas, skull-embroidered hand-towels for Halloween, or green plastic tumblers made for St. Patricks Day can be used all year-round.


If you’re a video game junkie, check out post-Christmas sales on the year’s most popular titles., Clothing accounts for a huge portion of holiday gifts and merchandise, meaning that it also accounts for a decent chunk—some figures estimate as much as 45%—of the post-Christmas sales. Think specifically about winter items that you know you’ll need next year as well, such as snow boots, winter coats, hats, and scarves.Almost all stores offering apparel will have sales on clothing, but go to department stores in particular if you’re looking for steep discounts on designer labels., From cookies and chocolates to cheese dips and fruit preserves, edible treats are a big part of almost every holiday’s merchandise. While many of these ingestible goodies won’t save until next year, chocolate candies are easily frozen and set aside for next year’s holiday.When freezing chocolate, place it in the refrigerator for 24 hours before moving it to the freezer. Do the same—but in reverse—when taking frozen chocolate out for consumption. This transition period helps preserve the chocolate’s original texture and flavor., You might have noticed that sales discounts increase the more time has lapsed after the holiday. In order to squeeze the most from your post-holiday dollars, wait for several days or a week to check out a store’s offerings. You’ll be surprised what half-off items have gone up to 75% off., Just because a store is offering two-for-one promotions, doesn’t mean you’re saving money. Before snapping up that flashy deal, consider whether or not you need one of the offered item, much less two or several. After all, even if you get a BOGO deal on impulse buy slippers or dog sweaters, you’ve still spent 10-20 dollars on items you weren’t planning on purchasing in the first place.The same goes for trend- or year-specific merchandise. Five years from now, you won’t remember what Duck Dynasty or YOLO even was, much less that you got a three-dollar discount on the themed t-shirt.
 While big electronics chains such as Best Buy boast big markdowns after Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Years, they’ll offer even bigger discounts in January. This is because, as new television, tablet, and PC models are publicized and released, last year’s models go on sale.In the U.S., televisions go on sale before the Super Bowl, while gaming consoles, headphones, and laptops draw big discounts after Boxing Day and throughout January in the UK.