 When you are taking medication, you need to make sure that your throat is as hydrated as possible to ease the passage of the pill. Sip from your water a few times before trying to take the pill. Place the pill on the back of your tongue, then drink water until you swallow the pill.


Take a few additional gulps after the pill is in your throat to help it move down.
The water should be cool or room temperature, but not cold or hot., Take your pill and place it on your tongue. Take a huge gulp of water and swallow the water, but not the pill. Next, take another gulp of water and swallow it and the pill. Take one last normal drink of water to help the passage of the pill.


This method opens up your throat wider with the first swallow, which allows the pill to ease down your throat, which is not larger, on the second swallow., For some people, using a straw to drink water or a beverage helps the pill to go down better. Place the pill on the back of your tongue. Drink something through a straw and swallow the liquid and the pill. Keep drinking for a few sips after you swallow it to help the pill go down.


The suction used to pull the liquid through the straw makes it easier to swallow the pill., Some people find that a lot of water helps ease the passage of the pill. Drink a mouthful of the water. Open the edge of your lip slightly to slip the pill into your mouth. Next, swallow the mouthful of water and the pill.


If the pill feels lodged in your throat, you can drink more water after you swallow the pill.
Fill your mouth about 80% with water. If you overfill your mouth, you will not be able to swallow all the water at once, and the method may be less effective.
You may be able to feel either the water or the pill in your throat. This does not usually trigger the gag reflex and is perfectly harmless.
You can use this method with drinks other than water., Children as small as 3 years old may have to take a pill. At this age, you child may find it difficult to comprehend swallowing a pill or may be afraid of choking. If this is the case, help them understand what is happening. A simple way to help them swallow a pill is to give them a drink of water and tell her to hold it in her mouth while she looks up at the ceiling. Slip the pill in the side of her mouth and wait for the pill to settle in the back of her throat. After a few moments, tell her to swallow, and the pill should go down her throat with the water.You can try any of the other methods with food or drink on your child unless it says otherwise.

