 Before you can let go of financial regrets that haunt your past, you first need to admit to yourself that you made a mistake. People who have made financial mistakes are often prone to repeat the same error over and over, continuing their financial regret and the cycle of frustration. By owning up to the mistake(s) you’ve made, you’ll be able to take responsibility for the error and not repeat the mistake.You can own up to the mistake by admitting that you’ve handled elements of your finances irresponsibly. Take responsibility and don’t seek to pass the blame on to other individuals.
If you are in debt or bad financial straits, you need to face the problem head-on. Ignoring it won't make it go away, and neither will feeling sorry for yourself.;
, Even if you feel likely somehow sabotaged yourself, or made poor financial decisions in the past, remind yourself that you did the things you thought were best at the time. Hindsight reveals many of our past mistakes and can often cause regret, but at the time when you made your decisions, you did so with the best information at hand.Remind yourself that, in fact, you may have made a good decision with the limited information available to you at the time.
For example, imagine that you splurged on an expensive personal vacation before your spouse for filed for divorce, leaving you with no money left over. While this may be a financial regret for you now, before knowing about the impending divorce, your decision was not necessarily a bad one.
 Everyone can make mistakes, and we’re often much quicker to blame ourselves for poor decisions than we would be to blame others. Think of how you would comfort and support your best friend if they made a similar mistake, and try to develop that kind of compassion toward yourself as well. If you find yourself engaging in mental self-criticism, stop and focus on positive decisions that you’ve made instead. Part of letting go of financial regrets is the ability to let the past stay in the past, without constantly using past mistakes to berate and put yourself down.If you catch yourself engaging in excessive mental self-criticism, stop and divert your thoughts to something else. Remind yourself: “I am more than my past mistakes.”

, There's always a silver lining, even if it's hard to see at the time. Maybe you learned how to budget or be more responsible. You also gained practice in dealing with financial mistakes and related emotional reactions. Think about which of your responses helped you recover, and which ended up being counterproductive. Both of them teach you how to do better next time.

