 Depending on your state's requirements, a formal education may not be necessary. Many funeral directors in the United States were born into the trade, or gained entry via a local business early on. If a local funeral home is willing to provide you training, informal training may be enough to eventually obtain an apprenticeship and a license.Keep in mind, most funeral homes will only provide training to those with formal education. However, if time and money are an issue, check with local funeral homes.
Arrange a meeting in which you discuss your interests in becoming a funeral director. Convey your willingness and excitement to learn. If you seem dedicated, a local funeral home may provide you with training.
Even with informal training, you do need at least a high school diploma or GED.
In the UK, however, an online course is required before hand, which you can take through the National Association of Funeral Directors. Only after taking this course can you receive on-the-job training.;
, In most cases, formal education is required. A bachelor's or associate's degree in a field like mortuary sciences is usually necessary to becoming a funeral director. Programs range from two to four years.If you're working in the UK, however, a degree is not as necessary as there are specific training classes provided through the National Association of Funeral Directors.Most schools accredited with the American Board of Funeral Service Education (ABFSE) offer associates programs, frequently through community colleges. A few schools do offer four year tracks. Check your state's requirements to see if an associate's or bachelor's is needed in your state to receive your license.
During your time in school, you will study things like ethics, grieving, and business law. You will also learn the basics of embalming a body and otherwise preparing it for burial., While you're pursuing your education and training, work on your resume. The kind of training you make for yourself matters. Take on part time jobs that will help diversify your resume and increase your chance of employment.In many funeral homes, a small amount of office management experience is needed. Look for administrative work. You can, for example, work as a secretary or assistant part time as you complete an apprenticeship or associate's degree.
You should also look into jobs where you work with others. Interpersonal communication skills are vital to becoming a funeral director. Try to work in an environment where you may deal with death or grieving. For example, you could work in an emergency room.
 Most states require you complete an apprenticeship with a local funeral home to become a licensed funeral director. You will need to find a licensed funeral director willing to sponsor you. Your college or training program may provide you with a sponsor. You may also have to ask around at local funeral homes.During your apprenticeship, you will work under the supervision of a licensed funeral director. You will shadow the funeral director and participate in work in a real funeral home. Lengths vary between one and three years.
Make sure to work hard during your apprenticeship. You want to leave with a good recommendation. You may also eventually find work at the funeral home where you apprenticed.
 Every state's licensing requirements are different. Make sure you contact ABFSE to check requirements in your state. You will need to work as an apprentice for a number of years. Each state has a specific exam you must pass to become a funeral director.Some states more education than others, and fees vary. In California, for example, you need an associate's degree in arts and sciences. You cannot be educated formally. The application also comes with a $100 filing fee.How you sign up for the licensing exam varies by state. There may be some fees required to take the exam.
 The funeral director licensing exam is not easy, so study hard. You should be able to find study materials and guides online, as well as practice tests. Make time each day to study the material to ensure you get a passing grade.Find a good place to study. You should find an area free of outside distractions with good lighting and plenty of room. You should not bring any distracting materials, like a cell phone, to your study space.
Make sure to stick to a study schedule. Find a time each day when you can reasonably study. Sit down at that time every day for a study session.
Take breaks. You cannot study for hours on end without burning out. Make sure to give yourself 5 minutes every hour or so to unwind.
 The licensing exam is usually multiple choice, and you must take it at a testing center near you. You usually take your exam electronically. There will be a brief tutorial prior to the exam instructing you on how to use the computer.There will be a fee to register and take the exam. Fees very by state.
You usually have to leave personal items, like electronics and drinks, outside the testing area.
You will receive your score as soon as you complete the exam. In the event you don't pass, you will have to take the exam again and pay any fees.

