 Any student who wishes to be considered for a Canada Student Grant must apply for a student loan first. If you are not eligible for student loan, you will not be eligible for a student grant. In order to qualify for a student loan, you must meet the following criteria:You must be a Canadian citizen, a permanent resident, or a protected person.
You must be able to demonstrate financial need.
For full-time students - you must be enrolled in at least 60% of a full course load; 40% if you are a student with a permanent disability.
For part-time students - you must be enrolled in between 20% and 59% of a full course load.
You must be enrolled in a degree, diploma or certificate program at a designated post-secondary school that is at least 12 weeks in length over a 15 week period.
If you are 22 years old or more, you must be able to pass a credit check.
You cannot have used up your lifetime maximum limit for student financial assistance.;
, Student financial assistance, in general, is provided via funding from both the provinces/territories and the federal government. Applications, however, are submitted via your provincial or territorial student financial assistance office, not via the federal government. When you receive student financial assistance, a portion will be provided by the province or territory, and a portion will be provided by the Canadian government.The process for applying, and the eligibility criteria, is slightly different per province or territory, but the federal grants you will be considered for are the same no matter where you apply. The only exception is if you live in the Northwest Territories, Nunavut or Quebec. These provinces and territories have created their own student financial assistance programs and do not participate in the federal government student grant programs.In general, you would apply for student financial assistance via the same province where you attended high school, even if you’re attending post-secondary school in another province (or country). This is because the province in which you attended high school is most likely the province where you have permanent residence - i.e. where your home is, where your parents live, etc. For example, if you attended high school in Ontario, but went to the University of British Columbia, you would apply for student financial assistance via the Ontario Student Assistance Program (OSAP). There are exceptions to this rule which will be outlined on student financial assistance website for each province and territory., Once you know your are eligible for student loans, and you have figured out to which student financial assistance department to apply, complete the application. Most applications are completed via an online portal and do not require any actual paperwork. Most provincial and territorial applications will require the following information:Personal information such as: name, address, phone number, email address, emergency contact info, Social Insurance Number, gender, birthdate, high school completion date, province/territory-specific student number, total income from prior year’s tax return, citizenship status, Aboriginal heritage, marital status, and info about any permanent disabilities.
Dependent children information such as: the names, birthdates and relationships of all your dependent children. They may also ask you to estimate the monthly child care costs you would need to spend for any children under 12.
Educational information such as: post-secondary school name and address, program name and major, what the outcome of your program will be (i.e. degree, diploma, etc.), current year of your program, length of your program, session start and end dates, school student ID number, and whether the coming year is your last year of study.
Financial information such as: if you were considered a full-time student over the summer, gross income for the summer months, whether your living with your parents or on your own, wages while in school, assistantship income, stipends, RESP amounts, employment insurance benefits, worker’s compensation benefits, other types of income, total savings you have, amount of your assets, RRSP amounts, scholarship or bursary amounts, tuition and fee amounts, cost of books and supplies, cost of computer requirements.
You may also be required to submit information on your parent’s income, or your spouse’s income, if either situation applies to you.
 Once you’ve been assessed, you’ll receive a Notice of Assessment which will outline what you’ve qualified for and how much funding you’ll be receiving.If it’s your first time getting a student loan, you will have to sign a Master Student Financial Assistance Agreement form and submit it via a designated post office. This is the formal financial contract between you and the government regarding your student loans.
In most cases, your provincial or territorial student financial assistance office will forward some of your loan directly to your post-secondary school - on the first day of classes - to pay your tuition. They will then deposit the rest of the funds directly into your bank account.
All post-secondary schools will have financial aid offices that are there to help students figure out the application process. The folks at this office would be your first (and easiest) point of contact if you have any questions about your application. Each provincial and territorial student financial assistance office will also have their own websites and toll-free phone numbers that you can contact for help.
 This grant provides students who qualify with $250 per month they are in school. In order to qualify as a low-income family, your annual income must be below the designated amount - for the province in which your live - as per the chart found at http://www.canlearn.ca/eng/loans_grants/grants/low.shtml. You must also be enrolled in an undergraduate program at a designated post-secondary school that is at least 2 years in length. You are automatically assessed for this grant when you apply for financial assistance.This grant is not available for students in the Northwest Territories, Nunavut or Quebec. These provinces and territories have their own student financial assistance programs.
 This grant provides students who qualify with $100 per month they are in school. In order to qualify as a middle-income family, your annual income must be below the designated amount - for the province in which you live - as per the chart found at http://www.canlearn.ca/eng/loans_grants/grants/middle.shtml. You must also be enrolled in an undergraduate program at a designated post-secondary school that is at least 2 years in length. You are automatically assessed for this grant when you apply for financial assistance.This grant is not available for students in the Northwest Territories, Nunavut or Quebec. These provinces and territories have their own student financial assistance programs.
 This grant provides students who qualify with $200 per month for each dependent child they have. This particular grant is only for full-time students enrolled in a degree, diploma or certificate program at a designated post-secondary school. You must also be considered a low-income family as per the chart found at http://www.canlearn.ca/eng/loans_grants/grants/low.shtml. Only children who are 12 years old or younger when you start your education are considered dependent children for the purposes of this grant. An older child with a permanent disability can also be considered a dependent child. You are automatically assessed for this grant when you apply for financial assistance.This grant is not available for students in the Northwest Territories, Nunavut or Quebec. These provinces and territories have their own student financial assistance programs.
 To be eligible for a grant for part-time studies, you must be enrolled in a part-time program to obtain a degree, diploma or certificate at a designated post-secondary school that is at least 12 weeks in length. These grants offer students up to $1,200 per school year of study. In order to be considered for this grant, you must be from a low-income family as per the chart found at http://www.canlearn.ca/eng/loans_grants/grants/part_time.shtml. You are automatically assessed for this grant when you apply for financial assistance.Part-time students are also eligible for an additional grant if they have dependent children while they’re attending school. To be considered for this grant your children must be 12 years old or younger when you start your education; your financial need must be assessed at a minimum of $5,200 (if you have no other part-time loans) or $4,000 (if you have other part-time loans).
When applying for student financial assistance for part-time studies you will notice that you can only obtain a student loan via the federal government. Provincial and territorial governments do not offer student loans for part-time studies, but they will still process your application.This grant is not available for students in the Northwest Territories, Nunavut or Quebec. These provinces and territories have their own student financial assistance programs.
 This grant provides a flat amount of $2,000 per year of study to students who are enrolled in either a part-time or full-time program at a designated post-secondary school. You must also provide proof of your disability via a medical certificate, psycho-educational assessment, or other type of official documentation. You are not automatically assessed for this grant, unless you received it the previous year. When you apply for student financial assistance within your province or territory, specific instructions on how to apply for this grant will be provided.If your disability is such that you require services or equipment in order to attend school, you may also qualify for the Canada Student Grant for Services and Equipment for Students with Permanent Disabilities. This grant can provide you with up to $8,000 per school year to purchase those services and equipment. In order to be assessed as per the amount, you would have to provide documentation that such services or equipment is required, and the cost of those services or equipment via a separate application form.
This grant is not available for students in the Northwest Territories, Nunavut or Quebec. These provinces and territories have their own student financial assistance programs.
 The Government of Canada offers a variety of scholarships for Canadian students who wish to study outside of Canada, including China, India, New Zealand, Mexico, Korea and Brazil. The majority of these scholarships are for students at the graduate or post-doctoral level. The details of each scholarship, including eligibility criteria, the application process and deadlines, are different for each scholarship, but that information can be found here http://www.scholarships-bourses.gc.ca/scholarships-bourses/can/opportunities-opportunites.aspx?lang=eng.

