 Make sure the blender is in the off position, and then pour 1 cup (240 ml) of milk or juice into the blender.


If you want to make a thicker protein shake, add a few ice cubes first. Then blend your ice and liquid on a medium speed for about 10 seconds to break up the ice.
If you're allergic to dairy, you can use soy milk, non-dairy almond or coconut milk as a substitute. You can also use juice instead of milk.
Non-dairy protein powders are another option if you are allergic to dairy. Instead of a dairy-based protein powder, look for soy protein, rice protein, or dried fruit powders.
 Protein powder is one of the most efficient ways to ensure that your body is getting a proper daily dose of protein. After you add your milk or juice, pour your powder into your blender. Blend with the milk at a medium speed for 15 seconds.


Blending your protein powder with your milk before you add your other ingredients will ensure that the powder completely dissolves and doesn’t leave any chunks.
Follow the serving size directions on your tub of protein powder to get the right amounts in your shake. As a rule of thumb, if you are trying to put on weight or muscle, men should use two scoops; women should use one scoop.
 After you mix your powder and milk, you can add a variety of different ingredients to your protein shake. Fruits and yogurts not only add an extra boost of daily vitamins but add flavor. From nuts to frozen yogurt, your options are endless.If you love your vanilla latte, try adding vanilla protein powder, and a half cup of low-fat frozen yogurt to your shake.
Substitute regular milk for soy milk. Add 1 tablespoon of almonds, 1 tablespoon of sugar-free maple syrup, vanilla extract, and low-fat Greek yogurt to get a delicious soy almond shake. If you're lactose intolerant, make sure the yogurt is lactose-free.
If you love fruit, use a fruit flavored whey protein or dried fruit powder. Then mix in a handful of berries like strawberries, raspberries, blueberries, and non-fat milk. Add your fruits after you've blended the powder with the milk or juice to get a smoother drink.
Feel free to play around with mixing yogurts, fruit, and nuts together to get your perfect shake. Add these secondary ingredients after you've blended your protein powder with your liquid and ice.
 With all your ingredients mixed in, start at a medium speed. After you hear less of a crunching noise, especially if you've added ice, work up to a high speed.


Make sure to blend the ingredients for at least 45 seconds or until the fruit is completely dissolved.
 Once you’ve blended your protein shake for about 45 seconds, turn off the blender and remove the lid. Pour the shake into a large glass.


Pour a little bit of your shake into your glass first, and do a taste test. See if the consistency is to your liking.
If you see or feel ice chunks, blend again on high for another 10 or so seconds.
If your protein shake is too watery, add a bit more milk or yogurt to thicken it up.

