 Do not use human toothpaste or toothbrushes to clean your dog’s teeth. Human toothpaste contains high amounts of fluoride, which is poisonous to dogs. Visit your local pet supply or pet grooming store to purchase dog toothpaste and a toothbrush. You can also make your own doggie toothpaste by mixing baking soda with water.Mix a tablespoon of hot water with two tablespoons of baking soda. To add freshness to the paste, add a pinch of cinnamon to the mix.;
, Bring your dog to the bathroom, or an area away from noise and commotion, and close the door. Also, choose a space that has good lighting so you can inspect your dog’s teeth thoroughly.Bring some doggie treats with you so you can reward your dog for good behavior throughout the process.
 Get your dog accustomed to having its teeth brushed by massaging your dog’s lips with your finger, first. Massage your dog’s lips in a circular motion for 30 to 60 seconds once per day for a week.


This step is especially important if your dog has an adverse reaction to its mouth being touched. If your dog has an adverse reaction, stop what you are doing. Try again after a minute.
Reward your dog with a treat for good behavior.
 The following week, move on to touching your dog’s teeth and gums with your finger. Wrap your finger in gauze. Lift and hold your dog’s upper lip. Gently rub your finger in a circular motion over your dog’s upper teeth. Do this for 30 seconds.Hold down your dog’s lower lip and apply the same circular motion to its bottom teeth for 30 seconds.
Practice doing this once a day for a week. Remember to give your dog a treat for good behavior afterwards.
 Introduce the toothpaste to your dog by placing some on your finger. Let your dog smell and lick the toothpaste from your finger. By doing this, your dog will get used to the taste and texture of the toothpaste.You can do this either before or after you massage your dog’s teeth with your finger.
 Introduce the toothbrush by touching the front, side, and back teeth with the brush. Touch both top and bottom teeth with the brush. Do this for 30 seconds on both top and bottom teeth once per day for a week.Make sure to reward your dog for good behavior afterwards.
 Once your dog is familiar with the whole process, you can begin to brush its teeth. Before you start, place a dab of toothpaste on your finger and let your dog lick it off. Then, place more toothpaste on the toothbrush., At a 45-degree angle, place the toothbrush on its upper teeth while holding its lip. Massage the teeth with the toothbrush in small, circular motions, just like you practiced. The sides of the teeth that touch the lip will have the most plaque and tartar build-up. Focus on these areas. Only work on small areas at a time, lifting your dog’s lip as necessary.When removing tartar and plaque, use downward strokes for the top teeth.
Hold down your dog’s bottom lip and massage the outsides of the bottom teeth in the same circular motion. Use upward strokes to remove tartar from the bottom teeth.
 Once you have cleaned the outsides of the teeth, attempt to brush the insides of the teeth. Your dog might resist. If it does, don’t fight your dog, but cease from brushing. Only small amounts of tartar accumulate on the insides of the teeth. Therefore, it is not as important as the sides of the teeth.Don’t forget to reward your dog for good behavior afterwards.
 It is recommended that you brush your dog’s teeth daily, but at least three times a week. Since smaller dogs are more likely to develop dental issues, it is recommended that you brush their teeth every day or at least five times a week.Healthy gums are pink, not cherry red or white, and show no signs of swelling or bleeding.
 Nylon, rubber, or toxin-free rawhide chew toys are also a great way to keep your dog’s teeth and gums strong and healthy. Chewing on a toy can help massage the gums and scrape away soft tartar.Reward your dog with treats that are specially formulated to keep your dog’s teeth healthy.Chew toys and soft chews should not replace regular brushing.
 Have your vet examine your dog’s teeth to rule out any existing infections or diseases. Ask your vet about the dental care your specific dog’s breed needs. Some dogs, especially smaller dogs, are more prone to dental diseases and infections, like gingivitis and gum disease. Your vet can recommend a teeth-cleaning regimen that caters to your dog’s needs.


Take your dog to the vet immediately if it is suffering from any of these symptoms: inflamed or swollen gums, loose or decayed teeth, tooth pain, i.e., pawing at the mouth, lumps in the gums, i.e., mouth tumors, or fluid filled blisters under the tongue or near the corners of the jaw, i.e, salivary cysts.