 Every person has different hair, and it often needs to be treated and taken care of in different ways. Learn what type of hair you have in order to take care of it in the best way possible. Go a few days with natural hair, not using any products, and observe what your hair tendencies are. You may discover that your hair is:




Oily
Dry
Normal
Wavy
Straight
Curly
Thick
Fine


Once you have figured out your hair type, always treat your hair in accordance with that. Your hair will likely react differently than a friend's hair to certain products and care.;
, Many people believe that they need to wash their hair daily, but in truth most hair types only need to wash their hair every other day or a few times a week. Depending on your hair type, wash your hair when it's dirty, not just out of habit. If you have dry hair, you should only wash it every third day
If your hair is more oil prone, try washing it every other day, but if it looks really oily after just one day you can wash it every day
If you have normal hair (not super dry and not super oily) you should wash your hair ever other day or every three days
There is no perfect formula for how much you should was your hair. Just monitor your hair and wash it when you feel it's getting dirty. Washing it too much will prevent the natural oils from restoring in your hair, which can damage your hair.
 Hot water can actually strip your hair of protective oils that serve as a natural conditioner. By washing hair with lukewarm water you will prevent losing any natural shine from you hair and will avoid dull hair. , After you get out of the shower it can be tempting to run a brush through your hair, because it's a fast way to get rid of tangles. However, a wide-tooth comb is the best way to remove any knots post showering. A brush often snags and pulls your hair, causing it to break and become damaged, so use a comb and start at the bottom of your hair, working your way up. , Blow dryers are a fast way to dry your hair, but the heat from the dryer can damage your hair follicles, leading to dry, damaged hair. Allow your hair to air dry when possible, but if you need to use a blow dryer stick to one that allows for a cooler setting. , Hair is prone to split ends and if you go long periods of time without cutting your hair, it can look damaged and unhealthy. Try to give your hair a trim every three months or so, and if you are really prone to split ends, trim your hair every six weeks. If visiting a salon frequently is too much trouble or too expensive, trim your hair yourself. Invest in scissors for your hair and use a mirror that allows you to see the back of your head. It's easiest to trim your hair when it is wet or straight so that you can get even ends.
 Because your hair already has natural oils, and so do your hands, constantly touching your hair or moving it out of your face can increase those oils in your hair, making it look greasy. To avoid this, the best option is to get a hair cut that is manageable and won't bother you throughout the day.
 Hair dye has many chemicals that can damage your hair, and if done too often it's nearly impossible to repair that damage. If you are willing, stick to your natural hair color, but if you must dye, do it infrequently and stick within three shades of your natural color. , Surprisingly, sun can damage your hair just like it damages your skin. Too much sun can dry out your hair, especially if your hair is color treated, so whenever you are outside for long periods of time try covering your hair with a hat or use a hairspray with SPF protection. , Throwing your hair back in a ponytail or in a braid is always convenient when on the run, but be careful not too pull your hair too tight as this can cause damage and breakage. It's okay to do these styles with your hair, but always let your hair free at night and try to avoid doing them every day. , There are a lot of different hair products you can buy to improve the quality of your hair, but some of the best things for your hair can be found in the kitchen:


Olive oil: warm olive oil will help moisturize dry hair. Apply to your hair and let sit for 45 minutes, then shampoo and rinse.
Tea: unsweetened, brewed tea can bring shine to your hair as well as enhance your natural color. Rinse hair with a tea that corresponds to your natural color (black tea for brunettes, chamomile tea for blondes) after rinsing out shampoo in a shower. Coconut oil: this serves as a natural conditioner. Take heated coconut oil and apply to hair, letting it sit for thirty minutes. Then rinse with shampoo. Honey: honey is a natural moisturizer and can help strengthen hair follicles. Mix equal parts honey and shampoo and rinse. , This is one of those obvious things, but in order to have healthy hair, you need to have a healthy body, which means eating right and taking in the right nutrients. Because hair is another part of your body, it needs certain nutrients to maintain strength and growth. Some nutrients to improve your hair are: Essential fatty acids: flaxseed oil, salmon, tuna, walnuts and almonds
Vitamin B6: bananas, potatoes, and spinach
Protein: fish, chicken, eggs, and soy products
Folic acid: fresh fruits and vegetables, especially citrus fruits and tomatoes, as well as whole grains, beans, and lentils


Stress and smoking can also cause damage to your hair by making it dull and prone to breakage, so avoid these things if possible , Shampoos are made in a wide variety for different hair types and can range from cheap to very expensive. While you should avoid choosing really cheap shampoos, salon shampoos may not provide any extra benefit to your hair. Focus more on picking a shampoo for your hair type (shampoo for dry-damaged hair or for oily hair). , This may seem obvious, but conditioning hair is important because it moisturizes your hair and helps restore the natural oils that you need. Avoid applying conditioner to your roots as this can create extra oily hair.


Choose a conditioner that is also right for your hair type. If you have dry hair you may need a hydrating conditioner, or if you have oily hair you might like a light weight conditioner.
 All of us can't avoid using styling tools forever, but we can keep our hair as healthy as possible when applying heat. Before blow drying, curling, or straightening your hair always apply a heat serum or heat spray. These come in many different brands and they can be found at any grocery or drug store. , Along with your regular conditioner, it can be good to apply a deep conditioner at least once a week to do some damage repair. Some popular hair masks are made by Neutrogena, Alterna Ten, Aussie, and Fekkai. , What is often in style is thick hair with lots of body, but unfortunately not everyone is blessed with this hair type. Volumizers are great because they help you achieve that look even if you hair is extremely fine. Flip your hair over and spray a few spritz to your roots and the rest of your hair. Then create volume by blow drying or boosting your hair with your hands.
 If you want to maintain the best health for your hair, it's good to avoid washing your hair too much, but you may feel like your hair just looks way too dirty. Dry shampoos are great because they are an easy product that covers any dirt or grease in your hair and makes it look fresh. Spray the dry shampoo in your roots, spread it evenly through your hair with your fingers, and then run a brush through your hair to make it look the most natural. 