 Strenuous exercise causes your body to lose a significant amount of fluids. Failure to properly hydrate yourself during and after your workout can have a detrimental effect on your recovery.If you're unsure about your hydration needs, weigh yourself immediately before and immediately after exercise. The difference between your weight before and after your workout is the amount of fluids you lost during your workout. This represents the amount of fluid you must replenish to remain fully hydrated. For every pound of fluid lost, drink between 20 and 24 ounces (600 to 700 ml) of fluid to replenish it.Keep in mind that your fluid loss should never be more than 2 percent of your body weight. At that level, you're not maintaining safe hydration levels during your workout, and are at risk for injury.
If you've decided to rehydrate with a sports drink, check the label for added sugars. Sugar can derail the recovery process.;
, Electrolytes, including calcium, potassium, and sodium, are crucial for post-workout recovery. They regulate the flow of other nutrients to your cells, as well as allowing your heart, circulatory, and nervous systems to function properly.Bananas are a good source of potassium, and can easily be blended into a post-workout recovery drink.
You typically will find adequate electrolytes in commercial sports drinks; however, you shouldn't have one of these sports drinks alone for post-workout recovery, as they may lack other nutrients your body needs.
Green juice from fruits and vegetables or coconut water also contains plentiful electrolytes. These can be blended into a recovery shake.
You can buy electrolyte-enhanced water at any grocery store or health foods store. Sports drinks also contain electrolytes – but watch out for the sugar in sports drinks.
 Your muscles get much of the energy they need to work from stores of glycogen. These stores are depleted when you exercise, and should be replenished as soon as possible post-workout.You should be tracking your calories (and macronutrients like carbs) to ensure you are getting the amount you need to stay healthy without going overboard and gaining weight.


Generally, you should consume at least 1.5 grams of high-glycemic carbohydrate per 1 kg of body weight.
Important carbohydrates include dextrose and maltodextrin. You can buy supplements to blend into a post-workout recovery shake, or look for commercial shakes that include these carbohydrates.
Carbs are especially important if you are doing particularly strenuous exercise or endurance activities. Low carbs can result in increased fatigue and muscle soreness.
 For a post-workout recovery drink that you're consuming within 15 to 20 minutes after your workout, you want simple carbohydrates that can be digested quickly. For optimal recovery, you want to replace the carbs you've burned as quickly as possible. Complex carbohydrates take too long for your body to digest and may actually hinder your recovery.Bananas are an excellent source of simple carbohydrates, as well as many nuts and seeds. These ingredients can be blended into your post-workout recovery shake if you're making your own from scratch.
Nuts and seeds such as walnuts, pumpkin seeds, and flaxseeds are also rich in fatty acids, which provide energy to recover without requiring your body to burn too much fuel to break them down.
 Protein is fundamental to any post-workout recovery drink. A fast-digesting protein will get the proper amino acids to your muscles quickly, allowing them to rebuild bigger and stronger after each workout.Generally, you should include at least 20 grams of protein in your post-workout recovery drink. If you're buying prepared drinks, check the label and make sure they include sufficient protein.
You also can follow the ratio of 1 gram of protein for every 4 grams of carbohydrate. This ratio, which is based on your body weight, will ensure you're getting the proper proportion of protein and carbohydrate for your body's recovery.
If you're making your own post-workout recovery shake, consider buying whey protein powder.
Whey is a good complete source of protein and provides all the amino acids your body needs for an optimal recovery.
 If you're not interested in turning your kitchen into a laboratory of powders and supplements to mix for your shakes, 12-oz of 1% chocolate milk is a simple solution for a post-workout recovery drink.Chocolate milk has the right ratio of carbs to protein, and includes many of the vitamins and electrolytes that you need to replenish after exercise.
It is important to note that chocolate milk contains sugar. This gives it an effective ratio of carbs to protein (between 3:1 to 4:1) to speed up recovery, but it can adds calories, which is not helpful you are trying to lose weight. You can also try plain milk with a piece of fruit, which can help get you to that sweet spot ratio and is more nutritious overall.
Chocolate milk also will be a lot cheaper than investing in supplements and powders to blend into a post-workout recovery shake.
Although it may not be as precisely beneficial as a shake would be, it's generally all you need unless you're doing intensive body building or running marathons.
 BCCA stands for branched-chain amino acids. These amino acids are most critical to repair and strengthen your muscles after a workout. Leucine, isoleucine, and valine are BCAAs. BCCAs help your body to transition from breaking down muscle to repairing and rebuilding muscle. Whey protein provides all of these amino acids, which are the most essential to include in your post-workout recovery drink.
If you are a vegan or don't consume dairy products, you can get these amino acids from tofu or quinoa. Look for tofu-based protein powders to blend into your recovery shake. You also can get BCAAs from brown rice and hemp.
 Arginine and lysine are two amino acids that promote healthy hormone levels and reduce the hormone cortisol. Stress increases cortisol, which is linked to weight gain.You may not think of a workout as particularly stressful, but here the word "stress" refers to the physical stress you put on your muscles through strenuous exercise – not mental or emotional stress.
These amino acids may be particularly beneficial if one of the goals of your workout program is to lose weight, or to manage your weight after a significant weight loss.
Arginine can be found in turkey or chicken, as well as soybeans or pumpkin seeds.
Dairy products have lysine, which makes this amino acid easy to blend into a homemade recovery shake. If you're a vegan, add tofu for lysine.
 This amino acid provides fuel for your immune cells, and aids in immune cell repair. A healthy immune system is crucial to rebuild your muscles after an intense workout.You deplete your body's stores of glutamine when you exercise. Replenishing these stores quickly may be important if you have a weak immune system or are regularly exposed to viruses such as the cold or the flu.
If you're looking for whole food ingredients to add to a homemade post-workout recovery shake that will replenish your body's stores of glutamine, try adding cabbage, spinach, or parsley.
 Essential amino acids are those your body cannot produce on its own, making them essential in a recovery drink. If your body can produce amino acids on its own, it isn't necessary to go out of your way to include them in your shake. Some protein sources have better varieties of amino acids than others. For a post-workout recovery drink, you want to include amino acids that will promote the rebuilding and strengthening of your muscles.The nine essential amino acids are: histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, and valine.
While all protein provides some amino acids, not every protein source will have the specific amino acids you need for optimal recovery after strenuous exercise.
Whether you're buying protein powder to add to a homemade recovery shake, or buying a prepared commercial recovery drink, find out specifically which amino acids are included.
If you see amino acids with which you're not familiar, look them up to see what they will do for your body. If they don't assist functions that will promote more effective recovery, they aren't necessary for you to include in your post-workout recovery drink.
 Adding Vitamin C to your post-workout recovery drink typically won't hurt you. At the same time, it's not a necessary supplement, unless you have breathing difficulties.Vitamin C is an antioxidant that can help your body recover after stress, including a strenuous workout.
A Vitamin C supplement may be more important for your recovery if your workout takes place outside, or if you're participating in endurance activities such as long-distance biking or running.
If you already take a Vitamin C supplement, for example with a morning multivitamin, you may not need to worry about adding any Vitamin C to your post-workout recovery drink.
 Studies have shown a correlation between consuming tart cherry or ginger and reduced muscle inflammation after strenuous exercise.For example, a 2010 study conducted by professors at the Oregon Health and Science University showed quicker recovery times for marathon runners who drank a glass of tart cherry juice after they finished their races.
Tart cherry acts similar to non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) such as aspirin or ibuprofen.
Fresh or heat-treated ginger has similar properties to treat and decrease inflammation or muscle soreness caused by intense exercise.
 Creatine is favored by body builders because it can increase muscle mass by as much as 10 pounds and increase strength by 10 percent. You may want to consult your doctor before you add a creatine supplement to your post-workout recovery drink.If you are engaging in endurance activities such as long-distance running or biking, creatine typically won't provide you with any significant benefits.
If you decide to add creatine to your post-workout recovery drink, avoid consuming it in combination with caffeine. Caffeine may counteract any benefit you would realize from the creatine supplement.
Typically you'll buy a creatine powder supplement to add to your drink. These are available at health food and nutritional supplement stores. The amino acid is found in meat and fish, and is most prevalent in wild game such as bison and venison.
 While antioxidants aren't strictly necessary in a post-workout recovery drink, they promote overall health and can help increase energy and stamina.Turmeric, which commonly occurs as a bright yellow spice and is used in curry, is a member of the ginger family. This root vegetable has antioxidants that can decrease inflammation and assist in recovery.
Maca is a Peruvian root plant found in high elevations in the Andes. Its antioxidants maintain overall good health while increasing energy and stamina.
These foods and others are available in powdered form and can easily be blended into a post-workout recovery shake. Follow package suggestions for servings as well as taste in determining how much of these powders you should add to your drink.

