 If you are not already a photographer, it is important to study photography and learn how to utilize the equipment that photographers use. There are many aspects of photography that can be challenging so it is important to take classes or study with an experienced photographer.


Classes are often available in high schools, community colleges, universities, and through private instruction.
Study commercial photography if it is offered at your educational institution so that you can learn the business and what clients are looking for.;
, The camera is the photographer’s most important piece of equipment. They can be challenging to use on a professional level so it is important to familiarize yourself with different types of cameras and how they work.


Taking photography classes will allow you to learn about how cameras work in-depth and will also give you hands-on experience. You may also learn about different types of cameras, such as manual cameras, pinhole cameras, point-and-shoots, and DSLRs.
There are many online resources that will help you learn how to use a camera, and many of them are free., Lighting is one of the most crucial aspects of photography. Knowing how to properly use lighting will set your images apart from others. Poor lighting will often result in shoddy images. The key to learning about lighting is to experiment!


There are many different types of lighting that are used in photography, such as natural lighting, natural lighting plus fill-in flash, flash photography, ambient lighting, and studio lighting. It is important to study each kind of lighting and learn how to use them in order to become a professional photographer.Classes offered at colleges and universities can help you learn how to use different types of lighting.
There are plenty of online resources to help you learn how to use proper lighting in photography., It is imperative to learn how to use Photoshop to manipulate images from your digital camera. It is rare that an image right from your camera roll will be ready to be professionally distributed. Just as manual cameras require work in the dark room to properly manipulate the photos and film, digital images require work in Photoshop to improve image quality.There are many classes in high schools and colleges that will teach you how to properly use Photoshop and learn common techniques for improving photos.
Photoshop allows you to get creative with your images and digitally alter them in an exciting and creative way.
There are plenty of tutorials available on YouTube if you prefer to learn about the software on your own., Buy at least one professional camera and all of the accessories you will need, including batteries, flashes, a tripod, and any materials you will need to develop, process and print pictures.


There are many online camera purchasing guides that you can utilize to make sure that you are making the best purchase for yourself.Talk to any teachers, professors, friends, or coworkers who you know are experienced in photography to gain a professional opinion on what type of camera you should buy.
 When you are handling babies, it is crucial to wash your hands often to avoid spreading disease to the baby.


Wet your hands under the tap of the sink with clean, running water, apply and lather soap, then rinse hands under warm, running water. Dry off with a clean towel or allow them to air dry.
You can use hand sanitizer periodically as well. However, hand sanitizer will not eliminate all types of germs and is not quite as effective as washing with clean water and soap., Newborns and young infants are not able to regulate their body temperature as well as older children and adults, so make sure that you keep the room or studio toasty warm to ensure that the baby does not get too cold during the shoot.


Set up a space heater or two, depending on the size of the room, but make sure that the baby is a safe distance away from the heater.
 Props are one of the most important parts of a baby photoshoot. Parents will enjoy seeing the cute props, such as pillows and baskets, that can be used to create an endearing shot of the baby.


Pillows not only support the baby, but they can be a great prop for a photo.
Baskets filled with soft, fluffy material, such as blankets, are an excellent prop to use. They can be decorated however you would like, which makes them an easy and flexible prop to work with. They can also last for a long time.
Blankets are great to use for baby photoshoots because they provide a soft, comfortable surface for the baby to lie on. Blankets can come in virtually any shape, material, or color you would like. They are also relatively cheap to purchase.
Poster board can be used to write the baby’s name or age. This is a popular prop in baby photography because anyone who sees the photo will know who the baby is or how old the child was when the photo was taken.
 When posing the baby, you will need someone to spot the baby, which is often mom or dad. Spotting means that someone else will support or hold a part of the baby while they are in a pose.


Spotting can involve holding up the baby’s head with a hand or fingers, holding up a sling with baby in it, or holding and supporting the baby’s arms or legs.
It is highly likely that you will need a spotter when photographing babies, as they can fuss, move around, or are unable to support the weight of their head.
 As a precautionary measure, whenever the baby is lifted off the ground for a pose, place a bean bag immediately under the baby. Always make sure that the bean bag is no more than a foot or two away from the baby.
 Infants are known for their “accidents” which can involve spitting up, sudden bowel movements, or urinating on the props, floor, or someone else (if the child is not wearing a diaper). Have cleaning materials on hand and back-up props to deal with these situations.


Invest in cleaning equipment, such as mops and buckets, disinfecting wipes and sprays, paper towels, and garbage bags and cans. This way you will be prepared for any messes that may occur.
When purchasing props, be sure to purchase back ups just in case an accident occurs on one that you are using for a shoot.
 Composite images are several images that are merged into a single image. The ability to use Photoshop is crucial to creating composite images, as the majority of composite images are created in Photoshop.


Composite images allow you to take pictures while the spotter is holding the baby and then later combine the images to create a single image with no evidence of the spotter.
The use of composite images will make baby photography safer for the baby and will ensure that they are protected while you can still get a great shot.
 In order to become a baby photographer, you will need to show potential employers and clients your work.


Practice photographing babies that you know. If you do not have little ones of your own, ask friends and family members if you can practice by photographing their infants. They will probably not mind, especially if you offer them copies of your prints.
Include samples of posed portraits as well as candid shots.
 Look for baby photographers in your area and ask if they are hiring or could use help. If there are no paying jobs available, ask if you can intern while you gain experience.


Be prepared for a lot of grunt work. If an established baby photographer agrees to let you work with them, you will be busy. It will most likely be your job to fetch supplies, entertain the babies, and manage the paperwork.
 If you cannot find an opportunity working one on one with a photographer, check with studios. Photography centers in stores such as Sears and JCPenney may have openings.


Inquire within at department stores such as Sears or JCPenney to see if there are any openings in their portrait studios. You can also browse the “Career” section of their websites online.
Browse online for photography studios and stores in your area. For example, you can type “Photography studios in Phoenix, AZ” to pull up results for that particular area. Browse the websites that come up in the results to see if there are any openings near you.
 Before you are able to offer your services to anyone, you must form a business entity and register with your county and/or your state. This will allow you to open a bank account and act as a business entity when purchasing supplies and making other decisions.


Once you file for your business entity with the state and it is approved, you are free to start your own small business.
 You do not necessarily need a studio if you are invited into the homes of the parents to take pictures of babies. However, you will need to have the props and proper equipment with you to take high-quality photographs outside of a studio environment.
 Once you have established your business entity and have been paid for your services, you will want to be sure to prepare yourself for taxes. Tax laws vary by state so you will want to be sure that you are acting in accordance with your state’s laws.


Set up an accounting software. Many small business owners use QuickBooks to track their accounting activities. Tracking your income and expenses is crucial for filing taxes., Having a studio will allow you to have a permanent setup for your baby photography that you won’t have to worry about setting up and tearing down every time you have a shoot. A studio will allow you to have your own workspace for creating beautiful images that will last for a lifetime.


Rent studio space. If it is in your budget, you can look for a studio outside of your home to rent. You may need to talk to a real estate agent or browse commercial spaces for rent in your area via online listings. For example, you can type “real estate listings in Detroit, MI” into a search engine to pull up listings in that area.
Use studio space in your home if you have it. A basement or spare room will work for this purpose, as long as you are able to keep the space warm for newborns. You will need just enough space for your equipment, props, and subjects.
 Marketing is an important aspect of building a business. You will need to engage in a lot of marketing at first while you are building your client base and business.


Make a website. A website will be the place where potential clients can get more information about your services and view your portfolio. Making your own website can be easy if you use websites that create templates for you such as Wordpress.com, Wix.com, and Squarespace.com.
Create your own business cards. Websites such as vistaprint.com will print and mail the business cards directly to your home.
 The parents will need to feel like you are friendly, trustworthy and a great photographer as well.


Practice being professional and flexible. It may take time to calm down a crying baby or you may have to deal with angry or concerned clients. Approaching the situation with a level head and positive attitude will help you address the concerns in a constructive way.
For example, if someone is angry with the way the pictures turned out, you can say, “I am so sorry that you are not satisfied with the photos. We can schedule another shoot and I will waive the fees.” If you are calm and collected, you are more likely to calm the client down and come to an understanding.
Work on accepting criticism. Remember that photography is subjective, and sometimes people will not like your pictures.

