 It's probably a good idea to brainstorm ideas of what you want so you'll have a rough idea of where to start. This can usually be broken down into 5 categories: The type of the airport (General Aviation, Bush, Commercial/International, etc.), the location, (it might be a good idea for a bush airport in the mountains of Alaska, but virtually useless on the prairies of the UK where you have room for much larger facilities), the size (this can usually be somewhat dictated by the type), the features (again, usually some are givens as a result as the type, but there are some generics such as hangars), and the final stage, actually drawing a diagram yourself of all your ideas. When the time comes to actually build everything, you probably won't follow your plans exactly. This is OK and probably the best method. Also, make it unique! Don't do the average airport; look at some other people's downloads for ideas, then put a creative twist on them. This is also a good way to get lots of downloads.;
, Open up whatever program you are going to use for the designing (there are several freeware programs available on the web) and start a new airport. With most airport design programs, if you have both Flight Sim and and the program open at the same time, the program will display your aircraft with a red cross-hair or something so you know where you are. The first and most obvious step is to add runways. When numbering runways, it is best to know that runways are numbered to the nearest number of their headings. For example, a runway with a true heading of 79 would become Runway 8. If creating 2 or more parallel runways, use the designators L, C, and R. They stand for Left, Center, and Right. If you have four parallel runways, then the fourth runway would be numbered the next highest number (e.g. Runway 8 would become Runway 9). After this, create the parking. This can range from Ramp GA Small spots for tiny airports to Gate Heavys at large international airports. Finish that up by adding apron surfaces, then add taxiways.
 As with any airports in the world, they have buildings! Hangars, terminals, FBO's, fire stations, virtually anything. You can also create your own scenery objects by using 3D modeling program and some other sophisticated programs, but this is a more in-depth topic and for the purposes of this article we will use "library objects" which are objects that come with the Sim and can be called up for use as many times as needed. There are also many good programs (free) available on the web that place these objects that require no knowledge of computer programming. As with the airport design programs, these will usually somehow represent your aircraft on-screen. All you have to do is find out the coordinates for the object you want to place and BAM! it's there. For smaller airports, a smaller FBO and one or two hangars are usually the minimum, but don't overdo it either. Maybe look at pics of real airports for ideas. For larger airports, terminals, gates, and control towers may be the norm.
 As with real-world places, small details like cars and houses also adorn the area. Consider adding unrelated objects, like neighborhoods and business, for added detail. Light and telephone poles are small things that go a long way. Power plants, water towers, and hospitals are also nice to add. If your airport is near a body of water, add a marina with boats, or port with cranes and all. Whatever you want to do! Also, something I would HIGHLY suggest doing is adding AI traffic.
 Now you need to compile the bgl files. This can usually be done by pressing some buttons in the program. Follow the directions that come with the program downloads.
 Put the bgl files in your add-on scenery folder and start the Sim. If all goes well, you should be able to select your airport from the airport selection screen and should be able to see your scenery. If something isn't the way you want it, move it, delete it, or modify it. Once you are satisfied with what you have, you are ready to move onto the last step.
 Put all the needed files in one folder and write a read-me file. This a text file that fully explains your file. There are usually guidelines for this on the site you are uploading to. The upload process should be a snap too, just follow the on-screen directions. Then, once it's posted, on most sites you can check the number of downloads your file has. It should be noted that while your file is usually immediately available for download, it may not appear on the site's main page until one or two days afterward. Just be patient.

