 A horse will rear for numerous reasons, but for the most part this can be linked to fear. A horse will rarely show its underbelly, the main situation they would do this in the wild is when stallions fight for a mate. In general kicking out and bucking is more common, and when young horses are backed, this is the natural reaction. If a horse is rearing there may be a serious reason, maybe it was taught to by previous mishandling or poor riding, for example. Figuring out why your horse is rearing is the first step to stopping it. Pure punishment for its behaviour is unlikely to work. Staying calm and patient will. It is also important to remember that it is very unlikely that you will fall off from a rear and throwing you off is unlikely to be the aim in your horse rearing, they might be telling you something else is wrong.;
, Your horse may rear out of pure fear so always keep yourself calm and never scream or yell because this may scare the horse more. When your horse rears be sure to check his gear, is it painful, for example.
 In preparation for a rear, the horse will put its head in the air, and you can feel it become lighter on the forehand, it might even make a few mini-hops with its front feet. Take stock of these sorts of signs in order to help you prepare yourself, and take preventative measures.
 The biggest danger with rearing is if a horse goes up so high it falls over backwards. This will damage the horse, tack and more importantly, you. A good way to manage rearing is to make circles. When you start to feel the horse prepare itself for a rear, with one leg, press so that it must move to the side, and open the opposite hand. For example, you decide to move it to the left so you press with the right leg, and open your left hand to bring the head around. If a horse is moving sideways, it can't go up. Additionally, by bending the head round, you have gained some control over where it is, you have stopped the head from move upwards, and instead, the head is now to the side. If a horse can't get it's head in the air, it cannot rear either. Make sure you don't simply pull back with one rein, opening your hand is also important and give the horse a space to move into.
 If a horse is moving laterally forwards, it can't go up. May sure you ride with long reins. This might seem counter intuitive as you are scared and want to keep control. This will make things worse, if you shorten the reins, your horse will raise its head, eventually its whole body. Make sure it has enough room to keep moving forwards. Press it on, and give it its head. Your reins do not have to look like washing lines, but they must allow your horse space.
 One good technique to get your horse out of the habit altogether is to use circles again. This time, when you feel your horse starting to go vertical, make a small, tight, fast circle in one direction, and then quickly spin him round the other. Then ask them to 'woah'. This whole process should be calm. Undoubtedly, after spinning in two directions, your horse may be a bit flummoxed, this is okay, you have rattled their cage a little bit without any aggression. Once they stand calmly, praise them. If they don't want to stand but decide to walk, it if it calm, that is also okay. The main thing is to praise calmness.
 This should not be done in an aggressive manner and must be used with caution. If you can, once in a rear, use your fist to bonk the horse between the ears will confuse them somewhat and might bring them down and make them think twice about doing it again. This has worked in the past but should not be done by an amateur.
 From rearing and being ridden with its head in the air, your horse may have built up a lot of muscle on the underside of its neck, and not so much along its back. This actually means that moving in any other way is uncomfortable. There will no doubt be psychological issues to deal with too, but dealing with the physical ones might be easier, and will pave the way for dealing with the psychological ones. Before getting on it, lunge it enough so that it is used to working with its head down, and get it round and building its topline. This way you are not fighting a myriad of problems once on its back and things might be a lot safer. This will not always work, if your horse rears while being lead as well, this might not be an appropriate approach, but there is no harm in trying. On the lunge, when they rear, just push them forwards and once they and moving calmly, praise and stop the session and give them lots of fuss.
 If in doubt, call a trainer out. Get one that uses a calm, steady, kind approach. No doubt the horse rears already out of fear or from aggressive riding. More of the same will not solve the issue. Kindness does not mean they will let the horse get away with it, it just means they will treat it with compassion and understanding, rather than aggression and more fear.

