 Set aside time each day to engage in an activity that you enjoy this is a great way to reduce stress. This will allow you to unwind from the stress of the day. For example, if you enjoy reading, you can read for 30 minutes every night before bed. Setting aside time devoted to self-care can help you reduce stress and high blood pressure.


For example, take a vacation, go to the spa, exercise, read, or watch television.
While it is unclear if there is a link between stress and long-term hypertension, it is known that stress increases the risk of heart disease, which is related to high blood pressure. In addition, common, unhealthy ways of coping with stress (overeating, drinking, smoking) can cause hypertension.Reducing stress should be a priority for your overall wellbeing and health.
 Practicing focused breathing exercises is also a great way to reduce stress and consequently high blood pressure. You can spend 5-10 minutes each day meditating and completing different breathing exercises. These exercises can also be excellent for reducing anxiety during stressful situations.


Take deep breaths and count to five while you inhale and then again while you exhale. This will allow you to clear your mind and focus only on your breathing.
 Many people have certain triggers that cause them to experience elevated stress and anxiety levels. If you want to manage your hypertension it is a good idea to avoid or control these stress triggers.For example, if you get stressed while driving during rush hour traffic, you could ask your boss to shift your hours slightly so that you can avoid the traffic. You could say “Could I work from home until about 10am and then leave the office at 6pm? I find driving in heavy traffic stressful and it impacts my productivity.”
If you are unable to change your hours, you could try listening to calming music or a podcast to help you relax while driving. Or look for other modes of transportation, such as taking the train.
 In many instances people place too much pressure on themselves, which can lead to the development of stress and anxiety. One way to reduce stress and manage your blood pressure is by setting realistic expectations for yourself. For example, give yourself enough time to complete specific tasks. Do not wait to the last minute to complete assignments for work.Alternatively, you may need to say “no” if you are overwhelmed with your workload.

