 Many books, especially children’s books, will list the reading level somewhere on the book. Ultimately, this might be the easiest way for you to find out the reading level of a book. Check:


The front cover
The back cover
The first few pages of the book;
, There are a variety of mobile device applications that you can use to determine a book’s reading level. These apps work by scanning the ISBN of a book and then cross-referencing it with different databases that address reading levels. Simply:


Search your specific app store for reading level applications, then download the app.
Some apps, like Levelit and Literacy Leveler, will allow you to scan the book’s ISBN and then view the book’s Lexile score, grade level equivalent, and other data.
 There are a wide variety of books lists available on the internet for your child’s age or grade. While every book might not appear on a given list, many lists are fairly comprehensive. Consider:


The New York Public Library’s book lists at http://kids.nypl.org/book-lists. These lists contain books for children in Pre-K to 6th grade.
Grade level lists at http://www.greatschools.org/gk/book-lists/

Book lists at https://www.scholastic.com/teachers/bookwizard/


, The Lexile level of a book is a measure for determining its reading level. To determine the Lexile level of a book, you can use the search function on Lexile.com. Simply:


Visit https://www.lexile.com/

Enter the title, author, or ISBN of a book in the “Quick Book Search” box in the upper right of the website. Then, click “search.”
The website will return various versions of the different book, along with an age-range of the book, and the Lexile reading score.
 Accelerated Reader is a database in which you can input the title of a book and it will return you relevant information, such as the reading level of that book. To access it:


Visit http://www.arbookfind.com/default.aspx

Enter the title of the book in the “Quick Search” box and hit enter.
The website will return information about the book including the “Interest Level” of the book, the readability book level, and the Lexile level of the book.

