 For general, every day use, you want to look for a primer that matches your complexion or is just a tiny bit lighter. This will look the most natural if you forego eyeshadow and just do a liner and it won't alter the shade of your eyeshadow by adding pigmentation.If you're doing a smokey eye or a dark eyeshadow, look for a darker primer to add depth to your look.If you are using multiple colors and really want them to pop, try a white primer.You can skip eyeshadow altogether and choose a primer that has an exciting color already blended into the formula.Consider color correcting primer if you have dark circles or want to brighten your eyes. Primers with a yellow or peach cast will neutralize the purples, browns, and "bruise" shades of under eye circles.A primer with a little bit of green can neutralize pink or reddish skin.;
, Matte primers are great for everyday use, because they tend to last longer and give you a more neutral base for your eye makeup. Even if your skin is not oily, eyelids tend to get a little greasy throughout the day, and the matte finish will help absorb the grease and keep your makeup in place.A satin or shimmery finish works when you are wearing no shadow over your primer or plan to use a sparkly eyeshadow. Keep in mind these don't have quite the staying power as a matte primer, and that you shouldn't use a matte eyeshadow over a shimmery primer or it will look off.If you have very dry skin, try a gel-based primer or one that illuminates skin.Matte primers work with both matte and shimmery eyeshadows--they allow you to add all the shine using the makeup, not the primer.Matte primers are especially effective in hot and humid weather, because it will keep the grease and shine under control., Primers come in gel, cream, liquid, or stick form. The texture of your primer will influence how it feels on your lids and how long it will last. Gel primers usually last the longest and can be worn with all types of eyeshadow. They're great in hot weather and minimizing creasing.Cream primers have a mousse texture and are the easiest to find. They work with most eyeshadows and can feel a little heavier on your lids.
Liquid primers are very lightweight, but are prone to showing creases if applied too lightly. Make sure you thoroughly blend liquid primers into the creases of your eyelids when applying.Stick primers can be applied directly to your eyelid, instead of using your finger or a brush. They are very convenient for this reason, however it can be difficult to gauge how much primer you are applying., Aloe vera gel or unscented and unflavored Milk of Magnesia can substitute for primer in a pinch. Both will absorb excess oil, and the aloe can actually moisturize your eyelid as well. Just apply a tiny bit with a cotton swab, being careful not to get any in your eyes.Mix the following ingredients to make your own:


1/2 teaspoon unflavored chapstick, softened (run it under water for about 1 minute).
1 teaspoon cornstarch.
1 1/2 teaspoon liquid foundation that matches your skin.
Combine all the ingredients together in a small container.You can use a tiny bit of highly-refined petroleum jelly if you don't have the chapstick, but it won't have the staying power of the wax in the chapstick.