 An Imam is a Muslim religious scholar. They lead prayers in mosques, and they study the Qur'ran. You can talk to them about accepting Islam, and ask any questions you have about being a Muslim. Find a mosque in your neighborhood and ask to speak to someone there, or ask a Muslim friend to introduce you to an Imam.


Ask about anything you are curious or doubtful about.
If you are interested, ask to be referred to Muslim people with whom you have other things in common. You might benefit from speaking to Muslims of your age, gender, or cultural background.;
, If your research and your conversations have made you certain you understand what it means to be Muslim, you may be ready to recite the Shahada and officially become one. However, you must first be certain that you believe in Allah and the word of the Qur'ran. Spend time alone with the question until you have a strong feeling of certainty:


Ask yourself: Do I believe there is no God but Allah?
Pray, asking any questions you are left with.
Take a long walk.
If you feel certain you believe, make your testimony of faith as soon as you can.
If you are left with doubts, take your time. Do further research, and explore other approaches to spirituality. You may find yourself moved to make Shahada later.
 Ghusl is a ritual purification Muslims undergo before prayer. To perform Ghusl, take a shower or use any source of fresh water. Wash your genitals first, then your whole body. The exact way you perform Ghusl will depend on whether you are following Sunni or a Shia tradition, so consult with the Imam you have been in touch with.There are different schools of thought as to when a new convert must perform Ghusl. Some believe it should happen before you recite the Shahada, others say after. Some say it doesn't matter, while others say it is only necessary if you are in a state of impurity from sexual contact.
To determine what is correct in your case, talk to your Imam.
 To become a Muslim, you must make a testimony of faith. Once you have said the Shahada you are committed to Islam for life. You may say the Shahada alone, as it is a testimony to Allah who sees all things. However, to be recognized by other Muslims, it is wise to say it in front of witnesses, preferably including an Imam from the mosque you wish to join.The words of the Shahada are "La ilaha illallah, Muhammad rasulullah," which means "There is no true god but Allah, and Muhammad is His prophet."
In this way, you pledge yourself to serve Allah and to follow the teachings of the Qur'ran.
You are pledging to worship the Creator, and not His creation. Neither other faiths nor worship of earthly things must interfere with your love of Allah.
You must understand the Shahada and mean it sincerely in order for it to be binding.
Pronounce the words correctly. You may choose to repeat after another Muslim, or you may find a recording here: http://www.islamreligion.com/articles/204/how-to-convert-to-islam-and-become-muslim/


, It is not required that you take another name upon accepting Islam, but it is an option. You may simply take on your new name in addition to your given name, or change your name to your Muslim name. Keep your surname as it is, or change it to "bin" (if you are male) or "bint" (if you are female) followed by the name of your father.That is, if your father is Richard Archer, you might change your name to "Fatemah bint Archer" or "Fatemah bint Richard Archer."
If your pre-conversion name is that of a tyrant or that bespeaks worship of another deity, strongly consider changing your name.
 Some males who are not circumcised become so after accepting Islam. Take your time making this decision, and consult an Imam and other Muslims you trust if you are having doubts., Pray at dawn, after it strikes noon, in the mid-afternoon, at sunset, and at night. The exact times will depend on the season, as worship is timed to the sun rather than a clock.


Pray at your mosque if you can.
 Ramadan is a holy month. Observe it by praying, fasting, and performing acts of charity. So long as you are physically able, you are required to fast during Ramadan.


Exceptions are made for children, the ill, and people who are menstruating or experiencing postpartum bleeding.
 As a Muslim, you are required by the Qur'ran to donate 2.5% of your earnings to the poor. This is called Zakat. If you are well-off, consider donating a higher percentage of your income.


Choose your charity wisely. Make sure it is handled well, so that it directly benefits the poor.
 If you are physically and financially able, you must travel to the holy city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia at least once in your lifetime. Prepare spiritually before making this trip, as it is a momentous occasion.


Go during the period of Hajj, between the 8th to the 12th of Dhu al-Hijjah. This is the final month of the Islamic calendar, and changes yearly based on the moon.
 Read the Qur'ran every day for a few minutes at least. You may read by yourself or with other Muslims. Consider taking a class on Islamic scripture at a mosque or an Islamic Center., Live with the intention of glorifying Allah in all your actions. Seek to uphold the faith of your fellow Muslims. Contribute to your community's efforts at fard al-kifaya, and contribute to charity efforts. Get involved at your local Islamic Center, mosque, or Muslim Student Group if you are a student.


Assert your identity by dressing with modesty, order, and elegance.
 If you are struggling with negative feelings towards Islam, this may be because it is depicted as an inherently violent religion by non-Muslims. In fact, Islam is as much about peace as any other Abrahamic religion.Muslims disapprove of violence. They do not consider violent jihadists "extremists," but rather "deviants" from Islam, which preaches peace and kindness.
Right-wing extremists, white supremacists in particular, have killed more people in the United States than have Muslims.
Recognize that most mass shootings in the United States are by white Christian men., Look for mosques and Islamic centers in your area that offer classes on Islam for non-Muslims. Consider joining an inter-faith meetup group. Learn about the religion and get to know real Muslims. You will be able to ask questions and get answers in a non-judgmental classroom environment.If there is no class available in your area, consider taking a free class online, such as: https://www.mooc-list.com/course/islam-through-its-scriptures-edx


, Treat Muslim people with the respect and warmth you would extend to anyone. Never make jokes about someone's religion, clothing, or attitude of prayer. Do not blame a Muslim person for the acts of another Muslim, and never assume that one member of a religion holds the exact same beliefs as another.


If you are friends with Muslim people, consider asking if they would be willing to sit down and chat about your respective religions some time.
Some people might feel invaded if you ask them questions about their personal faith. Only discuss religion with someone you know well, and who says they are happy to talk with you.

