 While any location may be fine, here are some general tips for deciding on your destination.


Big, prominent cities are common choices for tourism, so your friends won’t think much of it when you tell them you decided to go. Furthermore, big cities often contain multiple subsections and a people of various ethnic backgrounds, so you have lots of leeway in telling your friends what you’re going to do there
Small, lesser known cities may confuse your friends a little, but you can make up almost anything about them; your friends will never find out.
Make sure you don’t choose a location that your friends are familiar with—say, Vancouver if you have Canadian friends. Your friends will notice something fishy, and you will almost certainly be called out on it.;
, Obviously, your friends will be curious about where you are going, so you must make sure you know what to tell them. Make sure you find out prominent landmarks, local customs, popular foods, and perhaps a bit about their history. There are plenty of online travel guides that you can base destinations on, too.
 By the time your “vacation” day arrives, your friends will all know about it.
 Begin with some uncertainty, as if you were still planning your vacation, but after a few days start telling them you will be going for sure.
 Talk about your trip frequently. Make sure to tell them everything you are going to do there from your previous research. Bring it up casually in random conversations, and keep sharing it until your friends become jaded.
 When your “travel” date finally arrives, make sure you give a huge farewell to make sure all your friends know you are going abroad.
 You need to make sure your friends remember you’re abroad, so keep in touch with them the whole time.
 Since you are abroad, you will likely be doing a lot of travelling and therefore would be taking most of your videos on your smartphone. Download videos of your destination from youtube.com using sites such as Converter. Google some images and crop them so it seems as if they were taken from a phone.
 It is likely that if you’re travelling abroad, there will be a difference between your and their time zones. To really convince, do much of your online activity when you would be awake wherever you traveled, even if it means waking up in the dead of night.
 You’re on a trip, so you obviously don’t have time to hang out with them. Tell your friends you’re too busy to meet, and definitely stop doing some of your favorite things together.
 Your friends will be extremely excited that you just went on a vacation, so they will be constantly be badgering you with questions. All eyes will be on you, so make sure you don’t let anything slip. Act as though you are suffering from jet lag, and keep referencing to your trip for a few days. If you can’t hold up under the pressure, try to avoid your friends altogether.
 Since you just traveled abroad, your friends obviously expect you to come back with actual pictures and souvenirs. You don’t have any of these, so you need to make excuses for why you can’t show them. A few ideas are to keep them from visiting or say that you are too lazy to dig them out.
 Okay, joke's over. Time get some friends that aren't imaginary.

