 Studies have shown that there are more gays and lesbians living in cities than living in rural areas.If you want a better chance of meeting gay and lesbian people in your everyday life then you should consider living in a large city. This is particularly true of specific cities, such as San Francisco, California, which are known for having a large LGBT population.


This is not to say that gay and lesbian people don't live in rural communities as well! They may just be a little harder to find.;
, If you want to make a gay or lesbian friend you can meet lots of them at a bar. Many towns have bars that specifically cater to gay and lesbian clientele. It may be nerve wracking to go the first time but just remember that many other people at the bar are there looking to make friends as well.


Even if you don't drink you can still make friends in a gay bar. Try practicing your pool game or going dancing at a gay or lesbian bar that has those activities.
 If you are too young to go to a bar (or you don't like going to bars at all) you can find gay people in other places. A good place to meet gay or lesbian folks is at a LGBT community center.Many LGBT community centers have a wide variety of programs and activities that you might find fun and entertaining. In addition, you will have the opportunity to meet new people, and possibly make some friends.
 This is an annual celebration that commemorates the beginning of gay liberation and cities usually have a parade and festival that occurs in June. Pride is a good time to meet other gay and lesbian folks in a fun and jubilant atmosphere. Consider marching in the Pride parade or attending a Pride concert or event. These are all activities that could lead to a new friendship.


LGBT Pride celebrations have a wide variety of activities associated with them. There is usually a parade but there are also usually concerts, parties, and festivals involved.
 You are sure to meet other gays or lesbians if you volunteer for an organization that is working for gay rights. Pick an organization that if fighting for a cause that you believe in and give it your all. That way you will make a difference in the world and you may make some good friends at the same time.


There are a wide variety of causes that you can get involved in. For instance, there are organizations working for the right to gay marriage, for the legal rights of LGBT folks, to end violence and discrimination, and a ton of other causes. Pick the cause that is most important to you.
 In many cities there are sports teams, or even whole leagues, that cater to gays and lesbians. Perhaps you are really good at soccer and you would love to play with gay men. There may be a team just for you.Being on a team with other gays and lesbians will increase the likelihood of making a gay or lesbian friend. The camaraderie of sports can really be a great way to break the ice and build a lasting lasting friendship.
 If you are a gay or lesbian who wants to meet other gay or lesbian folks, try joining an online forum. This is especially good if you are a person that is very shy. Online forums offer you privacy and eliminate the awkwardness that goes along with talking to strangers in person.


There are a wide variety of LGBT forums online. Make sure that you find one that is focused on friendship, not dating, if that is really all you want. If you go onto a general website and you think someone is flirting with you, make it clear from the get go that you are only interested in friendship so that you don't hurt anyone's feelings.

