 Composting foods that can be organically disposed of at home is a great way to reduce the amount of food you throw in the trash. It’s good for the environment, and can give you some useful compost for the garden. Homemade compost will fertilize your soil and help with any gardening you do.


Use food scraps such as fruits and vegetables, coffee grounds, eggshells, nutshells and tea bags.
Do not dispose of meat, dairy or oils this way.
Add the food waste to cardboard, newspaper, vegetation and other organic materials in your compost pile. Mix it in with soil and dirt so the food can be broken down.
When you add new material to the pile, turn it with a garden fork or other tool to let fresh oxygen in to help with the composting process.
If you don’t have a yard, you can still compost at home with an earthworm farm.;
, If you don’t have the space, or are uncertain about composting at home, you can still deal with your food waste responsibly by visiting your local recycling centre. Lots of recycling centres will have facilities to deal with food waste and composting. Generally you will be able to bring your food waste and either leave it with someone there, or dump it into the appropriate container.


Be sure you check the specific guidelines for your centre before you go.
You may need to separate your food waste in a particular way before you take in it.
Make sure you know what food waste they accept and what they don’t.
For example, they will not take meat, but they will take organic waste, such as fruit and vegetables.
Your local government will be able to provide details on recycling facilities near you.
 Depending on where you live, you may be able to use a food waste scheme that is run by your local authority. It is becoming increasingly common for local authorities to provide a small food waste composting bin to households, which is then picked up alongside the regular trash collection.If you are uncertain about this, contact your local authority to find out if your neighbourhood is part of a scheme.
Talk to neighbours to find out if they know about it, and how you can get involved.
In these schemes you will often be provided with compostable bags to put your compostable food waste in.