 Everyone has their own specific interests. Find a topic that both you and your friends are interested in and have a conversation. A broad topic like music is a great way to impart your knowledge and learn from shared musical tastes.


For example, find artists and songs that can bring you and your friends together. Discuss certain sounds and genres you enjoy and see if there is anything you guys have in common. Often times you can even discuss about pop artists and their impact on culture., You‘re trying to use a shared interest to come together not go against each other. Learn from each other. For example, you can introduce each other to new sounds that you haven’t heard of yet. Be supportive and they will appreciate the effort you'll make.
 Your friends may not have the ability to travel as much as you do. They will be impressed by the fact that you’ve gained knowledge from all over the globe. You can also just travel outside of your state. Expanding your horizon allows you to bring a new experience to new things.


For example, you can attend concerts in Spain and compare it to your experience at home. Also, just the small experience of going to another airport or visiting a similar restaurant in another state can be impressive to friends unable to travel., Whether you enter a career or make something a full time hobby, becoming the de facto expert amongst your friends can be impressive. For example, if you are a music DJ you will learn new and up-and-coming sounds to stay on top of your craft. Your new knowledge allows you to speak from a place of authority.


Keep informed of what’s new and what sounds great together. Give your friends the inside scoop of what the next great song will be.If you continue to gain knowledge in your chosen area of expertise, you may find opportunities to travel and become famous sharing your knowledge. This will further impress your friends as your reputation grows. You may even namedrop famous friends you meet in the industry. For example, if you are a music DJ, you may dj festivals, workshops, or concerts and meet famous artists or media moguls.It’s okay if you’re friends aren’t familiar with the names you mention. They will be impressed that you have become a cog in the music industry. Don’t limit yourself to just meeting industry types. You may run into an actor or athlete at a concert. Introduce yourself and get a picture with them. It’s okay to be a fan.
 You may need a wealth of knowledge to impress some friends. Telling the same stories or repeating the same facts may become obnoxious or annoying.


For example, if you’re talking about music, a song or artist may dominate the headlines for a period of time. There is no point in saying something that has been repeated incessantly. Stay ahead of the trends and don’t make the same observations that the rest of the world is making. For example, if a singer makes a lyp-syncing gaff at an award show it will be in the headlines for the next month. Talk about it the day after and leave it alone., It will be obvious to your friends if you are trying too hard to impress them. They may view it as obnoxious. Just have fun and enjoy your friendship. Have normal conversations and act as the situation dictates.


For example, if you want to impress your friends with your dancing, just dance and don’t try to intentionally make a fool of yourself to get a cheap laugh. Having fun allows your friends to let go of their inhibitions and join you in the dance floor. There should be no judgement on the dancefloor. Being a wallflower is never cool. Impress your friends with how much you love music and how confident you are in letting yourself be free.