 An interior mount involves hanging the shades inside of the window frame, directly adjacent to the windows. This is a good option if you have a deep window frame/windowsill. To do an interior mount, you attach the roman shades to the ‘ceiling’ part of the frame, as opposed to the ‘walls’ on the left or right side of the window.;
, As a result of old age or poor construction, it is common for window frames to have a slightly uneven ‘ceiling’ Use a level to test this; hold the level to the ceiling of the frame, and make sure that the small bubble is clearly in the middle o f the marked section on the tool. If your frame ceiling is not level, you will need to attach a small shim to even it out. A shim is a thin, angled piece of wood that will make the ceiling level when nailed in place., Take your shades out of their packaging, and hold them (still closed/bunched) up to where you would like to hang them inside the frame. Use a carpenters pencil to mark the location of the brackets on the shades. Typically, the brackets will be placed about 3-inches in from each side of the shades. You may have multiple brackets for a large shade, in which case these should be spaced evenly within the space between the two edge brackets (located 3-inches in).


You can choose to measure the shades and use this measurement inside the frame, rather than holding up the shades if it’s easier for you.
 Use the screws that came with your roman shades to install your brackets. Because installation varies depending on the type of shade, you’ll need to follow the instructions that came with yours. Typically, though, you simply line up the brackets with the edge of the window frame, match the screws with the holes in the brackets, and screw them in place.
 Roman shades are outfitted with twin-brackets that match the ones that you installed in the window frame. To install your shades, all you do is click the two brackets into place; slide the top of the shades forward until the brackets snap together, and they are secured in the frame. You should be able to adjust the shades by pulling on the attached drawstring/cord.