 Depending on the field you’d like to go into, a college degree just might not guarantee that you make more money than non-college graduates. This is especially true if you would be majoring in the creative arts, like creative writing or painting.You can say something like “Well, I’m really interested in pursuing a career in music, but the employment rate for music school graduates isn’t much different than the one for non-graduates. So college just doesn’t make much sense for me.”;
, College tuition is a lot more expensive than it was even ten years ago. That can make it hard to afford to go to even moderately priced colleges. If your parents can’t afford to help you and you’re not willing to take on student debt, it’s perfectly acceptable to explain that college just isn’t financially realistic for you right now.For example, you can say something like, “The colleges with programs I was interested in have pretty high tuitions, and it’s not something that financially possible right now.”
Some people might then push you to apply for financial aid, or loans, or try to make you feel like affordability isn’t a big deal because you’ll get a job later. It’s perfectly okay to keep repeating “It’s just not a possibility for me.” When it comes to you and your family’s finances, you don’t owe anyone an explanation.
 Not everyone needs to go to a four-year university to have a shot at a good career later in life. If you’re interested in fields like informational technology, healthcare, or manufacturing, trade school can give you the skills to enter the workforce sooner than a four-year degree would.For example, you can say something like, “Well, I’m really interested in informational technology, especially hardware architecture! So a trade school is actually a really great option for me instead of college, because it will give me the skills I need to succeed and get me into a job faster.”

, It can be really stressful to have to defend your decision about college, especially when everyone is going to be asking you about it as you go through your senior year. A polite non-answer gives you something to say without having to have a lengthy conversation with someone you might not know very well.For example, if someone asks if you’re going to college, instead of saying “no,” you can say something like, “I have a lot of options at the moment and I’m taking some time to look at all of them so I can make a good decision.”

