 Employers prefer candidates with a four-year bachelor's degree in a writing-heavy subject such as English, communication, or journalism. If possible, take coursework that include mass media and cross-media studies.Some institutions even offer programs focused specifically on editing and publishing.A business and marketing degree is very relevant to the publishing world, but you'll need to supplement it with writing experience.;
, Programs such as Adobe InDesign or Microsoft Publisher are common in the book publishing world.Teach yourself how to use these on your own time, and you'll have an advantage when applying to editor jobs. Your future job will also likely include heavy use of Microsoft Word's "track changes" feature.


Many editors work on digital multimedia projects. Additional training in content management systems and graphics or video editing software will open up more job opportunities. Your eventual goal is book editing, but it helps to have other options when entering the field.
Students may be eligible for discounts on this software.
 Editors are experts at language and communication. Working on your own blog, novel, or other writing project provides hands-on experience shaping style and form. Many future editors begin their careers as writers, so a portfolio of finished work can help you enter the field.A writing or editing position with your college newspaper or a student magazine is a great way to gain experience.
If you would like to edit fiction or memoirs, personal experience writing in this genre is invaluable. Consider enrolling in relevant writing courses if this is your dream., During the summer or after you've graduated, seek an internship at a publishing house. Look for these opportunities on websites such as Bookjobs, Publishers Marketplace, MediaBistro, and Publishers Weekly; and in the print publication Writer's Market.Most publishing internships are unpaid, and concentrated in a handful of cities (about 20% of all U.S. editors work in New York).There are exceptions, but prepare for a thorough search if finances limit you to paid or local opportunities.
Look for publishing houses that specialize in genres you enjoy reading. You can search for this online ("cookbook publishing"), or even look at the copyright page of your favorite books to find out which companies published them.
Follow publishing houses and editors on Twitter to stay informed about future opportunities. Don't be afraid to ask them for advice during your search., These one-day workshops teach you the basics of proofreading by hand and on a computer, including how to write proofreading marks. This can be valuable if you've been out of school for a while, or if you lack experience in a writing-heavy field.
 Most U.S. publishing companies rely on the latest editions of the Chicago Manual of Style and Merriam Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary. Refer to these often as you write or edit to improve your grasp of spelling, punctuation, and stylistic rules.


Outside of the U.S., look at job listings from publishing houses to identify which style manuals are used in your area.
 Proofreading for a temp agency is one of the easier ways to gain editing experience with no prior work history. You may be working for law firms rather than your dream publishing house, but you'll build your resume and skills.
 Competition for entry-level editing jobs is high. Unless you're lucky enough to land a permanent job right away, you'll need to rely on freelance work or even volunteer projects. Word of mouth (or "word of email") is supremely important at this stage. Put effort into an active, professional online presence:Showcase your work on a personal website, built with search engine optimization techniques.

Promote yourself on social media.
Contribute to discussions in online editing groups on LinkedIn, Facebook, or professional editor association websites.
 Universities and academic presses publish books intended for small audiences accustomed to dense, difficult language. Many of their copy editing jobs focus only on basic grammar and spelling. This makes it a good choice for novice editors, who may not yet have the experience for structural or stylistic editing.
 As your list of edited works grows, you'll meet more people in publishing and develop the experience you need for a permanent job. Check your dream publishing companies' websites often for job postings, and attend editing and publishing conferences where you can meet employers face to face. When one of them hires you, it will probably in the role of editorial assistant. The job may include proofreading manuscripts (performing the final review after the main edits are complete), gauging whether unsolicited manuscripts are publishable, and assisting the rest of the staff in day-to-day organization., This often takes five to seven years in the industry. During this time, you'll move from editorial assistant to assistant editor, then associate editor, then finally to a full editing position.There are several different roles you could steer yourself toward, although not all publishing houses separate them completely:


Acquisitions editors or commissioning editors recruit authors for the publishing company, seeking new bestsellers.
Developmental editors work closely to improve the overall structure of the book, assisted by line editors who work on a smaller scale.
Technical editors use specialized knowledge to edit works related to science, mathematics, and technology.
Production editors oversee the final stages of the manuscript, managing copyeditors and typesetters.

