 You want to include favorite toys, new toys, and regular toys. Favorite toys are the beloved ones that tend to keep them happy for a longer period of time. New toys are great for that last hour of traveling when everyone is getting crabby. Magically presenting a new toy may just end the tantrum and bust the boredom. Regular toys are needed because there probably aren't enough favorite toys to occupy your toddler for the whole trip; unless you want to spend all that money on new toys, you are probably going to need something else. Try to have at least one toy from each of these three categories in the end.
 A puzzle would not be a good idea because of all the pieces that could fall, get lost, or be thrown.
It is noisy. Any electronic toys shouldn't be used except for handheld devices with headphones. Also, musical toys that make noise should be discouraged.
It is large. Any toy that cannot comfortably fit into a backpack or bag that can be carried should not be used.
It is small enough to be a choking hazard. Any toy that fits through a toilet paper tube should not be used because it's a choking hazard.
It isn't age-appropriate. Your toddler should be able to play with all toys on their own, just in case. Plus, you don't need your toddler getting frustrated from an inappropriate toy and throwing a tantrum!
It will easily roll away. Balls, play cars, and the like, should not be used.
 Thick or triangular crayons are great.

Toddler should not yet use Play Packs. As wonderful as they may seem, these aren't safe. The tiny crayons are choking hazards and likely to roll away, and even the package tells you it's not designed for children under three.
 Download movies and songs, as well as toddler-friendly apps. Be sure to bring along headphones so that other passengers or people in the car don't have to listen to the noise.

Make sure the sound is at a reasonable level before you put the headphones on their eyes.
 Books are perfect for traveling and a great entertainment. Toddlers can look at these by themselves or you can have great bonding time by snuggling up for a story together. Use board books or light, paperback books. Books that have different textures to feel, lift-the-flaps, objects to smell, or that are interactive provide even more fun!, Unbreakable mirrors are safe and exciting. Try making funny faces, saying "Who's that in the mirror?", playing Peekaboo, or just being fascinated by reflections., Buying felt books with activities inside, small boards with flaps and knobs, using blankets from babyhood, and so on are all great ways to keep your toddler entertained.

Make your own activity board by taking a piece of cardboard no bigger than 11" X 18". Attach reflective tape, old keys, pieces of felt to lift, pipe cleaners with beads stringed on them to move back and forth, and anything else you can find.
 The marker only works on one kind of paper, so your toddler won't leave any marks behind!, This may entertain your toddler as they watch the object grow. Pack a bottle of water and Duct tape. Before you give it to your toddler, drop the object in and seal the cap with Duct tape. You can also buy one of those bottle that makes a tornado when you shake it. Note: Liquids cannot go on a plane so you can't use a tornado bottle or a growing object for those kinds of trips., Provide a play compass, map, play steering wheel (they are sold by many different toy companies), a pretend camera, and a favorite doll or stuffed animal., Look for dolls or stuffed animals with buttons to button, snaps to snap, shoes to tie, buckles to attend to, etc.