 While you may seek a natural remedy to stop losing your hair, diagnosing the exact cause of your hair loss should be the first step. If nothing else, you should get a checkup to ensure that the hair loss isn’t a symptom of a more harmful disease or condition.
 Hair is primarily protein, and strong, healthy hair comes from “the inside.” Make sure you are getting enough vitamins, minerals, and high-quality protein. You should try for a variety of sources of complete protein, which contain all the essential amino acids (protein building blocks). Here is a list of some foods that are complete proteins:Eggs
Dairy products
Quinoa (this high-fiber food also has high levels of iron, magnesium, and manganese
Buckwheat
Hemp seed (also contains high levels of magnesium, zinc, iron, and calcium)
Chia seeds (also contain high levels of omega-3 fatty acids)
Soy products (including tofu, tempeh, and natto)
A combination of rice and beans (rich in methionine and lysine, respectively, so together, they form a complete protein)

, You should also ensure that you eat a diet high in B-complex vitamins. Your body needs B vitamins to promote healthy hair follicles and healthy hair growth. These foods include:Leafy green vegetables, such as spinach, parsley, mustard greens, romaine lettuce, turnip greens, and beet greens
Other vegetables, including broccoli, beets, turnips, and bell peppers
Legumes, such as lentils
Calf and beef liver and fortified grains, which are rich in vitamin B12

, The only mineral that has been proven to be connected to hair loss is iron.Increasing iron in your diet may reduce hair loss. However, consult your doctor before adding iron supplements to your daily regimen to ensure you don’t take in too much of the mineral. Foods high in iron include:


Eggs
Red meat (go for grass-fed beef or buffalo, which are higher in omega-3 fats as well)
Dark, leafy green vegetables
Beans and lentils
Liver

, While low zinc has been implicated in hair loss, it is still not known if zinc deficiencies play a primary or secondary role in hair loss.Foods high in zinc include:


Seafood and shellfish
Spinach
Pumpkin, squash, sunflower seeds
Various nuts

, Omega-3 fatty acids used on the scalp have been shown to increase the numbers of hair strands.Increasing the amounts of omega-3 fatty acids in your diet may be useful for hair loss. Omega-3 fatty acids are found in:


Varieties of fish, including salmon, mackerel, herring, sardines, and bass
Eggs
Flaxseed oil
Soybeans
Chia seeds
Walnuts

, Frequent shampooing can strip hair of natural oils. Frequent shampooing doesn’t really cause hair loss, but if you are stripping the oils from your hair, it can make the hair more fragile and likely to break. Many professionals advise their clients not to shampoo daily, but instead recommend 2-3 times a week.Avoid shampoos that are loaded with chemicals, such as sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS), parabens, and ammonium chloride, especially if you have thin, fragile, or treated hair.
Also, remember not to “over condition” your hair. Conditioners can weigh down the roots of the hair and damage the hair follicles. Use a conditioner 1-2 times a week and avoid using conditioner on the scalp., When brushing or combing your hair, be gentle and don’t get “over-vigorous.” Use a wide-toothed comb to untangle your hair, especially when wet, to avoid pulling out your roots and breaking the hair strands.


This also includes avoiding heat styling tools. Let your hair air dry.
Avoid dyeing, chemically straightening, perming, or bleaching your hair.
Avoid extensions, weaves, and tight hairstyles that can lead to hair loss.
 You can massage oils into your scalp to help improve hair growth. These can nourish the hair follicles, increase blood flow to your scalp and promote relaxation.Oils you can use include coconut oil, argan oil, emu oil, castor oil, and almond oil.Pour a quarter-sized amount of oil into the center of your palm, and use your fingertips to apply it around your scalp. Then massage the oil into your entire scalp. You can do this for 5-10 minutes once a week or more often if you prefer.
To further reduce stress add 1-2 drops of essential lavender oil to two ounces of oil. Lavender has also been shown to increase hair growth.To promote healing and hair growth, try 1-2 drops of calendula oil in two ounces of oil., There are a variety of other herbs that have shown positive results. You can try adding some of the following to your essential oil mix:


Serenoa repens (saw palmetto), Cimicifuga racemosa (black cohosh), Urtica dioica (nettles), and Pygeum africanum (African prune) contain 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors similar to those found in finasteride, which is a hair loss treatment. There have been some positive results in small clinical trials using these herbs topically on the scalp.Green tea increased hair regrowth in one study in rats and has been used traditionally as a rinse to increase hair growth.Green tea also has 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor activity similar to that found in finasteride.Anti-inflammatory herbs, including onion and garlic, licorice root, panax ginseng, and ginkgo biloba have been used traditionally to reduce inflammation and promote hair growth.Licorice root also inhibits androgen activity and may be useful for both male and female pattern baldness.Onion juice has been tested and stimulated hair growth in both men and women as well.Rinse well after using the onion juice, and use the onion juice only once a week., Since chronic stress is a major cause of telogen effluvium (see above), try techniques to help manage the stress in your life. The American Heart Association (AHA) recommends the following “emergency” stress relievers:Count to ten before speaking
Take 3-5 deep breaths
Handle stressful situations later when possible
Go for a walk
Admit when you’ve made a mistake, and don’t be afraid to say you’re sorry
Avoid the stress of running late by setting your watch 5-10 minutes ahead
Break big problems down into smaller, manageable parts
Drive in the slow lane or avoid busy roads to help you stay calm while driving
Try smelling a rose, hugging a loved one, or smiling at your neighbor
Consider meditation or prayer to break the negative cycle

, The American Psychological Association (APA) suggests progressive muscle relaxation to help reduce stress. Start with your feet and lower legs and first tighten them as much as possible for roughly thirty seconds before slowly releasing the tension. Move on to your upper legs and repeat, Move onto your hands and lower arms, upper arms and shoulders, and finally your stomach and abdominal muscles. Repeat daily., Another technique suggested by the APA is taking a mental vacation. Take a few deep breaths, relax, and close your eyes. Imagine the most beautiful place you have ever been. Try to experience that place as fully as you can, smelling the smells, feeling a breeze, hearing the sounds, etc. Repeat daily.