 It should not be confused with the firecracker known as a bottle rocket, which is so named because it is often shot from inside a bottle. That form of bottle rocket is illegal to launch in many areas; the water rocket is legal in most areas.


Remove the bottle label by cutting where it isn’t glued to the bottle. Be careful not to scrape or poke the bottle surface when doing this, as a scratch or cut will weaken it.
Reinforce the bottle by wrapping it with strapping tape. New bottles can withstand pressures of up to 100 pounds per square inch (689.48 kilopascals), but repeated launching will reduce the amount of pressure the bottle can handle without rupturing.You can wrap several bands of tape around the center of the bottle or wrap the bottle around its center and halfway from there to either end. Each band should go around the bottle twice.
Mark out the places where you want to attach fins to the body with a marking pen. If you plan to have four fins, draw lines 90 degrees apart. If you plan to have three fins, draw lines 120 degrees apart. You may want to wrap a strip of paper around the bottle and make your markings on it first, then transfer the markings to the bottle., Because the plastic rocket body is relatively durable, even though you’ve had to reinforce it, you’ll need fins at least as durable. Stiff cardboard may work for a while, but a better material is plastic of the kind used in pocket folders or three-ring binders.First, you’ll need to design your fins and create a paper template to serve as a cutting guide. However you design your fins, they should be designed so that the actual fin will be folded over (doubled) for extra strength and will reach to at least the point where the bottle narrows.
Cut out the template and use it as a guide to cut into the fin material.
Fold the fins into shape and attach them to the rocket body with strapping tape.
Depending on the design of your launcher, you may not want to have the fins extend below the mouth of the bottle/the rocket nozzle.
 You’ll need a second 2-liter bottle for this.


Cut the bottom out of the bottle.
Place a payload in the upper section of the cut bottle. This can be a piece of modeling clay or a wad of rubber bands. Place the bottom section of the cut bottle inside the upper section, with the bottom toward the mouth of the upper section. Tape it in place, then tape the modified bottle onto the bottom of the bottle serving as the pressure chamber.
Your nose cone can be anything from a 2-liter bottle cap to a length of PVC pipe to a plastic cone. Once you decide on the nose cone and assemble it, it should be permanently attached to the upper section of the cut bottle.
 Balance the rocket on your index finger. It should balance somewhere above the top of the pressure chamber (the bottom of the first bottle). If it doesn’t, take the payload section off and adjust the weight.


After you’ve found the center of mass, weigh the rocket. It should weigh from 7 to 8.5 ounces (200 to 240 g)., There are several devices you can make to launch your water rocket. The simplest is a valve and stopper that fits in the mouth of the pressure chamber bottle.Find a cork that fits snugly in the mouth of the bottle. You may have to shave the edge slightly.
Get a valve system of the kind used in an automobile tire or bicycle inner tube. Measure its diameter.
Drill a hole in the center of the cork with a bit of the same diameter as the valve.
Clean the valve stem and put a piece of tape over its threaded portion and opening.
Thread the valve through the hole in the cork, then seal it in place with a silicone or urethane sealant. Let the sealant dry completely before removing the tape.
Test the valve to make sure air passes freely through it.
Test the stopper by putting a small amount of water in the rocket pressure chamber, then put the stopper in place and stand the rocket upright. If you find any leaks, reseal the valve and test again. Once you have determined there are no leaks, test again to find the pressure at which air forces the stopper out of the bottle.
For instructions to build a more sophisticated launching system, see http://www.sciencetoymaker.org/waterRocket/buildWaterRocketLauncher.htm.
 As with the film canister and matchstick rockets, an open outdoor location is strongly recommended. Because the water rocket is larger than the other rockets, you’ll need a larger open area than when launching either of the other rockets, and it also has to be flatter and more level than for the other rockets.


An elevated surface such as a picnic table is a good idea when small children are present. ,


Fill the pressure chamber 1/3 to 1/2-full of water.(You may want to add some food coloring to the water to produce a more colorful “exhaust” when the rocket launches.) It is also possible to launch the rocket without putting any water into the pressure chamber, although the target pressure may be different than that when the chamber has water in it.
Insert the launcher/stopper into the mouth of the pressure chamber.
Connect the hose of a bicycle pump to the launcher valve.
Stand the rocket upright.
Pump air until you reach the pressure at which the plug should be forced out. There may be a slight delay before the plug is forced out and the rocket launches.

