 When you already know what needs to be said, start planning out the best way to say it before the patient enters your office.


You don't need to write out an entire script, but getting a basic idea of what needs to be said before you put yourself in the situation can make it easier to remember all the necessary details. Doing this can also give you the opportunity to think about the best way to phrase things.;
, Ask the patient plenty of open-ended questions about his or her concerns. Pay close attention to the patient's responses, and parrot those responses back to the patient.


Watch for both verbal and nonverbal responses.
Repeating your patient's replies can clarify the situation for you while assuring the patient that his or her concerns are being addressed.
 The patient is more than a medical specimen. You need to view the patient as a whole being with unique fears, beliefs, and circumstances.


Respect all of the beliefs your patient holds, even if you disagree with them.
Encourage the patient to ask questions and address those questions fully.
 Abandon as much formal medical terminology as possible and speak to the patient in layman's terms. Speak slowly and clearly to avoid unnecessary confusion.


When describing important information about a condition or treatment, separate that information into small chunks. Let each chunk sink in before continuing.
Only provide technical details when asked. Too much complicated detail can overwhelm many patients.
Some say that in the United States, the average person's reading comprehension is stuck at a sixth grade level. Try translating the words you would use to describe the situation to another doctor into words a sixth grader might use.
 When you need to explain the significance of certain actions, try framing your explanation in past experiences the patient will understand.


If the patient has recently been to the hospital, explain how neglecting a certain treatment plan may make hospitalization necessary again.
When the patient's family or friends have experienced a similar illness, talk about the good and bad ways the loved one's illness was handled.
 The information you disclose about illnesses, conditions, and treatments must be true and complete.


Offer an understandable definition of the diagnosis. Spell out what it means for the patient's short-term and long-term wellness.
Describe the expected course of treatment and the anticipated outcome. If there are alternative treatments, describe those, as well.
 After telling the patient all he or she needs to know, ask the individual to repeat what you said. Doing so will let you know if your explanation was clear enough.


Correct any misunderstandings immediately.
You can also provide sources for additional information if the patient seems eager to learn more once he or she leaves.
 When meeting a patient for the first time, you should introduce yourself by stating that, as a doctor, your primary concern is taking care of the patient in the best way possible.


Let the patient know that you intend to listen to his or her concerns and beliefs, and to accommodate those ideas when determining treatment plans.
Assure the patient that he or she can bring up anything without facing the fear of condemnation or ridicule.
By introducing yourself as the patient's ally, it might be easier to establish a healthy doctor-patient relationship.
 Small talk creates a relaxed, friendly environment that your patient may feel more comfortable in. You can lead in with a bit of small talk, weave it into the appointment when appropriate, and/or conclude on a lighthearted note.


Small talk can be used when you first meet a patient and when you interact with that patient from then on.
Impersonal topics of conversation may include the weather, the economy, recent medical news, or similar current events.
If you think you'll be establishing a long-term professional relationship with the patient, personal topics of conversation might be appropriate. Talk about your family and ask about your patient's family. Discuss your patient's career, education, likes, and dislikes.
 You should already have your patient's medical history in front of you, but when it may still be a good idea to ask for confirmation about critical points in the midst of discussion.


Ask for clarification on any point that is not clear in your patient's records.
Review the family medical history of your patient and ask if any illnesses related to the diagnosis run in the family line.
Before prescribing a certain medication, ask if the patient has ever experienced any negative side effects to a medication in the past.
 Ask the patient if there are any beliefs you should take into consideration from the start. Regardless of the answer, you should also gauge additional values and goals as you interact with the patient over time.Ask open-ended questions to determine what your patient believes. When dealing with a patient who has a deadly illness, you might ask, "What makes life worth living?" Depending on the response, you might be able to determine how far a patient is willing to go in order to survive.
Keep asking questions until you have a fairly complete picture of the patient's perspective.
 The use of visuals can help a patient understand concepts that would otherwise be hard to imagine.When possible, look for diagrams and charts that show the anatomy of the area you're dealing with.
If you cannot find a diagram or chart, compare abstract concepts using concrete analogies and mental images.
 Let the patient know that you are actively engaged in the appointment by maintaining eye contact and being attentive.


There may be times when you need to look over medical charts and equipment, but you should typically make eye contact with the patient during at least half of the appointment. It is especially important to maintain eye contact when listening to your patient's concerns and questions.
Making eye contact also gives you the chance to observe the nonverbal communication your patient is using toward you.
 Your tone should be firm and professional, but it should also be fairly friendly.


The idea is to create a comfortable ambiance rather than one that feels cold or strict. Your patient also needs to feel confident in your abilities, though, so you should always maintain an air of certainty and professionalism.
 As soon as a patient is diagnosed with an illness or condition, or becomes at risk for developing such a disease, you should begin discussing some of the tough decisions that may need to be addressed.


This can include anything from radical treatments to end-of-life care.
The ideal place to discuss tough decisions is in your office, not in a hospital. Patients are more likely to make wise, calm decisions when in a low-stress environment.
 Some circumstances may require an immediate decision, but usually, a patient can afford to take a few days or weeks to think things over.


Stress the urgency of making a decision, but back off and allow the patient to take as much time as possible when reaching that decision.
Decisions made in haste are often regretted. One goal you should have is to limit your regrets and the patient's regrets.
 Regardless of whether or not you share your patient's faith and religious beliefs, there can be a lot of benefit to the patient if you encourage and respect those beliefs.


If you have spiritual beliefs of your own and your patient asks about them, feel free to share your thoughts. Doing so can actually provide a good dose of comfort to the patient when things are tough.
If you do not feel comfortable taking on this topic yourself, you can direct your patient to someone who can address it. Encourage the patient to seek pastoral counsel. Guide the patient to the chaplain at a nearby hospital or recommend a professional counselor who is equipped to discuss faith-based matters.
 Even when a situation looks grim from a medical perspective, you should affirm the patient's desire to hope and fight through the condition or illness.This doesn't mean giving false hope, however. When the odds of recovery are low, you should be honest about that fact.
This does mean allowing for the existence of hope. Do not completely rule out the possibility of something positive happening, even when a full recovery is out of the question.
 Regardless of how hopeful the patient or family feels, you need to take your dialogue to their level.


When a patient is praying for a miracle, you can say that you pray or hope for one, too.
If the patient has accepted the inevitability of succumbing to his or her illness, you do not need to pressure the patient into acting more hopeful. You should, however, discuss different ways to make the patient's current life more pleasant in spite of the illness.
 Tell the patient that you will stick with him or her throughout the duration of the illness and treatment. When someone receives frightening news, a knowledgeable ally can be a source of great comfort and support.


If most of the treatment will be performed by other doctors, you should still assure your patient that you will continue to stay updated and are more than willing to discuss your patient's concerns and treatment as time continues to pass.
 A patient who needs to make a difficult decision may feel too overwhelmed to reach a conclusion. In these cases, you may need to directly tell the patient what you believe the wisest course of action would be.


Present your recommendation as a suggestion and explain why you believe it to be the best option. Do not pressure your patient into accepting that suggestion, though.

