 If you aren't already signed into your primary Google account in the Maps app, you'll need to do so with your Google email address and password.
 This is at the top of the screen to which Google Maps opens., For example, you might type a city's name or a neighborhood within a city., This is the blue button on your iPhone's keyboard.

If you see your location's name pop up below the text field, you can tap that instead.
 It's at the bottom of the screen. This will pull your location's information up onto the screen., It's to the right of the Share and Save options., You'll do this by dragging the rectangular frame over your location so that everything you wish to save is inside of the rectangle.

You can also pinch your fingers outward or inward to zoom in or out, thereby resizing the area you want to save.
 Your selected area will begin downloading immediately. Once it's done, you'll be able to access your downloaded location offline by typing it into the Google Maps search bar.

You may need to allow or deny download notifications before your download starts.
 If you aren't already signed into your primary Google account in the Maps app, you'll need to do so with your Google email address and password., This is at the top of the screen to which Google Maps opens., For example, you might type in a university's address or your house's address., This is the blue button on your iPhone's keyboard.

If you see your location's name pop up below the text field, you can tap that instead.
 It's at the bottom of the screen. Doing so displays your location's information on the screen., It's in the top right corner of the screen., This option will pop up at the bottom of the screen., You'll do this by dragging the rectangular frame over your location so that everything you wish to save is inside of the rectangle.

You can also pinch your fingers outward or inward to zoom in or out, which will resize the area you want to save.
 Your selected area will begin downloading immediately. Once it's done, you'll be able to access your downloaded location offline by typing it into the Google Maps search bar.

You may need to allow or deny download notifications before your download starts.
 This is in the top left corner of your Maps screen. Doing so will open the user menu., It's toward the top of the menu., Any areas you've downloaded in the past 29 days should appear here., You can also remove offline areas in this manner., This will help you categorize multiple saved locations from the same general area.

For example, if you have three offline locations in the San Francisco area, you can rename them based on their use (e.g., "Restaurants", "School", "Home").
 Doing so will re-download your area with any recently added landmarks or locations included. Updating requires an internet (or cellular data) connection., You'll have to tap Delete again to remove the map permanently.