 The first essential element of a contract is an offer. This means that one person offers something (such as a good or service). To be valid, an offer should be communicated effectively (in writing or orally), contain a commitment of responsibility to follow through, and have definite terms.For example, if you want to exchange services with your neighbor, you might say, “I will mow your lawn every weekend from June-August if you will come over every day and water my garden.”
An invalid offer would be something that is vague, such as “we should exchange yard maintenance.” Another invalid offer would be one that lacks commitment, such as posting a sign in your yard that says “will mow in exchange for gardening.”
An offer becomes invalid if it is withdrawn before the other party accepts it or if a reasonable amount of time passes and no acceptance (or other action, such as a counter-offer) has taken place.;
, It is important to understand the way that counter-offers work. In most cases, an offer has to be accepted as-is to become valid. If the party receiving the offer suggests a counter-offer, the original offer is temporarily off the table. The counter-offer becomes a new offer in place of the old one, and does not constitute an acceptance of the original offer.


For example, your neighbor may give a counter offer of “I will water your garden daily if you mow my grass every weekend and also trim the bushes along my driveway.”

, An offer must be accepted in order to be valid. Acceptance can be verbal, written, or communicated in another way that very clearly shows acceptance and it might take place after counter-offers are negotiated. Acceptance is when both parties feel that the terms of the offer are agreeable and they say “yes.” Many people accept verbal offers by shaking hands. The method of acceptance is generally prescribed by the offering party; for example, the offering party might say, “let’s shake on it.”


In a contract with your neighbor, you may accept his counter-offer of mowing and trimming the bushes in exchange for watering your garden daily. You may accept the offer by saying “sure” or “yes” and shaking on the deal.
 Consideration is the “substance” or the contract, or the terms that are agreed to, usually regarding an exchange of goods or services.In other words, one party promises to do something in return for a promise from the other party.


In many cases, consideration is the agreement to exchange an item or service for money.
In a contract with your neighbor, your consideration is mowing and trimming the bushes in your neighbor’s yard. Your neighbor’s consideration is watering your garden every day.
Sometimes consideration can be an agreement to stop doing something as well. You can exchange a promise not to do something in exchange for another promise. For example, you may offer to pay your neighbor $20 a month in exchange for him no longer playing loud music in his backyard after 10pm.

