 The first thing to do is to talk to your parents about dating, and be honest and receptive during the talk. Never start this conversation after a fight, or after they tell you that you can’t date. You want to get their position on the issue, and their level of opposition to dating.


Bring it up at a random time so they won’t become suspicious of your questions.
Listen, and don’t try to interject unless they ask you a question.
You can start the conversation by saying something like "When did you start dating?" or "How did you meet dad?";
, You parents grew up in a different generation, so dating when they were your age was much different.For that reason, you should get their perspective on dating even if you think it’s old fashioned and you don’t agree.


The more that you understand why your parents are opposed to dating, the more you’ll understand ways to change their mind or ease their concerns.Sometimes your parents don’t want you to date because of your cultural background or religious reasons. In these cases, it may be harder to change their mind.Saying things like “times have changed” may not be the best way to persuade your parents.
 Once you understand their perspective, it’s time to think of solutions to change their mind. Write down the reasons why you parents don’t want to date and prove them wrong. If they say you are too irresponsible, take up more responsibilities around the house.


Write down things that you parents want you to do in order to date and make sure to put effort towards them. If you really want to date, you’ll do what it takes.
If dating is dominating your mind and taking you away from your responsibilities, try to get better at a hobby or sport to sharpen your focus.
Don't talk about how you will change, show your parents through your actions.
 Sometimes parents distrust other people, not you, so it’s important to talk to your parents about who you want to date.

Highlight the positives about the person, like any sports or activities they are participating in, and explain what you have in common. Always stay away from the negative things, and make sure the reasons you want to date them are genuine.

You can bring the person up before you tell your parents you want to date them. Say something like "There's a person at school named X and they are top of the class."
The more you talk about your relationship or your desire to date, the more your parents will want to be involved in a positive way.Things that you might find cool about the person are the same things you parents might disapprove of, so it’s important to understand what they want to hear.
If the person you are dating is good in school, this is a huge plus for most parents.
 Yelling at your parents is never going to get them to change their mind about dating, and can actually damage your chances of ever dating while you live with them.Never get in fights about their views on you dating, just remain calm and try to change their minds. If the issue is getting heated, and if you feel like an argument is brewing, just drop it before it gets out of hand.


Accept their decision and change the subject if you feel the conversation is getting negative or you are getting emotional.
Don't walk away in the middle of a fight or ignore you parents. That shows immaturity. Instead try to resolve the issue but respect their opinion at all times.
Say "I understand your perspective but I don't agree. I love you, so I'll do what you say, but I'd like to talk about it later when I'm not so emotional please."
You won’t change your parent’s minds in one conversation, it may take a while for them to come around.
Don’t ever act snide or sarcastic with you parents because it will damage your chances of them saying yes in the future.
 Sometimes parents just need time before they get used to the idea that their child is old enough to date someone.If you can show them that you are ready for dating by fulfilling some of their expectations, this will translate into them treating you more like an adult. Wait a couple of weeks or a month, and then revisit the issue once they have had time to think about your side of things.


You can start the conversation by saying "I know you told me you disapprove of dating in the past, but I've been taking care of all my responsibilities and I want to spend time with this person. You may not think it's important but it's really affecting me emotionally and I think I'm emotionally mature enough to start."
Don’t ask them or talk about it every day.

