 Ask for a detailed analysis of your weight. If you are overweight or obese, this could be the cause of a drop in testosterone.


Obese people secrete more aromatase, an enzyme that works to convert testosterone to estrogen. Your metabolism will continue to decrease as your body produces more aromatase, making the problem worse. Create a weight loss plan with your doctor.;
, Increased weight and obesity can lead to low testosterone levels.Changing your dietary patterns can make a big difference not only to your testosterone levels but to your risk for heart disease and diabetes. Start changing your diet by cutting out processed, packaged, and prepared foods.
 Eating “whole” foods means cutting out excess sugars, trans and hydrogenated fats, preservatives, etc. Try to incorporate:


More fruits and vegetablesMore fish and quality meat.
Avoid processed food, including grains, lentils, beans, and dairy.
More nuts and seeds

, This includes sugars added to processed foods (such as high fructose corn syrup), as well as artificial sweeteners.If you need a “sweet hit”, try using Stevia, a herb that can provide sixty times the sweetness of sugar.
 Omega-3 fats are healthy fats found in a variety of foods. These include those found in eggs, algae, fish, and mussels, but also plant oils like flaxseed, hemp and walnut oil. Healthy fats actually help to build a healthier body.
 Lots of water is essential to any healthy diet. In addition to hydrating you, water can also stop you from feeling hungry.
 Cut down on snacking, eating when bored, and other sneaky calories. Try to eat only when you are hungry.
 Restricting calories significantly may send the wrong signals to your body, which will not increase testosterone. Instead, cut your calories by approximately 15 percent the first week.


All weight loss goals should be reasonable. Aim to lose a pound per week by improving diet and increasing activity levels.
 Meat, high-protein yogurt, and some vegetables can help build muscle. Increasing muscle will help burn fat and increase testosterone.

