 Electric stoves, microwaves and plastics can have negative effects on the food you cook. It is necessary to acquire utensils that will have minimal negative impact on the energy stored in the food. It is best to use a gas stove, cast-iron pans, a pressure cooker for grains, stainless steel, wood, glass, and ceramic utensils and bowls. Cooking this way will help preserve the natural energy and nutritional value in the food, which will then be more efficiently absorbed into the body.;
, Buying in bulk can save a lot of money and time when shopping, and it can assure that you always have something to eat. It can be a challenging task to find a wide variety of organic vegetables from season to season. Seasonal foods are more nutritious because they grow in fertile soil and aren't doused with pesticides and other chemicals.

Purchase grains such as short-grain brown rice, quinoa, corn, millet, barley, rye, buckwheat and oats.






Shop at local farmer's markets and the organic section of the local grocery store for in-season organic vegetables.
 The macrobiotic diet has relatively specific proportions. The percentages are broken down as follows - 50 percent grains, 25 percent in-season vegetables, 10 percent protein, 5 percent soups, 5 sea vegetables and 5 percent nuts and fruits. Aim to consume 50 percent of your diet from grains, 25 percent from seasonal vegetables, 10 percent from protein, 5 percent in soups, 5 percent from sea vegetables and 5 percent from nuts and fruits.
 If you prepare food under stress or aggravation, the negative vibrations can resonate and affect the meal.
, The steaming process and fast cooking time helps maintain the nutrients in the grain.
 Don't boil or bake vegetables as that can diminish their nutrient content.
 Sources of protein include beans, lentils, tofu, chickpeas and occasionally fish. Do not heavily season the protein. You can boil lentils, beans and chickpeas. Tofu should be stir-fried and not heavily oiled.
 This soup can be made from scratch, and there are many recipes available. It includes fermented soy (miso), mushroom and spices. The simple ingredients provide many vitamins and minerals needed for a healthy mind and body. Be sure to not over-season and use organic ingredients when making the soup.
 These nutrient-rich underwater plant sources can be used in salads, with rice dishes or eaten by themselves.

