 A simple option is to hide the wires behind furniture like wall cabinets and curtains, while a more permanent option is to conceal the wires in the walls behind the flat screen TV wall mount. The latter option needs pre-existing power outlets especially if the walls are solid. In case of dry or wooden partition walls, a bit of drilling and cutting will enable you to hide cables effectively while installing your flat screen TV wall mount.


An increasingly popular option used today is to hide the wires in decorative moldings which look good while blending easily with the wall. This involves less of drilling and can be done quickly within an hour or so. The decorative moldings or raceways as they are also known can be painted to match the wall color.
If you wish to run the cables through the walls, then a few things need to be kept in mind.

Firstly, a hollow drywall is the best option for this method rather than solid concrete and brick walls.
Secondly, a drywall within the house is more suitable instead of an exterior wall. This way you won't have to deal with insulation blocks and other wires embedded in exterior walls.
Thirdly, a visit to the hardware store will be necessary for a cutter, drill, cable sockets, extensions as well as bolts and a screwdriver.

;
, There is no set advice on this; just what is most comfortable for you and the distance where you sit to view TV. If you do mount higher than 5' off the floor, plan on a TILT mount.
 Better than marking it up with pen or pencil.
 Most homes are built with wood studs 16" centered from another. NOT ALWAYS, but it is a rule of thumb to use.


If you have metal stud framing, brick, or any other masonry materials on or inside your wall, other than regular drywall, contact a professional from this point forward as there are special methods to secure safely.
 Always purchase cables longer than you think you'll need.
 DO NOT RUN THE TV POWER CORD OR AN EXTENSION CORD INSIDE YOUR WALL. Really, it's against all building and the National Electric Code (NEC) if you do. Either hire an electrician to install an outlet up on the wall, or if you're handy, you can install a special designed outlet yourself.
,


Using your stud finder, make sure you know exactly where your stud framing is. Use your stud finder vertically between the marked studs, up and down the wall to determine there are no obstructions in the wall between the studs, expect fire blocks at approximately 8' off the floor if you mounting that high. Some areas of the country have them lower, so make sure. Insulation inside the wall is usually no problem just that it can make it more challenging to route the wires.
When you have determined no obstructions, drill or cut a 1-1/2 hole below or next to your wall mount, about 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) away from the nearest stud. Use a bent coat hanger and insert in the hole and feel around for any obstructions around the hole, if all is good, proceed to drilling/cutting a second hole in line with the hole above.
Use your new fish tape or glow rod and insert in the top hole and run it down the wall to the lower hole, you'll have to use needle nose pliers to grab it through.
Use black electrical tape to tape the ends of you cables, staggered, to the glow rod/fish tape. Pull back the cables from the top CAREFULLY. If all went well then you have your cables.
Use a wall plate with a hole drilled out of the middle or just leave the hole open and secure the cables so they don't fall back.
If you are running cables through stud framing: Determine where you need to run through the stud and cut away an area of drywall directly over the stud. Save that piece to use to re-patch later. After you have removed drywall over the stud, use a 1-1/2" bore bit to cut into the stud about an inch an a half deep in. Run your cables in that new cut out in the stud to the next "bay". Replace the saved drywall you cut out and use drywall screws above the stud cutout and re-patch with drywall putty and repaint.

