 You need to be in a place that you will be undisturbed and quiet. It’s also a good idea to have a place where you consistently meditate so your body and mind get used to the place and position and you can more easily activate the third eye., Like the location, most practitioners of meditation benefit from meditating at the same time every day. Think about when you would be best suited to meditate, be relaxed, and free your mind. Don’t do it immediately before or after eating. Many people prefer to meditate in the morning, but any time of day that you choose can work if you keep at it consistently., By getting out some of the kinks in your body, you will be able to sit for longer and more comfortably as you meditate. Doing this every time before you meditate can also help you get into the mental framework you need for meditation. Try each of these for about 30 seconds each:Bending over and trying to touch your toes
Stretching your arms above your head
Laying on your back with your feet in the air – your legs at a ninety-degree angle with the rest of your body

, For most people, the ideal position would be to sit relaxed and cross legged. If this is uncomfortable or difficult, experiment with other positions that make it easier to focus on your breath and meditation. Work up to sitting cross-legged on the floor.


Keep your chest open and your back straight.
Place your hands in your lap or on your knees -- whichever feels better.
Keep your head upright and your eyes gently closed.
 Allow your body to settle. Breathe in and out. Be mindful of your body and how it feels. If there are aches in your body, work on relaxing those before you begin.


Focus on each part of your body in turn as you sit and relax
Begin to move your mind away from your worries and get ready to focus on the present moment
Feel your body expand and contract with each breath

, Breathing is the key to all meditation. Be aware of how your breath goes in and out. Try to focus entirely on your breathing. Take a deep breath (inhale for the count of three, the out for the count of three), repeat with two other deep breaths, and then begin.
 This is the point at which you will begin to start focusing on the third eye, the center of your forehead. Under your eyelids, move your eyes toward the third eye. Keep them focused there throughout the meditation. Begin counting backward from one hundred as you focus. If you aren’t able to get in touch with the third eye immediately, don’t worry. Meditation can take a while to get used to, and activating the third eye even longer., By the time you have reached the end of your counting backward from one hundred, you should be ready to access the third eye. When you focus well, then you sense everything is dark except at the third eye chakra. If your third eye is activated, your brain will be relaxed but functioning at a new level. Both sides of the brain will be working together and you will be aware of the energy around you.You will know you have accessed the third eye when your body feels a new level of energy both coursing through it and around it
You can also tell if your third eye has been activated when you are able to focus strongly on one object or image and your mind is completely consumed by that object or image.
 People have different reactions to the activation of the third eye. Some people experience the mind flashing different visual effects, like images of nature, waterfalls, people, trains, and other scenes that you might have seen. Some people describe it as being able to see your thoughts, almost as if they are scrolling by on a blackboard., It is common to have a headache during your first attempts to activate the third eye. Don’t worry -- as you continue to practice the headaches will go away. To train yourself to more fully appreciate the third eye, try focusing on one particular image. It could be a number, it could be an object -- just try to keep your mind centered on whatever image you have chosen., Move your eyes away from the third eye. Stay relaxed, but become more aware of your breath. Be mindful of the way that your breath goes in and out. Sometimes counting helps to put more focus on your breath as you are coming out of your meditation. Slowly open your eyes., It will become easier to activate the third eye as your meditation practice continues. Work on focusing on different images when you are meditating to help your concentration improve and keep the third eye activated.
 Meditation on the third eye is a part of the larger practice of Hatha Yoga, which integrates both physical movements with meditation and energy work. The chakras, or energy centers of the body, are all linked -- the ajna chakra or third eye is the one that is highest on the body. To work on activating the others would require a practice using the body, not just meditation., Since the third eye is a chakra, you can work on making your body feel better and become more in touch with your inner, intuitive self. But this does not come immediately -- keep practicing your meditation and working on greater levels of focus within it. You might find yourself becoming more in touch with your body and the energy that flows within you and around you -- this is the point of meditation on the third eye.

