 Taking into consideration your roommate's history of threats and abuses, think about the best approach to informing her that he/she needs to move out. Does your roommate require a no-nonsense approach, or might it be beneficial for you to leave more room to listen to his/her side of the story?

, Mediation is when a neutral third party steps in to aid communication between two disputants. In lieu of a professional mediator (usually someone with a legal background), try asking a capable friend or family member to hold court. Do remember, though, that mediation is not an opportunity to prove guilt or blame. Instead, mediate to make sure that each person understands what the other is saying and can be held responsible for that knowledge.


Try to decide in advance whether or not you will be open to any attempts that your roommate makes to convince you to let her stay at the place. Be firm about this decision. Highly manipulative people often feign agreeableness or make promises to change that they do not intend to keep.
 Make sure that you talk face to face rather than through phone or messaging services. Be clear about what is bothering you, and maintain a firm stance about your decision without making any threats in case your roommate goes against your expectations and agrees that moving out is indeed a good course of action. Explain your reasoning, focusing as much as possible on yourself and your needs and provide specific examples of when and why living in your current situation proved unmanageable. Use as little blame as possible, and be sure to own your feelings of discomfort and discord.Understand that they will need adequate warning to find a new place to live. 30 days is standard.
Tempting as it may be, do not lie about the rights that you have. Do not insinuate that you can legally kick your roommate out or make false claims about your landlord mandating that everyone move out (if this is not the case).
Only threaten legal action if your roommate becomes dangerous or keeps insisting that he/she will not move out at all.
 If your finances allow, sweeten the deal for your roommate with financial incentive to move out. Since moving can be expensive, offer to pay his/her first month's rent or return the security deposit that you are both due in advance.At the very least, make it clear that he/she will not be responsible for any more rent payments, regardless of the time of the month the move out takes place (provided it happens on the terms you request).


By making a win-win situation, you will be more likely to act with civility before and during the move-out period.
 Sometimes moving out can take a long time. It will feel even longer if you are dealing with hostility and abusive behavior from your roommate in the interim. Remember that ground rules will be useless if your roommate does not also agree to them. Use the following negotiation principles in order to make agreements with your roommate:


Show understanding of all of the (reasonable) things that your roommate requests in order to move out. For example, if he/she requests to keep the toaster that the two of your purchased together, don't say no out of principle. Validate the request and then decide whether or not you can fulfill it. Choose your battles wisely and remember that the less you dispute, the less conflict you'll face.
Negotiate possible ground rules, knowing that you must be willing to compromise if your roommate makes requests that are ultimately geared toward him/her leaving in a timely manner.
Say what you are willing to do instead of what you aren't. So, if you want as little contact as possible going forward, tell your roommate that you're willing to talk only if it is absolutely necessary for logistical purposes. Don't simply demand that he/she not talk to you at all.
 This will discourage the dangerous roommate from stealing or defacing your property. Stay nearby, but remember not to hover over or babysit your roommate, as this could be taken as provocation and offense (because it might seem like you are expecting criminal behavior).

