 A basic beer bread is just a bottle of beer plus a couple of normal ingredients you've already got in your pantry. Any kind of flour, from whole wheat, to self-rising white is fine to use. Cheap beer and expensive beer also work perfectly well. Use a lighter beer if you're not a big beer fan, and a darker beer if you want more flavor. All in all, you'll need the following ingredients to make beer bread:


2 ¾ cups baking flour
2 tbsp sugar
2 tbsp baking powder
½ tsp salt
1-2 tsp. dried green herbs (optional)
1 12 oz. can or bottle of beer;
, Into the bowl, measure out the flour, sugar, baking powder, salt, and any green herbs you'd like to add to the mixture. A small sprinkling of thyme, oregano, and dill work nicely, but you can also leave them out if you'd prefer.


Mix the dry ingredients gently using a wooden spoon, and set the bowl aside.
 Once you've got the dry ingredients measured out, pour in the beer slowly, being careful to avoid too much fizzing up. Pour with one hand and mix gently with the other hand, adding the entire bottle of beer.


Both warm and cold beer work perfectly fine for this recipe.
 Continue stirring the mixture, scraping the sides of the bowl to avoid any dry spots. Keep mixing until the flour is absorbed into the wet beer and everything starts to look uniform.


It should be a little lumpy-looking, not quite as thin as pancake batter, and about the consistency of corn-bread mix.
 Beer bread is best in a loaf pan. Use about a half tablespoon of butter to thoroughly grease the bottom and sides of the loaf pan, so it won't stick, then spoon the mixture in and flatten the top with the spoon.


You can also use olive oil, canola oil, or any other kind of cooking oil you want.
 Preheat your oven to 375 and pop it in. Check on it periodically, to make sure its baking evenly and consistently, turning it around if necessary.


Remove the bread when the edges are golden brown, or crisp looking. Check using a knife or a toothpick in the middle. If it comes back without any wet dough on it, it's done.

