 Also called inner scarves or undercaps, underscarves help to cover the hair and hold the hijab in place. They can be a bandana over the forehead or an elastic headsock wrapped around the whole face. Not everyone wears an underscarf, but it makes wearing the hijab much easier., One popular type of scarf used for the hijab is a long rectangular piece of cloth called a shayla. These scarves are wrapped around the head and pinned in place. Shaylas come in an enormous variety of colors and patterns. The al-amira is another common headscarf style. These are often made of stretchy material and fit tightly around the face with no pinning required.You can use any type of scarf as long as it is big enough to cover your hair, ears, and neck. Remember that any fabric used as a covering cannot be transparent.
 In order to properly wear the hijab, your clothing must cover all parts of your body except for your hands and face. Your garments must also be loose enough so as to not reveal the shape of your body.


Many Muslim women wear an abaya with their hijab. The abaya is a long, loose-fitting dress similar to a robe. Although traditional abayas are black, they are now also made in a variety of colors.Other women pair their hijab with whatever clothing is typically worn in their culture, as long as it meets the basic criteria of modesty. This can be as casual as a long-sleeved t-shirt and loose jeans.
 Most people hold their headscarves in place with straight pins. A brooch can also be used to attach the scarf to your top near the collarbone.


Some styles of hijab do not require pins, especially if they fit very tightly around the face. Even if a looser scarf can be worn without pins, it's better to use a few to be sure it doesn't slip off unexpectedly., You will most likely have to tie your hair while wearing the hijab. Tying up wet hair can damage its roots, leading to hair loss.Covering damp hair keeps it from drying out, which can lead to a fungal infection., Don't tie your hair too tightly, which can cause discomfort or damage to your hair. If your hair is very long, consider bunching it into a tube cap underscarf. This accessory will hold your hair up in place under your shayla., If your hair is short, it will be difficult to tie back but will still need to be held in place. Gather your hair with one hand and with your other secure it in place using a few hair clips or bobby pins.Give special attention to your bangs, which can slip out easily. Group your bangs together with one hand, give your hair a slight twist, and then pin it to the side of your temple or behind your ear.
 The three main types of underscarves are each worn differently.


Wear a cap underscarf like a bonnet. Place the rim on your forehead below the hairline. Pull the cap over your tied-up hair. Tilt it so that your ears are covered. Tie the underscarf firmly at the bottom near the nape of your neck.
The tube underscarf is a comfortable option for women with long hair. Pull the tube onto your hair starting from the back of your head. Adjust the scarf so that the edge reaches your forehead past the hairline. Make sure your ears and hair are tucked into the scarf.
A full underscarf, also called a "ninja underscarf," is worn similar to a hood. It will completely cover your hair and neck, allowing you to be more creative and less meticulous when pinning your shayla., You can position your shayla so that it completely covers your underscarf or let it rest an inch or two above.Scarves for hijab are sold in a variety of places, including Muslim stores and online specialty shops. Making one yourself out of fabric is also easy to do. Just make sure the material is opaque, not transparent, unless you're pairing it with a full-coverage underscarf.
 Drape the ends over your shoulders onto your front. If your scarf is thin, make sure to flatten it over your head as much as possible.To help hold things in place, you can use a safety pin to connect the sides of your shayla under your neck.
 Bring the edge towards your opposite shoulder, wrapping it underneath your chin. Wrap it loosely around the opposite side of your head and then pin it in place. The end can be thrown loose over either side of your shoulder or pinned close.


A different style you can try is to loosely wrap it around your neck instead of your head., Tuck the edge under the longer side and pin it in place. You could pin the end over the opposite side instead if you prefer.


One alternative for when your neck is already well-covered is to drape the short end loosely over your opposite shoulder, securing it with a pin or brooch.
 If you plan on adding another layer, wrap your first shayla tighter. You can mix and match colors and fabrics as a way to vary your wardrobe.Minimize your layers during the summer or if you live in a warm climate, especially if you have a lot of hair. Even light, breathable fabric can make you feel too hot when layered.
 Use a hand mirror along with the bathroom mirror to check the back of your head. You can also ask a female friend or relative to look for you. Nod your head and move it from side to side to make sure your hijab will be secure enough for your daily tasks.

