 As soon as your campers arrive you should start getting to know them as individuals and people. Getting to know your campers can help you interact with them better and build a great relationship between the two of you. Your campers will greatly appreciate your interest in their life and will start to view you favorably.Learn your campers personal interests and engage with them.
Take a moment to discover each of your campers personalities.
Don't be afraid to share some of your own personality and interests with your campers.;
, There may be a time when your campers don't want to do something you had in mind, such as cleaning chores. Being too forceful or direct with these campers will only hurt your relationship and cause them to view you with less respect. Keep some of the following points in mind when dealing with a difficult camper:If a camper is distracted or doing something other than what they should be you can try joining them for a moment before redirecting them to the task at hand.
For example, if they are watching a video on their phone instead of cleaning, watch the video with them for a moment before asking them to clean.
Simple and clear instructions for activities are appreciated by campers.
Avoid giving negative commands such as “Don't do this”. It will be ineffective and cause the camper to view you negatively.
 It's all too easy to simply issue commands to your campers. However, they are unlikely to respect you if you don't demonstrate the same qualities and actions that you demand of them. Always make sure you are engaging in the same activities and attitudes that you want your campers to exhibit in order to build respect and earn their trust.Telling your campers to do something or hold an attitude without doing so yourself can cause your them to view you less favorably.
Always exhibit the actions and attitudes that you want your campers to display in order to build a better relationship.
 Even though you want to be the camper's favorite counselor it can be a good idea to let other counselors take over for a while. Allowing other counselors to step in can give you a break, allow you to refresh, and you may be able to learn some new techniques from your co-counselor. Taking a break can also let your campers have some rest and look forward to your return.Sharing your campers with other counselors can create a better camping experience for your campers.
 Campers may be away from their homes for the first time in their life and may be feeling unsure or uneasy at camp. Showing some kindness and empathy to your campers can help make them feel comfortable with you and at camp. Take some time to make them feel welcome, safe, and demonstrate that they have a friend in you.Always be available to listen to your campers concerns.
Take time to speak with your campers one-on-one to build rapport.
Your campers should feel like they can come to you with any issue.
Demonstrating kindness will go a long way in becoming their favorite counselor.

