 Use a retractable measuring tape. Remember to measure height and width twice to ensure accuracy.;
, Purchase a piece of pegboard that is bigger or equal to the size of your wall space. Ask the hardware store to cut the pegboard to the exact size.


Most hardware stores cut small sheets of wood and pegboard for free. Pre-cutting it will allow you to transport it more easily, and it will save you time.
Keep the extra pieces if you want to make and frame smaller pegboard organizers.
If you have a sheet of pegboard at home, use a circular saw to measure and cut the sheet to size.
 Buy one sheet of for each side, to serve as your frame. Each side should be about eight inches longer than the side’s measurement so that you can miter the corners into an attractive frame.
 You will also need some paint and tools if you don’t have them at home.
 If you don’t have a beat up table, you will want to cover the top in cardboard and wrap it with a drop cloth to avoid marring the top.
 Place your crown molding across each side. The molding will intersect at the four corners.
 Imagine this is the corner of the frame where the two ends come together. The angle should extend from the far corner, diagonally into the point where it meets the pegboard.Repeat on all four corners.
Although you should measure and mark the corners carefully, it does not have to be perfect, since you can sand and use caulk to account for discrepancies later.
 Paint the front of your pegboard in the color of your choice. If you prefer not to have colored pegboard, you can keep it the original tan or white color and paint the molding to compliment it.
 Cut at all the corners across your 45-degree pencil lines. Sand the edges slightly to remove unsightly bumps or chips.


Test the corners to ensure they line up.
 Paint them the same color as your pegboard or a complementary color. You may need two coats and a primer if they are a darker color than the board.


Allow them to dry completely before continuing.
 Then, lay the mitered molding into position.
 Also, place a layer of wood glue across the sides of the pegboard to glue the frame on top of the board. It is easier to do both steps at once since it will need plenty of time to dry.


Use clamps to hold the framed board in place overnight.
 Hammer finish nails into the frame and board, where they won’t show through the front. Use as many as possible to secure the board and frame together.
 Apply a bead of caulk into the mitered corners and smooth it down to fill the holes. Allow it to dry, and then paint over it with the original paint color.
 They should be at least two thirds as wide as your frame. You will use them to hang the pegboard securely, since hanging it directly into the wall can damage it.
 Mark a vertical line along the center of the stud with a pencil.
 They will create two parallel lines on which you can hang your pegboard. Hold the wood up and use a level to place it in the right position.
 Grab your power drill. Screw the scrap wood into the wall with long wood screws where it intersects with your stud.
 You should have two level parallel supports securely installed into your wall.
 You should be able to find where the pegboard crossed the wood supports. Level the pegboard using your spirit level.
 You may want to use a washer as well as a screw, to ensure a good distribution of weight., Hang your tools.

