 Most of the time esophageal diverticulum presents no symptoms. That said, even if you have had no symptoms in the past, the pockets in your esophagus may grow larger, and new symptoms may appear over time. If your symptoms change, notify your doctor. Typical side effects and symptoms include:Regurgitation of food
Trouble swallowing (dysphagia)
Chest pain
Pneumonia
Excessive clearing of throat
Bad breath (halitosis)
Coughing
Weight loss;
, In most cases, esophageal diverticulum requires no special treatment. You should still have regular check-ups at least once or twice a year with your doctor to make sure that none of the pockets have grown larger.


A gastroenterologist may be most helpful when diagnosing and treating esophageal diverticulum. You can ask your general physician for a recommendation. If your condition is severe, you may have to contact a thoracic surgeon.If you have an unusual bulge on your throat, tell your doctor about it. This may be a sign of Zenker’s diverticulum., There are a number of tests that your doctor may perform to diagnose esophageal diverticulum. If you have already been diagnosed, your doctor may want to do more tests to discover the underlying condition causing your diverticula and related disorders. These tests include:



Endoscopy: In this procedure, you will be given a topical anesthetic. The doctor will lower a tube down your throat to examine what types of pockets are developing in your esophagus.

Barium Swallow: You will be asked to swallow a chalk-like liquid. Using a special x-ray, the doctor will track the liquid as it travels down your esophagus to see if there are any obstructions.Esophageal manometry: A tube will be lowered down your throat to measure contractions of your esophagus. This will determine if food can pass safely down to your stomach.

24-Hour Esophageal pH Test: A tube will be lowered into your esophagus through your nose. The outer part of the tube will remain attached to your face. After a day, the tube is removed. This can also be used to diagnose a related condition called gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), which is the cause of esophageal diverticulum in many people., Antacids can help manage some of the symptoms of esophageal diverticulum, especially if your diverticula are caused by GERD. Talk to your doctor about which antacids may be most appropriate for your condition. Make sure you inform your doctor about any other medications you are taking or allergies you have. Some commonly recommended antacids include:Maalox
Mylanta
Rolaids
Tums

, If you are no longer able to swallow without pain, if food is entering your lungs (aspiration), or if a diverticulum ruptures, you may have to undergo surgery. Discuss these options with your doctor. There are many different types of surgery used to treat these problems, based on their severity and your medical condition. Some common procedures include:



Diverticulectomy: Removal of the diverticulum. This is usually performed in conjunction with another treatment or surgery.

Myotomy: Incisions in muscle fiber to relax pressure in the lower esophageal sphincter. Laparoscopic and Cricopharyngeal are the most common types.Endoscopy with CO 2 laser: Removal of the diverticulum with a laser.