 Since 2005, a number of companies have emerged that allow borrowers to connect directly with individual loan providers. The potential advantage is that a borrower typically gets a better rate and is more likely to get a loan, even with bad credit, whereas the creditor gets a better return on their money than a bank.Some of the sites that provided this peer to peer loan service include Prosper, Lending Club, and Peerform.Another option is to use loan shopping websites like MoneyLend, LendingTree, and eLoan.
These websites allow you to enter the amount you hope to borrow, your reason for borrowing it, and your overall credit status, and based on this information will tell you whether a loan will be available to you and will quote you an approximate interest rate ranging from 5.9% to 36% or more depending on your circumstances.
The following is an overview of the generalized process of applying for a loan through one of these sites. Actual steps may vary depending on the type of loan sought and the lending site.
 Once you've determined that you want to borrow using peer to peer borrowing, you'll need to create an account, providing your personal information for the purposes of credit screening., Once your account is set up, you can make your actual loan request, specifying what the loan is for and how much you need.


This is your opportunity to make yourself appealing to potential lenders. Any information you can can include that will make you seem like a safer investment, like a history of repaying other loans or innovative business plans you plan to use the money for, should be included here., At this point, you have to wait for a creditor who thinks you are a good investment to make you an offer. You might get one offer for the full amount, or you may have to combine several smaller loans.


As in the case of a loan from a financial institution, you should still expect the terms and conditions of any offer you receive from a peer-to-peer loan site to be less favorable than it would be if your credit was good.
For example, many of these companies present information like "rates starting at 5.5%" or other promises. The reality is that many of the annual rates given in their loan terms average between 12% and 16%, with riskier loans asking up to 36%.Specifically, a common rate for one of these services might be 15% interest plus a 1% origination fee. So, if you borrowed $10,000 under these terms and paid it back over two years with $500 monthly payments, you'd end up paying $1,715.56 in fees and interest. This represents almost one-fifth of the original loan amount.
 Once you have attracted a creditor or creditors, you'll make an agreement with them and receive your funds.


Typically the website will monitor the status of the loan as you pay it back, and will handle the billing as well.Keep in mind that some sites may charge a "sourcing" or "origination" fee. Be sure to check the terms of service before securing a loan.