 Decide what you can afford in rent, including monthly utilities and other expenses.Typically, a person should pay no more than 30% of their income in rent.While this is not always possible, especially in high-priced cities, it is a good amount to shoot for.


Don’t look at any apartments out of your current price range. If you are seduced into an apartment that is too expensive for you to afford, it only sets you up for failure.
Many real estate agencies require proof of monthly income to secure an apartment; additionally, higher-priced locations may only accept candidates who make above a certain income.
If the amount you can afford to pay each month is too low to get your own apartment, consider sharing a place with a roommate. That way the rent, and utilities, can be split in half.;
, How many bedrooms do you need? Do you need to be near public transportation? Do you want a balcony? A pool on-site? Do you want to live near bike paths? An adults-only apartment building? Figure out your wants and needs, and then create your list.


While it's great to have a wish list, chances are you won't get absolutely everything on your list. Prioritize your wants from most important to least important. This will help you weigh each feature against the others when you are actually looking at apartments.
You may want to add a few things that you absolutely don't want as well. You may not know what these things are at first but as you start looking at apartments, feel free to add to your list and make note of the things you can't live with.
 Drive or walk around different parts of the city where you might like to live. Then look at apartment listings in that area to see if you can afford to live there. Also consider commute times, your lifestyle needs, and local conveniences when picking a neighborhood.There are websites, like AddressReport and Walk Score, that can help you get a feel for the safety, cleanliness, demographics, school zoning, and local amenities of the neighborhood.
It's a good idea to have a couple neighborhoods in mind when you start looking for an apartment. This will give you more options to look at and, hopefully, a wider range of prices to choose from.

