 When you open the Word menu and click New, you are given the option to create a blank page or pick from a template.


If you’d like to use a premade newsletter template, look for the Newsletter section in the Template menu. You can pick from a variety of designs that can be downloaded directly from Microsoft. These templates often include instructions on how to change the text and images. A template can be useful if you are in a hurry and need to make a newsletter with minimal fuss.
If you’d like to design your own newspaper, click the “Blank document” option in the New menu. This will create a blank 8 ½” x 11” page.
 If you want to create a newsletter-size paper, you can leave the settings as they are. If you’d like to make a page the size of a standard newspaper, you will need to adjust the paper settings:


Select the Page Layout tab in your newly-created document. Click the expansion arrow in the bottom right corner of the Page Setup section.
Click the Paper tab in the new window. From the Paper Size dropdown menu, select “Custom size”. Enter 15 for the Width and 22 for the Height.
Click Ignore when Word warns you that the margins are outside of the printable range. Since you won’t be printing from home, printable margins are a non-issue.
Viewing a page this size can be difficult unless you have a widescreen monitor.
 Double-click on the header section of the document, which is located above the top margin. This will open the Header & Footer Design tab. You can insert automatic date and page numbers, and adjust how the headings are aligned.


Newspapers typically have a different header on the first page. The name and date are more prominent on the front page. To set a different header for the front page, check the Different First Page box in the Options section in the Design tab.
To adjust fonts and styles in the header, select the Home tab while editing the header. You can change the font, size, alignment, and style.
You can construct your newspaper header in a graphic design program and paste it into your Word document to cap your front page.

