 Because of their breathing difficulties, pugs do much better going for long walks at a steady walking pace so they don't get too out of breath. They are not equipped for prolonged energetic exercise, such as prolonged sessions of chase with other dogs where they don't get to stop and catch their breath. This doesn't mean you shouldn't throw a ball or let your pug play fetch, but be vigilant and if it is struggling then pause between throws to let it catch its breath.
Pugs are also extrovert dogs who need to get out and about, so they can be nosy and see what's going on and with whom.
 Let your pug chase you around the house as you weave through the furniture and around corners. Stop suddenly and start chasing it around just as it was chasing you. A good old fashion game of tag will never let a pug down.


Make play dates often for your pug to romp with other dogs. They forget that creatures other than you exist out there and need extra socialization.
 Pugs are bred to be companions, which also means that they like company and will want to be with you most of the time. They can be clingy and follow you around like a shadow, so be prepared for that kind of attention.


If you have a pug puppy then you may want to crate train it so that it has a den where it is happy to spend some time by itself. Spend time in a different room so that from a young age the pug accepts not always being able to see you., Taking your pug to the vet for regular check-ups can help to ensure that it will live a long, happy life. Make sure that your pug is registered with a vet and has regular health check-ups to keep it healthy. Only your vet can make sure that your pug is up to date with preventative measures, such as vaccinations and parasite control.


Pugs are also popular targets for dog thieves, so consider having a microchip fitted in your pug as a permanent means of identification and to prove ownership.
You may also want to consider taking out pet health insurance for your pug. Pet insurance is a good idea for a pug because they suffer from breathing problems, which may require emergency stabilization and even surgery., Pugs are short-haired, but they still require regular brushing to get rid of dead hair. Pugs are known to shed a lot of hair, so you will need to brush your pug every day to prevent hair from ending up on your floors and furniture. Invest in a good brush and make brushing your pug a part of your daily routine to help keep his shedding under control.Invest in lint rollers, a good vacuum cleaner, leather or faux leather furniture, hardwood or linoleum flooring, light or dark-colored clothes (depending on the color of your pug), a bathtub mesh hat that fits over the drain, and a good dog brush.
 You know how you have to clean a baby's crevices and folds with soft cloths and Q-Tips? Get to know your pug's folds and crevices. You'll be cleaning the pug's face folds a lot.

