 Don't take this the wrong way - everyone is beautiful in their own special way. But being anime schoolgirl levels of pretty... totally different.


Make sure to shave your legs! The Sailor Scouts wear short skirts, first of all. Plus, they're teenage girls. And they're supposed to be really pretty. Smooth legs are a must!

,


Brush your teeth after breakfast, lunch, and dinner, to keep them looking nice and your breath smelling fresh. Can you imagine being the only Sailor Scout with a cavity? Yuck!
Wash your face twice a day! Try a pore scrub to clean your pores to help you keep from breaking out. Do some experimenting to see what face washes work best for you. You could even use a combination of more than face wash! And if you can, moisturize your face daily. Also avoid touching your face, which, as you probably already know, can cause you to break out.
Shower once a day. Make sure you shave your legs every day and wash your hair! Also, use deodorant as soon as you get out of the shower. And remember, boiling hot water isn't good for your skin. Plus, it wastes the hot water in your house. Instead, take medium-length, warm showers. Or even cold showers if you want! Cold water can actually make your hair shiny, like Rei Hino.
 The Sailor Scouts are beautiful, and you should use lotion and sunscreen to make sure you don't get irritating sunburns.


The lotion will make your skin smooth, and feel nice. It also moisturizes it.
Speaking of which, drink a lot of water. It actually moisturizes your skin (as well as keeping you hydrated, healthy, and happy)!

, All the Sailor Scouts are known for their beautiful and unique hairstyles. They are a big part of who they are, and reflect each of their individual personalities. Sailor Moon's hairstyle is iconic! Make your hairstyle like that. Don't drastically change your hair, though. You are simply giving yourself a Sailor Scout makeover, not changing who you are.


Try not to blow-dry your hair much. Instead, just let it air-dry.
Know how to take good care of your hair.
Many Sailor Scouts have long hair, but not all of them do. If you want to grow out your hair for this look, go for it! But don't neglect to get it trimmed- trimming it can actually make it prettier, and grow faster. Get a Sailor Scout outfit!
You can order one online, but the ones you find on the internet will probably be from canon Sailor Scouts. You need your own unique outfit!
You could try making one yourself. First, design your outfit, and try to keep it simple and similar to the other Sailor Scout's outfits. Choose a unique color scheme, and start making it!
For more information, see an article about making a Sailor Scout outfit.



Your parents may not want you to do this. Make sure you get their permission first!
When you create your symbol, make it creative, easy to remember, and simple to draw, and still along the lines of the other Sailor Scout's symbols.
Make sure you do it in marker that will come off easily!

,


Do a drawing of all your magical objects, from your transformation wand to your moon scepter to your communicator watch and everything in between!
After you've finished the drawing, begin creating. You can probably find moon tiaras and moon scepters and such online. But be creative, customize stuff you find around your house! If you do find something from the internet, and your thing is like a re-colored version of it, just get a cheap one and spray paint it to get the right colors.
Look up articles on how to make the items you need. If you can't find anything and have absolutely no idea how to make them, try finding something off of Etsy or asking someone else to make it for you.
 The Sailor Scouts need to be strong and athletic! You are no exception! You must train and train hard! After all, how else would you defeat monsters?


If you are not in shape, get in shape right now. The Sailor Scouts are all fairly skinny and fairly athletic. You want to be one of them, right?
Pay extra-special attention in P.E. and even health class. You need to learn how to play sports and be strong! Practice as much as you can, and pick up some cool sporty skills you can impress people with along the way. You'll be thankful you did!
Consider taking gymnastics lessons. These will teach you a lot about being a Sailor Scout, as well as other important things. Best of all, it's a fun and "girly" way to become strong and athletic!

