 Zooey’s style has been described as such, as well as ethereal. Her vintage style has also been described as “polka-dot loving, kooky, and girly.”Wear dresses. Zoey is a fan of vintage dresses. She wears them for more casual wear, and she wears them as formal wear. You might see her in a striped Kate Spade New York dress. For a night on the town, don’t be surprised to see her in a red Oscar De La Renta strapless ball gown with a pearl necklace.
Choose bold colors and patterns. Zooey wears dresses in bright blue and bright red. She also likes polka dots. She’s not afraid to go short. She performed in a red strapless dress with black-and white-stripes when she sang the Star Spangled Banner before the World Series. Try tights. Zooey is a fan of wearing black tights with knee-length dresses.
Get a cool coat. Whether it’s a pink overcoat or bright red one, Zooey will often pair a long coat with jeans or dress slacks. The key here is to choose bold colors and a modern style. Play with colors and color combinations. Pick 1960s era mod fashions.;
, She might wear a diamond barrette in a vintage style hairdo. She’s been known to wear a thin headband.


Be feminine. Zooey has described her style as “feminine, even flirtatious.” Zooey usually adds a 1960s flair by putting various ribbons, bows, or headbands in her hair.
You might also see her with a whimsical flower in her hair. She’s often seen in a look where she pulls the top of her hair back with a barrette, leaving the bangs to hang loose.
She doesn’t over-accessorize. Pick one nice piece – a barrette, a bracelet, statement vintage earrings – to play up. She isn’t a person you will see with overstated bling.
 Zooey did so when she went to the 2013 Golden Globes. Her quirky nail art matches her personality.


Zooey has said she turned to nail art because she had a bad habit of biting her nails. She wanted to make them look good even though they weren’t long.
She tried to think of funny things to paint on her nails. She uses nail art to show her personality.
She’s been known to squeeze miniature filmstrips on her nails, and she also paints them with colorful shades from Julep polish.
 Zooey has said she likes bangs because “they’re cute.” She wears bangs in different styles. Bangs are her most signature look.She’s worn a blunt fringe and softer bangs, so play with both looks. Bangs set off her beautiful blue eyes. This is very, very important if you want to look like her!
Zooey has been called the “queen of bangs.” She uses them to make a statement.Blow dry your bangs straight down, and then use your fingers to dry the hair back and forth across the hairline. Then take a round brush, and blow dry straight out from the hairline. Then take the round brush, and blow dry back away from the face, to give the ends a small bend.
 She’s normally thought of as a brunette, but Zooey has dyed her hair blond for movie roles. She usually wears her hair medium length, several inches past her shoulders.


Zooey has been quoted as saying “blond hair softens me a bit” but has also said she didn’t like blonde hair.
However, she is most commonly seen in dark brown hair. “I’ve always felt like a brunette with bangs,” she has said.At times, she’s accented her dark brown hair with amber highlights that provide additional depth. Her hair is so dark brown it almost has a black sheen, usually.
 She generally puts a few loose curls into the bottom of her hair, while leaving the bangs natural looking.


Use a large-barreled curling iron to create the looser curls. Zooey says she usually lets her hair dry naturally before applying heat to it. She has some natural wave in it.
Then, she uses a curling iron to add a few curls in. Sometimes, though, she uses a roller set, putting Velcro rollers on the top and a hot roller on the bottom.She uses a round brush.
On the red carpet, she may pull her hair into a 1960s bouffant. The decade is her key inspiration.Skip on the hair products. She has said she doesn’t like feeling of hair product weighing down her hair.
 Zooey takes care of her pale skin, and it looks luminous. However, makeup helps to create the effect.


She’s used Tarte Maracuja Miracle Foundation with sunscreen to add more radiance to her skin. BB tinted treatment 12-hour primer helps to even out her complexion.
A touch of rosy red blush helps to complete the look. Tarte Maracuja Blush and Glow Brightening Luminizer and Cheek Tint in candlelight adds a tough of shimmer.
Finishing powder sets her makeup. Zooey's skin is naturally healthy and luminous, but the foundation and powder even out her complexion.
 Zoey like to play up her big blue eyes, which are one of her most dominant features, with long lashes and heavy mascara.


Zooey wears false eyelashes on only her upper lash line to bring out her blue eyes.
She’s even used prominent individual lashes on her bottom lash line for fanciful effect.She’s tried this exaggerated undereye lash look several times.To create the separated lower lash look, her makeup artist uses multiple eye Lash Enhancing Liquid Liner. Don’t forget to curl your upper eyelashes!, Go retro chic. Zooey likes mod makeup. To get her mod cat-eye look, blend black and silver shadow along the eyelid to create a swooping shape.


Layer on the mascara. Zooey commonly wears two coats to add volume and drama. Zooey says, though, that she doesn’t like eyeliner all the way around her eyes.
Put more of the black shadow in the eye’s crease to create dimension. Use liquid liner along the top lashline. She has said she likes experimenting with makeup.
Softly stroke a few lines of black eye pencil along the bottom lashes. Don’t forget the mascara to complete the look! Brow pencil helps create a strong looking and defined brow. Her makeup artist says Zooey loves the 1960s and sees inspiration in Brigitte Bardot and Twiggy.
 You won’t find Zooey in a tanning bed or getting a spray tan. She’s a fan of the super pale look.


Her milky, flawless skin is set off even more so by bold red lips and her dark brunette locks.Zooey cleanses her face with cleansing oil and then puts oil on her face. She is a big fan of oils.
She doesn’t like facials much. Her cleansing routine is simple and something you can do at home., Zooey is a fan of red lips or lips in the same section of the color wheel, such as orange red.


She’s worn Glamazon Pure performance lipstick in bold. She’s created a stained look with coral color and lip tint. She will sometimes finish off her lips with shimmery lip balm.
Zooey often will wear bold red lips when she is rocking her cat eye look. This is her most common look.
Zooey’s makeup artist has been quoted as saying she uses Rimmel products for this look.
As for eyeshadow, she likes MAC Goldmine eyeshadow with red lipstick, especially if you have blue eyes like hers.