 Kamut pasta is higher in protein and fibre. It is tolerated better by those who are a bit sensitive to wheat, although it does have gluten. It tastes buttery and delicious. This can be a great way of sneaking in some healthy food into your pasta night., A good organic cereal for kids is EnviroKids, which makes cereal that tastes like other commercial brands (Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, etc.) but without all the sugar and fillers.


Although research is still ongoing, organic foods may have more nutrients. For instance, organic tomatoes have more antioxidants than regular tomatoes. Similarly, organic milk has more nutrients and antioxidants than conventional milk., Most children are particular about the foods they love, so instead of completely replacing their food with something else, try replacing particular ingredients in the recipe with healthier choices. One can find many organic options for fruits and vegetables, fortified cereals and whole wheat versions of common breads. In addition, one can find no- or low-sugar options for many dressings and toppings. You might try replacing one ingredient at a time until the whole meal is healthy.


If they have a peanut butter and jelly sandwich for lunch, buy whole-grain bread instead of white. This will increase the fibre in the meal.
 Multi-grain waffles, granola bars, or whole-wheat pitas are a great substitute for everyday foods.


Whole grains have numerous health benefits. They increase the fibre in your diet and make you feel full. They also help lower cholesterol and blood pressure. If you have a choice between white and whole grain, choose the whole grain product., If you get your kids involved in the food preparation process, they may feel more excited about trying new things. By meeting the people who produce their food, your kids may get more excited to try out new things.Local food simply tastes better. It has been picked at its freshest and is full of flavor. This contrasts with vegetables that are flown long distances and often suffer the consequences in terms of flavor. Try serving local spinach or squash in place of the vegetables you normally buy from the grocery store.Talk to your kids about the value of local food. Local food travels fewer miles to your plate, which means it has less of an impact on the natural environment. It can also help to preserve genetic diversity and even tastes better.