 Do some research online and find jewelry stores nearby. You will want to go to several stores, so ideally the stores you go to should be close together as opposed to hours apart.


Go online to their sites and look at prices. It’s better to eliminate certain stores from the get go rather than go there and realize they are out of your price range.
 You don’t want to only go to one store when you are buying a promise ring. It puts too much pressure on just one buying experience, and you may come out with a ring that they won’t like. Instead, try to go to at least three different places. Think about going to at least one larger, more well known store, and also to a smaller, boutique-style jeweler.You may find very different offerings between the two.
Think about bringing a friend along who can help you. Also consider bringing someone who knows your significant other well and who knows what they do and don't like.
 Be honest and direct about your price point, material preference, and style of ring you are looking for. The salesperson can direct you to the best rings for you, and it could save you time. You also will be less distracted and won’t leave with a ring that isn’t exactly what you want.
 At some big jewelry stores, salespeople are paid by commission. Don’t feel like you need to leave with a ring that day, and don’t let them try to sell you anything outside your price range. Stand firm in what you want and if in doubt, leave with a business card and decide what ring you want after you have seen all your options. , Buying a promise ring online can save you money. If you are underwhelmed by the rings that you see in jewelry stores, or if you are worried about spending too much, look online. Stick to reputable sites and look up customer reviews of the online stores. Make sure to keep measurements in mind when you are shopping online. Sometimes on a screen a ring can look much smaller or larger than it actually is, so always carefully look at the measurements listed in the description.
If you are considering buying a ring with gems or diamonds, make sure the online site is certified by a trade association like the Jewelers of America, the American Gem Society or the Gemological Institute of America. , Before buying your ring, make sure there is an exchange policy. As hard as you worked to pick a ring that they'll like, there’s the possibility that they will want a different one. Do not buy a ring if there is no way to return it. If you are buying an engraved or personalized ring, make sure the return policy covers your ring.
 If you have the money up front, go ahead and buy the ring! If you don’t have the money, you have a couple options. The best thing to do would be to wait a couple months until you have enough money.


Many jewelers also have payment plans that are interest free for a certain number of months. Keep in mind that you may have to open a retail credit card with the jeweler, and if you fail to pay on time it could affect your credit. 