 Always write down dates of tests, and when homework is due once you find out.;
, There's no specific type of studying to do. We all have different minds and they all work in different ways. Studying improves grades. Having good grades is a trait absolutely needed to be close to perfect! Being an obstacle to yourself is an issue most kids have in studying. When you don't wanna do it, but you also do wanna do it, JUST DO IT!

, Find a group of friends that you want to be best friends with and be okay friends or act friendly around other people. Having a wide variety of friends helps a lot. Don't just be friends with on certain type of group, TRY to be friends with everyone.
 Like I said, you need good grades. But you also have to excel in other things like gym and art. Gym is fun and it should be fun, but don't slack off, build the muscle. Don't stop exercising when your coach turns around. Have plenty of laughs but make it your priority to finish gym by doing everything all the way. Exercising with a friend makes it a lot more fun than doing it alone too. Take tips from your coach, try out for a sport too. For art, you need to practice, have your art teacher explain to you how to draw a 3 dimensional pumpkin. Make it a priority to get the project done, colorfully an beautifully.
 Maintain a healthy weight, instead of eating cookies for snack, eat a banana. For lunch, have a sandwich with meat. I encourage you to try out for a sport, because you have to exercise not just eat right. If you're not sure, try out for a sport with a friend. This especially works if you have a friend who is perfect, make it your goal to beat her.
 Brush your teeth. Did you know that brushing your teeth doesn't give you nice breath? Use mouthwash. Get braces if needed. Go to your dentist to see what you need to do.
 Use scented lotion. I suggest a flower scent. Also use germ-x... no you don't have to use disgusting smelling germ-x. There are germ-x scents in mini bottles at Bath and Body Works. Always wash your hands. Keep a small bottle of hand-sanitizer in your purse and a bigger one in your bathroom. Use them to get into the habit of using hand-sanitizer first, then washing them to get off the dead germs. It makes your hand feel, and be, especially clean!

, If you want to, you can paint them a pretty color. If you want to you can keep them clean cut, not dirty, and clear or glitter nail polish should go on the nails. If you are a guy, pick the dirt out, and keep them trimmed.
 If you have a boyfriend, don't cheat on him. If you want to break-up let it down slowly and make sure its okay. Just be nice about it. Don't have a trashy boyfriend. If you are young, I advise you not to have a boyfriend for now. They can be hard to handle with all this stuff.

