 Creative Visualization is best used when you are truly relaxed and feel positive...but it can also be used to help you relax and feel positive. Begin by creating a nice environment: perhaps putting on some uplifting music (without vocals, since they can distract the mind), or maybe doing some light stretching or taking a bath or shower first. Next perhaps meditate/relax for a couple minutes. Breathe consciously and perhaps a little more deeply than normal.;
, We are all different, so some of us will find it easier to start with feeling and some of us will find it easier to start by picturing. However you begin, continue until you can see and feel to some degree what you want happening the way you want it to happen. It is important not to try to control the visualization too much - in fact you might find that it interacts with you, and each time you do it, it gets better or easier to picture more or a better outcome or flow of events.


Try to focus on visualizing what you are doing especially, since that is truly what we have the most control over.
 Try to continue practicing creative visualization regularly to get the most out of it.
 Watch for signs telling you how to get what you want, and especially, take any actions you are inspired to take. Your intuition will also lead you in the fastest way to what you want. Don't forget that, yes, hard work is often needed if we are making a big change!

, For example, if you are trying to stop eating sugar, focus on and see and feel yourself doing what you want to do instead. Are you picturing yourself drinking a litre of water and going for a jog? Packing up some carrot sticks and hummus in the morning to take with you?


Let's say your aim to is to attract a girlfriend - what personal qualities do you see yourself expressing? Are you using your humour? Warmth? Confidence? Where do you see yourself going and what specifically is she like, the woman (or man) you'd like to attract? Specificity is clarity is power - but don't get too serious about this; keep visualizing light and fun.

