 Ask your dentist or oral surgeon exactly what will be done and what to expect after wards. The dentist or oral surgeon works for you, and you are not only the patient, but the customer too. If uncomfortable with his/her explanation or methods, consult another. Have the extraction done by someone that makes you feel comfortable. Ask friends, neighbors or coworkers about their dentists if unsure about whom to use.;
, Having one's wisdom teeth extracted can create anxiety, but the procedure has been done hundreds of thousands of times before without incident. If done in a hospital, it is likely that general anesthesia will be administered and will literally be "over before you know it". If done in the dentist's or oral surgeon's office, a local anesthesia may be given instead. The dentist or oral surgeon will determine which is best for your particular needs.
 Regardless of the reason for the extraction, some swelling will result. The amount of swelling and discomfort can be substantially limited by medication and by application of cold compresses. The medical staff will initially provide some or all of this for you shortly after the extraction.
 Regardless of where the extraction(s) takes place; be it hospital or dentist's office, instructions will be provided upon being sent home. These will often detail the use of cold compresses and taking non-aspirin or other "over the counter" or prescription pain relievers and anti-inflammatory drugs. The "pain" associated with this procedure is rarely greater than "uncomfortable" for very long. Longer periods of discomfort are usually associated with bony impaction. This discomfort is usually less than the pain associated with an abscess or other infection at the site that may have been experience prior to the extraction. Medications suggested or prescribed by the dentist will help manage pain and swelling substantially if taken as directed.
 Keep away from warm or hot food and drink for several days or more. Foods that require chewing should be avoided, but it is likely that cooled soups or broths and cold beverages will be most desirable for at least several days after the extraction(s).

