 This is the first major step, and whilst some may not think it is important, admitting you need help is vital when you don't fully grasp the idea or meaning of something. This will allow your mind to be open to suggestions and make reading this article a great deal easier and much more beneficial.;
, That's right, the simple technique you learned back in second grade is just as useful to understand things as it is to write a short story. Ask yourself -


Who the misunderstanding is about (this doesn't have to be human - it could be a math confusion)
What confuses you (is it the wording? Is it how someone is acting?)
When the confusion took/takes place or when you need to solve it (do you need your math homework done by the morning? Do your parents want you to solve a misunderstanding with your sisters today? Does your boss want you to work out how to do something?)
Where the confusing incident took place or where you have to solve it (your math problem - a desk)
Why it is confusing and why there is a misunderstanding to begin with

, Then, stick the sheet on your bedroom ceiling above your bed or on your fridge or on the dashboard of your car - somewhere you will see it a lot so you can be reminded about your confusion. When you think about it quite frequently, your brain will become more familiar with the issue and will try to see if it can work the problem out. This is another important step. Print off multiple copies. Set a reminder on your phone, put a sticky note on your computer screen, write it on your hand, on the coffee table - wherever is a frequently-visited place.
 Ask your mother, best friend, neighbor, anyone who you think could help you understand. Maybe taking somebody else's perspective on things can help you clearly understand something. If your friend is feeling angry at you for something you might have done, ask her to talk. She will hopefully understand your side of the story, and hopefully you will understand theirs once you have finished talking. Humans are blessed with voice and so we should use it for good. Ask around, ask your friend for advice. This is important; asking for advice. Just go with something simple like, "Hey Lisa, if you're in an argument with a friend, how would you make a compromise?" or "Dad, how do you understand both sides of the story?". "Mr Richards, can you please help me with this math equation?" and "Coach, by 'kicking the ball with your shoelace', what exactly do you mean?" are good examples. Remember, there are multiple sides to every story. Ask around and sample a few! If it is about a more serious or private matter, talk to a councilor for help.
 If you're wondering why the girl on your favorite TV soap is crying, stop wondering and think - she has a black eye and she's at a pub with her friend - now ex-friend. Understand a bit better? It's all about using your human instincts to work out your surroundings. If your friends are mad at you, was it something you said to somebody else? Was it something you did that they're not comfortable with? You have to stop and think before charging ahead in life, it is what causes the confusions and misunderstandings and you only get to live each moment once. If you think about what is happening and what has happened, and use the 5W strategy, you should be able to work most issues out quickly and easily. So next time you're not understanding a lecture by your lecturer or you are not so sure what the issue is about, remember to stop what you're doing and stop the worrying, think about what the problem is and what you need to do, and then continue to use the 5W strategy. Not so much a second grade thing anymore, is it?

, Even if you think that you are completely right and that you are definitely sure, simple things can cause misunderstandings and can throw things out of whack. If somebody does end up to be correct over something you were wrong about, just mention, "Wow, what you said is true! Sorry, I must have misunderstood something" or even just a "Now I think about it, I might be wrong". People will notice the strength needed to say that, and they might even understand your point of view! Admitting when you are wrong also allows you to realize how easy it can be to misunderstand something even if it seems utterly obvious. Saying that the other view was correct and respecting the fact that yours was wrong is vital in maintaining a clear understanding of things, as well as being courteous. So next time you are completely sure that you're right, double check, use the strategies explained in this article and you're on the path to understanding!

