 Do you want to get to know her better in the hopes of dating down the line, or do you want to keep things firmly friendly? Both are perfectly fine, but you should take some time to think about this, especially if she seems to be developing feelings or wanting more. Be honest with yourself, and what you want, and it will be much easier to handle and changing feelings.
 There comes a point where, unless you're looking to move forward into romance, you're just going to have to hang out with other people. This line is different for everyone, and a lot depends on your personal boundaries. That said, some good ground rules include:



No sexual contact of any kind, including kissing. This is especially important when drinking, as the "friendly hook-up" sounds like a much better idea than it is.

See other people of both genders. A large, varied friend group can keep you from becoming too dependent on each other.

Be honest, especially if one of you develops feelings. Holding and hiding things tends to let the feelings balloon up and grow until they are much harder to manage., Romantic dates are almost strictly two people affairs, but platonic friends tend to hang out in groups. This doesn't mean you can't ask a girl out platonically by herself. Rather, you should feel comfortable hanging out with others as well, sending the message that you're interested as friends, not as partners.


Inviting her to group events shows that she is part of the gang -- a valued friend instead of a special someone.
 By definition, platonic friends are those that could have a sexual relationship but don't. So it is only natural that you'll occasionally feel a spark of something more, even if you don't want to pursue it. This is fine, as long as you stay honest with yourself.


Always ask, "is giving in to this temptation worth potentially losing my friendship?"If you feel her getting interested, or flirting, don't flirt back. You don't have to say anything about it, but you shouldn't condone the behavior unless you want to send mixed signals.

