 Online retailers will often offer phones for far lower costs than brick-and-mortar stores or major carriers. Examples of popular websites to purchase smartphones include Amazon, Flipkart, and eBay. These websites offer immense selection and have convenient search features.When searching online, use the features you know you want to help narrow your results. For instance, most sites will allow you to use filters to narrow it down to phones that contain a specified amount of storage with a camera above a certain number of megapixels.
Check the website’s return policy before purchasing a phone online. Do not buy from a website that does not accept returns or that charges a restocking fee.;
, Whether you buy your smartphone online or in person, you can likely pay off the cost in monthly installments. This will allow you to prevent paying a large lump sum upfront.Note that many retailers will allow you to pay off your phone in installments without signing a service contract. This is different from major carriers, which have business models that revolve around locking your into a contract.
Avoid interest if possible. If interest is charged on the amount you owe each month, you’ll wind up paying more for your phone in the end.
Even online retailers like eBay offer ways to purchase a phone on installments. The website's BillMeLater option allows you to make monthly payment, though it does cost interest. Amazon offers installment payment plans for Amazon products only.
 The expensive smartphones you see advertisements for aren’t the only ones available. In fact, phone manufacturers are making more and more high quality phones for more affordable prices.Some mid-range, or "affordable flagship" phones aren’t even available on contracts and can only be purchased online, directly from the manufacturer.
Last generation phones can usually be purchased from all sorts of retailers, including major carriers. These are often much cheaper than the newest models, and may not differ substantially. For instance, the newer model may have a better camera, but if this isn't important to you, the last generation may be a better choice.
Websites like GottaBeMobile keep track of the best deals, but they don’t sell the phones directly.

