 If currently in another program, press the home button to return to the home screen and then locate the icon there., The search option uses a magnifying glass icon. As noted, in most versions of iOS this option is located on the bottom of the screen on the main App Store page, but there are some differences in each version of the operating system.
 All of the apps that can be found on the App Store do not actually change iMessage settings. Instead, they create images of the words you would like to send (with whatever font, style, or color you choose) and allow you to paste that image into a message box.


There are a number of such app options, including Color Texting and Color Your Messages. All function almost identically, and so the primary difference is the number and types of fonts, backgrounds, and colors you can use.
If you would like to see a full list of options, type “color iMessage” in the search query bar and then click "Search." A number of applications should appear that are specifically designed to create iMessage text bubbles in your chosen style.
 Scroll through the apps, such as Color Text Messages, Color Messaging Pro and Color Texting for iMessage. Some of the apps on the list will be free and others will cost approximately $0.99.


Read the reviews for the apps. There are some apps that contain glitches or no longer function with current versions of iMessages.
Look for the features that you desire. Most of the applications will include sample images of the modifications that they can provide. Look for ones that best fit the style that you are looking for.
 You may need to type in your Apple ID, if you have not recently done so.
 You can select “Open” once the app is installed for find the icon on the main screen.
 Use the various menu options to create an image file that suits you.


In "Color Your Messages," you will see three options in the middle of the screen: the first is a preset text style with background, the second allows you to change the color of the text or the background (or both), and the third allows you to change the font. Tapping any of these options will make a list of pattern, color, or font options appear on the lower half of your screen. After selecting the options you want, then type the text of the message you would like to send.
If use "Color Texting," six icons with the following titles will appear on the screen after you open the app: Colored Bubbles, Textured Bubbles, Colored Text, Glow Text, Cursive Text, Ghost Text. Tap on the option of your choice and then scroll through the variations that appear in the row that appears along the middle of your screen. Tap the style or color of your choice and then enter your text.
 For all of the available apps, you will have to manually move the image file to the iMessage app.


If you are using "Color Your Messages," finish writing your message and then hit the "Send" button. Instructions will appear informing you that the app has copied the image to the clipboard and telling you how to send it. Tap "Continue." The program will move to the background and you can open iMessage. Find the relevant contact and then hold your finger in the message box until the "paste" icon appears. Tap on it and then send the image.
In "Color Texting," after creating the image tap the button with the words "Click here to send the text message." A window will appear informing you that the file has been copied to the clipboard. Tap ok, and then tap the home button. Open iMessage and find the appropriate contact. Hold your finger on the message box until the "paste" icon appears, tap it, and then send the image as a message.

