 If your income is too high to qualify for free legal services, there are sliding-fee programs with affordable attorney fees.Each state has a set of programs designed to help people with moderate income handle legal issues without having to pay thousands of dollars.


To find a program in your state, contact your state’s bar association or search online to find out more.
 Some lawyers are willing to work out a payment plan so that you don't have to pay all of the fees at once. You may be able to work out a plan to pay a certain amount every month until everything you owe has been paid.It's up to the individual lawyer to decide whether to make this option available. Lawyers are not required to provide a payment plan.
When you first contact a lawyer, before you go to his or her office for an in-person meeting, ask whether the lawyer will consider accepting a payment plan. Make sure you know exactly what to expect before meeting in person
Whether you end up wanting to retain the lawyer's services or not, you're likely to be charged for that first meeting unless the lawyer specifies a free initial consult.
Explain your situation to the lawyer in question, give him/her your financial statement, and discuss what you need done.
 This means that you only pay the lawyer if the case swings in your favor. He or she will get a percentage of the money you are awarded. If the case is lost, you won't owe any lawyer fees.Contingency fee arrangement percentages vary, but a third is common.


However, if you are thinking of entering into a contingency fee arrangement, know that you may be responsible for expenses even if you do not owe fees. Make sure that you understand what expenses you may be responsible for upfront. For example, many attorneys will ask you to cover filing and service fees upfront.
Most lawyers will take personal injury cases (injuries caused by careless drivers, property owners, or healthcare providers) on contingency.
Contingency fee arrangements vary, but between 30-40% is common.In some cases, such as criminal, divorce, or bankruptcy cases, lawyers are not permitted to charge contingency fees. In some cases, attorneys will charge you an hourly rate. However, others (especially lawyers for criminal cases) will charge you a flat one-time fee.
 Younger lawyers are up to date on the most recent legal developments, but they may have fewer clients. This means they’ll have more time to devote to your case. They may charge less because they are less in demand and have fewer years of experience.Younger lawyers are also more likely to need to “make a name” for themselves. This means they are likely to spend a lot of energy to represent you as aggressively as they can.
Be aware that younger attorneys are less experienced, and often have fewer resources to handle big cases.
Ask your young lawyer how much experience he or she has handling cases like yours. Ask if he or she participated in a clinic, internship, or a volunteer lawyer project while in law school. These experiences will have given him or her experience and qualifications that equip him or her to handle your case.
 A lawyer may accept payment in the form of property, as long as that property is not a part of the case you are asking him or her to take. Many lawyers may also accept barter services, such as web design or accounting, in exchange for their representation.If you own your own business, you can offer the lawyer free services in exchange for their representation. You could even offer a stake in the business, if the case is very significant.
You cannot pay with property or barter if the business or property is involved in the litigation you’re seeking help with. For example, if you and your spouse jointly own a business and you are seeking a divorce, you could not offer to pay your lawyer with services from that business because your spouse also has an interest in the business.
Make sure to get any property or barter agreements in writing. Make the terms very clear. For example, if you are exchanging tax preparation services in exchange for legal representation, make clear how long you will provide your services (e.g., two years, three years, etc.).

