 To make a pageboy cut, you will do a lot of molding and styling. It's important to start out with smooth, flat hair. To start, take a brush and run it through your hair. Brush your hair so it's neat and tangle free to start. Then, do a side part.You can part your hair to whichever side is most flattering for you.;
, On the side of your hair with more head, section off the front half of your hair. Use a brush to gather that hair together and secure it with a clip or hair ties., Take a comb and tease the hair in the back of your head. Back comb your hair to create a slight amount of volume. Use quick backwards brush strokes to back comb your hair. Do not back comb extensively, but do it just enough to lift your hair slightly., When you're done backcombing the back of your hair, back comb the front portions of your hair not secured in clips. Use the same quick motions and remember to back comb just enough to create slight volume., After back combing both sections of your hair, take your brush again. Use your brush to smooth over the hair you just backcombed. Tuck the brush under your hair and pull it through each strand of hair. Comb out your hair until the surface looks smooth, but your hair has a slight amount of volume due to the previous backcombing., After your hair is smoothed out slightly, put hair clips near the bottom of your hair surrounding your head. Feel where the hair naturally bumps slightly near the ends of your locks. Secure clips here, using enough clips that a circle of hair clips flattens your hair and draws out the natural bump at the end of each lock.The amount of clips you need depends on the thickness of your hair. Thicker hair will need more clips.
 Release the hair you originally clipped when making your side part. Run the brush under this portion of your hair, working it into a curve. Keep brushing until the clipped portion of your hair falls slightly over your forehead in a neat, single curl., You should now have the rough position of a pageboy cut. From there, use your fingers to gently mold your hair into the right shape. Build up the bumps near the ends of your locks and flatten your large curl near your forehead. When your hair is in your desired shape, use some hairspray to set the look.