 The Human Society has both national offices and local branches that welcome eager volunteers. While you can volunteer at both eventually, you will likely want to get experience at one before tackling the responsibilities of both.Remember that your tastes will come into play here. To interact with animals more, you would be better off at a local branch. To work more in the administrative or educational aspect of the Humane Society, the national branch is a better option.
 For local Humane Society volunteering, you should be able to quickly and easily contact a worker or manager of the local shelter. If you opt for the national branch, you may need to go through a few levels of screening or emails before receiving a response regarding volunteer opportunities.Some shelters are extremely busy and have a lot of volunteers, so do not become discouraged if you are unable to begin volunteering immediately.
 Before you are able to jump in and start volunteer work, many shelters will require you to fill out a volunteer application. Doing so will give them a better idea of whether or not you are a good fit for their organization., Introduce yourself to the volunteer coordinators, giving them your name, your contact information, and a few details about your interest in volunteering. While they may not have a volunteer opportunity that suits your exact tastes, knowing what you like and prefer will give them a better idea of how you can be of help., Some branches may require you to submit a written or verbal essay regarding your interest in volunteering, while others may require you to submit some letters of reference or reference phone numbers. If this is the case, don’t despair: working with frightened animals can be a difficult job, so they will likely use references to make sure you are up to the task.While not all branches require references, they do require background checks. Keep this in mind when you sign up to volunteer.
 It would be extremely frustrating for a volunteer coordinator to receive a call about volunteering, only to find that the volunteer has no idea what his or her schedule might look like. Before calling, identify the times and days you’re most likely to be available.If you are not sure what your availability will be over the next few months, ask the volunteer coordinators if there are any single-day volunteer opportunities.

