 Making pikelets is similar to making pancakes and other griddlecakes. Along with your ingredients and toppings of choice, you'll also need:


One medium and one small bowl
Sifter
Whisk
Griddle or non-stick frying pan
Tablespoon
Spatula;
, Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt into a medium bowl. Pour in the sugar, and whisk all the ingredients together to remove lumps and combine everything.If you don’t have a sifter, simply combine all the ingredients in a bowl and whisk them together.
 Crack the egg into the small bowl and beat it for a minute with the whisk. Pour in the milk and whisk the two ingredients together for a minute until they're fully combined.It’s important to crack the egg first into an empty bowl, because that way you can easily remove any shell pieces that fall in.
 Use your hand or a spoon to make a well in the center of the flour mixture. Pour the egg and milk mixture into the well. Whisk all the ingredients together until they're just combined and form a smooth, thick batter.Don’t overmix the batter, as this will develop the gluten in the flour. This will result in dense pikelets.
Making a well in the center of the flour mixture will help you incorporate all the ingredients faster without having to overmix.
 Pikelet batter should be thick, but not so thick that it won’t drop off the end of a spoon. If the batter isn't runny enough to do that, add milk in tablespoonfuls (15-ml increments) until you achieve the right consistency., Place your griddle or frying pan over medium heat and allow it to warm up. If you're not using a non-stick pan, add a tablespoon (15 ml) of cooking oil to the pan as well.When the oil is warm, pick up the pan and swirl the oil around to coat the pan.
You can use butter to cook the pikelets, but butter has a much lower smoke point than oil, and even medium heat will be enough to burn it.
 Pikelets are traditionally quite small, and each one only requires a tablespoon (15 ml) of batter. Drop one tablespoonful of batter into the hot pan for each pikelet, leaving room between them for expansion.


Cook the pikelets for about a minute, until bubbles begin to form and pop in the surface of the batter. When that happens, flip them over and cook for another minute or so, until both sides are golden brown., Remove the cooked pikelets from the pan and transfer them to a plate. Cover them with a clean tea towel so they stay warm while you cook the remaining batches.Continue cooking the pikelets until all the batter is gone.
 Like pancakes and crumpets, pikelets can be eaten plain, or topped with a variety of ingredients. Butter is a classic topping for pikelets, and you can combine it with other toppings as well.


When the pikelets are still warm, spread a thin layer of butter over each one.
You can also stack a few pikelets on top of each other, and then place a dollop of butter on top of the stack.
 There are many ways that you can use fruit to garnish pikelets. You can serve them with fresh fruit cut into bite-sized pieces, you can top them with jam, or you can make your own fruit puree and drizzle that on top.


Great fruit to pair with pikelets includes strawberries, blueberries, and bananas.
Crumpets are traditionally served with salted butter and jam, and you can serve pikelets the same way., Butter isn't the only option for spreading on pikelets, and there are many dairy products you can use to garnish these little griddlecakes, including:


Heavy cream
Ricotta cheeseDevonshire cream
Whipped cream or whipping cream

, For people who prefer their pikelets a little lighter, you can also serve them with sweet syrups, such as honey, corn syrup, maple syrup, birch syrup, or chocolate sauce.Make a stack of two or three pikelets on a plate. Top with a bit of butter, and then drizzle the entire stack with the syrup or sauce of your choice.

