 Your thesis needs to express a "considered point of view." Note that a considered point of view is different from an opinion. Anyone can express an opinion. You can say that you prefer chocolate to vanilla ice cream, to which another can either agree or disagree. This kind of exchange, however, neither leads to further conversation about nor investigation of an issue. Blanket opinions are conversation stoppers. A thesis statement is a conversation starter.;
, Once given your assignment, take notes or write in a less structured way (this is called "free writing") in order to sort out your thoughts on the issue at hand. You may want to create a table listing the pros and cons of two opposing positions before you make your final decision. This will provide you with clarification and perhaps a line of argumentation for the body of your essay.
 Complex sentences, as opposed to simple sentences, allow you to communicate rich thoughts. They give you room to unpack and elaborate in the body of your essay. Consider the following pair of sentences, the first simple and expressing a mere opinion, the second expressing a considered point of view in a complex sentence:


I hate San Francisco weather in the summertime.

While San Francisco weather in the summer can be variable and unpredictable, once one has mastered “the art of layering,” it can be quite pleasant.Statement 1 gives a mere opinion, to which one can respond in only one of two ways. One can agree (I hate it, too) or disagree (I love San Francisco weather). Either way, the statement does not begin a conversation, but rather shuts it down from the beginning (as with the chocolate ice cream example). It is a flat, blanket statement.Statement 2 offers much more to a writer and a reader. Notice first the structure of the sentence. It is a complex sentence with two subordinate clauses in front of the main, independent clause. Looking at the sentence from its structure alone, one can see how much richer it is.The subordinate clauses in this sentence give the writer room to write. In order to elaborate on the thesis successfully, the writer would have to talk about what s/he means by calling San Francisco weather variable and unpredictable. S/he would have to explain and illustrate with examples. The writer might also give a descriptive narrative about encountering such unpredictable weather (experiencing sudden shifts in temperature, or different weather conditions in different parts of the city).The writer would then be able to talk about how s/he found a solution (layering) and how s/he has made layering into an “art.” The writer could give examples of this. At this point, the writer is then poised to discuss the conclusion built into the thesis (San Francisco weather can be quite pleasant). S/he could then extend the discussion and further confirm the thesis in the conclusion by comparing San Francisco weather to other climates (for example, the heat and humidity of New Orleans).
 Avoid using the words "should" or "must." Statements dictating what people should or should not do are off-putting. On the other hand, offering a fresh or interesting way to think about a controversial or complex issue is inviting, even if there are flaws in one's line of thought.
 Instead of resorting to terms such as "everyone," "no one," "all," etc., try using "many" or "some." Making universal statements about all of humanity can set your thesis up for easy attack.
 It not only expresses a richer point of view, but paves the way for the successful execution of the actual essay!

