 You’ll find that visualization is often included in the methods that motivational speakers use to help their clients. The difference between visualizing and thinking is that visualizing allows you to use all of your senses. When you can see, hear, smell and feel your goal, it becomes more real to you. The vividness of the goal makes you strive for it more.


For example, visualizing your victory in a game, climbing a high mountain or finishing a work of art can help you work towards your objective.;
, What’s your reason for having the goal you’ve set for yourself? It’s easy to get distracted by the world and sometimes you can forget why you’re even attempting to achieve a certain objective. These distractions can cause you to feel less motivated. By writing down the reasons why you want to reach a goal, you can relive the passion you once had when you first set the goal.


It’s recommended that you create your list using pen and paper because it provides more of a mental connection, compared to typing on a computer.
 When you try to tackle a large project head on, you’ll likely feel overwhelmed rather quickly. This can bog down your mental faculties, causing you to feel less motivated to complete the assignment. By breaking down a large job into a bundle of smaller tasks that you can quickly finish, you will feel less stressed. Each time you complete a task, the reward center of your brain will trigger the release of dopamine, which is a feel-good chemical. This will help to keep you moving forward because you feel a sense of accomplishment after reaching each milestone.


It’s important that you set deadlines and milestones realistically, so that they can be easily attained.
 When you’re trying to achieve a goal, having a plan is helpful for getting there. However, things do change, which can, at times, prompt you to give up. Instead, be prepared to try a different route that can steer you towards the same outcome, just in a different way. Don’t get lost in the maze of life!

, It’s your goal and you want the gratitude of knowing that you accomplished it on your own. But sometimes, a little help can go a long way. Just because you receive help doesn’t mean it takes away from you achieving your objective.


Make sure that you seek help from the right people. Just as you need the right tools for a construction job, so do you need the right people to complete certain tasks. If someone says no, either ask another person, or try the same person again later.
 Planning ahead to have in place solutions for dealing with a lag in your motivation isn’t negative thinking. Motivation has its peaks and valleys, which makes it a smart idea to plan for the valleys. When your motivation starts to dip low – which is more than likely to happen at some point, especially for long-term goals – what are you going to do about it? This is important to know because it will help to keep you from quitting altogether.

