 Networking is the best way for anyone to find a job, and this is even more true for autistic students and adults, who may have difficulty presenting themselves in a traditional interview situation. Work with your child on understanding the difference between talking with friends and interacting in a professional setting.Talk to people who work at jobs the child finds interesting, or that line up with their special interests. Find out if the child can shadow that person on a day at work, or if they would be willing to mentor the child.
Set up one-on-one encounters in which the child has the opportunity to show the person what they can do, rather than being asked simply to talk about themselves.
Build a relationship with one person so they can introduce the child to others who can provide additional assistance related to the child's interests or chosen career path.
 Different types of jobs may be appropriate depending on the child's communication abilities and how well they interact socially, particularly with people they don't know well.If the child has significant communication difficulties, they may not be comfortable in a job that requires interacting with the public on a regular basis, such as jobs in the sales or services industry.
On the other hand, autistic people who are adept at handling scripts typically can handle basic cashiering duties, because the clerks in those positions usually say the same things to each customer who comes through the line.
It's also worth keeping in mind that many autistic people don't mind repetitive or monotonous tasks such as stocking or cleaning. Autistic children who cannot work specialized jobs might find these types of jobs pleasing.
Some jobs, such as graphic design or computer programming, may have a social element that can be worked around when there are individuals who are profoundly adept at what they do. For example, the autistic person may be able to team up with a co-worker who handles the presentation or sales aspects of the job.
 Internships are a great way for autistic people to get their foot in the door with an employer and show others their skills and how helpful they could be. An internship also gives an autistic person a chance to "try out" a workplace and see how well it meets their needs.In many cases, an autistic person who feels comfortable at a company will stay there for long periods of time. An internship may lead to a job offer, which leads to long-term employment.
Focus on internships that are guided and have a lot of supervision over those in which the intern is expected to be more self-directed or self-motivated.
Make sure the autistic student will have ample opportunity at any internship to demonstrate their skills and practice in the field.
 Autistic students may not perform well in interviews due to a lack of social skills and an inability to "sell themselves." For these reasons, it's often important to find other ways for an autistic person to be recognized by an employer.Internships are one way for autistic people to get their foot in the door, but internships may not be plentiful in some industries.
You can help an autistic child transition into adulthood by helping them build a portfolio of their work product and building a list of their accomplishments in their chosen field.
Once the child has a significant portfolio of work, they can contact employers and sell their body of work rather than trying to sell themselves or impress and interviewer with their social skills.
 Many school-based programs may lack resources, or may group autistic students with high IQs or exceptional skills together with other special-needs students who lack their abilities, which can hold the gifted back.Part of helping an autistic child transition into adulthood is assessing the programs available and finding additional services and support when school-based programs are lacking.
Work with the child's teachers to understand exactly what the school can offer. Compare this to the child's needs to determine where you might need to pick up the slack to ensure the child is best served, taking advantage of all the resources at your disposal.

