 Since this is your first ride, you won’t know exactly what to do, even if you read up about grooming and tacking online. Don’t be embarrassed! Your instructor or the barn groom will be happy to let you observe and participate safely to learn what you’re supposed to do for the next time., Your instructor will halter your horse by standing on the horse’s left side, putting the horse’s nose through the halter, and gently pulling the top of the halter over their ears. Halters have small metal squares located on each side of the horse’s face. Most barns have wide aisles with long lead lines, or cross-ties, hanging down on either side that can be attached to the halter’s metal squares to let you safely groom and tack up.When your horse is in cross-ties, always walk around the front, rather than the back of the horse. This will keep you from being kicked. You also shouldn’t stand directly in front of the horse, as they can’t see you there. Stand slightly to the side of their face to get in their line of vision., Horses love rolling around in their stalls and paddocks to itch themselves. Your itchy horse may be covered in dirt and hay. Cleaning this off before you ride will help your horse be more comfortable while you ride. It’s also important to clean off sweat marks and dirt once you’re done with your lesson.Grooming can be scary for first-time riders. Tell your instructor any time you’re nervous. Picking feet can be especially difficult for beginners, so ask your instructor to show you how to do this before you do it yourself.
If your horse is especially dirty or sweaty, you may need to to hose off, sponge, or bathe your horse. This probably won’t be necessary unless it’s a very hot summer day, and you usually only need to bathe after you ride.
 Because this is your first time and properly secured gear is really important for safety, your instructor or the groom will tack up your horse for this lesson. No matter which style you’re riding, there are several basic pieces of gear required for tacking up. Watch closely so you’re ready to do it yourself next time., Once you’re finished riding, your tack can be removed in the same order it was put on the horse. Put your tack to the side once you’ve taken it off. Lots of barns have hooks and stands for this. You can also gently lean it against the barn wall., When you clean dirt, grass, and other grime off tack, you’ll not only make it nice for the next rider, you’ll also prevent the leather tack from cracking or breaking. Use a dampened sponge and some saddle soap to wipe down any leather. Run a different wet cloth or toothbrush over the bit to remove any gunk or debris. Use a soft, dry cloth to completely dry the leather once it’s clean.