 Quiet alert time usually comes right after your baby has just woken up. While the baby may move their arms or legs, they are mostly quiet.They may be looking at your face or responding to sounds. This state usually lasts for about an hour at a time, but you may be able to extend it through contact with your baby., Babies in a quiet alert time are receptive to sounds. You can talk to your baby to help them learn how to communicate. What you say doesn’t matter so much as the fact that you are communicating to them with words and expressions.You can also sing songs or nursery rhymes such as “Down by the Bay” or “She’ll Be Coming Around the Mountain.”If your baby is under three months, you may want to keep your face close to them. Newborns have difficulty seeing beyond 12 inches (30 cm)., Walking exposes your baby to new environments and objects. As you walk them around, you can talk about the different things that they encounter.While your baby may not understand the words, this activity provides an important foundation for later communication and development. Your baby may be content looking at you or the objects. Let the baby focus on whatever they want to during this time. You can:


Walk around your home
Go around your neighborhood
Visit a park
Go on errands

, Tummy time is a short period when your baby lies or plays on their stomach. Tummy time is important to build a baby’s motor skills and to prevent flat spots on their head, but it can only be done while the baby is alert. Start by resting your baby on their stomach across your lap. Do this for three or four minutes. Build up to fifteen or twenty minutes a day. You can also drape a blanket or place a mat on the ground, and have them play on the ground.Always supervise your baby during tummy time.
Some babies may fuss at first during tummy time. Stop tummy time, and try again later. It is important to do a little bit every day so that they can build their muscles in their back, neck, and arms.
Never leave your baby to sleep on their stomach. Always rest them on their back while they sleep. If your baby looks as though they are about to fall asleep during tummy time, pick them up, and let them nap in their crib on their back. This will decrease their risk of SIDS., While your baby is peaceful and quiet, you can read them stories. This activity will help you bond while helping them learn more words.Board books are ideal for babies. These are illustrated stories printed on thick paperboard so that your baby can play with the book without damaging it. Your baby may turn the pages as you read or they may be content to listen to you as you speak.

