 Gingerbread cake can be tasty on its own, but you can make it even tastier by adding some icing or buttercream. This section will show you a few simple recipes., Add ½ cup (65 grams) plus and additional 2 tablespoons of confectioners/icing sugar into a small bowl. Slowly pour in 1 tablespoon of warm water while mixing briskly with a whisk. Once the mixture thickens and turns syrupy, mix in 1 tablespoon of lemon juice.For additional flavor, add in some lemon zest.


Drizzle this icing over the top of your cake.
Consider sprinkling some lemon zest over the top of the icing.
 Combine 5 ounces (150 grams) of confectioners/icing sugar and 2 tablespoons of fresh-squeezed orange juice in a bowl. Mix briskly with a small whisk until you get a thick, syrupy mixture. If you want your glaze to be thinner, add some more orange juice. For additional flavor, add some orange zest.Drizzle the icing over the top of the cake.
Consider sprinkling some orange zest over the icing.
 In a mixing bowl, combine ¼ cup (55 grams) granulated sugar, ¼ cup (30 grams) confectioners/icing sugar, 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, and ¼ teaspoon ground cloves. Set it aside. In a separate bowl, beat 2 cups (475 milliliters) whipping/heavy cream until stiff peaks form. Slowly mix in the sugar mixture and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract until you get a smooth color and consistency.Spread the buttercream over the cake once the cake cools. You can spread it over the top and the sides, or just the top.
 In a mixing bowl, beat together 6 ounces (170 grams) of softened cream cheese and 1/3 cup (75 grams) of softened, unsalted butter. Slowly mix in 1¾ cups (220 grams) of confectioners/icing sugar and ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract. Keep mixing until the buttercream is light and fluffy.You can spread the buttercream over the top and the sides of your cake, or just the top.
Consider sprinkling some candied orange peel, orange zest, or candied ginger bits over the buttercream once you are done.
 Rinse and dry your cranberries, then coat them with a mixture made from 2 teaspoons of agave nectar and 1 teaspoon of water. Toss the berries in a bowl filled with ¼ cup (50 grams) granulated sugar. Gently lift the sugar-coated berries out of the bowl and let them dry on a sheet of parchment paper for 1 hour.