 To get the smoothest cut from your table saw, invest in a blade with a high tooth count, such as an 80 TPI plywood blade.Most stock blades on table saws work well for rough cuts, but will not give you a clean edge.Alternatively use a zero-clearance insert under the plywood. To make one of these, carefully set a piece of wood or plywood onto the working table saw, taking care not to have the wood slip or pull from your hands. Once the blade is all the way through (the blade needs to be quite high), clamp the insert down. You will be cutting on the insert, which does not allow the bottom layer of plywood to chip downward because of the low clearance between the blade and the insert. The insert is sacrificial and it's usually only sensible to make one when cutting large amounts of plywood.
 Raising the blade changes the direction the teeth will enter the wood. When the blade is slightly raised, such that the teeth just barely cut through the surface, the teeth enter the cutting surface at an angle. If you raise the blade a little higher, you can get a perpendicular cut, which will make a smoother surface.








Don't raise the blade more than 1 inch (2.5 cm) above the cutting surface. A raised blade may offer a smoother cut, but it also makes for a more dangerous cut. Exercise extreme caution when cutting with a raised blade., Your table saw may have a gap between the blade and the throat plate, where the blade sits in the table saw. A zero-clearance insert closes the gap and offers support to the sheet, making a smoother cut.You can purchase a zero-clearance throat plate online or at your local hardware store.Alternatively make your own. First, carefully set a piece of wood or plywood onto the working table saw, taking care not to have the wood slip or pull away from your hands. Once the blade is all the way through (the blade needs to be quite high), clamp the insert down. You will be cutting on the insert, which does not allow the bottom layer of plywood to chip downward because of the low clearance between the blade and the insert. The insert is sacrificial and it's usually only sensible to make one when cutting large amounts of plywood. To make safe cuts, make sure that whatever you're cutting isnt at an angle or unsupported on the other side.
 Large pieces of plywood can get heavy. When cutting them on a table saw, make sure you can keep it flat before beginning your cut. Stabilize the sheet on sawhorses, or ask a friend to help you hold it steady.Having the entire sheet supported allows you to keep a steady feed rate, that is, the speed you run the wood through the saw.You can also use a circular saw to break down large sheets to more manageable sizes., Use a low-adhesion tape, such as painter's tape, on both faces of your sheet. This will help hold the wood fibers in place and keep the edges from splintering.Once you have finished cutting, peel the tape off slowly to avoid any splintering., Lay your sheet on your table saw with the good face up. The teeth of the saw will enter the sheet from the top and exit from the underside of the sheet. Tear-outs, or splintering, will occur where the teeth exit, so keep the good face up. , Hold your sheet steady and keep it pressed firmly against the fence, the straight edge of your table saw. Use both hands to guide the sheet through the blade.








Use the hand that is closest to the blade to press the sheet forward, through the blade. Use the hand that is furthest from the blade to press the sheet towards the cutline.As you get close to the end of the cut, move your hands so that you have one hand on either side of the blade. Carefully push the rest of the sheet through the blade.Work carefully when using your table saw. Keep your hands away from the blade.

