 If you’re a college student yourself, you’ll spend a good part of your day in classes too, so it only makes sense to look around and see if there are any interesting girls among your classmates. You’re probably have the best luck in a class in your favorite subject because there’s a chance that you’ll share some common interests.If you’re uncomfortable approaching girls, meeting in class can help take some of the nerves out of the experience because you’ll have a conversation starter ready to go -- ask for help with an assignment or commiserate about the professor.
Take advantage of group projects that might come up in classes. It’s a good way to get to know a girl without the pressure of having to approach her.;
, Working while you’re a student isn’t just a great way to ensure that you have some extra cash; it can be a great opportunity to meet new people. You may find a girl who you like among your co-workers or your customers if you’re working somewhere like the bookstore or snack bar. Just as with meeting someone in class, getting to know someone on the job can take some of the pressure off because you’ll already have something in common.If you’re not a student yourself, it may be difficult to get a job on campus. Instead, try to find a position at a business near campus that’s frequented by students, such as a coffee house or sandwich shop.
You don’t necessarily have to look for a paying job. Volunteer positions and internships can also offer opportunities to meet girls.
 Relationships usually work best when you share interests with your partner, so it’s a good idea to look for a girl who you have something in common with. Whether you get involved with the school newspaper, environmental club, or an intramural sport, you’ll meet plenty of new people who are interested in the same thing you are -- and you can really get to know someone well when you’re working toward a common goal.If you can’t find a club on campus that suits your interests, consider starting your own organization.
 It only makes sense that you’ll meet plenty of college girls at spots where students congregate, so spend time at the dining hall, student union, and even the library. If there aren’t popular hangouts on campus or you’re not a student, try off-campus locales that students frequent, such as coffee shops, bars, clubs, and restaurants., Meeting a girl when she’s in a social mood may improve your chances of getting a date, so a party is usually a great opportunity to get to know someone. Frat parties, house parties, and even school dances can provide a fun setting to meet a girl.If you’re not the partying type, it’s best not to force yourself to go a party. You’ll likely feel uncomfortable, and only wind up meeting someone who has different interests from yours.

