 Also, although you may want to do a dry run while you are not on your period, it's generally more lubricated and a different environment down there while you're on your period. So it's best to try the first time while you're on your period. You may want to choose a light day if you're going to be out and about.
,, This may make it painful or difficult to insert. (Keeping your jaw slack during insertion will really help.) Be patient; the first time inserting it is always the hardest, so don't give up if you're having trouble at first., You may try inserting the Softcup while over the toilet. You can also try squatting down in the shower or tub, putting on leg on the edge or the toilet or tub, or laying down on the floor with your knees up and legs apart., Stick a finger inside your vagina and feel for your cervix, which feels kind of like the tip of your nose. It is a small, squishy nub with an indentation in the middle. In order for the Softcup to work properly, it needs to be hooked around the back of your cervix, so you need to know approximately where it is.,

Make sure the opening of the Softcup is facing upwards.
, Spread apart your labia and find the opening of your vagina with your other hand. Now push the cup back towards your tailbone, not straight up. Push the cup into where you think your cervix is, which is probably as far as you can push it in., If the Softcup is in the proper position it will be comfortable, and you won't feel it. The pink rim of the Softcup is made of heat-sensitive material, so it will adjust to your unique body shape. The SoftCup works by sealing to the vaginal walls., You may have to remove it earlier, so check it frequently the first time you use one. Softcups have a higher capacity than tampons however, and if used correctly, shouldn't leak as much., Put a finger inside your vagina until you can feel the edge of the Softcup. Hook your finger under the rim and pull the Softcup out slowly. Make sure to keep the cup as upright as possible during removal to avoid spillage. You may want to practice removal in the shower the first few times while you get used to it, as it can get messy. If the cup is too large and hurts you at the entrance to your vagina, use two fingers to keep it pinched into its smaller shape., Then wrap the entire thing in toilet paper, throw it away, wash your hands, and insert a new Softcup. Or you can choose to reuse the cup. See the tips for cleaning instructions.