 Remove all food from a refrigerator and defrost freezers before cleaning. Dilute a quart of warm water with 1 tablespoon baking soda. Wipe all appliances with the baking soda and water mix.









Spread this mixture on the interior surfaces. Fill the space with crumpled newspaper and let sit 24 hours or until dry. Remove newspaper and rinse off with water and a paper towel.
 If the refrigerator is in use, the odor will be absorbed in a few days. Replace the baking soda regularly, according to the instructions on the box.
 Let sit for 3 weeks to remove bad or musty odors.


Freezer temperatures will cause vanilla extract to freeze, making it ineffective as a deodorizer.
 Commercial oven cleaners can be toxic and leave an unappealing smell. You can remove odors from your oven simply using things found in your kitchen.









Mix together in a glass bowl 1/2 cup dish soap, 1 1/2 cups baking soda, 1/4 cup white vinegar, and 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. Add enough water so your mixture forms a thick paste, but is not watery. Coat or paint the interior surfaces of your oven and leave overnight (6 to 8 hours). You want the mixture to "foam-up" so it can lift grime from the surface. Use a scrubber and water to wipe down the oven. Repeat if needed.Fill a spray bottle with 1/2 white vinegar and 1/2 water. Spritz the inside of your oven and wipe with a moist sponge. This will help remove odors, but not baked-on food or grease.Sprinkle salt on burned-on food in the oven. Wait until the oven cools and wipe with a damp cloth., Mildew can form in washing machines (especially front-loaders) causing musty odors even in freshly washed clothes.Empty any clothes from the washer. Add a cup of bleach or vinegar. Set the temperature to "hot" and run the machine on a short, normal cycle. Let the machine drain.









Periodically leave the lid or door to your washer open when not in use to prevent mold and mildew formation.
Clean the interior and exterior surfaces of your washing machine with a diluted bleach (2 teaspoons per 1 gallon cool water) or vinegar solution (2 tablespoons white vinegar per 1 gallon cool water).Wipe all surfaces with a paper towel moistened with water. Let sit for 12 hours or until completely dry before using.

