 Be sure to change your style frequently, and keep up with the latest trends. Don't forget to add accessories, such as earrings, sunglasses, and necklaces to your style as well. If you are not sure where to begin, ask other popular users and check out their MeDolls, but make sure they are trustworthy and really want to help you.;
, People respond well this on a MeDoll.
 If you don't have any money you can easily find cheats for really nice clothes in clubs. If you find a good bargain for LE, hot buys or miss sixty in starbazaar, take it! You can sell it for quite a bit more later on.


Go shopping every day. Make sure you keep up with what's trending out there.
 Buy extra Star dollars sometimes so whenever you need some money, it's there!

, Use bright colors for your walls. Use lots of furniture, plants, and carpets for your suite, also. Just be creative! Wood on your walls works well, it adds a 3D effect to it, but the wood is only for superstars. If you don't know how to make a cool suite, ask others, but make sure they're trustworthy.
 Maybe even start a designing "company".
 You could also try to broadcast your clubs at least once every 4 or 5 days. Or ask to be manager of a popular clubs.
 Use Photoshop, or something similar.
 Not too often or people can start to get annoyed. Try not to send broadcasts saying "SALE! SALE!" or "Why so serious?" because they are very overused and it truly annoys the people reading it, instead send a funny broadcast.
 Remember to be nice. You can't become popular if you're mean to people.
 Earning starpoints can make your level go up and a lot of people will visit your suite if your level is high. Dress up any doll that you click on, and then save it and delete it the next day. Don't send long messages to your friends and think you'll get more Star points. It's just annoying and it doesn't work.
, When you visit a lot of suites, the owners of the suites will most likely visit you.
 Don't wear the clothes you buy right away. Try to wear jackets or stuff like that on it so no one looks like you.

