 While getting to class early will win you points with the teacher, being the first person to a pool party probably won't earn you any cool points. Try arriving just at the party's start time or a few minutes afterwards. Similarly, if you're the last person to leave, you might be perceived as not knowing when it's time to go (uncool), so try leaving when you notice that the party is starting to thin out., Nothing is quite as cool as confidence. Confidence just means you believe in yourself and what you can do. At a party, confidence might look like approaching new people, trying a new cannonball, or joining in with the games instead of hanging back on the sidelines.If you're feeling a bit shy or unsteady, just remind yourself how cool you are. You could say (in your head), "I'm an awesome singer, and people want to be my friend because I'm funny."

, Being yourself may, at times, seem contradictory to being confident if you're naturally shy. However, it's more an extension of being confident. Cool people are secure in who they are, and they have no problem letting other people see that. Don't be afraid to just be yourself.For instance, if someone cracks a joke you find funny, giggle to your heart's content. Don't be so shy that you hold back.
 Cool people don't let anything get in the way of having some fun. Get up and dance to the music, or start a cannonball contest. Invite people to have a limbo contest. Just have a good time, and invite others to do the same.Keep in mind, your fun shouldn't come at anyone else's expense. Don't make fun of people, or create a huge mess or inconvenience.
 Don't just hang out with your same-old group of friends. Try mingling to meet some new people. If you're a bit shy, take a friend along with you while you mingle. That way, you'll have someone comfortable by your side, but you'll also be meeting new people.As you wander around the party, look for places you can introduce yourself to new people. When you see an opening, walk up and say, "Hi, I'm Jess. I don't think I've met you before."
Strike up a conversation. You can start with something about the party, such as "It's a great day for a party, don't you think?" or "I really like the decorations. What do you think?"

, Not everyone is okay being around other people for hours at a time. If you feel like you're getting overwhelmed, look for somewhere to take a quiet break. If you're at someone's house, you can ask if there's somewhere you can sit for a minute. You could say you just want to get out of the sun for a minute.It's much cooler to take a break than to start getting irritated in the middle of a party because you're tired of people.

