 Expect requirements for new applicants to vary from one to the next. Before you do anything else, come up with a list of which departments you plan on applying to. Research each one’s requirements and hiring process. Visit their website's recruitment page or contact them directly. Form a more precise course of action to take by learning:Which prerequisites you will have to meet before applying.
Which positions are filled by outside-hires and which are filled by promotions from within.Which aspects of training are your responsibility to fulfill and which are provided by the department.
The exact duties demanded of your position.;
, When you research your department’s hiring process, expand your search to include both. Expect some departments to require new hires to start off as an EMT before becoming eligible to become a paramedic.Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs) are responsible for giving Basic Life Support (BLS) only. BLS practices include: artificial ventilations; bandaging; basic airway management; cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); checking vital signs; oxygen administration; spinal immobilization; splinting.Paramedics are qualified to conduct Advanced Life Support (ALS), which may be more invasive to the patient’s body. ALS practices include: advanced airway management; defibrillation ; EKG monitoring; intravenous (IV) fluid therapy; intraosseus infusions; needle chest decompressions; surgical airways.
 Research each department's guidelines to find out what certification EMTs and paramedics need in order to be hired and/or remain employed. Expect these to vary by department. For example:Some may hire applicants without certification and grant them one year to obtain it while working simultaneously.
Others may require all certification be obtained before submitting an application.
Some may demand dual certification by both state and local governments.Due to the lack of standard requirements, previous certification obtained out-of-state may not be accepted., Before embarking on this career path, be sure that it will support your needs. Expect pay, benefits, and level of employment to differ from one position to another and one department to the next. For instance:Some may only offer full-time positions, while others only offer part-time work.Some entry-level EMT positions may be volunteer only.
Volunteer positions may compensate you instead by paying for your education and certification.

