 Slice the cabbage half into lengthwise halves, and cut each half into lengthwise halves again. You should be left with four wedges.


If the cabbage core has not yet been removed, cut the hard core out after slicing the cabbage half into two wedges.
 Rinse the potatoes under cool, running water and cut them into wedges.


If using red potatoes, you should only scrub them gently with your fingers instead of using a vegetable brush, since these potatoes have thinner skins.
Cut each potato into quarters, and cut each quarter into three crosswise pieces.
 Fill a stockpot with 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) of water and bring it to a simmer over medium to medium-high heat.


You should have a steamer basket that fits inside the stockpot. The bottom of the basket should not come in contact with the water in the stockpot, though, even when the water is at a full rolling boil.
 The potatoes should be placed on the bottom and the cabbage should be spread out in a single layer over the potatoes.


If you do not have a steamer basket, you could also use a metal colander.
The potatoes are denser and usually take longer to cook, so they should be placed on the bottom, which will be the hottest part of the basket since it receives the most direct heat.
 Cover the stockpot and cook until the potatoes and cabbage are both tender.
 Spray a skillet with nonstick cooking spray and add the caraway seeds. Cook, stirring frequently, until the seeds take on a stronger fragrance and a deeper color.


This should take about 1 to 2 minutes.
Remove the skillet from the heat as soon as you finish toasting them.
 After the caraway seeds have cooled for a couple of minutes, transfer them to a small mixing bowl. Add the onion, garlic, salt, and yogurt to the bowl, as well, and stir until evenly distributed.
 Transfer the cabbage and potatoes to individual serving dishes and add a dab of the flavored yogurt sauce over each serving.


Alternatively, you could set the bowl of yogurt sauce out in the middle of the table and allow your family or guests to add the yogurt sauce as they desire.

