 Vellum is translucent, so it can be placed over photos without hiding them. This can create a variety of effects in a photo. Vellum can give photos a blurred look, which may help establish the theme you're going for on a scrapbook page.A darker colored, hazy vellum can provide a dreamy look to a page. A wedding photo can be made more romantic with hazy vellum covering it. If you include photos from wintertime or Christmas, try placing a white or ivory piece of vellum over the photos. This will give them a wintery feel.
You can also cover up a portion of a photo with vellum. This can emphasize certain features of the photo, while blurring others. Maybe you have a picture of your toddler laughing, and want to emphasize her smile. You can create a border with vellum going around your toddler's face. This will make viewers focus on her smile.;
, As vellum is see through, you can make a pocket with vellum that will not conceal items in your scrapbook. If there's an item you want to showcase in your scrapbook, but do not want to tape or glue down this item, try displaying it with a vellum pocket.Cut out a square or rectangle of vellum big enough to pocket your chosen supplies.
Place the vellum onto your chosen page. Use a sewing machine to stitch around the edges of your vellum pocket. Do not stitch the top edge of the vellum. This is the opening of your pocket.
Slide your materials through the top edge of the vellum. You can now display materials that are meant to be removed and examined more closely when someone pages through your scrapbook.
 Vellum with quotes can be used as a background piece for a series of photos. You can also print quotes on vellum and lay the pieces over a photo. This way, you can have inspiration quotes superimposed over images in your scrapbook.You can go to a local print shop to print on vellum. Choose quotes relevant to what you're trying to convey on your scrapbook page.
For example, say you're scrapbooking your wedding photos. It may be a fun idea to write out the lyrics to the song you danced to for your first dance.
 When you attach vellum to the pages of your scrapbook, use an adhesive that will keep vellum on longterm. Glue sticks and glue sprays are generally the most effective to use on vellum. You can get these products at a local craft store.When gluing down vellum, place the glue on the page rather than the vellum.
Adhesive can show up beneath vellum, as vellum is transparent. Therefore, it's a good idea to place adhesives in portions of vellum that will be covered by extra layers or decorations.

