 If you haven't already, do some research on Asperger's, its symptoms, and why people with Asperger's do what they do. Here's a quick list of the main elements of the disorder and their outward effects.;
, Most people don't need to be told how to make conversation or understand body language. But people with Asperger's don't naturally understand how to do things like that.


Effects of this include difficulty making friends, not understanding social cues, accidentally offending people, speaking in a monotone, and not showing body language. Also, a difficult time relating to others.
 People with Asperger's often have trouble handling their emotions and expressing them to others. Sometimes they can't even recognize their own emotions.


Effects include emotional breakdowns and problems with anger and stress.
 Patterns appeal to people with Asperger's in many respects.


Examples include pacing, rocking, hand flapping, and other tic-like motions
Autistic people also have special interests and near-obsessive adherence to routine.
 People with Asperger's don't tend to understand hidden meanings of any sort.


Effects include not understanding idioms and sarcasm, trusting anyone who seems nice, and being easier to deceive. Also, thinking a social rule in one area applies in all areas; for instance, they might think that since it's okay to get up and go to the bathroom any time at home, it's okay to do the same at school.
 People with Asperger's often have poorer control over their bodies than people without the condition.
 Often kids with Asperger's have unusual senses; their senses may be too strong or weak.


Effects include sensory overload (breakdowns when too much is going on), sensitivity to touch, etc.
 Everyone with Asperger's is different. Some understand sarcasm perfectly. Some have great coordination. It's important to know which aspects of Asperger's affect your child.


Understand, too, that your child might be "camouflaging" some of his/her weaknesses. Maybe they get overwhelmed emotionally, but are very good at hiding it. Maybe they feel extremely uncomfortable in social situations, but force themselves to do well. Things like these can wear out your child internally, so be aware that you might not be seeing the full impact of their disorder all the time.

