 That means you should be comfortable playing open chords like E, A, D, G, C and F, both the Major and Minor versions. You should also be able to play a simple scale such as a pentatonic or blues scale. Any basic guitar book will show you how to do this.;
, The more you listen to song, the more you memorize the parts you are learning, and when you are learning you will know what they are supposed to sound like. If you aren't sick of hearing that song yet, you haven't listened to it enough times.
 These are where you will get the notes and chords for the songs. If you do not know how to read these, then start learning! At bare minimum learn to read tab. It's easier than you think and it will pay off. Note: if you have never heard of "tab" it is short for "tablature" which is a form of music notes that is easier to read because it is laid out exactly as you would see it on your guitar.
 Start off by learning only about four bars at a time. Don't be tempted to skip ahead to the other parts of the song, as you will have to come back to the other parts then. Practice each bit until you are happy with it, then continue to the next few bars. Again, if you are not completely sick of playing the part, you probably haven't practiced it enough times.
 It's more important that you get the rhythm consistent and even than that it be fast. Fast will come later after you've played the song hundreds of times. Only speed up when you can easily play the piece with consistent and even rhythm at your current speed. This is the most important secret of learning any instrument, and it's the reason most people quit before they get good. They are too impatient to play it slowly until they really get good at it, and they expect to be instantly great. Put in the time and speed up only gradually and eventually your friends' jaws will drop when they watch you play that awesome song.
 This will help you get the rhythm of the song and help you get used to the tempo. Keep in mind: The proper rhythm is every bit as important as the notes.

