 Decide whether you want a private memorial, a public memorial or a family memorial service. You could honor your dog in private by lighting a candle and reflecting on their life. If you want a more public celebration of their life, you could host an afternoon memorial service with friends, family, neighbors, and dog friends. If you want something more intimate, you could gather your immediate family for a memorial service.You could also host different types of memorial service, such as a private memorial and then a more public memorial with family and friends.;
, Decide where you want to hold the memorial service such as a backyard, favorite park, or pet cemetery. If you are planning a private memorial, this will be easy. You can choose a place (e.g., park, tree, backyard) that your dog loved and privately honor your dog in this location. If you are planning a family memorial, you might consider hosting the event in your backyard or family home. If you are hosting a public service, consider choosing a location that is convenient for your guests.Choose a location that is convenient for your guests such as a neighborhood park or a local dog park. If most of your guests live in one neighborhood, choose a park or a community center in this neighborhood.
 Holding a memorial service can be an important part of grieving for your furry friend, so don’t wait too long after your dog’s death to hold the service. At the same time, you want to set a date and time that is likely to work for everyone attending. You might choose an afternoon memorial on the weekend., Plan the details of the service, food, and hospitality at the memorial service. Consider what you want to have in the service such as poetry, short stories about your dog’s life, or spiritual reflections. If you would like to serve food and drinks at the event, consider whether you want to have it catered or whether you will make the food yourself. When planning the event, think about what would help you remember and honor your dog.


You could also have a potluck style memorial by asking friends and family members to bring different parts of the meal.
You could ask friends or family members to bring poems or reflections to share at the service.
 Tell your friends and family that you are in a time of grieving and would appreciate their support. You could phone or email your friends and family to tell them about the event or send an invitation card in the mail.In the invitation, you could say: “I am in a time of mourning for my dog Sam (insert your dog’s name). It has been a really tough time for me and my family. We are holding a memorial service to honor his life on Sunday, 2pm at the park. Please join us if you are able.”
If you are holding a private memorial, you can skip this step.
 Give yourself time to honor and remember your dog on your own or with others. You can read a poem in their honor. You can share stories about their life. You could read a short story that expresses your feelings for your dog. You could also ask friends and family members to share their memories about your dog.


After sharing your stories and poems, you can open up the conversation to your friends and guests by asking them to share a memory. At this time, you might say: “I want to open the floor to all those who knew Sam (insert your dog’s name). No pressure but if you want to share a memory of Sam, please feel free to share it at this time.”
If you like, you can also hold a moment of silence for your dog. Ask everyone to stand around in a circle and honor Sam’s (insert your dog’s name) life with a moment of silence.
 You could tell your guests that instead of giving gifts at the service, they can donate to a local animal rescue or shelter. You could have a dog bowl at the front of the service with instructions for cash or other donations to local animal shelters. You could also have a basket at the service where you and your guests could donate used animal toys to dogs in need.

