 There are more than one department or group which work to ensure the safety of the country. Most nations have an air force, naval force and army, and many also have marines, coast guards, and other forces. Research your nation's forces and understand what they do; you'll be able to offer better support and respect to your military and veterans if you understand their roles.;
, Understand the training they undergo to be equipped enough to take charge. They live each day carrying a heavy responsibility on their shoulders. They must stay vigilant and be ready to serve their nation on any given day of their service.
 They leave home both for training and actual deployment to serve the nation. Everyday poses a threat to them. Many suffer physical injuries during service, and many are affected by the psychological and emotional impact of deployment. They are humans who are subject to fear, homesickness and care. Yet their focus in life changes from their home to their homeland, and they follow the orders handed down to them to protect that homeland. This is a sacrifice worthy of respect, even in instances where your don't agree with the politics behind their deployment. Remember the individual sacrifices they make, no matter what.
 Be a law abiding individual and do what you can to make your community a better place. In order to repay your nation's or the world's forces, respect their sacrifice and keeping the peace and order at home. If they're working abroad to protect your safety, you can help ensure safety and harmony at home.



Be a good world citizen and help your community.

Support those in your community who need help. Help senior citizens, children, and families in need. Volunteer. Get involved in peaceful protest and legislative action to make your community a better place.

Pay it forward. Be a good person, and spread gratitude and happiness. Even small actions that make society a better place, can make a better home for your armed forces to return to.

Prevent war and be a pacifist. Take action to stop war; if you disagree with a war, get involved in peaceful protests, and take action to convince your local representatives to lobby against it. Don't blame individual members of the armed forces for following orders. Take part in the efforts to change those kinds of orders, instead.
 Do as much as you can to help the nation's military members and their families. Whether through personal support and interactions, donations, or ideology, there are many ways to take action and offer support:



Support deployed soldiers. With some programs, you can even "adopt" a deployed soldier. This sign of support and appreciation from back home can mean a great deal to deployed members of the armed forces.

Support their families and spouses. Help them survive their partner's military deployment. If you live near a military base, see if they have a community relations department; contact them and find out how you can help.

Support the troops during the holidays. This can be an especially difficult time to be deployed.

Help veterans and show your respect to them. Members of the armed forces need your help even after their service. Get involved with organizations that provide healthcare, job training, and other opportunities to veterans.

Support your local police, too.
 The armed forces are made up of people of all different backgrounds. They're keeping you safe, even if their ethnicity, beliefs, or ideologies are different from yours; in return, embrace their diversity and the diversity in your community. Practice patience and be tolerant towards people regardless of any differentiating factors.


Show your patriotism: stand up for your national anthem and participate in other customs to show respect for your nation.
Respect the armed forces and customs of other nations when you can, too. Being patriotic doesn't have to mean building animosity with other nations. Take pride in your country and your armed forces, but support your allies and other peaceful nations, too. After all, if we didn't have so much world conflict, we wouldn't need so many members of our armed forces to endure deployment.

