 This is particularly helpful for younger audiences, as most publishers of infant to preschool books will label their books with a suggested age group.;
, These books are made from a hard cardboard or plastic material and can withstand chewing or rough play. Look for books that are colorful and feature large pictures or faces. Generally speaking, books with paper pages are suitable for children ages 3 and older.
, These books will feature flaps to lift, buttons to push, or activities the children can perform while reading. All of these activities can further engage children in these books.
 Books suitable for babies through toddlers should focus on core concepts such as the alphabet, basic rhyming, emotions, colors, and so on. Books for older children should contain subjects or characters that are interesting to them, such as a favorite animal or character.
 Many authors have books written in a series or similar subject matters or themes, and choosing another title from their collection may be a safe bet.
 Look at classic authors.


The Wind in the Willows by Kenneth Grahame.
Just William by Richmal Crompton.
The Adventures of Tintin by Hergé.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn by Mark Twain.
Harry Potter by J. K. Rowling.
Little House on the Prairie by Laura-Ingalls Wilder.
Tracey Beaker by Jacqueline Wilson.
Alice in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll.
Jungle Book by J. M. Barrie.
The Famous Five go adventuring again by Enid Blyton.
Allan Ahlberg.
Roald Dahl.
The Chronicles of Narnia by C. S. Lewis.
Alex Rider by Anthony Horowitz.
, Books that have won awards or are noted as best sellers mean they have been recognized for their quality and content, and you can assume they are good choices.


The Red House Children's Book Awards.
The Guardian Children's Fiction Prize.
The Chicken House Children's Fiction Awards.
 If the recipients are dealing with divorce, new siblings, friends, or other issues, look for titles that discuss similar themes. Consider any major milestones children may be near, such as potty training, teething, etiquette, school, and so on. Find books that can relate to these situations.
 Titles that start with a real concept, such as a historical event or a scientific fact, and build an imaginary story around it may engage older readers. The fictional story may spark interest in the concept.

