 She has long, straight black hair with natural highlights and big, bright chocolate-brown eyes. She has a gorgeous natural tan all year-round! If you don't have these features, you are better off being someone else, because you cannot get this look out of a spray tan and a can of hair dye. Try to keep it natural.
 Alicia is always getting asked out and asked to go to dances, but she turns almost all of them down because she has way too much fun with her best friends (the PC!) You should also only settle for the best, and try to boost your popularity, but not to often. If a really hot guy asks you out, then say yes and dump him a week later. Don't dump him too early or you'll be seen as someone who dumps people really fast.
 Her dad is a famous celebrity lawyer who can get her everything and anything she wants, and her mom was a Spanish model who gives her everything!

, Alicia is the only child who lives in a giant mansion like Massie's. However, Alicia is known to be a tiny bit richer than Massie.
 Always wear lip gloss. It is usually a light pink, nude/peachy-cream, or clear color. She always wears mascara to make her eyes pop. Go exotic, but still cool. She also always wears eyeliner, blush, and sometimes eyeshadow. Try light blue eyeliner. Keep it to a minimum.
 Alicia is a total gossip queen and always has the best gossip about anyone. That sneak! The secret is simply talking to people, or doing something funny in class. You learn a lot more.
 Meaning really think about the right time to be nice, and the right time to be sassy. Be coy and nice, but not too nice, to your crush. Let him know that you prefer him over everyone else.
 If your skin color is very, very light, get a spray tan.
 Alicia loves knowing the latest news (how else would she be a major gossip?) and wants to be a reporter. Read the newspaper (or magazines hehe), and join your school's yearbook club, newspaper/journalism class or morning news show. Make your own broadcasts, and always end with a cute sign-off (Alicia's is 'I heart you').

