 People who suffer from PTSD have suffered a major trauma, so big that it can affect the ability to function normally. The person may be angry, irritable, withdrawn, depressed, or all of the above.You can’t “fix” the situation, but you can be there to listen when— or if — your loved one wants to talk.Make it clear that you are willing to listen. At the same time, don’t push. Just reassure your loved one that you will be there when the time is right. You might say, “Just know that I’m here for you if you ever want to talk to someone.”Pick a time and place when your loved one is ready to talk and make sure that you can really listen. Choose a time when you’re not rushed and where there aren’t any distractions.Use active listening. Don’t interrupt but try to repeat what you hear in order to make sure you understand. It may be helpful to ask questions like “Are you feeling angry? Are you sad or anxious?”, but it's okay to just listen.Let the conversation end if it becomes too intense.Avoid the urge to give advice or say, “I know how you feel.” Instead, just ask how you can help. Listening attentively is usually far more important than saying something or giving advice.The person may need to talk about the trauma repeatedly. This is normal and part of the healing process.Do not tell the person to "Get over it" or to move on.Be alert to talk of suicide. Stay calm but act immediately if your loved one talks about suicide — do not leave the person alone and discretely remove pills, firearms, or other dangers if possible. Encourage your loved one to call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (1-800-273-8255). Call 911 if there is an immediate danger.;
, One of the best things a person with PTSD can do is take care of herself. Encourage the person to exercise regularly, stick to a healthy diet, get enough rest, take time to relax, and avoid drugs and alcohol.Offer to go for a walk, hike, or run with the person, play a sport, or do something else active. This can also help you manage your own stress.
One way you can help out is by making sure meals are routine — that is, they occur at roughly the same time.You can help keep the person's diet on track by making nutritious meals.
Some people who’ve suffered trauma self-medicate through alcohol or drugs.While you can’t control your loved one’s behavior, you can encourage healthier coping techniques, recommend support groups, or, in the worst case, organize an intervention.
 Withdrawal from daily life, activities, and relationships is a common symptom of PTSDYou can gently encourage and empower your loved one to start healing the rift by interacting with people and the world.Again, don’t push. Your loved one might resist, so simply promise to be there.Prompt your loved one to get out of the house, even if only for a few minutes every day. You can do this by planning activities, like a trip to the movies, going for a hike, or a dinner out.Encourage contact with other family members, close friends, and loved ones. Your loved one will benefit from a close support network., A person with PTSD should not try to self-treat this disorder — professional help from someone with experience treating PTSD is an absolute must.PTSD is usually treated with psychotherapy (such as cognitive-behavioral therapy, or CBT; eye movement desensitization and reprocessing, or EMDR; or Cognitive Processing Therapy, or CPT), medications, or a combination of both.

It may take some time for the person to find the right fit as far as treatment goes; offer to help your loved one search for counselors, make calls, and keep appointments. You might be able to help find a program if your loved one is open to your assistance. At the very least, you can offer.Try asking a family doctor to recommend a therapist. You might also ask friends or family members for recommendations. Alternatively, call your insurance company to find out about mental health providers in the area.Check with your local Department of Health Services or, if available, a nearby university hospital. Make sure that any potential therapists have experience working in psychological trauma.There are services available for veterans in the United States, including through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Many VA medical centers have special PTSD clinics.
If your loved one is in a crisis, call 911, the National Suicide Prevention lifeline, or the Veterans’ Crisis Line at 1-800-273-8255. Or, try to take your loved one to the nearest emergency room.
 Your loved one may end up receiving treatment with behavioral therapy individually or in a group, with antidepressant medications, with support groups, or with some combination of the above.

If your loved one is willing, ask to attend these appointments so you’ll have a better understanding of the experience.Ask clearly and gently, i.e. “I’d be happy to go with you to your appointment, but only if you feel comfortable.” Don’t go unless your loved one wants you there.
If your loved one isn’t comfortable with you attending, you can still offer to drive.
 If you offer to drive him to appointments or attend his sessions, keep your word and do these things.You can also help keep track of appointments, medications, etc.

Encourage your loved one to stick with the plan. Remind him that treatment takes time and that it may be a while before he starts to feel better.
Ask periodically how he feels and how things are going, i.e. “How are you feeling today? Do you like your support group members?” If he doesn't feel like talking about it, that's fine. Remind your loved one, again, that you are there if he ever needs you or wants to talk., Educate yourself about the disorder so that you have a better idea of what your loved one is going through.

The more you know, the better you can respond, and the more concrete help you can offer. Start with reading up on PTSD, its causes, symptoms, treatment options, and prognosis.Try online resources from reputable websites like the Mayo Clinic, the Cleveland Clinic, or the VA.
Try contacting organizations that specialize in trauma services and PTSD, like the National Center for PTSD or the National Institute for Mental Health. See if you can get pamphlets or other publications from these sources.
There are now also many books about PTSD — some are about the disorder itself, while others are about living with a loved one who has PTSD. Still others explain the disorder for children.
 Your loved one may not want to talk much about struggling with PTSD – she might not want to share and you’ll have to respect that. But you shouldn’t have to go without answers. If you have general questions about the disorder, seek out experts who can provide insight like doctors, therapists, or friends who have gone through the same thing.

The VA offers Caregiver Support services if your loved one is a military veteran, including help from licensed professionals. Consider contacting the service if you qualify. They also have a caregiver support hotline at 1-855-260-3274.
 You can also connect with others who are going through a similar experience. Support groups are not only available for those with PTSD, but also for their loved ones. Joining a support group will help you learn more about the disorder and how people like you have coped, succeeded, and failed. It will also introduce you to a network of sympathetic people.Look online to see what is available in your area. Try contacting the VA or the National Institute for Mental Health.
Some PTSD groups for veterans include family members. There are also groups open to the wives of veterans or for other survivors of trauma and their families.

