 Do you have problems with authority? Are you okay with being told what to do and when to do it?


When training to be a nurse and when qualified, you are told what to do all the time. Every day. This could be by patients, doctors, charge nurses, physio-therapists, occupational therapists, etc.... If you have a problem with being told what to do, when to do it and how to do it, then you may need to rethink.;
, Are you okay with having your work scrutinized by other nurses, doctors, patients and patients families?


When training to be a nurse you are scrutinized and assessed every second you are in placement. Staff report to the mentor on your progress, and you are assessed by your mentor in a book; where comments are made about every possible detail.
When qualified, you are in charge of your patients. Staff, patients, doctors and patients families are quick to point out errors however tiny they may be.
Can you handle this pressure? This ability to do everything to the best of your ability at all times (tired/hungry or not)? If you can, you could maybe handle it.
 Nursing is not a career that you can put your feet up for 5 minutes because you're "tired". A typical ward day is manic, and sometimes you are lucky to make it to your lunch breaks on time... if at all!

,


You see puss, blood, mucus, urine, stool (Hard and watery), every possible substance that a human body can produce... Can you handle this without letting it show on your face?
Can you smell these things without letting it show on your face?
Can these things accidentally spill on you without gagging/fainting? ...Then maybe there's some hope for you!

, Can you build a rapport with strangers very fast? Can you become a daughter, mother, brother, father, best friend, counselor but professional all at once and in about 5-10 minutes? In other words; If you are a responsible, reliable, likable, nice person with a good sense of humour you probably could learn this with time and practice.
 You can be good friends with a patient one minute, and the next they have passed away.


You have to be able to take any statements such as, "I don't want to die" or "I'm thinking about suicide" or "I'm worthless, there's no point in me living anymore"... You will be taught what to physically do. But can you deal with these questions emotionally when you go home?

, You'll need to stay "on top of" social work referrals, dietitian referrals, food charts, nursing notes, ward rounds, observations, toileting, personal care, turning charts, fluid balance charts, discharges, admissions, medications, appointments and the list goes on and on and on.


Are you responsible and pro-active enough to remember to do all of these things? ....And not just hand them over to the next nurse.
 Can you care enough about a strangers well-being (no matter how nice/horrible they are) to give them the best care that you can possibly give?


It's a tough balance between caring enough that you give amazing care, and not letting yourself get too emotionally attached and damaged.

