 Doing this will allow your faucet to remove initial dirt buildup. The faucet should be enough water pressure to get the job done, so avoid any add-on to increase the pressure, like a jet. You only need to hold the coin under the faucet for one or two minutes. Once you are done place them aside on a paper towel or rag.


All coins can be cleaned with water. However, copper coins react to more things than nickel or silver, and will therefore usually exhibit more environmental damage. This makes them harder to clean with just water.Make sure to plug the drain before cleaning coins in your sink to avoid a coin from slipping out of your hands and into the drain.
Handle each coin separately so the faucet can hit each coin directly.;
, Create a solution in a small bowl mixing water from your faucet and dish soap and dip each coin in the bath individually. Put the coin between your index finger and your thumb and softly rub dirt from the face of the coin. You should see the dirt begin to come off.


If you have a particularly dirty coin, you can allow it to soak in the solution.
A non-abrasive liquid solvent like distilled water and a weak soap will have enough cleaning power to clean your coins, and does not contain acids that can corrode them.
 Brush your coins while they are still in your soap and water solution. Keep brushing until the face of the coin turns shiny again. Rinse the coin often to avoid any visible scratches left over from loosened dirt. Doing this to valuable or antique coins can cause tiny scratches that reduce the value of the coin.When you are done scrubbing, make sure you do a final rinse of the coin.
Make sure to not rub the coin too hard. Concentrate on a small area and brush lightly.
 Dry off each coin with a towel and store them in a dry place. Make sure that each coin is free of moisture before you put them away to avoid eroding the coin over time. Your coins should now be shiny and have a good lustre.


Using a cotton free cloth won’t leave a residue.
Patting the coins will allow you to avoid creating micro-scratches with the material you are wiping it with.

