 Each month during ovulation, a mature egg is released from your ovary and travels to the end of the fallopian tube where it can be fertilized by sperm. The egg will remain there for 12 – 24 hours. If it’s not fertilized during that time, it will be shed with the uterus lining during menstruation. Your most fertile time period is during this window when your egg is available for fertilization.


You can get an estimate of the days you will likely ovulate by determining the first day of your last menstrual period (LMP). You can also figure it out by calculating about 12 – 15 days from the day you expect to start your next menstrual cycle. Ovulation usually occurs sometime between Day 11 – 21 from the LMP., Most ovulation kits use luteinizing hormone (LH) surges to indicate the beginning of ovulation. Estrogen levels are low when your cycle begins but rise when your egg is ready to be released. This causes LH to surge and push the egg through the ovary wall within 24 – 36 hours where it moves to the fallopian tubes to be fertilized. Measuring this hormone can be a very effective method of determining when intercourse will likely allow sperm to reach the egg.The day that you ovulate can fluctuate from month to month and can occur any time during your cycle. Each woman’s cycle is unique, so keeping track of your cycle is the best way to tell when your peak fertility dates are likely to be.It is possible to ovulate without having a menstrual period. You can also have a menstrual period without ovulating, which means you would not be fertile that month.Sometimes you can have an LH surge that does not release an egg ready to be fertilized. It is important to remember that ovulation kits do not tell you that ovulation has actually occurred — only that it is likely to occur.
 Many tests that use saliva check for an estrogen surge. This is because estrogen surges around the same time as LH when it is time for your body to ovulate. Estrogen can be measured in your saliva and creates the “fern-like” pattern that can be seen under a microscope.Since a lot of estrogen tests check saliva, you shouldn’t smoke, eat, drink or brush your teeth for two hours prior to doing the test.If results show up as a mixture of fern-like shapes and bubbles, then you are getting near to your ovulation date or right after it — but not quite there. Seeing just bubbles means you are not close to ovulating yet.
 There are products, such as microcomputing devices and watches, that measure chloride ions on your skin. They then calculate the days you are most likely to get pregnant using that measurement and certain algorithms. They give multiple readings throughout the day but must be worn for at least six hours while sleeping to get the best electrolyte measurements., When you are going to ovulate, your cervical fluid will change somewhat and become wetter and more slippery, with the consistency of egg whites. Cervical fluid differences are unique to each woman and is something you will have to monitor throughout the month to get a feel for what the cervical mucus is like at different times of your cycle. The fluid may change gradually but is usually at it’s most “egg-white-like” consistency the day of and right after ovulation occurs., Check your temperature throughout the month with a basal thermometer. When ovulation occurs, temperature usually rises about 0.4 degrees Fahrenheit or 0.2 degrees Celsius. You will want to chart your basal body temperature (BBT) every day and look for changes that indicate you have ovulated. Temperatures are usually lower during the first part of your cycle and a little higher after you have ovulated.