 Saliva/oral fluid-based drug tests can generally detect drug use during the previous few hours and days. They're becoming more prevalent because of their convenience, non-invasiveness, and low cost. Saliva tests can detect any drug that can also be found in the blood., Drug detection in saliva tests begins immediately upon use and can continue for up to 4 days. However, many light drug users might be able to pass a saliva test as soon as 26-33 hours after drug use.. For this reason, some people consider a saliva drug test to be a more useful diagnostic for impairment than general drug-related behavior.People in professions that are concerned about impairment (such as commercial trucking companies) might be more likely to take a saliva drug test for this reason. The drug detection times in general are as follows:


Marijuana and hashish (THC): An hour after ingestion, and up to 24 hours depending on use.
Cocaine (including crack): From time of ingestion up to 2 to 3 days.
Opiates: From time of ingestion up to 2 to 3 days.
Methamphetamine and ecstasy: From time of ingestion up to 2 to 3 days.
Benzodiazepines: From time of ingestion up to 2 to 3 days.
 Most saliva drug tests are taken directly at a laboratory, making it difficult to substitute samples or contaminate your saliva. Unlike a urine test, there are no privacy concerns with a saliva test, meaning that you might be watched throughout the duration of the test. The only guarantee of passing a drug test is refraining from drug use during the detection period, 1-4 days prior to the test., Studies show that eating, drinking, brushing your teeth, or using mouthwash might have a temporary effect on saliva drug test results. However, these effects disappear after 30 minutes or so. For this reason, many drug companies require that you do not eat or drink for 30 minutes prior to the test. During this period, you might be observed in the laboratory. However, if you are not observed, you might be able to get away with rinsing your mouth with a commercial mouthwash. It is possible that you might be asked to re-take the test if this contamination is detected.