 Here are some basics you might want to buy:

Foundation which matches your skin tone



 


Concealer 1-3 shades lighter than your skin tone






Setting face powder ( If you have oily skin )






Peach, coral or pink colored blush (choose what you like more or what goes better with your skin tone!)






Eyeshadow primer






Neutral colour eyeshadow






Brown, grey, taupe or bronze colored eye shadow ( for darkening outer corner or crease )






Light coloured eyeshadow to use as a highlighter






Black or brown kohl pencil eyeliner ( for lining your waterline )






Black or brown liquid or gel eyeliner






Clear, black or brown mascara






Pink, clear, golden, peach, coral - whatever you like - lipgloss






Makeup bag to store your stuff






Flat Eyeshadow brush






Fluffy Eyeshadow blending brush (for application in crease and blending)






Blush brush.








Buy only what works for you; there is no need to get makeup you don't like and won't use.;
, Think about what you really want - maybe you have bad under eye circles or blemishes, then you might find a concealer and foundation useful. Maybe you are really pale and want to be more tan, then you will find a bronzer helpful.


It's better not to buy really glittery and bright items the first time, because you can end up looking bad and too made up. Instead, choose light matte colors, which are perfect for everyday use.
You can buy a lip gloss in brighter colors for special occasions.
 You don't want to spend all your money on an eyeliner which afterward will cause an allergic reaction. So, search online for reviews, watch some online videos about these products and then make your decision.


Check out the Skin Deep cosmetics database at: http://www.ewg.org/skindeep/. Run by the Environmental Working Group, this database can tell you a lot about the things in your cosmetics. It is never too early to be proactive about making safe makeup choices.
 Brands of makeup you'll buy depend on how much money you have. Perhaps spend the most on foundation, concealer and mascara, because your eyes may be allergic to the components found in cheap mascaras. If your parents don't want to give you that amount of money that you need, try to save some money from your pocket money, find a part-time job or ask parents if they can give you more money if you would do some things at home, like vacuum cleaning or washing your clothes on your own or just simply get good grades at school and keeping your room tidy.
 If you're at a loss for what to buy, you can always ask for help one of that girls or guys who work in the beauty-section of the shop. Take your list to help guide your choices. Pick products carefully and patiently, and don't be nervous.

Maybe you can go to the mall with your BF, a person whom you can trust, no matter if she knows a lot about makeup or not.
Swatch all products on your hand and fingertips - there the color of skin is most similar to your lip color!







,, Try on different styles; learn early how not to overdo your makeup, as it will age you and can leave you looking like a clown. It's better if you don't use your makeup at school until you learn some tricks and tips about applying it in the right way.
 This can take some trial and error. First, look in the mirror––do you like the effect you've created? Ask a friend, your mom, a sibling too––the advice of others is very important when you're starting out. Always err on the side of using less. Your own youthful features are beautiful enough already.