 Both LED and low-pressure sodium bulbs are very energy efficient for the light they produce. Low-pressure sodium bulbs produce a very warm light that does not heavily affect the atmosphere.It's vital when choosing LEDs that they are reduced in brightness/lumens, are fully shielded, and are a warm (yellow or amber) correlated color temperature (CCT) or 3000K or less (2700K is preferable).The key is to limit blue and green light emissions.;
, Use reflectors outside to help light any pathways. This saves you from purchasing a whole row of lights to brighten the same pathway.Always opt for the more directed, lower light options where possible to avoid excess glare.
 Bulb caps and shields ensure the light does not emit straight into the sky. These range from “non cutoff” all the way to “full cutoff” lights. Full cutoff shields prevent the largest amount of light "bleeding" among the shields., This helps prevent stray light from entering the atmosphere. Light reflecting off of the ground, even at night, provides plentiful light for night activities., These lights only turn on when they sense movement in their field of view. These can be placed on garden paths, near garages, around dark spaces and even in hallways. By turning on only when useful to someone, the lights pay for the investment rather quickly.If you have family members who need to use the bathroom frequently, these lights are more energy efficient than leaving one on all night.
 There is no need to have your entire house lit up at all times. Turn off the lights in rooms that are not currently in use.


Turn off the lights when you exit a room, even if you are only leaving the room for a brief period of time.
Try making signs and place them near light switches to remind everyone in the home to turn off the lights when they leave the room., Having a brilliantly lit party? Keep it inside and don't let the light glow out. Pull down the blinds, pull across the drapes and dim the switches just a bit to add to the mood.
 "Cool" or lights on the blue end of the spectrum are harsh and more noticeable from a distance.Warmer lighting, such as those with yellow or orange hues, is less harsh and does not spread as easily into the atmosphere., Smart lighting kits are a great option for maintaining a greater level of control over your lights. Smart lights are able to be controlled and programmed through your smart device, allowing for a pinpoint level of efficiency in your home.Dim your lights according to the task at hand, and save the setting for later use. This can give you the minimum lighting you need at the press of a button.
Program your smart lights to turn on only at particular hours of the day, or to turn off at certain intervals. This ensures that all of your lights will be off when you leave for work, even if you forget to turn them off yourself.
Smart lights can also be controlled remotely. If you have left the house and a light has been left on, you can turn them off from your smart device.
 Activities that require strong lighting, such as painting walls or artwork, sewing, and cleaning, are best left to when the sun provides a light source.


Painting for example requires strong, white light to properly display the true values of the colors you are working with. This light can easily bleed from your windows., Many people either don't know about or don't understand sky glow and the negative impacts too much light at night. Be an ambassador and explain the issues to others. You will then have growing ranks of night sky protectors.


Show them images of what the night sky looks like without light pollution. NASA has an assortment of images that can help argue your case by showing the beauty of the night sky., Fighting light pollution requires a group effort. Even a few houses in a neighborhood can make a noticeable difference in night sky visibility.


Reach out to your neighbors in a friendly manner. Consider sending them a letter or bringing it up during a block party. Many people are unaware that their lights are harmful or distracting.
Suggest alternatives to their existing lights, and offer to help them choose and install replacements., Suggest that they change local street lights to more eco-friendly variations. There are a variety of new street lamps that are designed to reduce light pollution as well as cut back on costs., Several awareness groups dedicated to light pollution have been created in recent years. They offer a way to put your head together with like-minded individuals to create change on a larger scale.These awareness groups provide additional tips for eco-friendly lighting, as well as which lighting products are healthiest for the environment.
 Many buildings have begun building “green” in order to become more eco-friendly. If the building where you work is renovating or if new construction is starting in your neighborhood, ask the party responsible about their plans to combat light pollution.


Direct your employer to organizations such as LEED. LEED recognizes and certifies buildings that build green, which can help bring some positive attention to your company.