 Neutrals, like beige or white, and cool tone pastels, like sky blue, usually make good choices. Avoid vibrant warm tones, like bright red, since these have an energizing effect and may make it difficult for your guests to feel relaxed.;
, Bedside tables are a convenience your guests will likely appreciate, but your guests may worry if they leave a water ring from a drink on a wooden surface. If the nightstand has a glass top, the water can be wiped away and will not leave a permanent ring.
 Ceiling lights are great, but the switch is often placed by the door and away from the bed. As a result, your guests may have to stumble back to the bed after switching the light off at night. Placing a bedside lamp in the room eliminates this problem.
 A full-length mirror may make it easier for your guests to get ready in the morning. Even smaller mirrors are useful decorations, however, especially in a smaller room. Mirrors add depth and dimension, creating the illusion of a wider space.
 Vanities have a classic quality to them, which may make the room seem more nostalgic and inviting. They also provide your guests with a place to spread out their toiletries.
 Leave the top few drawers empty so that guests making extended stays can unpack their clothes. Fill the bottom drawers with towels, spare blankets, and other amenities your guests may need during their stay.
 Twin beds are more versatile than full, queen, or king size beds. Guests can sleep separately or push the beds together to form a larger sleeping area.
 If possible, include cotton sheets, a cotton coverlet, and a down comforter on the bed or beds. These layers give your guests more control over how hot or cold they feel at night.
 While they do not serve much practical purpose, throw pillows can make a bed appear even more comfortable. Throw pillows can also be used to introduce an accent color into the room, which can allow you to add a nice splash of color without making the room uncomfortably energetic.
 If you have hardwood floors or other non-carpeted flooring, a plush throw rug creates a warm, comfortable ambiance and protects your guests' feet from getting cold on chilly mornings.
 A comfortable chair provides your guests with a space to read or unwind during the day, when they may not wish to curl up in bed yet.
 A digital alarm clock may offer the most convenience, but an analog clock has timeless appeal that may create a more welcoming environment.
 Put out tissues, towels, a washcloth, soap, shampoo, hand cream or lotion, and toothpaste. Anticipate your guests needs so that they do not feel the constant need to make requests.
 If you use your guest room to store your spare sheets or other excess items, remove them prior to the arrival of your guests. Otherwise, they may feel as though they are invading your personal space, which may make them feel less welcome.
 Guests making an extended stay will appreciate the opportunity to unpack and organize their clothing.
 A bouquet is a thoughtful gesture that invites color and life into the room while letting your guests know how much you value them. Avoid overly large bouquets that may overwhelm the space and stick with a few well-placed flowers in a simple vase.
 If your guests plan on staying for quite some time, they may need to find ways to keep themselves entertained without you. Setting books out on the nightstand provides them with a possible source of entertainment while creating a classy, welcoming look.

