 To do the rosebud crochet pattern, you need to create a foundation that will hold all of the work. You will need to make a chain that is a multiple of 15, and then add 12 more chain stitches.For example, you could crochet a chain of 60 plus 12 for a total of 72 chains, or crochet a chain of 150 plus 12 for a total of 162. There will be one rosebud every 15 chains, so the larger the chain, the more rosebuds you will be able to fit onto it.
To make the first chain, loop the yarn over your hook twice and then pull the first loop through the second loop on your hook. Then, yarn over the hook once and pull through again to continue making the chain.;
, After you have created your chain, skip the first three links in the chain and then double crochet into the chain. Double crochet all the way to the end of your chain to complete the first row of your foundation.To double crochet, yarn over the hook, then insert the hook through the stitch and yarn over again. Pull through the first stitch, then yarn over again. Pull through the next two stitches, then yarn over again. Pull through the remaining two stitches to complete one double crochet stitch., When you reach the end of the row, turn your work around and chain one. This will serve as your turning chain to provide slack for the next row. Single crochet to the end of the row.To single crochet, insert the crochet hook into the stitch and then yarn over. Pull the yarn through the first stitch on the hook to create a new loop. Then, yarn over again and pull through both loops to complete one single crochet stitch., Begin your next row the same way, but this time chain three. This is because you will be double crocheting the final row of your foundation. Skip the first stitch in the row and then double crochet to the end of the row.Keep in mind that after you complete your first row of rosebuds, you will need to repeat the foundation row steps to continue building your work.
 To begin your leaf row, turn and chain one as you normally would to begin a single crochet row. Then, single crochet into the first five stitches of the row.Make sure to switch your yarn before you begin the row. Since you are making leaves, a shade of green will work best for the leaf row.
To switch yarn, cut the old yarn a few inches away from the hook. Then, tie the new yarn to the old yarn. Make sure the knot is as close to the hook as possible.
 To begin making your first leaf, chain three and then insert your hook into one of the stitches from the first double crochet stitch row. Single crochet into this stitch to secure the chain across the foundation.You may want to angle the chain slightly to provide a nice slant to your leaves. Try anchoring the chain to a double crochet stitch that is one or two spaces ahead of where the chain started.
 To create a leaf, you will be working into the space between the chain and your foundation. The sequence of stitches you will use to create the leaf are as follows:One single crochet.
One half double crochet. To do a half double crochet stitch, yarn over the hook and insert the hook into the space between the chain and foundation. Then, yarn over and pull through the first loop on the hook. Yarn over again and then pull through all three loops to complete the stitch.Three double crochet stitches.
One half double crochet.
One single crochet.
 The second leaf should be about four stitches away from the first one, but it should start in the same row. Chain three and then bring the chain down and back towards the beginning of the row.Make sure that you angle this chain the same way that you did the first one. The tips of the chains should be angling out and away from each other.
 After you have completed your second leaf, single crochet along the row 15 times. Then, begin your next set of leaves.When you make the last set of leaves for the row, single crochet to the end of the row to finish it.
 Your rosebud row starts the same way as your leaf row. Start by turning the work, chaining one, and ten single crocheting to the end of the row.Make sure to switch over to your rosebud yarn before you begin this row. Some good options include pink, red, purple, yellow, and blue.
To switch the yarn, cut the old yarn a few inches away from the hook and then tie the new yarn to the old yarn as close to the hook as possible. You can use any color you like to make your rosebuds.
 To make rosebuds you will need to make a chain and then work into it. Chain 12 stitches to begin your first rosebud., Skip the first three chains that you made and then double crochet into the chain. Double crochet three times into each of the chains. You should be able to do this nine times before you reach the end of the chain., Next, make a chain of three and then slipstitch into the last chain in the row. This will create a small chain loop that you can roll the strip around to for your rosebud.To slipstitch, insert the hook into the chain with the last stitch you made still on the hook. Then, loop the yarn over and pull it through both loops., Begin by pressing the loop you made against the end of the strip. Then, start rolling the strip around the loop to form your rosebud. Keep it tight so that the rosebud will look neat., When you are happy with the shape of your rosebud, use a slipstitch to connect the layers of yarn together. Insert your hook through the bottom of the rosebud and then loop the yarn around the hook and pull through all of the layers., Next, you will need to anchor the rosebud onto your foundation. Chain one and then insert the hook through the bottom of the rosebud and through the foundation. Yarn over and pull through to connect the rosebud to the foundation.Make sure to situate the rosebud so that it is between your two leaves. You may have to rotate it slightly to get it into the center.
 To continue making rosebuds, single crochet along the edge of the work 15 times. Then, being a new rosebud. Keep making rosebuds until you are near the end of the row, and then single crochet to the end.


After you finish your rosebud row, return to the foundation rows to continue the stitch pattern. You can keep working the rosebud stitch until you are satisfied with the size of your project.

