 Motorcycle batteries that are well-maintained will last at least 3 years.;
, This is the type of battery you should buy.


Consult the handbook that came with your motorcycle. It should list the type of battery to use with your particular model.
 Even when you know what brand and model of battery to buy based on the type of motorcycle you have, there will still be choices.


Buy a maintenance-free motorcycle battery to cut down on water loss. This type of battery seals shut once it is filled with acid, so you will never need to fill it or check the fluid level.
Choose an AGM battery if you do not plan to charge it often. This type of motorcycle battery holds gravity longer than conventional batteries and will not need to be charged as frequently. It is a good choice for periods of winter storage.
Buy a conventional motorcycle battery if you want something rugged and reliable. These batteries are dependable and meet all industry standards. They work well in any weather and can handle vibrating surfaces or harsh environments.
 Those who live in hot climates such as Florida need a battery with a longer life.
 If you take short trips on your motorcycle, buy a battery that does not need to recharge often. The short distances do not allow the alternator to charge for very long.
 The person who sold you your motorcycle should be able to recommend and sell you a battery.


Prepare to pay a little more than if you shop on your own. However, it may be worth it since you will be following reliable advice.
 Retailers such as The Auto Zone, Advanced Auto Parts and Sears sell batteries for all motorcycle makes and models.


See if the associates at the store will help you install it. Sometimes they offer free installation with the purchase of a battery.
 Sites such as Battery Mart offer motorcycles batteries from all manufacturers.


Take advantage of the customer service hotline. Associates can help you choose your battery and answer any questions you might have while you are shopping.
