 Calluses are a way that the body protects itself. There is often an underlying cause that leads to calluses on the feet or hands, like, for example, ill-fitting shoes or heavy activity with the hands. Try to discover or limit the underlying issue.


Calluses on the feet usually come from a problem with shoes or your gait or foot’s physical shape. Preventing them will mean looking for sources of friction.
Do you work with your hands? Are you a gymnast, a gardener, a guitar player, or a construction worker? Chances are that you get calluses because of these activities.
In both cases, you should be able to take steps to minimize, though probably not eliminate, the thickening of skin.
 If your calluses are caused by an activity — a sport, manual labor, or a hobby — try to find ways to guard your hands and reduce the overall amount of friction involved. This may not eliminate the calluses, but it will limit them.


For example, baseball players can invest in a pair of batting gloves to limit friction on their hands. Golfers, bicyclists, and gardeners can also wear gloves.
Athletes like weightlifters and gymnasts need some amount of callusing because of the nature of their sports. However, they should be sure that calluses are kept level to the rest of the hand to avoid tearing them (through filing and exfoliation). In case of a tear, they may be able to wrap their hands in athletic tape.Also be sure to use plenty of chalk if you are weightlifter or a gymnast. Chalk will give you a firmer grip. Some Olympic gymnasts even use mixtures of sticky substances with honey, Karo syrup, or sugar.Wash these substances off and moisturize when done.
 Your hands and feet need to rest every now and then, both to prevent aches and to prevent calluses. If possible, take breaks or limit stressful activities. Give your body time to heal.


Rest your hands between bouts of potentially callus-forming activity. Pushing ahead will make the skin more likely to blister and thicken.
Take it easy on your feet from time to time. Also, avoiding walking too much on hard surfaces, as these put a good deal of stress on your soles., Poor-fitting shoes are one of the biggest causes of calluses on the feet. Shoes should not be too loose or too tight, and should not rub your feet or toes while walking. Your shoes should fit snugly with a small gap between the front and your longest toe.Shop for shoes in the afternoon. This is because your feet swell throughout the day. Shoes that fit you well in the afternoon should be comfortable at any time of day.Make sure that your shoes are well-padded on the inside. Wear thick socks to absorb impact with the ground, as well.Stay away from high-heels and pointed toes. Heels and sharply pointed toes put added pressure on the front of your feet and can lead to callus formation. Avoid them if possible.Keep your footwear in good repair. Worn soles can increase uneven forces on your heel bone and chafe your skin, for example., Hammertoes and bunions are slight deformations of the feet. Because they stick out, they are more prone to rub against your shoes and to develop calluses. Treat them right, however, and you will limit the amount of calluses you get.Both hammertoes and bunions can be padded. Obviously, the best way to do this is by selecting good fitting shoes.
Try using orthotic inserts, toe sleeves, or moleskin pads around the prominent parts of the deformities, as well.
In severe cases of bunion or hammertoe, a podiatrist may recommend that you get surgery. In both cases she will operate to realign the bones in your feet, fixing the deformity and, hopefully, the cause of your calluses.

