 Boric acid can be a good home treatment for a yeast infection, as it is antifungal and antiseptic. Boric acid has also been shown to prevent the growth of yeast. You can use boric acid in the form of a suppository capsule and apply it twice a day for one week into your vagina.Never apply boric acid powder directly to your vagina or your skin, as it can irritate these areas. You should also never ingest boric acid, as it can be fatal when swallowed.
Only use boric acid suppositories for five to seven days. If your symptoms do not improve, see your doctor.You can find boric acid suppositories at your local health food store or through a naturopath. You can make your own boric acid suppositories by filling gelatin capsules, size 0, with 600 mg of boric acid.;
, Probiotics can help to keep your vagina healthy and prevent the growth of harmful bacteria in your vagina. You can try eating one cup of yogurt a day to provide healthy probiotics for your vagina or insert a probiotic suppository in your vagina to address your yeast infection.You can find probiotics in plain, all natural yogurt. Make your own suppository at home using sterilized capsules, size 0. Fill the capsules with yogurt and close them up to make a probiotic suppository.You can also find probiotic suppositories at your local health food store or through a naturopath.
Do not apply yogurt directly into your vagina or your vulva. Only use a probiotic suppository for five to seven days. If your symptoms do not improve, see your doctor.
 Tea tree essential oil is a known anti-inflammatory and antiseptic. Some women have tried inserting a tampon doused in tea tree oil into their vagina to help treat their yeast infection. However, you should try this method with caution, as your vagina is very sensitive and inserting a tea tree oil suppository could make your yeast infection worse.If you notice any negative symptoms or if your vagina feels more irritated or inflamed, stop using this method and see your doctor.

