 Some people feel most loved when they receive gifts. For these people, the gifts are not as important in themselves as the act of giving, which is an expression of love. It really is the thought that counts.It can be for holidays, birthdays, or anniversaries. Even better is an occasional surprise gift.


A gift could be the timeless flowers and chocolate. Or, it could be a homemade card.
Often the most memorable gifts are those we don’t expect. If you hear your loved one mention a book that they like, but can’t afford, she will remember it if you buy it for her.
Grand or small, gifts say “I’m thinking about you.” The receiver sees them as an act of affirmation and love. However, make sure that your gesture follows your behavior. Imagine that you gave your mom a huge bouquet of flowers but then didn’t call her for months. Your neglect devalues the gift.
 Imagine what it would be like to get stuck overnight at the airport. Now, what if your friend who lives two hours away offered to come and pick you up? What if a loved one floated you a no-interest loan, when you had financial problems? These are both loving gestures, giving without asking for anything immediate in return. Showing love is sometimes about giving selflessly.


Cover the tab the next time you and a loved one go out together for lunch, dinner, or coffee.
Offer to help him with an unpleasant task, like moving or cleaning out his garage.
Sometimes the most thoughtful gifts, the ones that truly show others we love them, are ones that take sacrifice. That’s why we call these “good deeds.” If you have a friend that needs a ride to the airport at 5 AM, when you are usually sleeping, offer it anyway. The efforts shows that you value your friend more than you care about the inconvenience.
 Unlike gift receivers, some people feel most loved by spending quality time with their friends, family, and spouse. It is important that this time is together and not just in proximity. Give your loved one your full attention.Plan an experience together, be it dance class, the opera, ice skating, or a paintball outing. It is a great bonding experience, and the fact that you arranged it speaks volumes.


Time together can be watching a movie. It can be going out for coffee to catch up. It can be playing a board game or even going on a trip together.
Planning time together with a loved one shows that you want you want them to be an integral part of your life. You could do these things alone, but instead you chose to include them. They matter to you. And your loved one will know it.
 An old saying has it that “the way to a man’s heart is through his stomach.” Many people show love with food – it’s not just for men. Food and preparing food for others is one way that we build deep connections and show affection. Invite your best friend over for her favorite meal, with drinks, desserts, and appetizer. She’ll see how much you care about her.


It’s not a big problem if you’re not the best cook. An alternative is to arrange your loved one’s favorite activity or a favorite item. Does your spouse love horses? Plan a horseback ride. Does he love chrysanthemums? Fill a room with them. The important thing is to convey that you love him and are thinking of him.
 You may think that you are showing love to your partner or friend all the time, but they may not catch on if you are not speaking their language. For example, some people show their love with physical touch, while others show love through gestures or through quality time. You may need to fine-tune your approach to match your beloved one's needs and expectations.It's a good idea to show love in different ways, just to cover your bases. Try gestures, words, touch, gifts, and quality time. If you want to make your loved ones feel really appreciated, show them verbally and physically how much you care. Do little things and do big things. Do quiet things and do loud boisterous things. Then you can rest assured that your love is shown.

