 When you're home alone, no one's around to be bothered by your music. Take the opportunity to turn it up loud (but not loud enough to disturb any neighbors), and dance your heart away. Try copying some of your favorite celebrity's dance moves or make up your own.You could also get out a video dance game since no one will be around to laugh at your moves.
 If you've never done yoga, try looking up a few moves to try on your own. You don't want to start with anything too complicated. Stick to some basic, so it'll be easy to learn and you won't hurt yourself. You can look up videos of how to do basic moves on the internet.Try a standing forward fold. Place your feet about shoulder-width. Place your arms folded over the top of your head, with each hand grabbing the other arm near the elbow. Bend over at the waist, going as far forward as you feel comfortable doing. Hold the position for a minute or two before moving on to another one. You can bend your knees a little if it helps.Move into downward-facing dog. You can easily move from a standing forward fold to downward-facing dog. All you need to do is put your hands flat on the ground in front of you. Your arms should end up straight. As you move into this position, move your feet back. Your legs should also be straight. You should basically make an "A" shape with your body. Hold this position for a minute or two.Go into warrior I pose. From downward-facing dog, step forward with your right leg, bringing it between your arms. Turn your left leg in a bit as you lift your torso up until it is straight above your legs. Push your hands into the air above your head, reaching up., You may think jumping rope is just for kids, but it can be a lot of fun even for teenagers like yourself. You just have to make it a little harder for yourself then you did when you were a kid. Also, it will really get your heart pumping, and it's fun to jump in rhythm to an upbeat song.

Once you get a rhythm going, trying jumping on just one foot, then switching to the other. You could also try alternating feet.
Another option is criss-crossing. Cross your arms in front of yourself as you jump, still bringing the rope under you.
You could also try double turning the rope. That is, jump higher, and try to get the rope under you twice.
Make sure you have enough room when jumping, as you need a lot of space. Also, be careful, as whipping the rope around can cause hurt if it hits your skin.
 Planking is all the rage now. You've probably challenged your friends to planking contests. It can be just as fun to challenge yourself to a contest. Get into a plank, and time your plank. Next time around, try to beat your time by holding it for longer.To plank, lay flat on the floor, face-down. Raise your body above the floor, with your feet in a push-up position. Rest your upper body on your forearms.
To do a proper plank, keep your body as straight as possible. Lifting your middle up makes it easier, but it's not a true plank. However, don't worry if you need to start with an easier position. You can always work into a harder plank later.

