 Assuming you’ve given dog paraphernalia to the person who will ultimately receive the dog as a gift, there should be no need to buy many more things in preparation of the dog’s arrival at its new home. Still, you and the person who will be bringing the dog home should take a final inventory to ensure that the dog and its new owner have:a collar
water and food bowls
a leash
chew toys
ID tags
a crate or baby gate to confine the dog when necessary

, These are nonprofits or organizations run by local government that house pets that are stray or otherwise unwanted. When the pet population in these shelters reaches maximum capacity, the pets are euthanized. Do the responsible thing when obtaining the dog you will turn into a gift and adopt from one of these shelters.To find out what humane societies or animal shelters are operating in your area, use The Shelter Pet Project’s searchable shelter database at http://theshelterpetproject.org/.
Find out how you and the person you’re gifting the dog to can visit the dogs at the shelter. When the person you’re gifting the dog to settles on a dog they want, ask shelter personnel what the next steps in the adoption process are. Follow the instructions of the shelter personnel.
Do not buy your dog from a puppy mill or commercial pet store.
 After the person who will own the dog fills out the appropriate paperwork, they will retain full legal responsibility for the dog you bought them as a gift. Ensure the person you’re buying the dog for retains the dog’s medical records, receipts for fee payments, care instructions, and related documentation regarding the dog.Pay adoption fees and related costs for the person you’re gifting the dog to.
 In addition to making your dog loved and cared for, you should ensure your child participates in rearing the dog. For instance, if your child is five years old, you might say, “We must always love our dog and care for it.” If your child is a tween or teen, you might say “I expect you to pitch in and help take care of this animal.” Show your child how to do certain dog-related tasks so they can then do them on their own.Assign age-appropriate responsibilities to your child. For instance, if your child is younger than age five, they might be able to help brush the dog, put away dog toys, clean and put away dog bowls, and help fill the dog bowls with food and water.
If your child is between five and ten, they might aid you with exercising the dog, cleaning up the pet’s poo from the yard, and – if the dog is small – bathing the pet.
Older kids can do anything that you would do.
Praise your child for contributing anything towards caring for the dog. As your child grows older, you can reduce the frequency of verbal praise, but should continue to make a point to your child intermittently when they demonstrate their commitment to dog care that they are a great pet owner.

