 You can use whatever cheese you want, though the classic choice would be a Mexican queso. Feel free to mix and match the cheeses depending on what you have one hand, as well:


Queso
Cheddar
Monterrey Jack
Pepper Jack
Mozzarella
Fontina
Colby;
, Quesadillas need to be cooked slowly enough that the cheese melts, but fast enough that the outsides crisp and brown quickly. Medium will pull this off perfectly.
 Keep it light as you can, a teaspoon of oil and just a touch of butter-- tortillas are very absorbent, and will get soggy if there is too much liquid. Don't use olive oil, as it has a strong flavor that doesn't usually mesh well with the cheese.


For a deliciously rich quesadilla, spread butter on the bottom side of your tortilla., Fold the tortilla in half and add your cheese on just one side. While a ton of cheese is always delicious, over-stuffing the quesadilla will prevent it all from melting and holding its shape. For a typical tortilla, two tablespoons of filling -- whether just cheese or cheese and meat, will perfectly fill the quesadilla.If you buttered one side of the tortilla, you want to keep this as the outside. Fill the other side.
 You'll know the pan is hot enough when the oil just starts to let off some smoke. Don't worry if the tortilla starts to unfold, simply press it back down into the cheese as best you can while it cooks.
 Use a flat, thin spatula to lift the tortilla and check that it is cooked, then, working quickly, flip it to the other side. This is the time to make sure it is nicely folded over, as the cheese will melt and hold it all together as the second side cooks.
 This is all the cooking you'll need to do, and they usually take roughly 5-7 minutes total to cook. When done, add a little more oil to the pan if you plan to cook more than one. Serve quesadillas hot.


If the cheese is melting but the tortilla is not crisp yet, turn up the heat a bit and use less butter or oil next time.
If the side is blackened but the cheese inside is still cool, lower the heat for the next few.