 Entering specific search criteria on eBay may help you find the exact type of handbag you want to purchase.


Go to the eBay website provided in the Sources section of this article.
Enter keywords in the search box at the top of your session that accurately describe the handbag you are seeking. For example, if you want to locate a red purse by a specific designer, enter "red," followed by the designer's name.
Refrain from indicating the terms "purse" or "handbag" in your search criteria. Some sellers may favor one term over the other, resulting in fewer search results depending on the phrase used.;
, EBay will then display items being sold that match your search criteria with the prices and photos for each handbag.


Click on a handbag listing to view details for that item. You will then be taken to a page that displays a complete description of the handbag; in addition to the seller's policies, shipping methods, additional photos of the handbag, and more.
 A seller's photographs may help you in determining if the handbag is authentic and in the condition as promised in the listing description.


Check to see that the handbag photos are not "stock" photos. "Stock" photos are photos of the item usually featured in product ads or on the manufacturer's website. Stock photos have a professional appearance and may have a unique or all-white background that indicates the photos have been modified with the use of software. If stock photos are displayed, you will not have the ability to view the handbag's true appearance and condition.
Check to see if photos display the handbag from all angles. This will help you determine the handbag's condition and features.
Look for photos that display the front, back, and sides of the handbag, the inside lining, labels, zippers, stitching details, handles or straps, and the designer's stamp or brand-name.
Contact the seller directly if you want to view additional photos of the handbag; especially if you need close-up views of the serial number, designer name, or stitching to determine authenticity.
 This will help you with determining whether the seller is trusted in the eBay community and if other buyers have been satisfied with their purchases from the seller.


Click directly on the seller's eBay username within the handbag listing. You will then be shown the seller's feedback score and positive feedback ratings.
Click on the link for "Feedback earned for transactions on eBay" below the seller's username. This will display all the feedback comments left by other buyers about the seller.
Look specifically for any existing negative feedback comments. Negative feedback will be indicated by a red icon in the shape of a circle that contains a "minus" symbol. Buyers that have purchased counterfeit handbags or received handbags in a different condition than advertised may leave negative feedback for the seller.
In some cases, buyers may leave neutral feedback if they purchased a counterfeit handbag, but were refunded for their purchase. Neutral feedback comments will be indicated by a grey icon shaped like a circle that contains a white dot in the middle.
 This will allow you to determine if you can return the handbag to the seller or be refunded if the item is unsatisfactory or counterfeit.


You may not want to purchase items from a seller who indicates that all sales are final or that returns will not be accepted. If you are unhappy with your handbag, you may not be eligible for a refund from the seller or from eBay.
Review policies that indicate restocking fees will be charged when you return an item. Some sellers will charge you a restocking fee based on a percentage of the final selling price. For example, if the seller's policy indicates a restocking fee for 30 percent of the selling price, and you want to return a handbag you paid 400 dollars (293 euros) for, your refund amount will only be 280 dollars (205 euros).
 For example, if a handbag looks appealing, but some details are questionable, such as the color, the manufacturer will be able to confirm if they ever released a handbag of that style.


To locate the manufacturer's contact information, visit the website of the handbag's manufacturer or visit the manufacturer's retail store if one exists in your local area.

