 Find the products that are being pinned in whatever industry you are a part of. This will help you see what your target audience is buying. You can then pin images that compliment what customers are looking for or adjust the products that you offer.For example, if the current fashion trend is floral and feminine patterns, incorporate that into your images. If you sell shoes, you may pair your shoes with a floral dress.
 Commenting on Pinterest is not as common as it is on Facebook. However, you should be on the look out for questions or comments about your products. If you do not have time to monitor all of your pins, focus on the most clicked and most repinned pins.You can also ask your customers to share Pins on your page or post items that they would like to see you sell.Re-pin images that are related to your brand, comment on them and show that you like such images or find them useful, inspiring, or funny.
 Buyable pins allow your customers to make purchases directly from Pinterest instead of going to your site. This feature is convenient and increases the amount of impulse purchases that customers will make. Buyable Pins will appear in user feeds, and customers will only have to enter their shipping and payment information once.You can make your active Pins buyable or upload new products as Buyable Pins.
Buyable Pins were only enabled for bigger retailers at first, but Pinterest will manually approve your request for this feature. Eventually, the manual approval process will not be required and it will be an option for all sellers.
Buyable Pins only work using the Pinterest app for iOS and Android operating systems. This most likely will yield good results as the majority of people access Pinterest through their mobile devices., Google Analytics is a free program you can use to measure your sales, see how customers get to your site, and what type of pictures and ads people are drawn to.Two features that are particularly helpful are UTM tags and goal completion. UTM tags are placed on individual products that you put on Pinterest, while goal completion allows you to see the number of people coming to your site and how many people are actually making purchases.


Use the URL builder to create your UTM tags. Each time a customer clicks the tagged product, the information is sent to your Analytics account so you can see which products are most attractive.The goal completion helps you identify if you are meeting your business objectives. Goals can include making a certain number of purchases or getting a certain number of clicks or views., If you have a business account, you can use Pinterest Analytics to help your business. Pinterest analytics tells you information about your audience and the amount of traffic on your page. You can then use this information to adjust your pins, products, and create marketing strategies. Information that you will learn includes:The gender, location, and interests of your audience.
The devices people use when pinning your products.
Other business that your customers follow.
The amount of traffic your Pin It button is generating.
For example, if many if your customers follow a particular business, you may repin items from that business or offer items that appeal to both audiences.

