


Open a new image in Photoshop and set the width and height to 3.5 and 2 inches.
Set the resolution to 300 pixels.
Set the color mode to CYMK because that’s the color mode needed when printing (add instructional step in between new template and new setting)
The final size of your card will be 3.5 x 2 inches but it is best to include a 1/8th inch 'bleed area' all around. The bleed area makes sure that the colors "bleed" out over the edges when the cards are cut, instead of leaving white borders. br>
Example: Anything past the orange line(s) would constitute the bleed area;
,


Click on View and under view click Rulers (as displayed in the image below).
Click on the top ruler and drag down to create two horizontal guide lines.
Create two more vertical lines. These lines mark the end of the actual business card.
You can also create safety guidelines just inside the bleed area to make sure your text does not extend too close to the edges.

Use light or dark colors so that any text or images stand out clearly against the background.
When using the gradient tool, draw a line across the entire image to create a gradual transition between colors. You could alternatively draw a shorter line within the image to create a more abrupt transition.
 You will need to add, at the very least, your name and job title, your company's name or logo, and your contact information.
 If you have an image of your company's logo, to open the image in Photoshop simple drag photo from whichever folder the photo is housed into Photoshop and drag it into the card template, avoiding the background. Invert the selected area using Ctrl+Shift+I and use the eraser tool to delete the background around the logo. You can use any selection tool to copy and paste just the logo onto your card template See logo at the left corner

, Right click on the text layer and open the Blending Options window. Select the Bevel & Emboss option and set the size to 2-3 to give the text a bit of depth. For dark text against a light background, select the outer glow option. With the color set to a light version of the background, set the spread and size to a small value to create a subtle glow instead of a broad halo.
 You can use large abstract brushes with the color set to match the center of your background gradient to create a nice subtle contrast. Another way to make brushes blend in is to select Blending Options in the brushes layer, select gradient overlay and modify the gradient with colors similar to your background.
 Open an image and select a portion using the quick selection tool. Copy and paste it into the card template. You can also create a composite using pieces of many images and brushes on a separate image. Arrange the pieces on separate layers and merge all the layers at the end before copying and pasting the composite onto your template as done in previous screen shots. Paste your image on a new layer in your template.
 Draw a rectangle along the safety guide lines (or slightly outside of them) using the rectangle tool. Make sure the path style is selected in the top left corner. Select the brush tool and choose a simple brush style with a size between 1-10 pixels. Select the Paths panel in the layers palette and right click on the Work Path. Click on Stroke Path and select Brush.
 Fine-tune your design to move text away from background graphics or remove effects that don't blend with the rest of the template. You may want to change some font colors of your background depending on what you want the design to look like.
,