


This is for her upper skull.
Make sure that you are using a pencil for the draft sketch so you can erase it afterwards to make it neat.



Draw a vertical line in the middle of the head so you know the center of the face.
You can draw on a different angle for her pose. Add an L-shaped line for her jaw guide.



For her torso, draw an inverted triangle.
For her cheeks, just connect the head with the L-shaped line.



Draw a circle at the pointed end of the triangle for her hips.
For her neck just draw a rectangle to connect the body to her head.



For the limbs and legs, just draw some lines. It all comes to the artist’s preference.



To complete her neck, draw 2 huge bolts at each side.
For the hands, just draw rounded ovals.
Also, don’t forget to add her legs.
By now, you should have her basic skeleton.



Basically, Frankie’s hair is straight but tends to meet up at the ends, you might want to keep that in mind when drawing her hair. Aside from that, it’s just simple lines and curves.



For her bangs, draw some curvy and wavy lines.
Add some sleeve puffs and her necktie.
Frankie likes wearing gothic dresses so let’s add some ruffles for her skirt.



On the center of the face, draw her small nose and large lips. Make sure to make the lower lip big and the upper lip thin.
Add two almond-shaped figures for her eyes. Make the eyes skew a little from the center.



Put in mind the overlapping lines and parts that should be hidden.
For her limbs and legs, just add some width from the bone. It doesn’t matter if your legs look weird. The drawing style for Monster High defies logic and proportional rules.
The lineart might not look perfect and crisp but it should look neat when the pencil is erased.



You can add details like jewelry and different accessories. Don’t forget to add some eyelashes and the inside lens (which is just 2 small circles overlapping a big one).
Also, never forget her body stitches. She’s got one on her face, neck, two on her right arm, and one on the other. For her legs, she’s got one set of stitches each leg.
Try to add more if needed. Don’t be afraid to add more lines than what is necessary. You can add lots of trinkets on her clothes.



When coloring her, notice that she has different-colored eyes.

