 Dreadlocks are fashionable and work well for both men and women. There are several different types of dreadlocks to choose from including finger twists and freeform dreadlocks. Finger twists are achieved by sectioning the hair into equal 1 to 2 inch parts, twisting each section with beeswax or gel on your fingertips, and clipping sections together to prevent unraveling. Freeform dreadlocks are created through neglect--do not wash, moisturize, or comb your hair for 2 to 3 weeks to allow your hair to lock on its own.When caring for dreads, shampoo and condition your hair every three weeks using products designed for dreadlocks. To combat growth of bacteria between washings, wipe dreads and scalp with an astringent-soaked cotton ball or pad.Moisturize locks using natural oils or oil-based products. Wrap your locks in a satin cloth while you sleep to maintain moisture.
Short dreads are easier to maintain than long dreads.
 Because afros are subject to dryness and damage, shampoo and condition your hair once a week with moisturizing products. Once your hair has dried, comb it with a wide-toothed comb, pick, or use a brush with natural bristles. Gently comb your afro into tufts--one in the front, two on each side, one on top, and a few in the back. Combing and brushing will help spread the natural oils secreted by your scalp through your hair. If needed, apply oil to your hair.Add pretty and decorative combs, hair clips, and artificial flowers to accentuate your style. , When getting a weave or extensions, artificial hair is added to natural hair to improve natural hair’s appearance and combat hair loss in certain areas. While you should always have a professional put in a weave, you and your friends can experiment with putting extensions in each other’s hair. There are several different techniques to choose from:


For a natural look, put in the extensions strand by strand. This time consuming method requires between 50 to 100 strands. Extensions may be attached using bonding, clamping, shrink tubing, or micro tubing.Weft extensions are long tracks of hair. The hair is attached together at the top and freely hanging at the ends. They may be attached by several different methods including micro rings or glue. They may also be sewn into your hair.Taped weft extensions are newer. At the top of the extension, a piece of double sided polyurethane tape holds the hair together. To attach it, one side of the tape is placed on the scalp. The extensions and your hair are then pulled up and another taped weft is placed underneath.If you are looking for a temporary change, try clip on extensions. Simply clip the extension in place and unclip them when your day is done., If you are transitioning from processed to natural hair, try a box braid. After washing and detangling hair, part your hair 1 inch above the nape of your neck. Clip the hair above the part up and out of the way. Divide the hair below the part into 1 inch square sections. Braid each section from the roots to the end. Secure the ends with a snap-free rubber band or a clip. Continue parting your hair into 1 inch sections until all of your hair is braided.
 Cornrows are a great choice for men or women. Detangle your hair. Determine how large you would like your cornrows and divide your hair into even sections accordingly. Small sections will result in smaller cornrows. Choose a section, divide it into 3 parts, and begin braiding it at your hairline. As your proceed towards the end of your hair, gradually add more hair to each part. This will attach the braid to your scalp. After adding all remaining hair to the 3 parts, continue to braid the hair as normal. Secure the ends with a snap-free rubber band or a clip. Repeat this process until each section is complete., Depending on the texture of the hair and the amount of time you have, you can twist your hair. Clip or pin the ends of your locks while wet; dry hair under a hood dryer or leave overnight. Take your twists out to create small, spiral curls. Some twists will hold for about two weeks. Twists can also be left in and worn out. However, do not leave twists in the hair for more than two weeks or twists may become dreadlocks.
 The close or total shave is a great hairstyle for men and women. It can be both laid-back and sophisticated. It is extremely low maintenance too! If your hair is very damaged or over-processed, start fresh with a cleanly shaven head. For a close shave, use a pair of electric clippers with a guard. Determine your desired length, select the appropriate guard, and evenly shave the excess hair from your head. When shaving your head completely, use an electric clippers without a guard or a razor to remove your hair., Heated curlers are an excellent way to style your hair. They come in a variety of sizes and lengths and can be purchased at your local beauty supply store. Heated curlers take about 20 minutes to use. Put them in your hair before starting the day. Part the hair using the tail of a rat-tail comb, and apply the curler in a pattern that is pleasing to you.


For longer hair, you can put the curlers around the edges of the hair only, or use them to create bangs.
For shorter hair, it is best to use the curlers throughout the entire hair. Place curlers in straight lines from back to front. Once the curlers cool, remove them, and use a pick to gently move the hair into a pleasing style.
Experiment with heated curlers until you find the best and most pleasing look.

