 The aim of desensitization is to expose your dog to the thing he fears, but in a less intense way. Doing so helps to ensure that he does not become too anxious. As he is exposes to his fears, you will reward him for being calm in the presence of the trigger, and over time, you will keep bringing the trigger a little closer. Desensitization take many sessions, often with the trigger only moving one step closer each session. That is why desensitization training takes so much time and patience., The “come away” command teaches your dog to leave one situation and come over to you. You may need to use this command to distract your dog from a perceived threat, such as a stranger or another dog. This command also makes use of a dog's natural instinct to return to his mother (in this case you) in times of stress.To teach "come away", take your dog into your yard or a place without distractions. Keep your dog on a long line if the yard is not fenced in.
Let him explore the yard and then give him the command "come away" and call his name.
As he moves towards you, take a step or two away but encourage him to come closer.
Once he reaches you, reward him with a treat.
Keep practicing this command in the yard. You want to reach the stage where you call his name and say “come away” and he comes running.
 To expose your dog to his trigger, make sure that you have control of your dog and then bring the trigger within your dog’s line of sight.For example, if your dog is triggered by unfamiliar men, then have a male friend stand at the edge of your yard. He should be far enough away so that your dog will notice him but not react.
 After your dog has noticed the man, call him with “come away” and reward him. Keep praising your dog and have the man move a step closer. Let the dog explore again (on the long line) and when he notices the man call him back again with “come away”., Expose your dog to the trigger for around 10 -15 minutes and try to end on a positive note. Do not try to push the session past 15 minutes or your dog may become fearful. If your dog becomes anxious, aggressive, or otherwise agitated, get him back under control with a “Sit.” Then, reward him for sitting and end the session., Remember that you will need to bring the trigger to your dog’s aggression closer and closer over time. But it is important to do so little by little. For example, if you started with a man standing at the edge of your yard in your first session, have him begin by standing one step closer in the next session.Do not try to go too fast in these sessions or your dog’s aggressive behavior may become worse.

