 Cardio exercises have been shown to be one of the most effective methods at reducing visceral fat. It's recommended to include 150 minutes or 2 1/2 hours of moderate-intensity aerobic activity each week to help reduce visceral fat levels.Aerobic activities can include exercises like: walking, jogging, swimming, biking or hiking.
If you can do more than the recommended 150 minutes weekly, that may help you reach your goal faster., Weight lifting or resistance training is another important part of your exercise routine. It's recommended to include one to two days of strength training each week.Strength training includes activities like: weight lifting, Pilates or isometric exercises like push-ups or crunches.
Note that spot training (trying to reduce fat in a specific area) does not rid the body of visceral fat. To lose fat, diet and cardio are key. However, the more muscle you build with strength training, the more calories you will burn.
 Keep your exercise routine fun and exciting by engaging in a variety of different exercises. This can also help prevent over-training or over-using certain muscle groups.If exercising in a gym is not your thing, try a dance class or team sport instead. You will be more willing to stick to it if it is enjoyable for you.
Try incorporating some outdoor activities like hiking, kayaking or biking.
Keep your end goal in mind to help motivate you to stick to your exercise routine.
 It's recommended adults sleep at least seven to nine hours each night. Sleep is essential to your overall health and wellness. Studies have shown that those who slept less than six hours nightly had higher levels of visceral fat.Make sure you go to bed early enough that you can get a full night's sleep.


Turn off all electronics — your TV, cell phone and computer — at least 30 minutes prior to going to sleep.Turn off all lights in your room prior to sleeping. Even minimal light can interrupt sleep patterns., Both smoking (or consuming any type of tobacco product) and drinking alcohol have been linked to higher amounts of visceral fat.Give up both to help reduce your levels of visceral fat, decrease your weight and improve your overall health.


If you need help giving up nicotine, speak to your primary care physician for further help. She may be able to prescribe you a medication or provide you with additional resources to help quit.
Limiting alcohol is recommended. At a maximum, women should have one alcoholic beverage daily and men may have up to two alcoholic beverages daily.However, it's ideal to discontinue consumption while trying to reduce visceral fat.

