 You don’t necessarily have to spend a lot of money, but you can still be creative and plan a fun outing that will be enjoyable for both of you.Ask your date what types of things he likes to do to get ideas of what might be fun and what might not.
For example, you could tour an art museum and then go for a painting class or a glass of wine.
You might want to have frozen yogurt and then photograph nature as you take a short walk together.
Keep in mind any physical constraints your date might have (for example, trouble walking long distances) when planning your date.
 While you should definitely tell your date about yourself and hold up your end of the conversation, you also need to listen to what your date is saying.People like talking about themselves and it will give you the opportunity to get to know more about your date.


Ask open-ended questions to prompt your date to tell you more about herself.
For example, you might say, “That’s really interesting. How did you become involved with that?”
Listen to what she is saying rather than thinking about what you will say in response to impress her. If you are too focused on yourself, you aren't really paying attention to what she is saying. If you are worried about what to say next, being a good listener will actually make that easy — follow-up questions should come naturally, or you can simply say, "Wow, can you tell me more about that?"

, So don’t feel that just because you are 50 or over you can’t flirt a little.You don’t have to go overboard, but giving your date extra attention won’t hurt.


Gaze at your date for just a beat too long. Touch his arm. Smile.
Lean towards him when he is talking to you. Pay him a compliment.
There isn't anything wrong with a gentleman opening a door for his date, or seating her at the table.
 Just like when you were younger, dating can be confusing when you aren’t sure what the other person wants out of the situation or haven’t talked about what you want. Is it just pleasant company for an occasional evening, or are you looking for that special someone to share your golden years with? Whatever it is, let your date know that upfront so that there is no confusion or misunderstandings.Be ready to initiate the conversation. Even though you are both adults, it may be difficult for your date to bring the topic up, so you should be ready to.
Don’t feel that you have to have sex or even kiss, if you don’t want to. Talk honestly about your expectations for sex before the date moves in that direction.
You might try saying, “I almost feel like a teenager bringing this up, but let’s be clear about where this is going…”

, A date isn’t so much fun if the whole time you are both reliving and rehashing your pasts.Eventually you will want to talk about past relationships, life experiences, and more. In the beginning, however, touch on topics such as ex-spouses, finances, your ailments and children only lightly.


Talking a lot about your ex or deceased spouse can give your date the impression that you haven’t moved on from that relationship.
Mention that you have children (or grandchildren), but don’t spend the majority of the date talking about them. Your date wants to get to know you right now, not your family.
Don’t spend the date talking about all your aches, ailments, medicines, and doctor appointments. This is a date not a therapy session!

