 Your decisions regarding what to feed your dog are extremely important to their long term health. Of course, they may already be used to a certain food when you get them. Talk to whomever you get the dog from, as well as your vet about what you should feed your dog, what size portions you should provide, and how often.Ask whomever was raising your dog before you specific questions. For instance, you not only want to ask what type of food they fed your dog, but also things like “How much did they tend to eat and how often?”
If you got your dog from a shelter, the dog has almost certainly been adequately fed. However, you may be able to provide higher quality food and nutritional supplements that can help keep your dog happy.
 Hydration is an important component of your dog’s health. It is also easy to overlook. Further, even if your dog is well-hydrated at the time of their check-up, you need to ensure they stay hydrated generally.As a rule of thumb, your dog should be drinking between 0.5 to 1 ounce (15 to 30 ml) of water each day per pound (.5 kg) of body weight.
To check for dehydration, pull up on a pinch’s worth of your dog’s skin on the back of their neck. It should quickly slide back into position. If it slowly returns and leaves a small “tent” of skin, your dog needs to be drinking more water.
You may also check your dog’s gums for signs of dehydration by touching them with your finger. If they feel sticky or dry, make sure to provide more water for your dog.
 There are a handful of seemingly innocuous symptoms that may require veterinary treatment. Familiarize yourself with these symptoms ahead of time and seek assistance from your vet if they last longer than two or three days.Warning signs you should mention to your vet include persistent vomiting or diarrhea, constipation, coughing and/or wheezing, skin irritation, irregular fluid discharges, any lumps or bumps on the skin or body, and any signs of pain or discomfort.
 Whenever you notice something is different about your dog’s behavior, be sure to monitor the development closely. If it lasts a few days, call your vet and share your observation with them.Examples of behavioral changes include shifts in eating or drinking habits, weakness or lethargy, and persistent limping.

