 Many herbs have astringent properties and have long been used to control excessive uterine bleeding. Herbs may also correct hormonal imbalances and control menorrhagia.;
, Lady's mantle is an herb often used for menstrual issues. Drink it as a tea to help reduce heavy menstrual flow.Lady’s mantle is also known as alchemilla vulgaris or “woman’s herb.”The leaf of this herb is used in the production of medicine and has strong contractile (muscle tightening), coagulating (blood clotting), and astringent (blood vessel tightening) effects.These characteristics can help bring menstruation to a normal level.
Infuse 1 ounce of dried lady’s mantle leaves in 1 pint of boiling water to make a tea.Drink tea three times a day until your symptoms subside.You can get lady’s mantle at some health food and alternative medicine stores.
 Shepherd's purse is an herb that can constrict blood flow. Try taking shepherd’s purse to help reduce heavy bleeding.It is also known as capsella bursa pastoris.
Look for shepherd's purse tea at a health store or specialty tea shop or online, and try drinking two cups daily.
This herb can also help address postpartum bleeding.
 Chasteberry is an herb that may induce the production of progesterone. Use chasteberry to help balance your hormones and inhibit heavy menstrual bleeding.Chasteberry is also known as vitex agnus castus or chaste tree.Chaste tree normalizes the balance of the female hormone cycle. It promotes the release of high amounts of progesterone and inhibits the release of estrogen, which can reduce uterine bleeding.Try using 4 – 6 mg of chasteberry extract per day during heavy bleeding., Cinnamon, which you may use in cooking or baking, is also a well-known spice that may provide relief from heavy bleeding. Incorporate more cinnamon into your diet or take it alone to help calm the uterus and prevent heavy bleeding.Cinnamon has astringent properties that can help close blood vessels and stop heavy bleeding.Try mixing one cup of hot water with three teaspoon of powdered cinnamon and take it every thirty minutes until bleeding becomes normal.Incorporating cinnamon in your diet may also help reduce heavy blood flow.
Make sure to only use powdered cinnamon for your mixture. Cinnamon oil can cause nausea, vomiting and even kidney damage.You can get cinnamon powder at most grocery stores.
 Similar to cinnamon, red raspberry contains phytochemicals that may help relax the uterine muscles. Steep the leaves as a tea to help reduce heavy menstrual bleeding.Although there are no studies on humans, some research on animals has shown the relaxant power of raspberry leaf.Wash 170 g (2 cups) of raspberry leaves and bring 1/2 liter (about 2 cups) of water to a boil.Strain and enjoy one cup up to three times a day., These homeopathic remedies may help alleviate the symptoms of menorrhagia. Studies suggest that black cohosh (cimicifuga racemosa) can regulate estrogen and progesterone levels.Sabina may decrease the severity and duration of menorrhagia.Try 40 – 200 milligrams of dried black cohosh daily, divided into multiple doses. You can also try 0.4 – 2 milliliters of a (1:10) 60% ethanol tincture, or a tea one to two times daily.You can find sabina in pellet form from brands like Hylands and Boiron. Follow the dosing on the bottle.
 Placing an ice pack on your abdomen may reduce bleeding. It may also alleviate pain and swelling.The application of cold causes vasoconstriction, or the constriction of your blood vessels, which can decrease blood loss.Wrap an ice pack in a towel or t-shirt and place it over your abdomen for no more than 20 minutes.Reapply the pack after two to four hours for as long as the symptoms continue.If it is too cold or your skin gets numb, remove the pack., Take an over-the-counter NSAID (Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug) when you experience heavy bleeding. This may not only help reduce blood loss, but also alleviate pain.Follow the instructions on the medication bottle for dosing.
You can get NSAIDS at pharmacies and some grocery stores.

