 Quite frankly the whole main villain=final boss is cliched but not overused. It's the best strategy to go with. The final boss is typically the cause of the protagonist having to go through so much trouble, so show that.;
, Something that many sites categorize as a disappointing final boss is a boss who can be killed in one or two tries. Try to make your boss be so powerful and such that he/she can't be killed in the first three tries. Make the final boss merciless, if possible.
 If you think about it through and through the final boss fight is the exact same thing as a climax except for video games instead of film. Try to have the regular stuff: dark skies, lightning, rain, etc. Or alternatively, if your game is a more kid-friendly game, don't do that and go for something that will get the E rating (if you're being rated) and make it easy on the feelings, however still make it epic enough to get the E rating.
 Many video games nowadays have the tendency to make the final boss music a remix of the game's main theme but a much darker tone. This is a good strategy but be creative, or not do this at all and make an entirely different track.
, The prime example of a game that does not obey this rule is Mike Tyson's Punch-Out!! where the eponymous final boss is commonly cited as one of the, if not the, hardest final boss(es) in video game history.
 For music the most commonly-used instruments for a final boss is an organ and/or opera. This isn't a must however. In the video game Banjo-Kazooie the final boss' music was very catchy and a remix of the game's main theme but rather Rare (the company that made the game) used just about every instrument but organ and opera. However, feel free to do what you want so long as it ain't copyright infringement.
 If it's pretty hard no matter what then try to put a few must-need collectibles hidden in the arena and perhaps even a few health items. If it's pretty easy with these collectibles then by all means omit them to make the final boss all the more challenging. A save point and a few treasure chests is a must, especially in the RPG genre.
 Don't try to base your final boss fight off of another one (since this would classify as plagiarism which is illegal) but make it as original as possible. If you can't do that then take bits and pieces from many other memorable final boss fights and meld them together until it's virtually recognizable of the other elements. If you can't do that, then remix it off of a regular boss but make it much tougher.

