 Doing so reduces the likelihood of spreading fungus-related rose diseases from plant to plant.
 Roses need at least 7 hours of sun daily to thrive.
 On very hot days, water the container twice a day—once in the morning and once more in the evening.
 Stick your finger down into the top inch (2.5 cm) of the soil. If potting medium feels dry that far down, your rose is in immediate need of watering.
, An inch of mulch, especially in the form of small bark chips, will hold the moisture in the container and prevent it from evaporating out. Mulch also helps discourage weed growth. Remove the mulch at the beginning of the rainy season; as at that time, the soil should be allowed to evaporate in between the showers.
 You may use a balanced liquid fertilizer or a slow release granular fertilizer once every two weeks from that point on. Don't forget to water 6 hours before and immediately after fertilizing.
 If roses are grafted, sucker growth will be a common problem.The best way to remove a sucker is to dig down to the root where the sucker is originating and tear it off where it emerges. Cutting suckers off from a higher level only encourages regrowth of several suckers where there once was one. Don't forget to use gloves, while handling suckers.
 The aim of pruning is to maintain the attractive shape of your rose and to encourage good flowering. Pruning is not a precise science and you can decide its extent according to the plant growth and the desired size. Generally speaking, pruning to 1/3rd to 2/3rd of the original size is recommended, for vigorously growing to moderately growing plants respectively. Make a sloping cut half an inch or less above an outward facing bud, using a clean and sharp instrument and paint the cut end with an antifungal paste to avoid Dieback disease. The cut should slant away from the bud. Also, remove all dead, dying, thin or weak canes while pruning.
 This is the removal of spent flowers during the flowering season. Dead-heading encourages repeat flowering and makes a tidier plant. Either remove just the dead flower or cut the stem down to the first full leaf.
 Rose does not like the company of other shrubs much. Put all your rose containers together at one or more place(s) of the garden, where there are no other plants sited.
 Roses deplete the soil's nutrients faster when grown in containers than they do when grown in the ground. Some roses also outgrow their containers.
 A shed, garage, or basement should work well.
 Sprinkle the salts around the base of the plant. This provides an extra dose of magnesium to spur foliage growth.

