 Water helps waste move through your body at a normal, healthy pace, and can help keep your colon hydrated while also lowering the risk for constipation. In most cases, increasing your daily water intake can lead to more frequent bowel movements. Aim to drink an average of between a half-ounce to one ounce of water for every pound you weigh. For example, if you weigh 200 pounds, drink between 100 to 200 ounces of water per day., Whole foods such as fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, legumes, whole grains, and lean protein are loaded with vitamins and minerals -- such as fiber -- that naturally help move waste through your body and contribute to regular bowel movements. Work with a nutritionist or dietitian if you need guidance on how to incorporate more of these foods into your diet., Foods high in sugar and fat lack the vitamins and minerals your body needs to help waste travel efficiently through your system, and can increase the risk for constipation and less frequent bowel movements. Eat fried foods and sweets in moderation, and drastically lower your intake of these foods to poop more often., Most commercial brands of multivitamins and the foods you eat on a daily basis often fail to provide your body with the daily recommended amount of vitamins and minerals, even if you stick to eating a diet comprised mainly of healthy whole foods. Consult with your healthcare provider for recommendations on nutritional supplements that can help you meet the daily recommended vitamin intake and allow you to experience more frequent bowel movements. Vitamin A, vitamin D, and healthy fats are examples of the nutrients your body needs to experience regular bowel movements., Exercise naturally helps stimulate more frequent, regular bowel movements by increasing your heart rate and breathing, and causing your intestinal muscles to contract. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that adults engage in at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity every week, plus strength-training exercises that work all major muscle groups two or three days per week., Lack of sleep puts your body under physical stress, which results in hormonal imbalance and affects your body’s ability to experience regular bowel movements. Start going to bed earlier, and aim to get an average of eight hours of sleep per night or as much as needed to help your body feel relaxed and well-rested. As soon as you establish a regular sleeping schedule, your body will naturally begin to experience more frequent bowel movements.
 Stress causes your entire body to tense up, including your bowels, and increases the risk for constipation. Work on eliminating stressors from your life, and practice effective stress-relief techniques that can help you relax on a consistent basis. Exercise and deep breathing are examples of behaviors that can naturally help relieve stress. You can also eliminate stress by engaging in activities that make you feel relaxed, such as soaking in a warm, relaxing bath or watching your favorite movie or television show., Holding in poop and suppressing the urge to have a bowel movement causes your stools to become dehydrated in your colon, which can lead to constipation and less frequent bowel movements. Visit a restroom as soon as you feel the urge to poop to help maintain healthy bowels and regular bowel movements.
 The more regular your diet, the more frequently you’ll experience bowel movements. Eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner every day, and snack on healthy foods in between meals when your body feels hungry. Skipping meals can lead to physical stress and dehydration, and can increase your risk for constipation.
 Your physician can perform a medical evaluation, and recommend over-the-counter or prescription treatments that can help you experience more frequent bowel movements.

