 In order to avoid creating temperature and safety situations for your child, always prepare the garment before you bring the child to the changing area, unless the changing area is on the floor or ground where the child can't fall or hurt themselves in some way.


Undo the snaps that are generally located in the groin area of the garment. Pull upwards firmly on the folded downwards side of the snaps and push a tiny bit inwards of the other to steady the advance of the snaps. This should make the onesie snap adjustment a little quicker.;
, Make sure any other clothing that you dressed your infant in(if any) on top of the onesie, has been removed and set to the side. Bring the child over to the changing area and grab the onesie. The onesie will need a bit more work to prepare it in the next step, but it's not too hard to get the new one ready.
 Unsnap the snaps from the onesie. To help, you may gently push on the side that lays closer to the diaper until the front snaps have unsnapped themselves from the old garment.
 If they are old enough and can stand without needing too much help, they can stand up instead.
 Put your hands into the garment, and remove the child's hands and arms one at a time, pulling the arms inwards. Once the hands and arms are done, work on the child's head so the onesie will cause the least discomfort later (babies don't like their face ever covered, and the path of least resistance should be observed when removing. When removal of the old one is complete, place the old onesie to the side and grab the new onesie in hand.
 Work on the face first, much like taking it off (put your hands up through the neckpiece of the garment and extend your fingers so the face opening is least obtrusive and can give your child some comfort in reasoning that it won't feel any bit tight. Remove your hands from around the neck area. Work on placing the child's arms and hand inside each of the proper holes inside the garment. Pull the rest of the garment down until it forms much like a t-shirt would on the child.
,, Take the old onesie to be laundered and if you chose to use a diaper-changing pad, to remove the pad and throw out any other disposable products that have caused the mess on the old onesie (if need be).

