 Although helpful for those collectors who collect comic books for the stories or the artwork, reprint comics such as "Famous First Editions" have nowhere near the monetary value of the original issues they are reprints of.


The only reprint exception is Superman #1, which reprinted the Superman story in Action Comics #1. It was the first comic named for a superhero character, however, and subsequent issues featured original stories of the Man of Tomorrow.
 As comic book companies became aware of the collector market, they began pandering to it with various gimmicks designed to boost sales. Although these gimmicks made money for the comics companies, these comics were produced in large enough quantities that they provide little value for collectors who collect for profit. Such gimmicks include:


Shipping new comics pre-bagged. Although collectors bag their comics to preserve their value, buying a comic already bagged forces the buyer to choose whether to keep the comic in its bag to preserve its value or open the bag to read it and reduce its value. The hope was that buyers would buy 2 copies, 1 to read and 1 to keep.
Variant covers. Some comics were released with 2, 3, or even over 50 different covers, each representing a different scene in the story inside. While some of these are incredibly valuable, without knowing what you are looking for, you could spend money on books with virtually no value. Since the mid-2000s, most variants are either released tied to an event (comic-con, or store release), or limited based on the number of copies of a comic that a store orders (1 variant per 100 copies of the normal cover that the store purchases). Knowing how rare a book is an how many were printed makes all of the difference in the value potential.
Gimmick covers. In addition to variant covers, other cover gimmicks used include holograms, foil stamping, or glow-in-the-dark covers. Some gimmicks may have been tied to milestone issues, such as the silver foil cover for Issue 25 of Valiant's "Magnus, Robot Fighter," but in most cases, the stories were not notably better than those in issues without the gimmicks.

