 You're going to need someone to take pictures for you. Although many cameras these days are high quality, it's preferably to take DSLR grade photos over selfies with point-and-shoot or phone cameras. Photographers are trained to understand framing, lighting, and can help direct you in posing for optimal shots.Ask them if they'd be willing to do "time for print," which means that you allow them to use any photos that they take of you for their professional portfolio as well. This can be a mutually beneficial arrangement for all parties involved as it spares you the cost of having to pay for professional shots.
Look in the phone book for small photography studios or go to a local college and ask around the art department for photography students. You can also try doing a search on the internet in a search engine like Google or Bing using keywords like "photography near me."
If you can't get a professional or even a student photographer to do your photos for you, you could ask a friend or a relative who is good with a camera to take shots of you.
 You will need both headshots and three-fourths shots (that is, photos from your thighs up) for this. For each shot, you should get pictures that feature two looks: minimal to no makeup on and a styled and made up look.Explain to your photographer exactly what you're looking for before you start shooting so that you don't waste their time.
Take your pictures up against a plain, white wall. Your skin color will look different depending on the surrounding colors, so it's best to make sure you have a neutral color framing you.
 You will need to take your measurements at your waist, bust, and hips. Although an agent may be able to make a general guess if you are within the size range that they are looking at for girth, they won't be able to tell precise measurements (which they'll need to refer you to clients) if you don't tell them. The same is true for your weight, height, dress size and shoe size, all of which they'll need.Wear your regular underwear or a bathing suit to get the most accurate measurements (since you will have to wear underwear underneath any clothes you're modeling).
To get your bust size, measure with your arms down across the fullest part of your bust. This should be located under your arms and go straight and even across your back and shoulder blades. Be sure not to pull the measuring tape tight.
To find and measure your natural waistline, bend slightly to the side and find the area that creases in your abdomen (it's usually somewhere around the belly button). Loosely measure the circumference here.
For your hip measurement, first stand with your feet together. Then wrap your measuring tape around the fullest part of your hips. Keep the tape straight and snug to avoid drooping, but not so tight that it will slip up or squeeze into your skin.
Ideal measurements for adult models are usually 34"-24"-34", but depending on what kind of modeling you want to do there are a range of acceptable measurements you can fall into., Also known as "comp cards" and "zed cards," these cards are basically a model's business card. It will include your stats that agencies might want to know, like your name, height, weight, age, and hair color, as well as your headshot on the front and smaller images on the back. They should be 8 ½ inches wide by 5 ½ inches tall and printed on quality cardstock.You can get these made at a printing company or stores like Staples or OfficeMax where there is a professional printing station inside the store.

