 This can either be an obvious answer, such as with a friend or relative who lives in Brazil or it may take a little bit of time to figure out. If you don't know anyone there that you can stay with you can figure out if you want to stay at a hotel, in a hostel, or even couch surf.


Several travel sites are available online to help you compare options and plan accommodations.;
, Go to your post office to get an application. You may have to make an appointment if you want them to take your picture. You will need a minimum of 2 passport-size photos, a birth certificate, and another form of identification. If you already have a passport, be sure it has at least 6 months left before it expires. This is an important step for anyone traveling to another country.
 If you are a U.S or Canadian citizen you need to apply for a Visa. If not, you may not need one.
 To apply for a Brazilian visa you will need a passport, an application form, a passport type photo, a copy of your driver's license, a copy of travel itinerary, and a US Postal Service money order. Fees will vary according to the nationality of the passport holder. Depending on how long you are staying you may have additional requirements, such as explanations, and bank statements.
 When traveling, you need to exchange your currency to the currency of the country you are traveling to. You can do this through currency exchange counters inside the airport both in the country of departure and arrival or some banks and outside firms will do this too.


Keep in mind that it costs a fee to exchange currency .
 They allow you to preload money from your bank account on to the card. Since there is no overdraft facility, you cannot run up a debt on them. This allows you to budget exactly for the amount of money you want to spend while away.


Prepaid cards are typically linked to the Mastercard or Visa network and are protected, like bank cards, by a chip and pin system.
Unlike bank cards, they are not connected to your bank account or credit card account.
If lost or stolen, fraudsters cannot get access to your money beyond that loaded on the card.
 It's important to plan in advance, because prices go up when it's closer to the departure date.
 You don't want to offend people upon your arrival if you're not used to their way of life, such as their customs and manners. Brazil is widely known for their beaches, food, and music. Fun activities include dune buggy rides, hang gliding, sand boarding, surfing, and so much more.
 Depending on what time of the year you are traveling to Brazil, it is a good idea to research what the weather is going to be like and how much you're allowed to bring through the airport. It's smart to pack as light as possible, because you never know what you'll be bringing back from your trip too.
 Since you will be in another country, it may be difficult to communicate with your friends and family back at home. Consider calling your phone company and requesting temporary international calling. There are many resources that can help you keep in touch such as apps or Skype as well.

