 If your child starts begging, whining, or crying, ignore it. Don’t give in to these attention-seeking behaviors. By giving in and letting your child have what they want, you reinforce bad behavior and teach them that by throwing a fit, they can get what they want. Instead, ignore behaviors such as tantrums, whining, and begging.To ignore your child, do not respond to them. Don’t look at them, don’t talk to them, and don’t touch them.
The behavior will probably increase when your child realizes you are ignoring them. This is okay. You are having the effect you want. Keep ignoring your child until the behavior stops.
When your child stops doing the unwanted behavior, pay attention to them again. Don’t point out their negative behavior. Instead, say something like, “I’m glad you are quiet. Let’s figure out what we’re going to do this afternoon.”

, One way you can help your children do what you want them to is to give them choices to achieve the goal. This helps your child feel like they are getting what they want, but you are getting what you want to. Make sure both choices are things you will follow through with so as not to make your child distrustful of you.For example, you may ask your child, “Do you want to wear the green shirt or the blue shirt?” or “Which book would you like to read before bed?”
You may also give them choices with natural consequences. If your child decides not to wear gloves or a hat on a cold day, it will help teach them the consequences so they will make a better choice next time. If you tell your child, “You can wash your dirty uniform or wear it dirty to your next game,” they may think twice about not washing it when they have to wear a dirty uniform to their game.
 For pushover parents, positive discipline strategies may be more appealing than negative ones. You may want to try coming up with positive solutions to bad behavior with your child. To do this, wait until you and your child are calm. Do not do this right after they have done something wrong.For example, later the same day or the day after bad behavior, you may tell your child, “I want to talk about what happened. Let’s come up with a solution so that same thing does not happen again.”
If your child’s room is always messy, think of ways to fix that, like buying boxes and storage bins or getting rid of old, unwanted toys.
 Kids respond well to structure and routine. If you are a pushover parent, you may just let your child do whatever they want when they want. This may lead to your child not finishing their homework, eating too much junk food, or adopting bad sleeping habits. Come up with a routine for your child and family that adds structure and consistency.For example, you may want to schedule in time for homework, chores, physical activity, family bonding, play time, or other responsibilities. Try to hold a consistent meal and bedtimes for your child.

