 Before you plan your striptease, you need to find the perfect outer garment. Go through your closet, or even take a trip to a sexy-garment store, and find something that makes the most of your assets. It could be a conservative suit that leaves a lot to the imagination, or a sexy summer dress. Here are some things you should keep in mind as you search for the perfect outfit:


Pick something that you can easily take off. Don't pick something with a thousand unwieldy buttons that will take an hour to remove, or something that's so tight that you need a forklift to remove it from your cleavage.
Pick something that's sexy, but not so provocative that you leave nothing to the imagination.;
, Your undergarments need to be just as sexy as your actual outfit. Pick a bra that makes your cleavage stand out, and tight black underwear or a thong. Consider underwear that's lacy or slightly see-through.


Stockings with garters are a must for a striptease. You can go for classic fishnets, garters with a sexy pattern, or even garters with a racy seam up the back.
 Choosing a pair of shoes should be simple. The higher and thinner the heel, the better your calves and legs will look. Black shoes work best for a strip tease. Just make sure that the shoes are something that you can actually walk in. If you bought a new pair for the occasion, break them in a bit first.
 Your face and hair should look just as sexy as the rest of your outfit. Let your hair hang down your back, or pull it in a loose bun that you can unravel during the striptease. Your hair should look slightly messy and sexy, but still clean enough for any man to want to run his hands through it.
 Wear dark shadow that brings out your eyes, black mascara, and a dark red lipstick or lip gloss that makes your lips look luscious and kissable. You don't have to go overboard on the makeup, but you should wear more than you do naturally -- stripteases are not an everyday affair.
 Now that you have your sexy outfit and look, turn down the lights by leaving most of them off, throwing a light scarf over your lamps, or just by lighting a few candles.
 Whoever heard of a striptease without a chair? Pick a chair with a back and one that you can comfortably plant a foot on.
 If you want to kick your routine up a notch, turn on some sexy R&B, or whatever music gets you in the mood. Pick something that won't be too slow or too fast -- your striptease will have to keep the pace of the music. If you're playing music, make sure you have enough so that you don't run out of tunes just as you reach the crescendo of your strip tease.
 As you get ready to show off your stuff, you have to remove all inhibitions. Visualize your sexiest self and prepare to get to work. If you have any doubts about your body or your performance, it'll show on your face the second you step under the spotlights. And if you need a glass of wine or two to work up to it, then hey, who's judging?

