 A4-sized paper in the UK and Australia or letter-sized paper in America and Canada is standard for paper airplane construction. This paper will give you a fast plane that can glide. To make a faster plane, choose a thicker piece of paper.Planes made with thicker paper hold up better at launch, so they can be thrown harder.Using thicker paper will give your plane more speed at the expense of gliding ability.
You may also try cutting the paper first to make a smaller plane. You can cut larger, thicker pieces of paper in half to get smaller planes that can be thrown harder.;
, Find the longer sides of the paper. Fold one end over so it rests on top of the other one. Flatten the paper to leave a vertical crease running through the center of the paper. Open up the paper.The more precise your folds are, the smoother the plane will be. Any creases or areas that don’t sit flat will cause air resistance, slowing down the plane.
 On the shorter side at the top of the paper, pick up one of the corners. Fold the corner downwards so that the paper’s edge meets the center fold from before. Flatten the fold. Repeat with the other corner., Curl over one side of the paper to create a diagonal line. This line should run from the tip to about 1/4th of the way up from the bottom of the paper. Make the fold and you’ll see the top of the paper form into the triangular nose. Make an even fold on the other side to complete the nose., Refold the plane along the center fold by bringing the left or right side of the paper over onto the opposite side. The folds from the last steps will be visible on the outside of the plane, which looks like a flat triangle.
 Separate the two sides of the paper at the top of the plane. Take one side and fold it downwards about halfway to form one of the wings. Repeat with the other side.


Shorter wings also resist harder throws at launch and lead to a faster plane.You can attempt to cut the wings, but this leaves a long tail that creates more drag, slowing the plane. It is easier to start over with a smaller piece of paper.
There is no need to tape the wings in the dart design. Taping the wings also changes the weight of the plane, which can slow it down.
 Add tape around the nose, taking care not to bend it. You can also place a paper clip over it or put a coin inside the center fold. This forces the nose of the plane downward, which prevents stalls and causes the plane to pick up speed., To correct an excessive downwards flight path, adjust the back sides of the wings. Pull these ends upwards slightly to give the plane some up elevator. In most dart planes, only a small adjustment is necessary.Adding up elevator allows the plane to glide further at the cost of speed.
 When your plane flies upwards and loses speed, add down elevator. Grasp the back ends of the wings and pull them downwards slightly.


Adding down elevator causes the plane to fall faster but pick up speed.
 When the plane yaws, it turns to one side. Straighten out the flight path by adjusting the wings. Grasp the wing opposite the direction you want the plane to go. Tilt the end of this wing up and towards the center of the plane. Turn the end of the opposite wing downwards and away from center.For example, if your plane goes left, tilt the left wing upwards and to the right. Tilt the right wing downwards and to the right.

