 Most reasonable long range scoring attempts come from the top of the 18 yard box. With practice you may be able to make reasonable (though still unlikely) attempts from about 25 yards away.;
, A long range goal doesn't happen often. Your best chance will come when the goalkeeper is significantly off his line. Also look for opportunities to surprise the keeper with a moving pass followed by an immediate shot at goal (a fast "one-timer").


A skilled power shooter can score from around the D-line even when the goalkeeper is in position. This is extremely difficult and often not the best play to attempt.
 Place your non-striking foot alongside the ball. Now strike "through" the ball, connecting with your laces and following through.


As always, you'll need to adapt this if a direct shot won't do. For example, if you need to swing the ball outside, connect just to the right of your laces instead.
 The most spectacular and successful long shots pass over the keeper's head, then dip down just under the bar. Pulling this off requires a great deal of practice to get the perfect amount of power and aim it exactly right. You can see now why it's best to make this shot when the goalkeeper is a few yards in front of his line.


The exact spot you aim at depends on the position of the defenders, but go for the top corner if you can.
 Perfecting this technique is impressive in its own right, but practice is nothing like a game. Before you start ignoring your teammates and bashing at the goal every time, use all of the following information to pick the best play:


Can you progress forward instead to shoot from a better position?
Can you pass to a teammate in a better position?
Is the ball bouncing or under control? Have you perfected this shot on a bouncing ball?
Is the ball on your stronger foot?

, We've described the most common situation where you would attempt a long shot. In rare cases, you may see an opportunity to bend the ball around the defenders. A skilled shooter can use this to dangerous effect from the corners of the 18 yard box, with the goalkeeper at the near post. Aim to bend the ball up and into the far top corner of the goal.
 Start with a ball bouncing about 12–20 inches (30–50 cm) off the floor. Stand about 5 yards outside the 6-yard box and work on looping the ball up and over where the keeper would stand, just under the bar. Once you perfect this, keep moving further back and out to the sides to increase difficulty. This lets you get a feel for the trajectory without having to focus on power at the same time.


Keep in mind, if there were a keeper there, you would need a fair amount of power to get it past him before he can respond.
 Besides improving your muscle memory, pay attention to what you need to practice further, and keep reading to find more focused drills.


For a tougher but more realistic challenge, have a teammate send you rolling or bouncing balls while you're in this position or running toward it.
 Many players make the mistake of thinking that power is the most important part of a long shot. Assuming you have the strength and technique to reach the goal, it's vital to control the height and trajectory instead of striking as hard as you can. Try aiming for the crossbar from 20-25 yards out until you can hit it pretty consistently, then work on getting just beneath it.
 One of the best ways to improve your technique is to study how better players make the shot. Look up online videos of long shot experts such as Paul Scholes, Steven Gerrard, Frank Lampard, and Andrea Pirlo. Watch their form when striking, and how it varies with different types of shots. How do they adjust to defenders in different positions? How do their teammates set them up? When do they attempt a long shot in the first place? This type of examination will reveal what you need to work on, and expand your understanding of the game.
 Depending on your physique, you may need to work on leg strength to make these long shots. Make dedicated leg exercises a part of your workout in addition to speed and agility training.

