 Taking a shower every day can help remove oil and impurities that cause back acne. If you cannot reach your back, buy a special tool that is made for cleansing your back. Some have handles for that hard-to-reach middle back while others are made to spread across your back.They come with heads made of soft cloth, natural bristles, or sponge. Apply the cleanser directly to the back-washer. If you prefer baths, cleaning your back could still benefit from a soft-tipped back-washer. Use an exfoliating body wash or one that contains sulfur, salicylic acid, glycolic acid or benzoyl peroxide.Make sure to use a new washcloth each day. Bacteria can grow and remain on a washcloth after your shower.
Make sure to wash after exercising. Sweat build up can cause acne.;
, While you may think scrubbing will help get rid of the acne, scrubbing can cause more acne. Scrubbing irritates and damages the skin. Instead, wash your back gently. Also use gentle cleansing products that are non-comedogenic — they should be labeled as such. Products that are non-comedogenic are Neutrogena, Aveeno, Cetaphil, and Olay.You can also use acne cleansers marketed for your face on your back. These cleansers contain benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, or alpha hydroxy acids.
 If you have a partner willing to help, have them dab a bit of acne cream or gel containing 2.5 to 10% benzoyl peroxide, 0.5 to 2% salicylic acid, or alpha hydroxy acids. Apply the cream or gel directly onto the blemish using a cotton swab or cotton ball. If you can reach, you can apply it yourself.Use the least concentrated to begin with to make sure that you aren’t sensitive to these chemicals.
Make sure to follow the directions and not apply too much cream or gel.
 If the home treatments have not worked, you should see a dermatologist. If you have large pimples, the size of a pea or larger, you should also see a dermatologist. This may be too severe to treat at home.Your dermatologist will likely prescribe stronger medication than can be purchased over-the-counter. Depending on the severity of your acne, the medication you are given may vary from skin treatments to oral pills.
It can take months to years to clear up your acne completely, even with prescription treatments, so be patient.Women may want to take oral contraceptives, which can effectively treat acne. These can help regulate hormones that may contribute to acne.

