 Thank people for their assistance and their support on a regular basis. It's important to remember all the people who've helped you on your journey. Show respect by saying thanks. Even if there's not an obvious occasion for thanks, showing it regularly will mean a lot to people. Send letters, calls, emails and texts to people you've lost touch with. It doesn't need to take more than a few minutes to express yourself. Remember to thank your:


Parents
Siblings
Co-workers
Classmates
Friends
Teachers
Neighbors;
, When others are successful, draw attention to it and celebrate their ability and their achievement. Learn to recognize when other people put forth extra effort and achieve something and praise them for it with sincerity. Take them aside and do it in private, so your compliments will seem genuine.


Instead of making your first reaction, "Why didn't that happen to me?" try saying "That's so great for them!" Keeping a positive attitude will focus attention away from yourself and spread goodwill.
If someone you respect seems to be having a rough time, or seems to have less to compliment than others, make an extra effort to compliment their effort, their attitude, or other positive attributes.
 While it's important to thank people and praise others, most people don't usually respect brown-nosing. Be genuine in your thanks and in showing your respect to other people's effort. Speak from the heart.


Even something as simple as "It's always good to see you" can mean a lot and show lots of respect. It doesn't need to be complicated.
 If you commit to an event or make plans with someone, come through on your end of the deal. Being reliable shows respect for people's time, and shows that you're making a special effort to be there for them. Respect other people's efforts by being on time, being prepared, and being enthusiastic.


Always come to work, school, or sports practice ready to go. Have your materials in order and complete all the necessary work ahead of time. You'll show respect for others by not wasting their time.
It can seem like telling someone "No" will be disrespectful, but you've also got to learn to be consistent and realistic with your abilities. It's hard to respect flakiness.
 Go out of your way to help people when it seems like they need it, especially if it isn't required of you. Volunteer to help your friend move, or stay late to help clean up after school events. Go above and beyond. Even helping your little brother with his homework or helping your dad clean the yard without being asked shows a tremendous amount of respect.


If it seems like one of your friends or neighbors is feeling down or going through a rough patch, give them the encouragement that they might need. Learning to say, "You've got this" can make all the difference in the world for someone who might be struggling.
 Offering too much help can sometimes be disrespectful. Sometimes, it's also smart to take a step back and let other people prove themselves and take care of manageable situations or problems on their own.


Try to recognize when someone is capable of doing something on his or her own and mind your own business to show that person the respect he or she deserves. There's a big difference between offering to help someone emotionally when he or she is going through a bad break-up and insisting on helping someone make cereal.

