 If you don't say anything, it is more likely that they will realize that they were being annoying.;
, Your non-verbals are the things that you do with your body, noises, or facial expression that communicate a certain message. If you are communicating to your cousin that you are annoyed with him or her, it may make them react even worse.


Be a big person, do not mutter under your breath, roll your eyes, or make faces at other people that show that you are annoyed.
 Do this instead of reacting to the annoying thing your cousin is doing. Let your feelings pass through you. While you exhale, focus on one word to stop you from reacting like "calm", "compassion" or "it's okay". , If you are tempted to fight with your cousin, put the situation in context. Your cousin will probably not stop doing what you are annoyed with if you respond negatively right now. Think about why your cousin is doing this thing? If you can think about the context of what is going on in their life, perhaps it will help you have more compassion toward them.


Ask yourself, what good will fighting with him or her over this particular situation get us tomorrow or in a month?

, Get out of the house and go on a walk or talk to a friend or relative on the phone. Put your energy on something else for a few minutes. Use your headphones to block out the noise, and listen to music that you like.


Be careful not to overuse your breaks or your headphones. If you stay tuned out all of the time it will damage your relationship with your cousin. , This can calm you down and your cousin, too. If your cousin is doing something that annoys you, ask them a question about something that they care about. Sometimes if you can find a way to engage in a positive way with your cousin, then you won't have such a bad experience with your cousin. Create a gentle pause in the situation or conversation. Say something like, "Hey, I have a question." Then wait a couple of beats before starting.
Acknowledge the thing your cousin is doing. Don't bring attention to the fact that it is annoying, instead be matter of fact about it. Say, "I see that you are playing your video games, but I was curious about what you are doing this weekend with your friends. I wanted to know who is going to grandmas and if you will bring anyone."

