 In the south, catfish are probably the number one choice, but near clean, sandy bottomed bayous and bays, black mullet are also popular and inexpensive, and easy to prepare.






;
, If you are working in hot weather, look for a shady area, but try to choose a location where no flammable materials like dry grass and leaves pose a risk. Here are the basic items you will need:









12-32 quart stock pot or other large pan with a strainer basket, if available.
Propane tank and regulator with an outdoor stove.
Slotted spoon or frying tongs.
Cooking oil (about 2 gallons, depending on the size of your fryer).
 After the fish have been cleaned, rinse them with fresh water and while they are wet, drop them in a container of seasoned cornmeal. The type of meal is up to the individual, but medium to fine grind yellow Cornmeal is popular in the south. Salt is the only usual seasoning, but when you get the hang of it, you may want to experiment with other spices. For a finer crust, you can add one part all purpose flour to each 4 parts of Cornmeal. This will allow the fish to cook longer before they brown, for a more well done fish.
 Leave them in the mealing container until they are ready for the fryer. This will help the Cornmeal to adhere better to the fish, giving them a good coating when they fry.
 Ease pieces of fish into the hot oil one at a time until it is near its cooking capacity, being careful to avoid splashing the oil.
 They will begin to float as they become done, making it easy to observe the color of the pieces. When they are a golden to medium brown, remove them and allow the pieces to drain in a pan or cardboard box lined with paper towels. This is where a basket or strainer comes in handy, since all the fish can be lifted out at one time, the excess oil will drain back into the pot, and the pieces dumped into your holding container.
 Because hushpuppies are made with a mixture of cornmeal and wheat flour, adding the liquid to the recipe too early will allow the dry ingredients to absorb too much, making them very heavy and dense.
 Mix these ingredients completely. When the last batch of fish are placed into the fryer, add the Cornmeal mix (or separately, 2 parts cornmeal, one part all purpose flour, baking powder, and salt) to the previous ingredients and mix once more.
 Use a spoon to dip batter from your bowl (or other container), then, holding it just above the oil, let it slide off of your spoon. Drop as many hushpuppies as the oil can easily cook. When the hushpuppies are done (cooked) on the bottom, they should float up and the heavier, raw batter on top will cause them to flip themselves over to continue cooking on the other side. Shaking the frying basket will help them do this.
 Place them in your holding container to allow excess oil to drain off.
