 Standing with your feet shoulder-width apart and your feet in line with another, stick your butt out backwards.Hold a weight in each hand, letting your arms stay to your sides. Moving slowly, squat downwards while keeping the weight square to your chest.Move downwards until at a 90 degree angle. Hold briefly, and using your butt muscles, clench and push back upwards.Try 3 reps of 15.


When squatting, keep your weight on your heels, rather than tilted forward on the balls of your foot.
Always keep good form when squatting. It’s important to keep your back straight and chest open, rather than slumping over into poor posture.Keeping your back straight keeps your legs engaged and your butt working hard.
If you feel good about squats, try amping up your reps or the amounts of exercises. Another options is to hold at the sitting-stance of the squat. Pausing at the most difficult part will aid in strengthening, and in turn, enlarging, your butt muscles.
Don’t have a set of dumbbells? Don’t find an excuse to skip this exercise. Use things in your home to keep you in tip top shape.For example, a milk jug filled with water and tightly closed can act as a decent sized weight. To amp it up, try filling your jug with loose change.;
, Start on all fours with hands shoulder width-apart and knees directly below your hips.Keeping one knee on the ground, lift the other leg off the floor, while flexing your abdominal muscles.Lift your leg until your foot is facing the ceiling and your knee is parallel to the rest of your body.Hold and slowly, with control, return your knee back to the original position. Try 3 reps of 20 for each leg.


Donkey kicks must be done for each leg. While some people like to do an entire set for one leg and then follow with the other leg, others people like to move leg to leg within the same repetition. Find what works for you.
If you find being on all fours to be difficult, try kneeling on a pillow or an exercise mat. The added cushion will take pressure off of your knees., Lying down on your back with your hands at your sides, bring your feet flat on the ground just past your bottom. Palms can be either facing upwards or flat on the floor, depending on what is comfortable for you.Keeping your hands shoulder width apart and pressed against the ground, lift your hips up off of the floor until your torso is either aligned or slightly above your legs.Hold this position for a few seconds and then lift one foot off of the floor and straighten your leg out, holding the foot above your body.Bring your foot back down to the ground, and then lower your hips so that you are back to the starting position. Repeat the move on the other side, aiming for 3 reps of 10 per side.


When preparing for your bridge, keep your abdominal muscles strong. This exercise is as much abdominal as gluteus.To keep your form strong in this exercise, always ensure your torso is even and straight while lifting.Don’t allow your back to cave or bend in any way.
 This move isn't just for ballerinas. Start off by standing with your feet slightly wider than shoulder width apart and your toes pointing outward by approximately 45 degrees.Hold your hands out in front of you to help balance or amp it up by holding a weight centred in the middle of your chest with both hands. To differ from a conventional squat, push your weight into the balls of your toes and keep your heels off the ground.When your balance is on par, stick your butt out and lower down, like you are sitting into a chair. Squeeze your glutes and thighs as you return back up to the starting position.


To make this exercise most effective, keep it slow and controlled. Ensure your muscles, especially the abdominals, are flexed and taut while moving in and out of the plié squat.
 Proteins are essential for muscle growth and development, so it is important to eat the right kind of proteins.Protein, in combination with right exercise, will result in a definite increase in butt size.


Healthy sources of protein include eggs, skinless chicken breasts, salmon, tuna, cottage cheese, turkey, beans, legumes, lean beef, and soya nuts.When it comes to meat, look for lean and unprocessed. When it comes to fish, try baking instead of frying.
 There are many diets that say to completely cut out carbs and fat but it is less about removing foods from your diet and more about replacing them with healthier choices. Avoid excess calories and poor food choices by staying away from processed carbs such as chips and pasta.Healthy carbohydrates include quinoa, sweet potatoes, brown rice, steel cut oats, and whole grain breads.Sources of healthy fats that can aid in losing weight and toning your butt are fish oils, extra virgin olive oil, almond butter, and nuts., Vegetables are often a neglected part of a muscle building diet. By adding vegetables to every meal you will find your energy levels are more consistent and therefore, you’re able to get a stronger workout by not facing tiredness.Also consider that vegetables are important in aiding digestion of other valuable nutrients and minerals. Without high absorption of compounds such as amino acids, your gluteus muscle gain will be limited., Multi-vitamins can add an extra dose of energy to help you exercise while protein bars can aid in muscle growth. Collagen supplements make your skin firm and muscles look toned.Always consult a healthcare professional before adding supplements to your diet as their maybe negative side effects depending on your body chemistry.
 There are a variety of undergarments available that are designed to yank your butt up and make it look fuller and perkier; like a push-up bra for your bottom! They are available both with and without padding, and can be worn underneath dresses, pants, and shorts. Some styles extend up to your waist, cinching your waist in to help accentuate your butt even more.
 A girdle can be worn underneath your clothes. It pushes the excess fat from your tummy down to your hips. This dual effect of shrinking your stomach while pushing out your hips makes your butt look bigger., Even the roundest, fullest butt will be swallowed up in a pair of baggy jeans. When it comes to accentuating your butt, stick with styles that are fitted to your curves.


Firm up with yoga pants, jeggings, and tights. Not only are they extremely comfortable, but these type of pants are thin enough to show off your butt without squishing it down like some thicker jeans do.
Choose high waisted jeans because these types of jeans button at the smallest part of your waist, making your waist look small and your butt and hips look bigger by comparison.
Always go with fitted pants. Oversized clothing tends to hide your curves, while fitted pants will show off your body's natural shape and help lift up your butt. Whether you choose high rise or low rise jeans, make sure that they are a tad snug (but not too tight)!

