 Since its adoption as the de facto national identification number, the SSN has become by far the most commonly-used type of Taxpayer Identification Number. SSNs are issued to all U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and some temporary working residents. Usually, if you're employed in the United States, you have a SSN., The Social Security Administration (SSA) is a government agency that handles applications for new SSNs. Most citizens of the United States and individuals who are legally permitted to work in the United States are eligible for a Social Security number. To obtain a SSN, you need to submit one of two SSA applications.


If you're inside the U.S., you'll need to fill out Form SS-5. If you're outside the U.S., you'll need to fill out Form SS-5-FS. Note that both forms are titled "Application for a Social Security Card", which can be somewhat confusing. You can obtain these SSN applications several ways, including:
Calling 800-772-1213
Visiting your local Social Security office
Downloading and printing an application from the SSA website at www.socialsecurity.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf or www.socialsecurity.gov/forms/ss-5fs.pdf

Be sure to print the form only on 8-1/2” x 11” or A4 white paper.
 Unless you are typing the form, legibly handwrite your entries on the form using only blue or black ink. Instructions should accompany the form, but you should be able to follow the guidelines in the following steps.
 Sections 1-5 include basic information such as name, birthplace, and citizenship status. Fill out sections 1-5 with the following information:



Section 1: On the first line, write the applicant’s first, middle, and last name as it should appear on the Social Security card and account. If the applicant’s name is different than it was at birth, enter the applicant’s first, middle, and last name at birth on the second line. If the applicant has used any other names than these two, list those names on the third line.

Section 2: Enter any previous SSN the applicant has had. Leave this section blank if the applicant has never had another SSN.

Section 3: Write the applicant’s birthplace, including the full city and US state for US-born applicants or the city and foreign country for applicants born in other countries.

Section 4: Write the applicant’s date of birth in MM/DD/YYYY format (2-digit month, 2-digit day, 4-digit year).
For example, January 1, 1970, would be written as 01/01/1970.

Section 5: Check the box that indicates the applicant’s citizenship status.

If you are checking “Legal Alien Not Allowed to Work” or “Other”, contact the Social Security Administration at 800-772-1213 to verify that the applicant is eligible for a Social Security Number. You will need additional documentation from a US governmental agency explaining your need and eligibility for a Social Security number. For example, the applicant may have to provide a letter written by an authorized agent of the governmental agency that provides you with this eligibility or need. A Social Security representative can give you more direction about obtaining this documentation based on your particular situation.
 Sections 6-10 ask for information about the applicant’s race, gender, and parentage. Fill out the information as follows:



Sections 6 and 7: These demographic sections are completely voluntary, so you can leave them blank if you wish. If you choose to answer either or both sections, check whether the applicant identifies as Hispanic or Latino and which race(s) the applicant claims to be.

Section 8: Select the applicant’s gender as male or female.

Section 9: Provide the applicant’s mother’s information. Write the applicant’s mother’s full name at her time of birth on the first line. Enter the applicant’s mother’s SSN on the second line. If that number is unknown, leave this portion blank, and check “Unknown”.

Section 10: Provide the applicant’s father’s information. Write the applicant’s father’s full name at his time of birth on the first line. Enter the applicant’s father’s SSN on the second line. If that number is unknown, leave this portion blank, and check “Unknown”.
 Sections 11-16 require information about past applications for Social Security numbers as well as current contact information. Provide the following information:



Section 11: Check “yes” if the applicant has ever submitted a Social Security number application in the past. If he has not, or if you don’t know, check the appropriate block and skip to section 14.

Section 12: If the applicant already has a SSN, write the full name of that person as shown on that person’s Social Security card.

Leave this section blank if you checked “No” or “Don’t Know” in section 11.



Section 13: If the applicant has a Social Security number and that account shows a different date of birth than the one on this application, write the date of birth listed in the other account in MM/DD/YYYY format.

Leave this section blank if you checked “No” or “Don’t Know” in section 11.



Section 14: Write the date that you complete and sign the form in MM/DD/YYYY format.

Section 15: Write the telephone number (with area code) at which you can be reached during the day.

Section 16: Write your full mailing address with no abbreviations. (For example, write “Street” instead of “St.”)

, In section 17 of the application, sign your name. If you are the applicant, your signature should match your name in section 1.


If you cannot sign your name, place your mark and have 2 people witness it. The person signing or marking the form is swearing that all of the information on the form or the attachments is true and correct to the best of that person’s knowledge. Lying on the form or enclosing fake documents can subject the person signing the form to criminal sanctions, including for perjury.
In section 18, choose your relationship to the applicant. If you are not the applicant or the applicant’s parent or legal guardian, check “Other” and write your relationship on the line provided. You should not make any marks on the form below sections 17 and 18.
 With either Form SS-5 or Form SS-5-FS, you will need to prove your identity, age, and US citizenship or immigration status. If you are preparing the application for someone else, you will also need to prove your identity and show that you have the authority to apply on that person’s behalf. You will need to have original documents or documents that have been certified by the custodian of record. These certified records usually include a raised seal from the record keeper’s office.


Be sure to specify that you need certified records when you obtain a copies from the organization or agency that keeps the records, such as the Office of Vital Statistics. If you have difficulty obtaining these documents, contact your local US Social Security office, US Embassy or consulate, or Veteran’s Affairs Regional Office.
If you are mailing your application, these official documents will be returned to you.
 Other acceptable records include a US hospital record of your birth that was created at the time of birth, a religious record established before the age of five which shows your age or date of birth, a passport, or a final adoption decree that states that birth information was taken from the original birth certificate.
 If a document does not have an expiration date, it is generally accepted if it was issued within the past two years for adults or four years for children. Most acceptable documents must show your legal name, biographical information (such as date of birth, age, or parents’ names), and/or physical information (such as a photograph or description). Common documents used include a US driver’s license, a US state-issued non-driver identity card, or a US Passport. If you are not a US citizen, you must provide your current US immigration document(s), your foreign passport, foreign driver’s license or foreign ID card with biographical information or photograph.


Documents issued in the US are preferred, but an apostille may be required for foreign documents (see the ITIN/ATIN sections below).
 The preferred documents to show US citizenship are a US birth certificate or US passport, but other common documents are Consular Report of Birth, Certificate of Citizenship, or Certificate of Naturalization. For evidence of immigration status, you must provide your current, unexpired immigration documents issued by the Department of Homeland Security, such as your Form I-551, I-94, or I-766.


International students or exchange visitors will likely need to prove proof of authorization to work. If you do not have that authorization, you will need to provide proof of a valid non-work reason to need a Social Security number.
 If the applicant is over 12 years of age, you must apply in person at your local Social Security office and submit to an interview. The interviewer can ask you any question deemed relevant to your eligibility for a Social Security number or any prior applications or issuance of a Social Security number.


You may be asked to provide documents, such as proof of living overseas, school records, or tax records, that show you do not have a Social Security number. This is at the sole discretion of the interviewer, if s/he feels evidence is necessary. If you are unable to satisfy the interviewer at the time of the interview, you will be allowed the opportunity to submit these documents at a later time, after discussing the type of documents the interviewer would deem acceptable in your case.
If you are outside the US (using form ss-5fs), you can present yourself and your documents to the Citizen Services Office of your nearest US Embassy or consulate or to your nearest Veteran’s Affairs Regional Office.
If you are associated with the military, you may be able to present yourself and your original documents to the Post Adjutant or the appropriate Personnel Office.
 If the applicant is under the age of 12 at the time of application, you can mail the documents to any Social Security office (except the Social Security Administration in Baltimore, Maryland), US Embassy or consulate, or the VARO in Milan.


It is strongly suggested that you use a trackable mail type and provide an additional shipping label for return shipping via trackable means with your application. Most countries provide international trackable shipping services, but the return shipping label may not be valid if shipping outside of that country.
Private international shipping companies that provide trackable shipping services include DHL, FedEx, UPS, and others.
 Once all of the documentation is received by the Social Security Administration, and the interview is complete (if required), your SSN should be issued, and your card should be mailed to you within two weeks.
 If your application is denied, you will receive a letter in the mail instead of a Social Security card. Follow the instructions given in the letter you receive stating why your application was denied to appeal the decision.

