 To help you work this out, here are some of the key features of each type of saw:



Electric chainsaws: These are lighter, don't require fuel, do not require cranking, and are cleaner than gasoline saws. They do, however, have limits as to how large a log they can cut, and require access to electric power to operate.

Battery operated chainsaws: These do not require close access to electrical outlets, but have limited run time and significantly less power than other types. They are best for light trimming or cutting small branches.

Gasoline chainsaws: These have the most power. They range from 27cc's to over 150, suitable for cutting anything from small branches to large trees. They can be temperamental and will require you to mix fuel.

Hydraulic chainsaws: These are used for clearing limbs from power lines and even cutting underwater, but generally, they are niche tools, and since they require a remote motor to provide hydraulic power, they are not suitable for most users.;
, Small jobs can be done with 12 inch (30cm) bars, and either the battery, electric, or gasoline saw, so the choice is yours which to buy.
 Homelite and Poulan saws, for example, are inexpensive, and work well for most small projects. They may not hold up as well for serious cutting jobs though, in which case, spending more money on a Husqvarna, Stihl, Echo, or Jonsered saw is a better investment.
 No matter what brand you choose, you will eventually need parts and service, so buying a chainsaw that offers locally provided servicing and parts is a good choice.
 Nothing beats experienced advice when making a choice.
 Here are some examples:


What kind of blade does the chainsaw have? There are straight blades, bow blades, different cutter size chains, and special chains for ripping, carving, and other jobs.
Select the safety features you think are important. Most chainsaws have chain brakes; however, if you buy a used chainsaw, this feature may not be available on your model. Anti- kickback bars are another feature you may want. Spark arrest mufflers and tip guards are also common on modern chainsaws.
 A diminutive person wouldn't really want to handle a 165cc Stihl chainsaw with a 36" blade. These weigh in at over 45 pounds.
 New chainsaws have the advantage of a manufacturer's warranty, but used chainsaws can be less than half the cost. Check what you can of the seller's background if buying the chainsaw used, such as looking at auction site feedback.
, Look for sales, promotions, and other things that effect the price of the chainsaw.
 eBay and Craigslist often have listings for used (and sometimes new) saws. Be aware you won't be able to test run a chainsaw bought and shipped to your location. You might ask ahead if returns are appropriate should the chainsaw prove unworkable for your needs.
 You will need fuel (or extension cords), chain lubricant, tools to sharpen and adjust the chain, and safety gear to wear while operating the tool.
