 Slacklines are typically built from 1" (25mm) tubular webbing, although other materials can be used. A typical setup includes:


50 feet (15 meters) (or more) of webbing for the main line
2 pieces of 10-15 foot (3-4.5 meter) lengths of 1" (25mm) tubular webbing for the anchors
5 carabiners (climbing-strength, oval-shaped)
2 pieces of carpet, cardboard or other sturdy material for protecting the tree anchors.;
, A good length for beginners is about 15-20 feet between anchors. Find an area clear of sharp objects--smooth grassy areas are ideal. Shorter spans are easier to learn on than longer spans and allow for a lower line.
 Choose anchors capable of holding about 500-1000 pounds (226 kg-453 kg) of lateral force: medium-to-large trees, cemented poles, truck hitches, eye-bolts, etc. When using trees for anchors, make sure to protect the trees by padding the area of contact with carpet or other sturdy material. Wrap the loop of webbing around the first anchor about 2-3 feet (60-90cm) off the ground for a 15-20 foot (4.5-6 meters) length. Attach a carabiner to the two ends. Repeat for the second anchor using two carabiners instead of one.
 Wrap a tied loop of webbing around the anchor and attach a carabiner through the two end loops.
,


From the line locker, pass the webbing top-to-bottom through carabiner_1 attached to the anchor, then top-to-bottom through the carabiner with the line locker.
Next, pass the webbing bottom-to-top through carabiner_2. You should have a zig-zag pattern connecting the carabiners--the "pulley".
Now for the tricky part: pass the webbing bottom-to-top UNDER the loop of webbing on the line locker carabiner. This creates a friction lock on the webbing. No additional knots are required.
Pull tightly, using about 50-100lbs (or more) of pulling force.
Test the line by sitting or bouncing on it. This helps take the stretch out of the anchors and knots. Tighten the line until you can walk the middle of it without it touching the ground.
 You can experiment with tying the line very taut or moderately taut. If the line is too loose, it will lose many of its dynamic qualities and sag excessively.
 This is easily and safely done by pulling the webbing in the opposite direction that you tightened the line. Normally, this means pulling the webbing away from the nearest anchor.

