 There are few risks to having an eyelash lift. That said, if you have sensitive skin or eczema, you may want to try a different treatment, as the solution applied to your eyelashes may cause irritation. Furthermore, eyelash lifts may not be as effective on people with shorter lashes. You may want to consider having an eyelash lift if:


You have straight lashes and want them curled.
Eyelash perms or curlers have not worked for you in the past.
You have hooded or mature eyes.
You don’t want to reapply mascara every day.;
, Lash lifts are very similar in technique. A serum or proprietary mixture will be applied to each individual lash before the lashes are curled. That said, there are a few different treatments on the market. Some of the more popular treatments include:



Keratin Lash Lift: A five-step method that involves the application of special pigment, keratin, and enzymes to the eye lashes. They cost around $150, and they can take up to two hours to apply.Dreamlash: This method claims to use a gentler formula and more flexible curling rods. If you are concerned about reacting badly to the chemical serum, you may want to look into this.Length-Volume Lift (LVL) Enhance: A serum is applied to the root of the lashes to curl them, and the lashes are tinted to give an effect similar to mascara. This treatment, which is currently only available in the UK, costs around £50., As a relatively new treatment, you may find it difficult to find places that offer eyelash lifts. You can try searching on the internet for salons in your area that offer the treatment. You can also look at beauty treatment centers that specialize in eye and brow treatments.


Ask if the technician performing the treatment has received training in eyelash lifts from a program such as Sugarlash Pro, Nouveau Lashes, Dreamlash, or YUMILashes.
Read online reviews before you choose a salon to make sure that it is reputable, clean, and safe. Yelp, Google Reviews, Facebook, and Foursquare can help you find reviews.
Some salons may offer eyelash perms instead of lifts. Eyelash perms apply similar solutions to your eyelashes, but they use a different type of curler. Perms offer a more dramatic curl while lifts tend to look more natural., Once you have chosen your salon, call to make your appointment. You may want to put the appointment in your phone calendar or schedule to remind you when it is.


Eyelash lifts can take between 45 minutes and two hours. You may want to plan to be free for slightly longer than two hours just in case.If you are worried that you will have a bad reaction, you should ask ahead of time if you can patch test the formulas. If the salons do not offer you a sample, you may not want to go through with the procedure.
 Some salons may give you samples of the serums or formulas used so that you can test them for any potential bad reaction. Two days before your appointment, apply the serums to your shoulder. If a rash or stinging sensation develop, call the salon to cancel your appointment. You may have to find an alternate treatment., On the day that you have the procedure done, you should not wear mascara, eye shadow, or any other eye makeup. It may be best to go in with a bare face to ensure that your eyelashes are as clean as possible when you go in. Your lashes should be completely clean so that the technician can properly apply the serums.
 The technician will take you to the room where you will have the treatment done. While the procedure can vary slightly, generally, you will be asked to lay down on a chair and close your eyes as the curlers are attached. You will have to lie very still throughout the duration of the treatment. Try to avoid blinking, moving your head, or touching the curlers., Slight irritation from the serum is normal, and the curlers may be slightly uncomfortable. The technician may be able to relieve your discomfort by using a fan or by cleaning your lashes. If the irritation is severe or you are experiencing pain, swelling, or burning, ask the technician to stop., The technician will advise you to remain still for a certain amount of time. This can be anywhere from thirty to ninety minutes. The technician may reapply serums during this time. When the time is up, they will remove the curlers and wipe away any remaining product that is on your face.Your vision should not be blurry afterwards. If you have any product in your eye, ask the technician to help you flush it out.
 It can take up to twenty-four hours for the serums to set. During that time, you should not touch or rub your eyelashes, and you should avoid getting them wet at all costs. If you can, take a bath instead of a shower. When washing your face, take care to avoid the eye area. In addition, for twenty-four hours after the lift, you should not:


Swim
Receive other beauty treatments
Visit a sauna
Steam your face, Putting mascara, eye shadow, concealer, or any other type of makeup near your lashes can interfere with the curl. It may reduce the duration of the curl. Do not wear mascara, eyeliner, or eyeshadow for up to forty-eight hours after you have the procedure done. While you can wear foundation, concealer, and moisturizer around the rest of your face, avoid placing anything under your eyes or near the lashes., Long-term reactions are rare, but you should still be watching for signs of irritation up to forty-eight hours after the procedure. If you notice swelling around your eye area or if severe itching develops, you may want to contact a doctor.


If you continue receiving eyelash lifts after having a bad reaction, the result may worsen over time., Eyelash lifts generally last between eight and twelve weeks. During this time, you will not need another treatment. If you are satisfied with the results after this time period, you might consider booking another appointment to extend the curl.