 If you have darker skin, go no more than two shades lighter with the foundation. After you apply the foundation evenly all over your face with a sponge, lightly dust your whole face with white powder.The powder will set your foundation and give your skin an ethereal pallor.Avoid over-powdering and be sure to powder past your jawline – dust your neck, chest and any other exposed skin with it, as well.
Buy the best foundation that you can afford. Low quality foundation may give your makeup a cakey, theatrical quality. The look you’re going for is slightly more natural.
 Use bronzer, a dark shaded powder or a dark blush to sculpt your face. Suck your cheekbones in and apply the shade in the hollow of your cheek. Apply the darkest makeup at your hairline and get lighter as you go down the hollow of your cheek toward your mouth. Blend well.This will create a gaunt vampire look, as most vampires have defined features.
Use a large makeup brush with soft bristles to apply the contour makeup, since this is the best tool for blending it well.
 Eye shadow should be a dark and you can apply it to the lid or all the way around your eye for a highly stylized look.Mix it up by adding some red eyeliner or dark red eyeshadow.


Lipstick colors are usually black or a deep red to accentuate a pale complexion.Lipstick isn’t required. Doing a pale mouth with dramatic dark eye makeup is a popular look.
 Nail polish can be any very dark color, it doesn’t necessarily have to be black, so experiment with some deep reds and purples.
 The length is up to you, but longer, dark hair is the most common look for all genders in the Victorian era. Wear it flowing loose and free, or tie it back with a simple velvet ribbon, allowing a few wispy pieces to fall around your face.


You could also curl your hair with rollers and pin it up in a true Victorian hairstyle, if you like. Do loose curls or tight ringlets.Another popular look is braiding long pigtails and then securing them with bobby pins at the crown of your head in a a sort of halo.
 The contact lenses chosen for this are usually yellow-green in color.Check out costume shops and goth specialty stores for artificial but realistic-looking fangs that you can pop in and out easily.

