 Acne scars fall into four types, and knowing what you're dealing with can help you choose the right treatment.Icepick scars are the most common marks left behind by acne. They're characterized by deep pits that are relatively narrow on the surface.
Boxcar scars occur primarily on the temples or cheeks, and feature deep, angular edges that resemble chicken pox scars.
Rolling scars give skin a wave-like appearance and have tapering edges, that start shallow and go deeper.
Keloid (or hypertrophic) scars are thick and raised from the skin, caused by excess collagen sent to repair the original scar.;
, Atrophic scars (or, anything that is not a keloid or raised scar) might respond well to topical treatments designed to boost collagen production. Look for compounds that contain:


An alpha-hydroxy acid (AHA). Glycolic acid is one of many AHAs available. To be effective, AHA peels sold over-the-counter must be between a pH of 3 and 4.Be sure to apply at night as AHAs cause photosensitivity. Use sunscreen and be aware of sun exposure sunlight if you use this method. Glycolic acid is safe for pregnancy if it is under 10%.
A Beta-hydroxy acid (BHA). BHAs must be at the correct pH between 3 and 4 to exfoliate skin. Salicylic acid is a BHA. BHA's are not recommended during pregnancy.
Retinoic acid, or vitamin A. In some countries, such as the U.S., you might need to get a prescription for Retin-A because it can cause birth defects if you happen to get pregnant. Ask a dermatologist as prescription medication carries side effects.
 Microdermabrasion exfoliates the skin with tiny crystals, which is relatively painless and usually bloodless. It also can help boost your own collagen formation in your skin. Many dermatologist offices offer microdermabrasion.


Ask around for a recommendation. If at all possible, consult someone who has undergone microdermabrasion for acne scars.
Some people with deep scars skip the "micro" and go straight for dermabrasion, which is a more intensive process that goes deeper into the skin. Ask your doctor if this is the best option for you.
Be prepared for the recovery time. Your skin will be red and sensitive after the treatment. Avoid direct sunlight for a few weeks, and always use sunscreen.
 A chemical peel will remove the top layer (or a few more) of your skin, so that new skin can regenerate without pigmentation or scars. Chemical peels should always be administered by a doctor or aesthetician working with a doctor, though they shouldn't feel too painful — the sensation should be a light tingling or burning.


Ask your doctor about what kind of peel you need. There are several different formulations tailored to different skin problems, as well as how deeply the peel needs to go into your skin. Chemical peels usually work best when used several times.
Stay out of the sun and use sunscreen. Your skin will be extremely sensitive after the peel. Don't undo the good work with a sunburn!

, There are several laser treatments available, and a dermatologist will help you determine which is right for you.


Laser resurfacing for atrophic acne scars: Like microdermabrasion, laser resurfacing buffs down the skin around the scars, reducing the appearance of pitting and shadows.
Pulsed dye laser treatments for keloid or red scars: This procedure can induce apoptosis (or individual cell death) and bring the scars down as well as reduce redness.The Smoothbeam laser also improves atrophic scars by helping your body build new collagen.
 Sometimes acne scars are so deep that skin resurfacing alone won't help. In this situation, you could consider getting injectable fillers which plump out the scars and make them less noticeable.


The only downside to fillers is that the material gets absorbed by the body over time, so you will need to receive repeat injections every six to 12 months, on average., Steroid, or cortisone injections, soften and then shrink hard scars. This is a particularly effective treatment for keloid scars.Your doctor will inject the scar tissue, which may help decrease any itching, redness, or burning, and may also soften and shrink the tissue as well.,


A punch excision involves a cut into the skin around the scar, which is then closed with stitches, eliminating the original scar.For small scars, you'll probably get a very careful line of stitches over the punch excision site; for larger areas, though, you might need a skin graft from another part of your body, usually behind the ear.