 Pine nuts, walnuts, almonds, candied nuts, cashews, pistachios – the list of tasty nuts you can add to salad goes on and on. Any nuts you like to snack on can be a delicious addition to salad. They’ll add great flavor and nice crunch. They also contain good fats that your body needs., Add seeds to your salad to get a smooth, meaty flavor while keeping your meal vegetarian. Sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, and sesame seeds are great options. Chia and flax seeds have a delicious, earthy taste. For added flavor, bake your seeds with some salt and pepper for 5-20 minutes first., Give some crunch to your salad with crisp veggies like radishes, celery, or raw peppers. Beans and snow peas are also great options. Anything that "snaps" when you break it will add pleasant texture to your salad., Croutons are another great way to add flavor and crunch. Crispy noodles and water chestnut also add a smooth, savory, crisp flavor to salads. For extra flavor, make your own croutons and add whatever cheese and herbs you like to the recipe., Dried cranberries, raisins, prunes, and apricots can add some chewy texture and delicious sweetness to your salad. They’re also a good way to get some extra nutrients. Dates are sweet and mild and make a great addition to a bitter green like arugula., Raspberries, blackberries, blueberries, and cut up strawberries make a sweet addition to almost any salad, and provide a nice soft texture. Throw in a handful of fresh – not frozen – berries for a juicy treat. The sweetness is especially nice when mixed with bitter greens like kale or arugula.Peaches, pears, and avocados also add great softness to a salad. Add raw fruit in slices or diced, or grill half peaches or pears and top your salad with the warm halves. Or try filling a peach, pear, or avocado half with goat cheese, drizzling it with balsamic vinegar, and using it as an accent on top of your salad.
 Kiwi, starfruit, slices of tangerine, banana, mango, and other tropical fruits are excellent additions to a summer salad. They’re rich in vitamins and can add a sweet, tangy flavor to your meal while softening up your salad.