 You can still get a good workout and increase the strength in your muscles, which can help reduce the symptoms of fibromyalgia, if you use lighter weights between one and three pounds.If a one- or two-pound dumbbell is too much for you, start with objects around the house, such as a can of vegetables.
Over time, you can gradually increase the weight, but be careful not to overdo it.
Even with light weights, remember to rest a day or two in between workout sessions, especially if you're strength training.
You can work out different parts of your body on different days to ensure your muscles are getting the rest that they need. For example, you could work on your legs on Monday, your arms on Wednesday, and your core and back on Friday.
 If you're lifting weights, keep your movements slow and precise. This ensures that you're carefully targeting the right muscles to increase strength without over-taxing your cardiovascular system, which can lead to fatigue.Stay in control of both the lifting and lowering of the weight, trying to do both with the same control and at the same speed. Don't simply drop the weight.
 If at all possible, you should try to do strength-training exercises with your full range of motion, as this will build the whole muscle more efficiently. However, if you can't do that without pain, you can always shorten the movement.Make sure the movement you're doing is one you can control. Don't push yourself further if the exercise is causing you excessive pain. Learn to distinguish between fibromyalgia pain and pain coming from the exercise itself.
 For strength-training exercises, using proper form is essential to ensure that you're building muscle properly and not causing undo stress to your joints or surrounding muscles.If you have pain in particular places more than others, you may have the tendency to "guard" the muscles where the pain resides by cheating the form on an exercise. In the long run, this will do you more harm than good.
You may want to work out with a trainer, at least at first, to ensure you've got the form down correctly. Once you have muscle memory and know proper technique, you can continue exercising on your own.
 If you do a lot of repetitions with lower weights, your workout will take longer to complete and could result in over-fatigue or flare-up of symptoms. If you're able to lift heavier weights, you can strength train more efficiently.For example, instead of doing two or three sets of 10 to 15 repetitions with a two-pound dumbbell, you might try doing two or three sets of 5 repetitions with a six-pound dumbbell.
Keep in mind that being sore the day after a good workout is normal, and may have nothing to do with your fibromyalgia. You'll have less soreness when your muscles are better conditioned.
 When you have fibromyalgia, the most important thing about any kind of exercise, but particularly strength training, is to ensure that you're allowing your body adequate time to rest and recover after each exercise session.Over-exerting yourself can make your symptoms worse or cause a flare-up.
During your workout, pay attention to your body. If you feel the need to rest, do so. Don't try to push yourself to exercise more when you're feeling fatigued. Even if you need to take a brief rest after every repetition, the exercise you get will still be beneficial.
 Exercising when you have fibromyalgia is making a commitment to your health. While you may have a few flare-ups at first, keep going. Understand that you have made a choice to help yourself. Remind yourself to listen to your body's needs. Stop if you feel too much pain, and avoid comparing yourself to others. You're doing the right thing for you!

Even just one set of a resistance exercise is helpful. Don't be afraid to only take on what you can handle.

