 Smoking can cause darkened lips and wrinkles on or around the lips.Both chewing tobacco and smoking can cause oral cancer, which can cause unpleasant lip lesions. Quitting these habits is the first step to healthier lips., Sunburn can cause cancer, blisters, cracking, and peeling.Use lip balm that contains sunscreen (at least 15 spf), or a sunscreen on your lips. Use this every day to help protect your lips against the sun., Drinking plenty of water not only will help your body stay healthy, but also keep your lips moist. This will stop dryness and cracking and make your lips appear fuller and healthier. While there is no standard of how much water or fluid you should drink per day, the Mayo Clinic suggests around nine 8-oz gasses (about 2 liters) of water a day for women, and 13 glasses (3 liters) per day for men., This habit can cause your lips to dry out and crack.


You can break this habit by wearing a bad-tasting lip balm.
You can try chewing gum or sucking on a hard piece of candy to stop licking your lips.
Every time you find yourself licking your lips, try drinking a glass of water. This will help you get into a good routine of staying hydrated as well as stop you from licking your lips.
 Cracked or dry lips can be a sign of vitamin or nutrient deficiency, such as vitamin B or D. Be sure to get the appropriate amount of healthy vitamins by maintaining a healthy diet or supplementing your diet with a daily multivitamin.Foods high in vitamin D include fatty fish, like tuna, mackerel, and salmon.
Foods high in vitamin B include yogurt, dairy, and dark, leafy green vegetables like spinach and kale.
 Dentists have found that unhealthy teeth can lead to or indicate unhealthy lips. Be sure to visit your dentist every six months for a routine checkup and cleaning.Oral health goes beyond healthy teeth — it also includes your lips!, This will help prevent you from injuring your teeth. It may also stop you from involuntarily biting your lips if you fall or take a head injury.