 Getting a drastic haircut is the quickest way to look completely different. If you want to disguise yourself, though, you're going to want to pick something that won't draw attention--a blue mohawk or a pink costume wig probably aren't the best choices.


Men can style their hair differently by using products like hair spray or gel to create a more elaborate "do" than usual, or could shave their head completely. Also consider a dye-job, or using cheap talcum powder to make some gray streaks that will really throw people. If you have facial hair, shave it into a different shape or get rid of it completely. If you don't, consider growing a beard or a sneaky mustache.
Women can consider getting a realistic-looking wig or extensions to change the basic shape of their hair. You can also quickly go back to your "old" style that way, if you want to for further disguises. Keep them guessing by changing frequently and without warning. Dye your hair a different color each week and ensure that you'll never be noticed. Try combinations of highlight patterns and full dye jobs.;
, It worked for Clark Kent. By adding some frames to your wardrobe, you'll pass the "glance test." People will recognize you when they look closely, sure, but you'll be able to get past their initial screen. By adding glasses or sunglasses, you'll round out a disguise.


If you have contacts, consider trying color-change contacts, or digging out those old frames you no longer wear.
 For a dramatic effect, paint moles, beauty marks, wrinkles or other imperfections on your face. Lighten or darken your skin to further confuse people. Get a spray-on tan or a conspicuous fake tattoo.


If you're a guy, or even if you just don't normally wear make-up, a little can go a long way in changing your appearance. Just adding some eyeliner and changing your clothes can give you a whole different aura.
 Try changing your height with heeled shoes, or by slouching more and carrying yourself differently than usual. Consider losing or gaining weight, if you have the time to do so, or simply begin dressing as if you had. Pad your clothes with extra layers to look as if you've put on a few pounds.

