 You will need six to eight sheets of craft paper to make the dreidels. Pick craft paper that has an interesting design, such as Hebrew letters, or a plain design if you are planning on decorating the dreidels later. Go for paper that is thick and durable as you will be gluing them together.You can also use colored craft paper in a certain color scheme, such as blue and yellow, if you do not plan on decorating them later.;
, You will also need a piece of thin cardboard or a sheet of stiff paper to use as the template for the dreidels. You will draw on the cardboard and cut out the shape of the dreidel to trace onto the craft paper.If you decide to use an existing template for the dreidel, you can print it off and use it when you create the dreidels. For example, you may opt for three dimensional dreidels and print out a template from an online source that you can cut out, fold, and use for the garland., You will use the ribbon or string to hang the dreidels to make the garland. Use colored ribbon or string for added decoration. If you have a spot in mind for the garland, you may measure out the ribbon or string so it will fit that spot.For example, you may measure out enough string to stretch over your mantle piece at home. Or you may measure out enough ribbon to stretch over a doorway.
 The scissors will be useful for cutting out the dreidel template and the dreidel pieces. You will use the glue to attach the dreidels to the string. You can use a glue stick or wet glue. The clothespins will be used to keep the dreidels in place on the ribbon or string while they dry.You will need enough clothespins for the number of dreidels you plan to make. For example, if you plan to make four dreidels for the garland, you will need four clothespins.
 Start by creating a template in the shape of the dreidel. You can draw the template on the piece of cardboard or sheet of stiff paper. Draw the thin top of the dreidel and then the wide body of the dreidel. Make the dreidel fairly large so it can hang from the ribbon or string.If you are using an existing template for the dreidels, you do not need to do this step., Once you have the template, place it the craft paper. Use a pencil to lightly trace the template onto the craft paper. Space the dreidels a few inches apart on the craft paper so they are easy to cut out. Trace out double the number of dreidels you want, as you will be attaching the two pieces together to form one dreidel.Make as many dreidels as you’d like for the garland based on the length of the string and the size of the dreidels. For example, if the dreidels are fairly big and you have a four to five foot long string, you may trace out eight to ten dreidels (four to five dreidels times two) for the garland. If the dreidels are small and the string is long, you may trace out twelve to sixteen dreidels (six to eight dreidels times two).
 Use the scissors to carefully cut out the dreidels drawn on the craft paper. If there are pencil marks on the cut out dreidels, use an eraser to remove them so the dreidels appear clean and polished. You should have double the number of dreidels you want, as you will then attach the two pieces together to make one dreidel.For example, if you want to have four dreidels on the garland, you should have eight dreidels total. Or if you want six dreidels for the garland, you should have twelve dreidels total.
If you are making the garland with a child, you can let them use child-proof scissors to cut out the dreidels.
 Lay the string or ribbon out on a flat surface. Then, place one set of dreidel pieces under the ribbon or string. Arrange the dreidels so they are evenly spaced a few inches apart. The handles of the dreidels should be under the string. Then, place the other set of dreidel pieces over the ribbon or string so the handles are aligned. Glue the two pieces together by placing a dot of glue on the handles of the dreidels and pressing them together on the string with your fingers.Use the clothespins to hold the two pieces of paper together on the string so they can dry. You can hang the garland in the intended spot to dry. Remove the clothespins once the glue dries and enjoy your dreidel garland.
 If you want to jazz up the paper dreidel garland, you may decide to add personal details to the dreidels, such as the names of your family members or personal family sayings. You may write, paint, or stencil on these details on the dreidels before hanging up the garland.If you are making the garland with a child, you may encourage them to decorate the dreidels to make them more personal and unique.
Use colored pencils, paints, and glitter to personalize the garland. You can even draw the faces of your family members on the dreidels to really make them personal to your family.
 Traditionally, dreidels will have a letter from the Hebrew alphabet on each side that read “Nun,” “Gimel,” “He,” and “Shin.” The letters are an acronym for the Hebrew saying, “Nes Gadol Hayah Sham”, which translates to “A great miracle happened there.” You may decide to add these traditional Hebrew words to your dreidel garland.You can also spell out “Hanukkah” in Hebrew or another Hebrew word or saying on the dreidels if you’d prefer.
 You can also make the garland more festive by adding images that relate to Hanukkah and the Jewish faith. You may draw menorahs on the dreidels or the Star of David. Or you may spell out “Hanukkah” on the dreidels or another Hanukkah themed saying. Get creative and make use of the space on the dreidels to really make the garland festive.


If you are making the dreidel garland with a child, you may encourage them to add Hanukkah themed decorations to the dreidels. You may need to help them draw a Star of David or a menorah and then suggest that they color in the images as they see fit.

