 Use a tape measure to determine the distance between the curtain rod and the floor.


Add 5 inches/12.7 cm to this number to account for the curtain's hem. If the distance between the curtain rod and the floor is 120 inches/3.05m, the result is 125 inches/3.18m.
Add 8 inches/20.3 cm to the total to account for the tabs on the curtain. If the curtain and hem total 125 inches/3.18m, you now have a length of 133 inches/3.38m.
 Use a tape measure to determine how wide the area is that you want covered. Include the amount of wall around the window that you want covered in the measurement.


Multiply the measurement by 1.25. If your original width was 24 inches/61cm, the cut fabric will need to have a total width of 30 inches/76cm.
 Cut the fabric according to the required length and width indicated by the measurements.
 Place the curtain on a flat surface. The wrong side of the fabric should face upward.


Fold a 1-inch/2.5cm hem along the bottom and top of the curtain. The hem should fold up against the wrong side of the fabric.
Use a needle and thread that matches the curtains to secure the hem with a whipstitch. A whipstitch is a shallow stitch that enters through the folded fabric, exits through the main part of the curtain, and enters again through the folded fabric. Whipstitch the entire length of the fold.
Fold another 3-inch/7.5cm hem along the top of the curtain.
Secure the hem with a whipstitch.
 Determine how long you want the tabs on the curtain to be. If you want the tabs to be 4 inches/10cm long, you will need a piece of fabric that is 8 inches/20cm long. Cut the fabric according to the width of the curtain and the desired height of the tabs.


Place the length of fabric on a flat surface. The wrong side of the fabric should face up.
Fold the fabric in half. You will now have a long tube of fabric from which you will cut the tabs.
Place the edges of the folded fabric on top of the 3-inch/7.5cm hem at the top of the curtain.
Use safety pins to pin the fabric to the hem.
 Determine how many tabs you want on the curtain. There should be no more than 5 inches/12.5cm between each tab.


Use scissors to cut spaces evenly from the long tube of fabric. Ensure that you do not cut through the curtain attached to the tube of fabric. You now have individual tabs secured to the curtain with safety pins.
Check that there is a tab on each side edge of the curtain.
Use a sewing machine to secure the edges of the tabs to the hem of the curtain.
 Loop the tabs around the curtain rod. Place the curtain rod into the hooks above the window. Done!

