 If you choose to get your student loans out of default by consolidating them, you’ll be taking all of your debt and combining it into one new loan.


Consolidation is not as good for your credit as rehabilitation is. The fact that you were in default will remain on your credit report. However, you’ll get to deal with the federal government instead of a collections agency, which many borrowers prefer, and you’ll get out of default faster.
 To apply, go to https://studentloans.gov/myDirectLoan/index.action. The process is simple, since this site will already have all of your information – including your loan amounts – on hand.


Avoid private consolidation loans. You are almost always better off consolidating through the Department of Education. If you go with a private lender instead, you will no longer have access to federal programs like income-based repayment, deferment, forbearance, and forgiveness. In addition, you may have to pay additional fees.
 After you apply, the Department of Education will send you a summary sheet, which will list all of the loans – including those in default – that will be included in your consolidation loan. Review this information.


If everything looks correct, do nothing. After fifteen days, the government will process your consolidation loan.
If anything looks inaccurate, or if you have questions, contact the Department of Education within fifteen days of the letter’s date.
 Once your consolidation loan is approved, you will need to sign up for a repayment plan. At this point, you’ll have three options:


Income-Based Repayment (IBR). Under this plan, you’ll make payments for twenty-five years, and after that, any remaining debt will be forgiven. Your payments will not exceed 15% of your discretionary income.
Pay-As-You-Earn Repayment. Under this plan, you’ll make payments for twenty years, and after that, any remaining debt will be forgiven. As with IBR, your payments will not exceed 15% of your discretionary income.
Income-Contingent Repayment (ICR). Under this plan, you’ll make payments for twenty-five years, and after that, any remaining debt will be forgiven. Your payments will not exceed 20% of your discretionary income.
 As with rehabilitation, there are fees associated with the consolidation process. Up to 18.5% of your loan balance may be added to your principal. You will therefore notice a significant increase in your total debt., Speak to your collections agent, and explain that you have applied for consolidation through the Department of Education. Different collections agencies will handle this situation in different ways, so be sure to ask what kind of proof you need to provide that your loans will no longer be in default.


Note that collections agencies may try to convince you that you must pay your loan in full or that you should make plans for rehabilitation through their service instead. This isn't true. If you've decided that consolidation is best for you, stay the course.
 Once your consolidation loan is processed, your loans will be out of default, but don’t neglect your obligations! Make your payments each month to avoid future defaults.


If you default on your consolidation loan, your will have a much harder time making arrangements to rehabilitate or consolidate again.

