 Each of these embellished crochet buttons start with one of the basic crochet buttons described above. Since the stitches are easier to see on the magic ring version, that is usually preferred, but you can experiment with either option.
 Use a crochet hook and darning needle to weave a contrasting color of yarn through the edges of your double stitches in a magic ring basic button.


Insert your crochet hook through the top of one of your double stitches. Grab the contrasting yard from the other side and pull a loop through to the front.
With the loop still on your hook, insert the hook in between the next double crochet stitch of your button, pulling a new, second loop onto your hook.
Pull this second loop through the original loop on your hook.
Continue in this manner, working counter-clockwise around the button and pulling up new loops in between all the double crochet stitches.
When pulling the yarn through the last stitch, cut the yarn and thread the end through a darning needle. Insert the needle under both loops of your first contrasting color stitch and back through the back loop of your last stitch. Draw the yarn to the back of the button.
Sew the end into the back of the button with your darning needle.
 You can make a simple six-pointed star or snowflake by diagonally weaving roughly 12 inches (30.5 cm) of contrasting yarn through the double stitches of a magic ring simple button with a darning needle.


Cut a piece of contrasting yarn measuring 12 inches (30.5 cm).
Thread the end of this yarn through the eye of a darning needle.
Insert the needle under two loops of one double crochet stitch in your button. Working over the top of the button, insert the needle into the button's center, pulling it back out through the back.
From the back, insert the needle once more under two loops of the next double crochet stitch in your button. From the front, insert the needle into the button's center again.
Continue in this manner, creating six lines extending from the center to the edge of the button.
Weave the ends of the yarn through the stitches on the back of the button to secure everything in place.



For the center of the flower:

Thread the yarn onto your darning needle.
Pull the darning needle up through the center of the button. Weave it under one inner loop in the center of the button and back up through the other side. Loop it around the tip of the needle.
Pull the length of the yarn through the two loops you just created.
Repeat, working a similar stitch into each loop at the center of the button. Tie it off on the back of the button.


For the petals:

Thread your yarn onto the darning needle.
Pull the yarn up through the center of the button, from underneath the center of your flower. Do not pull it through the flower center.
Insert the needle back into the center. Do not pull the loop it creates; instead, leave enough of the loop hanging to extend past the perimeter of the button.
From the back of the button, insert the needle through the stitch at the edge of the button, pulling it up to the front and through the loop you created when working from the center.
Pull to tighten the loop. One petal should be created.
Weave the needle over the outer edge of the petal and back to the back of the button.
From the back, repeat the same steps, creating four more petals. Tie off at the back when finished.



