 Place your filter on a flat surface. Take your glass jar or cup and sit it directly on top of the filter. The bottom of the jar will sit where the coffee grinds will sit.


Make sure there are no large wrinkles or creases in the bottom of the filter.
The jar is used to give form to your filter.
Make sure your filter does not have any holes in it.
 Place your scooping cup next to the jar and filter on a flat surface. Carefully pick up the filter and jar and place them inside the scooping cup.


Make sure there are no large wrinkles or creases when you place the filter in the cup.
The coffee filter will be separating the jar from the steel cup.
The sides of the filter will be up around the sides of the cylindrical object.
 At this point, your steel scooping cup will be on the bottom, the filter will be next, and the jar will be inside the filter. It is very important that everything fits snugly and properly. It is also very important that there are not creases or folders on the bottom of the filter.
 Very gently and slowly, slide your jar upward out of the coffee filter. Make sure that your filter stays snugly in the steel cup and maintains its shape. When you are done, you should have the steel cup sitting on your surface and the filter sitting within it. The sides of the filter should look as if they are molded toward the cylindrical object that is no longer there.
 Take your pre-measured coffee grinds and fill your coffee filter. Make sure to fill it to your previously decided specifications and don’t over or under fill at the last minute. You should only use either 2 or 3 tablespoons per filter, depending on how much you want your pods to produce. Any more or less coffee might cause problems.
 Now that you’ve got your filter shaped and filled, you need to fold it closed. Fold it closed carefully. Try to make creases and fold it so the filter will stay closed. Consider the following:


Do not use tape, glue, or any other sort of adhesive.
Avoid household paperclips or staples.
If you don’t think your fold will close, track down stainless steel, uncoated, clips that are appropriate to use when cooking., Now that you’ve closed the filter, use your hand to compact the filter into the stainless steel scooper. This will help hold the form of the pod and make it easier to handle. It will also lessen the chances of your folds coming undone and your coffee grounds spilling everywhere., Now that you’ve folded and pressed down on your filter, you’ve got your first coffee pod! Remove it from the stainless steel scooper and pop it in your coffee maker. Press start, and enjoy!

, If you’ve made extra pods, you need to take care to store them properly. While store-bought pods can be stored out in the open, you need to put a little more effort into your home made pods. Consider the following:


Store them in an airtight container.
Store them in a dry, room temperature environment.
If you want to store them in the refrigerator or freezer, make sure that they are indeed in an airtight container.