 In general, people prefer to cry in front of people they're close to--not in front of strangers, coworkers, or acquaintances. If you're not close to her but she is still crying in front of you, she is probably quite distressed indeed and in need of some sympathy. It is especially important for you to react with empathy and not with annoyance, panic, or fear. , If she does in fact want you around, let her cry. Don’t try to force her to stop crying or suggest that she "buck up." Crying is natural and healthy, and can help relieve stress and pain. Remember that there is nothing unprofessional about tears at work. Most people cry sometimes, so crying at work is bound to happen at one time or another. Tell her reassuring things if she seems embarrassed, such as "It is okay to cry," or "There's nothing embarrassing about crying--we're all human!"

, Because she doesn't know you well, she might not want to go into too much detail with you. But perhaps you could be a helpful listening ear. Ask questions and use open body language to show that you are willing to listen if she likes. For example, you could say:


"I know I'm your colleague, but I'm also happy to be your friend if you need someone to talk to. Do you want to talk?"
"My door is always open if you need to talk about something difficult."
"Is there something I can help you with? Even if it's not about work, I am happy to listen."

, If she decides to talk to you about her troubles, use active listening techniques to show that you are paying attention. These include: not interrupting or providing suggestions, asking questions only to affirm that you understand what she is saying, making eye contact, and avoiding distractions. , You should act like a human being and show that you care but you also don't want to overstep any boundaries with a coworker. After all, your work relationship will have to continue even after this incident.


For example, you might not want to offer a hug unless she asks for one. If you want to call her outside of work to check up on her, you should ask whether she would be comfortable with that.
 Perhaps your coworker is crying because of work stress, or perhaps there is a personal matter that is affecting her ability to focus on work. In either case, if you are in a position to help her professionally, you might help her find solutions.For example, she might need to take some time off, or you might help her make a plan to get through a difficult professional task.
Only take action if she wants your action, however. It’s easy to get caught up in trying to fix things the way that you think is best. However, she may not want help or may need something other than what you think she needs. The last thing you want to do is to make a situation worse.
Don't try to step in about personal matters too much. Don’t feel like you need to solve personal problems of a co-worker. Also, if you don’t know her very well, do not presume that you know how to solve her problems. Be there to comfort her and listen, and focus on workplace issues.
If you see no way that you are able to help her fix the problem, then apologize and tell her that you cannot help her fix the problem. If you know anyone whom you think can help her fix the problem, recommend that she talk to them and enlist their help.

