 If you happen upon a dog, you will most likely be able to tell whether the dog is a stray or a lost pet.


Stray dogs may not have had any positive human contact and are not socialized towards humans. They tend to be wary of humans and their fear can be triggered into aggression.
Pets that are lost are more likely to approach you and be comfortable around humans. They may be wearing a collar. They will probably be at a healthy weight, look cleaner, and appear as though they’ve been cared for.
Your interactions with stray dogs and pets may be very different. However, just because a dog is a stray does not mean it is automatically aggressive or a safety threat to you.Dogs, stray or pet, that appear injured may come to you for help or they may be even more reluctant to approach you. It depends on the dog and its level of human socialization.;
, You will need to take stock of the situation to decide how you will proceed.


If you are with your pet, it is best to keep the two dogs separate and away from each other. Keep the widest distance between the two that you can, even if the other dog appears friendly. If the dog is friendly, you can return to the area that you found it after you’ve secured your dog at home or with someone else.
If you have small children with you, keep them far away from the dog even if it appears friendly.
If you see a dog approaching traffic, you must consider the safety of yourself and other drivers. The dog may run into the road, but you cannot run into the road to follow it. This is a major safety concern in which you must keep yourself safe.
Do not corner the dog in a small or confined area. This can frighten and agitate the dog and make it act erratically.
 Staying calm is one of the most important things you can do in this situation.


Dogs are aware of others’ fear, which may agitate them or make them afraid.
Your concern should be your safety, the safety of the dog, and the safety of any others around you.
 This is true for any situation with an unknown dog. A dog’s instinct is to chase anything that is running from them. This is not necessarily an aggressive act, but can lead to confrontation.


If you plan to return to the area that you found the dog, you should speak in a soft and kind tone and back away from the dog.If the dog is aggressive, try to avoid any confrontation with the dog by backing away slowly.

