 The first finger positioning you can try uses both the middle and index fingers from both hands.









On each hand, stick the middle and index fingers together, while the thumb holds back the other two fingers.
Turn your hands so your thumbs are facing towards you, then touch both middle fingers together to form an "A" shape.;
, The second finger positioning is a little simpler.









Stick out the pinky finger on each hand, using your thumbs to hold the other fingers down.
Turn your hands so your thumbs are facing towards you. Touch your pinky fingers together to form an "A" shape., It is also possible to whistle using the fingers on just one hand.









Make an "OK" sign, by touching either the thumb and index finger of one hand together, or the thumb and middle finger of one hand together, whichever feels most comfortable for you.
Although you can use either hand to whistle with, you may find it easier to use your dominant hand, at least in the beginning.
 The first thing you need to do is moisten your lips to "wet your whistle". Then, pull your lips back over your teeth, as if imitating a toothless old man. Keeping your teeth covered by your lips is essential for successful finger whistling.
 Regardless of which finger position you're using, place the tips of your fingers underneath the very tip of your tongue.
 Use your fingers to push back the tip of your tongue, so that the first 1/4 rolls back on itself. Keep pushing until the first knuckles on your fingers reach your bottom lip.
 This step is essential when it comes to producing a clear, high-pitched whistle. There should be no gaps around your fingers at all, your lips should be completely sealed except for the hole in the middle, between your fingers. This is where the sound comes out.
 Now everything is in position, there's nothing left to do but blow! Blow softly at first, making sure that the air is only escaping through the gap between your fingers. If you feel it coming out anywhere else, you'll need to adjust the seal. Also make sure that your tongue doesn't pop up and block the gap, or this will prevent any sound from escaping.









Once you start hearing a sound similar to blowing over the top of a bottle, you'll know you're getting closer. Start blowing harder - this will help you to produce a more high-pitched sound., Whistling through your fingers won't come automatically, you'll need to keep practicing, experimenting with different finger positions and angles and making adjustments to your lip and tongue placement. Eventually, you'll find that "sweet spot" that produces a clear, loud whistle. Enjoy!








