 It can be easy to do things out of anger or hurt after a breakup. This is especially true when there is a bad situation after a breakup. But doing things out of revenge, jealousy, or desperation will only make things worse. Don’t try to do extreme things to make your ex realize that you two should be together.
For example, don’t stage an accident to make your ex see how much they need you. You could end up seriously hurt and your ex still might not come back.
Don’t bad mouth your ex or try to do things that make them look like a bad person. It will only make you seem angry and resentful.
 This is a way to allow yourself to express how you are feeling about the breakup without letting it consume your life.An ‘Obsession Diet’ helps you cope with a bad situation after a breakup because it limits the time you spend obsessing over the situation.


For the first few days after the breakup allow yourself to cry, grieve, rant, or do whatever you need to do to express how you are feeling for five minutes each hour.
After the five minutes are up, you have to wait until the next hour to obsess over the breakup.
The next week reduce it to four minutes an hour. Reduce the amount of time each week until you are done.
It is also important to avoid exposing yourself to your ex through social media. Un-friend your ex or stop following them to avoid triggering hurtful emotions.
Also, remove their pictures, clothing, and other reminders of your ex from the home.
 It is easy to lose yourself when you are a relationship and think more of ‘we’ than ‘me’. For example, you may forget that you like olives on your pizza because you and your ex always ordered meat only. After a breakup, especially if it was a long-term relationship, you may need to remind yourself of the things you like and don’t like.Make a list of activities you enjoyed before the relationship started. Try at least one thing on the list each month to discover what you still enjoy.
Explore interests and dreams that you have put on hold because of the relationship.
For example, if you’ve always wanted to go zip-lining but didn’t because your ex is afraid of heights, then go!

, You may be feeling down about yourself after the breakup, so remind yourself of your worth and all the great things about you.Do things and spend time with people that help you realize all of your positive qualities.


Make a list of all of your skills, traits, and qualities that make you the great person you are.
Read the list out loud to yourself in your mirror as often as you need to.
Do things like volunteer or become active in the community in order to give back and remind yourself you are a good person.

