 To do this, spend time with her when you can. The idea is to treat her as any other female friend. Listen to her problems, try to get to know her better, and spend time doing friendly activities such as going out to eat and watching movies.Don’t rush to gain her as a girlfriend or else she’ll view you as intrusive and only using her as tool for your own enjoyment.
Stay independent. If you become clingy, she’ll view you as a friend only and not relationship material.;
, If she feels positive emotions with you, she’ll think of you. Be attentive to her and go out and do the activities that the two of you can enjoy together. If she likes bowling but her boyfriend doesn’t, go with her. Avoid getting into arguments and neither encourage her relationship or talk negatively about her boyfriend.This may mean finding out about the weaknesses in her relationship and filling the gaps her boyfriend leaves. Listen intently to her complaints.
Finding commonalities is a great way to cement a connection. If she wants to try skydiving but you want to go on a safari, link the two by explaining that as a desire to go on an adventure.
If she wants to spend a lot of time with you, that is an indication that she is not satisfied with her relationship.
 Flirting is appropriate, but you must also treat her as an individual rather than a relationship object. To do this, listen to her and be encouraging. If she wants to be a photographer, for example, give her positive compliments and feedback. Remember there are no shortage of guys out there who will be interested in her for her appearance and will get in the way of her dreams, possibly including her boyfriend., Being clingy is a sure turn-off for her. Show that you’re confident and don’t need her. This is very helpful against girls who send mixed signals. For instance, if you’re in a class together where her flirting changed to coldness, talk to the other girls. Get them to laugh. Her jealousy can provoke her to action.After communicating with other girls, ask her to spend time with you such as at lunch in a week. If she has a hard time accepting the invitation, she’s probably not interested enough to go out with you.

