 Fudge is pretty sticky, so you won’t be pouring it directly into a pan. Instead, grease an 8-inch by 8-inch pan with a non-stick spray. Then, place a sheet of parchment paper or wax paper into the pan, making sure that it covers the bottom and sides completely, with a couple of inches to spare. Spray the paper with the non-stick cooking spray as well., Using a double boiler, or a homemade double boiler, start creating the chocolate mixture. Pour the chocolate chips, sweetened condensed milk, butter, bourbon, and vanilla into the top bowl. Set your stovetop to low heat so that the water in your double boiler begins to boil. Stir the ingredients as the chocolate begins to melt and the ingredients blend together.It’s important not to raise the heat too quickly, because the chocolate chips can burn easily.
Make sure to stir your mixture constantly as it’s on the stove.
 After everything is thoroughly mixed together, pour it into the pan you prepared. Use a rubber spatula to get all of the chocolate – you want to make as much fudge as possible! Smooth the surface of the fudge and make sure the entire pan is filled., You can make dulce de leche from scratch for this recipe. If you’d rather skip the extra work, you can also buy dulce de leche from your local grocery store (although you’d be more likely to find it in ethnic or specialty grocery stores). Warm the dulce de leche in your microwave until it is a consistency that can be easily poured., You can do this however you want. If you have a steady hand, you can make neat zigzagging stripes over your fudge. Otherwise, just pour it on! If you have enough dulce de leche, you can also certainly cover the entire pan of chocolate, so that there is a solid caramel layer at the top., The only thing missing from your salted caramel fudge is the actual salt. Instead of grabbing for regular table salt, sprinkle some coarse sea salt over the fudge. Not only will this taste better, but it’ll make your fudge look absolutely gourmet!, Place your pan in your refrigerator uncovered. The fudge will be cooled and ready to serve after about four hours. Ideally, you should leave it over night. This gives the caramel and chocolate type to really meld. After your fudge cools, it’ll be deliciously dense., The easiest way to cut through the dense dessert is with some warmth. Hold your knife under hot water for a couple of seconds, and then quickly dry it. Slice into your fudge immediately. Cut it into small squares, about half the size of a typical brownie (or even smaller). These are extremely rich., To keep your leftover fudge good, it’s best to store it in your refrigerator. It should be good for about two weeks. However, after you taste your fudge, it might not last that long! Enjoy.