 Many pets don't like being dressed up, and some are okay with it. Test out your pet when it comes to dressing them up, before you make it a part of their lives. Make sure the clothing is always their size. We don't want a medium sized dog choking on a small sized Shirt.;
, Make sure the carrier is in girly colors OR neon colors, like pink or neon green. The carrier should have a little leash attached to it on the inside, something to hook your diva's collar to.
 If you want a pro to do it, look for a dog groomer that should be perfect when it comes to how you want her to look. If it's a Chihuahua or a Yorkie, just a few brushes and a bow or two is all needed for your dog to look stylish.
 It's very confusing when your dog is named something but you keep giving her nicknames. For example, let's say your dog is named Lydia but you keep calling her cupcake, baby, princess, etc. Simply call her Lydia!

, A spoiled princess needs her room! Make sure you put some of her favorite fluffy toys in the bed so she'll feel protected. Remember, although your dog is a diva, she is also a DOG. Dogs need to feel welcome, protected, and loved.
 Nothing is better than a smart dog! Teach her how to sit, stay, and roll over. Then, once she is ready, train her to do something UNIQUE and helpful. Like closing the door when your hands are full of groceries, etc. She doesn't need to know everything in the world. But these are the RECOMMENDED tricks a dog should know to be called smart. So, three basic commands, one unique and helpful command.
 Your diva SHOULD be picky on what she eats. But that doesn't mean she gets gourmet food. You should feed her things like Beneful or Blue. It's okay to give her your leftovers every once in a while, but NOT all the time. If she begins to expect it every day, STOP FEEDING HER LEFTOVERS.
 The vet knows how to keep your dog healthy. A diva is not a diva if her health is like a stray dog's health! Make sure she is treated for worms if she has any, and give her all of her shots.
 Make sure your life is customized to let your dog go with you. For example, your local bank should be dog-friendly. The mall you go to should be dog-friendly. When you go on vacation, your hotel should be dog-friendly. Taking your dog everywhere makes her life full of fun. Being cooped up in the house all day is BORING.
 Nothing is better than winning a dog show! It only makes your pet even fancier if you win an award! Hang it up somewhere where your guests can see it, so that they are JEALOUS and think HIGHLY of your dog!

