 If you think your kids are too focused on gifts and the materialistic side of the holidays, then you may want to give gifts in a different way. You can set a limit on how many gifts your kids get each. You can outline these expectations at the beginning of the holiday season so they are aware of the limited gifts.Focus more on doing things together and making memories than on gifts. Don’t make shopping part of the family traditions. Instead, focus on being together.
Make homemade gifts with your family. This could be picture frames, art projects, or other crafts.
If your kids are old enough, talk to them about marketing and the capitalistic way companies use the holidays. Discuss the idea of getting too many presents or things we don’t need.
 Another way to help make the holidays meaningful is to help your kids volunteer in some way. Giving back to the community can help your children spread the spirit of the holidays.You and your kids can volunteer at soup kitchens to serve dinner for those less fortunate.
Get creative and make cards for local nursing homes or homeless shelters. You can also make cards to send overseas to those in the military.
Organize a visit to a nursing home or senior center. Your children can sing Christmas carols, give out cards, or help decorate.
Get your kids to go through their toys and fill a box of things they don’t want anymore to give to a local organization that helps those less fortunate.
 The holidays are a great time to help others. Ask your child to choose an organization or cause to donate to. This might be donating toys, clothes, or food to local donation drives. You might adopt a family to provide a Christmas for the children. As you do this together, make sure to talk about why you are doing it and the importance of giving back to the community.Some organizations allow you to donate money or gifts for families in other countries. If your child loves animals, you can donate to animal shelters or animal organizations.
You can encourage your child to drop money in donation buckets outside stores that you pass.

