 This will help guide the shape of your skirt. Cut out two even pieces for the front and back. Keep the front piece of fabric as one piece, and then cut the back piece in half down the middle.Use a pencil to write out your measurements, and use a ruler to accurately place the measurements., For the back, you will need to add a vent extension to provide you room to move your legs and walk. Add 1 1/4 inches to the bottom back edges of both back pieces where the slit will start and end. At the top of that extension, make a 45 degree angle that cuts up and back.To help you cut evenly, use a clear protractor.
 Once you have the proper measurements for the front and back pieces, cut them out, and use them to cut your fabric. Be sure to use sharp fabric scissors.
 Turn the fabric inside-out, and then sew about 5/8" inward along the sides of the skirt., You can decide to press the center back of the seam above the vent to the left or right side when you begin sewing the seam closed.When you get to the top of your skirt, don't sew it completely closed. Instead, baste the top where the zipper will go by using larger "temporary" stitches that will hold the fabric in place. These stitches can more easily be removed when needed.
 Most pencil skirts will have a better fit if they have a zipper. Place the zipper at the back of your skirt in the center. Sew on the zipper around the seam while it is still basted closed. After you sew on the zipper, you will be able to remove the larger stitches., Flip the bottom up by about 1", and tuck it inside the fabric so it is hidden. Sew the top of your skirt closed by also tucking it in about 1" inside the fabric. Make sure you do not sew closed your bottom slit or top zipper when finishing the hem lines., After you are finished, feel free to go back and make adjustments to the length or size if you feel the skirt is too small or too big. It is easy to take a skirt in, but letting a skirt out can be tricky. If you need more room, use a seam ripper to undo your seam lines, and sew closer to the edge.