 You may get extremely upset if you see someone you know or care about threatening to commit suicide. You should do what you can to help the person, but then let it go. Don’t let yourself get inappropriately emotionally invested in the situation. You cannot control what the person does, only what you do to help. Once you have helped, there is nothing more you can do.You can check up on the person and offer support as they deal with the aftermath of the suicide threat.
However, make sure to set up boundaries to protect your own mental health. Remember that you can only control your life and not the other person’s. To set up boundaries, start by addressing what is in your power to do. This may be calling 911, contacting their family, or reaching out to them and listening. Next, you should do what you can. Tell yourself, "These are the actions that are within my control to do." Then, remove yourself emotionally from the situation. You can only control what you do, not what they do. Remind yourself, "I have done what I could do. I am not in control of the other person. I now will have to let it go and take care of myself."

, You should not try to counsel the person yourself. Reaching out to the person, checking on them to gauge their mental status, and letting them know you care are important things you can do. However, you should let the professionals counsel the person.Don’t try to give the person advice or convince them not to commit suicide. You are not a trained suicide counselor, so you should leave that to the professionals. You may say something to trigger a negative response or something that may upset the person’s fragile emotional and mental state.
 If you have helped someone who threatened suicide on Facebook, the experience may have taken an emotional toll on you. You may want to discuss your experience and feelings with a trained counselor who can help you sort through any grief, guilt, or other negative feelings.


Even if the person is fine, getting involved may affect you. Instead of trying to “get over it” on your own, talk through the experience with someone trained in dealing with these situations.
You may say to the counselor, "I recently had someone I know threaten to commit suicide on Facebook. This really affected me. I cannot imagine the world without this person, and I keep worrying that they are going to go through with it. I know I am obsessing about this, and I need help to learn how to cope."

