 Your first draft, or "rough draft" of your final report is not meant to be perfect. Just do the best you can at including all the information you found about your animal when doing your research. Write one sentence at a time, and follow your outline.Make sure your paper is the right length. If you're supposed to turn in a 10-page paper, your rough draft should be about that long.
Keep your notes organized as you write. Make sure that you note all sources.
 When your draft is complete, go back through and check your spelling. If you have spellcheck on your computer, turn this on and check all words that are highlighted as "misspelled".Notice that your word may need to be added to your word program's dictionary if it doesn't recognize it. Sometimes words that appear misspelled to your computer are actually spelled correctly.
Look for habitually misspelled words. Everyone has certain words that she regularly misspells. If you know your own habits, you'll be more likely to avoid repeating your errors.
 Your computer's spellcheck doesn't check for grammar or parts of speech. When words have multiple spellings, such as they're, their or there, you'll need to identify the correct word by grammatical context.Read your paper aloud. You'll often notice out-of-place words or typos when reading aloud.
Make sure you've left enough time to carefully go through your paper before turning it in.
 Writing your final draft means going back and rewriting the rough draft of your paper, making all the changes in spelling and grammar that you've noticed. Follow the rules of good writing. Use active verbs, and don't make your sentences too long.Watch for fragment sentences, run-on sentences, and other common errors of writing.
Remember the tip of reading out loud. If you're not sure if a sentence is good or not, read it out loud. Your ear may be able to tell you what your eye can't.
Take a break as you need to.
 Your sources and references will all be available from your research notes. Don't forget to transfer these references to your final paper. Giving credit to your research sources is an important part of completing your animal report.If you are at a university, your teacher may want you to use a certain kind of citation, such as Chicago or MLA format. Make sure you know what's expected from your teacher.
If you aren't expected to use any particular format, just make sure that you're including the author's name, the title of the source you are using, and the date it was published.
 Once you've completed the writing, take a break to rest your eyes. Then, return and proofread to make sure that you've written the best paper you can write.Have you included the basics? Is your name on the report? If your teacher requires page numbers, are they included? Is your report legible?
Try to avoid proofreading at the very last minute before you must turn in your paper. Leave yourself time to make corrections if necessary.
Have a friend or your parent read it for you, if you have time. Sometimes another person will see errors you've missed.

