 Yeast infections can be found in areas such as the groin area, the folds of the buttocks, between the breasts, in your mouth and digestive tract, near the toes and fingers, and in the navel. In general, yeast thrives in places that are moister and have more nooks and crannies than other parts of the body.The red spots may become raised and begin to look like small, red pimples. Try to avoid scratching at these bumps; if you scratch them and they pop, the infection could spread to other parts of your body.
Note that babies commonly get yeast infections, which cause diaper rashes that bring about the redness and small bumps described above. This often appears in the skin creases, thighs and genital area and is caused most often by the moisture that's trapped in a dirty diaper when left on for too long.;
, The skin and area of your body that is affected by the yeast infection will feel itchy and hypersensitive to touch. It may also become irritated by clothes or foreign objects rubbing against the infected spot.The infection might also cause you to feel a burning sensation in and around the area that is infected.
 There are three main kinds of yeast infections: vaginal infections, skin infections, and throat infections. Each type of infection has its own specific symptoms in addition to the symptoms listed above.Vaginal yeast infection: If you have a vaginal yeast infection, which is generally what people refer to when they say they have a yeast infection, you may notice that your vagina and vulva have become red, swollen, itchy and irritated. You may feel a burning or painful sensation when you urinate or have sex. Vaginal yeast infections are also often, but not always, accompanied by a thick (like cottage cheese), white, odorless discharge in the vagina. Note that 75% of women will get a vaginal yeast infection at some point in their lives.Skin infection: If you have a skin infection on your hands or feet, you may notice a rashes, patches, and blisters between the toes or fingers. You may also notice white spots beginning to form on the nails of the affected appendages.Oral Thrush: Yeast infections in the throat are also referred to as oral thrush. You will notice that your throat has become red and there may be white blister-like bumps or patches forming on the back of your mouth near your throat and on the tongue. You may also notice cracks at the corners of your mouth (angular cheilitis) and have some difficulty swallowing., If you are experiencing any of the symptoms listed above for any of the potential types of yeast infection, you should see your doctor immediately for a firm diagnosis. This is particularly important if this is your first vaginal yeast infection.It's important to get the diagnosis confirmed since there are different types of vaginal infections that are often misdiagnosed by women as yeast infections. Indeed, research has shown that only 35% of women were able to correctly diagnose a yeast infection from their symptoms alone.


Once you've experienced a vaginal yeast infection and had it diagnosed by a physician, you can self-diagnose such infections in the future and cure them with over-the-counter treatments.Be aware that recurrent yeast infections can be a sign of a more serious underlying disorder, such as diabetes, cancer or HIV-AIDs.You should also call your physician if your symptoms don’t improve after three days, if you have a fever or any of the symptoms change (e.g., vaginal discharge increases or changes color, new rashes appear on your body, etc.)., If you suspect you may have a vaginal yeast infection, the most common type of yeast infection, and you have had one in the past, then you can take a pH test and self-diagnose at home. Normal vaginal pH is around 4, which is slightly acidic. Follow any instructions accompanying the test.To do the test, hold a piece of pH paper against the wall of your vagina for a few seconds. Compare the color of the paper to the chart provided with the test. The number on the chart for the color that best approximates the color of the paper is your vaginal pH number.
If the result is above 4, see your doctor. This is not indicative of a yeast infection, but could be a sign of another infection.
If the test result is below 4, it is probably a yeast infection.
 If a yeast infection is allowed to grow unchecked, it can develop a ring-like shape that can appear red or have no noticeable discoloration. This can occur in both vaginal and skin infections.This ring can actually cause hair loss, if the affected area is a hairy part of the body (such as a man’s beard, a scalp, or a groin area).
 Skin infections can spread to your nail beds if left unchecked. If the yeast infection on your skin affects the fingernails, it will begin to appear as a red, swollen and painful area around the fingernail. Eventually, your fingernail and nail may separate, revealing a discolored white or light yellow nail bed., Certain risk groups have an increased likelihood of having more complicated yeast infections, including:People who have had four or more yeast infections in a year
Pregnant women
People with uncontrolled diabetes
People with weakened immunity systems (due to medications or conditions such as HIV)

, Typically, most yeast infections result from the candida fungus Candida albicans. However, sometimes a different candida fungus may be responsible for the infection. This complicates the situation since most over-the-counter and prescribed treatments are designed to treat Candida albicans infections. As a result, non-Candida albicans infections generally require more aggressive treatments.Note that the only way to diagnose a different type of candida fungus is for your doctor to take a sample (a swab) and test it in order to identify the non-candida organism., Prolonged periods of antibiotic treatment not only kill the bacterial pathogen inside the body but can also kill the “good bacteria” in the body. This may cause an imbalance in the flora of the mouth, skin, and the vagina, which may cause the overgrowth of yeast.If you have been taking antibiotics recently and are experiencing burning and itching sensations, you might have a yeast infection.
 Pregnancy increases the sugar in vaginal secretions (brought about by estrogen and progesterone) which the yeast can thrive in. When yeast thrive, it causes an imbalance of the normal vaginal flora, which in turn causes a yeast infection., Illness, obesity, poor sleeping habits, and stress can increase the likelihood of developing a yeast infection.Obesity in particular is a potential risk factor since obese people have larger skin folds which are warmer and more moist than average-sized skin folds. These large skin folds make an ideal condition for yeast to thrive.
Obesity is also linked to the development of diabetes, which makes women doubly as likely to develop a yeast infection.
 Birth control pills and one-time "morning after" pills cause a change in hormone - mainly estrogen - levels, which in turn can bring about a yeast infection.The higher the dosage of estrogen in the contraceptive, the increased likelihood of yeast growth., A woman is most likely to develop a yeast infection around the time of her period. During menstruation, estrogen deposits glycogen (a type of sugar present inside cells) in the lining of the vagina. When progesterone surges, the cells shed in the vagina making sugar available for the yeast to multiply and grow.
 Douches are mostly used to clean the vagina after a period, but this practice is generally unnecessary and can even be harmful. According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, douching when done regularly can change the balance of the vaginal flora and the acidity of the vagina, thus disturbing the balance of good and bad bacteria. The level of bacteria helps maintain the acidic environment and its destruction can cause the overgrowth of the bad bacteria, which in turn causes yeast infections., Certain diseases or conditions correlate with yeast infections.


For example, having a suppressed immune system, due to HIV or a recent organ transplant, can cause yeast infections.Thyroid or endocrine disorders as well as uncontrolled diabetes also create an environment in your body that favors candidal growth.