 Measure out the flour, sugar, cocoa powder, salt, and spices. Put everything into a large mixing bowl and whisk together to combine. The more cocoa powder you use, the darker your cake will be.


For a twist, try brown sugar instead of white sugar.This recipe is eaten straight from the mug with a spoon. If you'd rather serve it on a plate, grease the mug with cooking spray first.
 Measure out the milk, egg, oil, and extracts. Pour everything into the bowl. If you are vegan, you can use a different type of milk, such as almond, coconut, or soy.


You can leave the egg out if you are vegan or simply wish for a lighter cake.
Add 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of espresso or strong coffee for a twist., Keep whisking until the batter is smooth. You should not see any streaks of unbroken egg yolk or clumps of flour or cocoa powder. Be sure to scrape the bottom of the bowl often.
 This recipe is enough to make one big microwave cake, or two smaller ones. The mug(s) needs to be able to hold at least twice as much batter. If the mug is not big enough, the cake will overflow as it rises. Use a rubber spatula to help guide the batter into the mug(s).
 You can add the chocolate chips now for extra chocolate-y goodness, or you can add them later, after you finish cooking the cake. You can also omit them altogether. For best flavor, use dark or bittersweet chocolate chips. They will help cut the sweetness of the cake.


You can garnish this hot chocolate cake with mini marshmallows. If you want them to be slightly toasted, sprinkle them on top of the batter now.
 Check the center of the cake by poking it with a toothpick. If the toothpick comes out with crumbs on it, cook the cake at 10-second intervals until the toothpick comes out clean.Don't overcook the cake, or it will come out too dry and crumbly.
 Use a pot holder or an oven mitt to take the mug(s) out of the microwave. Set them down on a heat-safe surface, and let them cool for about 5 minutes.
 Add a swirl of whipped cream on top of the mug cake. Garnish it further with a sprinkle of chocolate shavings, a shake of cocoa powder, a dusting of ground cinnamon, or a handful of sliced almonds.


Consider mixing and matching flavors. Try chocolate shavings with almonds, or cocoa powder and ground cinnamon!
If you greased the mug earlier, invert the cake onto a plate, then garnish it.

