 Your obstetrician, pediatrician, or midwife can offer valuable insight into the first months of your baby’s life. During the second or third trimester, you may want to have a serious talk with them regarding the care of your baby during their first months. Some questions you can ask include:


What should I expect in the first hour after the baby is born? First week? First month?
When should I feed the baby? How do I know when the baby has had enough to eat?
How long do babies sleep for?
How will I know if there is a problem with my baby?
What if my baby has colic? What do I do?
Is co-sleeping safe?

, While every baby develops at their own pace, there are some general guidelines for what the baby should be doing at certain ages. These are called milestones. Knowing the milestones can help you understand how the baby is developing as well as what kind of behavior is normal for their age.Three months: Lifting head, making eye contact, opening and closing their hand, smiling.

Four to six months: reaching for and holding objects, babbling, beginning to sit upright.

Seven to twelve months: crawling, picking up objects with the thumb and forefinger, pointing, communicating with hand signals.

Nine to Sixteen months: walking, talking.
 Most hospitals with a maternity ward offer classes to teach parents the basics of caring for a baby. These skills can include how to stop a baby from crying, how to breastfeed properly, how to swaddle your baby, and how to check their temperature.When you are registering with the hospital for your birth, ask them what classes are available. They will be able to give you more information about registering and taking classes.


It is best to take these classes before you have your baby. After your baby is born, you will be very busy caring for your baby, so it is important to learn about how to care for your baby before your baby is born.
 When learning about your baby-to-be, one decision you will have to make is whether or not you will breastfeed. There are many reasons why people decide to both breastfeed and bottle feed, and you will want to make the best decision for your baby and lifestyle.



Breastfeeding offers a free form of food to your baby. Breastmilk has important vitamins for your baby as well as antibodies that ward off disease. Breastfeeding can reduce the risk of SIDS and improve eye and brain development in babies.There is also a reduced risk for ovarian and breast cancers in women who breastfeed. Breastfeeding is also better for the environment, since it reduces or eliminates the need for packaging.Bottle feeding allows your baby to be fed without having to pump milk. It may be convenient for some working mothers as a family member or friend can feed the baby while they are at work. Bottle feeding is also a good option for babies who have trouble latching onto the breast or for mothers on certain types of medication., If you choose to breastfeed, you may want to seek the advice of a lactation consultant. A lactation consultant can help teach you how to feed your baby, encourage baby weight gain, and store breastmilk. They can also help you any breastfeeding problems, such as painful nursing or latching issues.You can find a lactation consultant at hospitals, or you can find one through the International Lactation Consultant Association.Your doctor may also be able to refer you to one.
La Leche League is a good resource for up to date articles and other information about breastfeeding.