 Fiber is made up of the parts of plant foods that your body can't digest, but instead pass without absorbing. Most people get only a small portion of the 20 to 40 mg of fiber that is recommended for healthy digestion. Your body needs both soluble fiber, which dissolves in water to form a gel-like consistency, and insoluble fiber, which does not dissolve in water.Get more soluble fiber by eating more oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, and barley. This will also help control your cholesterol and blood sugar levels.
Eat more insoluble fiber by adding whole-wheat flour, wheat bran, nuts, beans, and vegetables like cauliflower and green beans to your diet. Increasing your intake of insoluble fiber will help keep your bowel movements regular and combat constipation.
Many plant foods contain both soluble and insoluble fibers, so you can easily maximize your intake of both by eating a diet filled with diverse grains and vegetables.
High fiber foods are generally low in calories and they will also help you control your weight, lower your blood sugar and cholesterol levels, and reduce your risk of hemorrhoids.;
, The combination of high fiber and water will increase the efficiency of your digestion by helping to soften and break down foods so your body can absorb the nutrients. It will also soften your stool and make regular bowl movements easier.Doctors sometimes recommend eight 8-oz. glasses per day (1.9 l), but the amount you need will vary with your body weight, how active you are, and what climate you live in.
If you get headaches in the evening, feel tired, lightheaded, nauseous, and sweat very little even when it is hot, you might need to drink more water.Other signs of dehydration include reduced urine output and urine that is darker than usual., A healthy digestive tract has many species of microorganisms which help break down food. Eating fermented products like yogurt, kefir, kimchi, natural sauerkraut, temphe and kombucha will help replenish and balance the bacterial community in your digestive system.Not only will this combat diarrhea and constipation, but it may also improve or prevent several other health conditions:


Diarrhea after antibiotics have killed some of the naturally occurring gut bacteria
Irritable bowel syndrome
Vaginal yeast infections and urinary tract infections
Colds and flu

, It is best to do this in consultation with a doctor because supplements may alter how your body absorbs some medications. A doctor will help you adjust the dosages to be right for you.


Take prebiotic supplements. These supplements will help you get enough fiber in your diet, promote the growth of healthy gut bacteria, and alleviate constipation.You should make sure you area also eating prebiotic foods such as oatmeal or berries.
Try probiotics. Probiotics are bacteria and yeasts that are similar to those naturally occurring in your digestive tract and aid digestion. Probiotic supplements can help treat diarrhea, irritable bowel syndrome, and ulcers.Add essential vitamins to your diet. Essential vitamins are those that your body needs to function properly. They include A, B, C, and D vitamins. Adequate vitamin levels are necessary for your body to process proteins, carbohydrates, and fatty acids, absorb iron, and maintain immune functions. Supplements can help you avoid deficiencies., Not only can these substances cause stomachaches in high quantities, but they slow digestion, causing constipation.


Eat less prepackaged, processed foods. They often have high quantities of sugar, as well as salt and fat, added to them. They will also prevent you from being hungry for healthier foods, like high fiber foods., What is good for the entire body is good for the digestive system. Exercise will reduce stress, control your weight, and help your intestines to contract normally, moving food through your system.The activity should be strenuous enough to increase your heart rate. Do something you enjoy like fast walking, jogging, or biking.
If you have other health concerns like high blood pressure or heart problems, discuss any new exercise plans with your doctor before starting.
 This will prevent you from getting extremely hungry and eating too much.Eat slowly to give your body time to register that you have eaten and signal to you that you are no longer hungry. Eating too fast makes it more likely that you will eat larger amounts before you realize you are full, causing uncomfortable stomach stretching and painful bloating.
Eat these small meals at the same time every day so that your body can anticipate the meal and physiologically prepare.
 What foods people don't tolerate may vary greatly from person to person.Try keeping a food diary to discover if there are any foods that upset your GI system. Write down what you ate at each meal and then write down any symptoms that develop. Try eliminating groups of food that may trigger upset and see if your digestive health improves. Types of foods that are frequent triggers include:


Fatty foods like cheese, deep-fried foods, and fast food
Highly acidic foods including coffee, tea, tomatoes, vinegar, and citrus fruits (lemons, limes, grapefruits)
Gassy foods such as beans, cabbage, or carbonated drinks
Spicy foods
Gluten/wheat
Dairy, soy, corn, and fructose

, Salt causes your body to retain water, making you feel bloated. , People who are lactose intolerant do not produce enough of the lactase enzyme and so cannot digest lactose, the sugar found in milk and other dairy products. Symptoms include bloating, cramping, gas, diarrhea, and nausea 30 minutes to two hours after consuming milk products.
If these symptoms occur, try avoiding milk, cheese, ice cream and other milk products.
Thoroughly boil milk before drinking it. This will break down the lactose.
Take lactase capsules before eating milk products. The capsules will supply you with the necessary enzyme for digesting the milk.
Substitute milk with products that don't have lactose, like soy or rice milk.
 Avoiding eating late at night or right before bed often helps people reduce acid reflux and heartburn.


Frequent, small meals keeps your digestive system busy without overloading it.
 These proteins are essential for healthy muscles, but lean cuts are less likely to cause heartburn and will be quicker to digest.
 Smoking can damage the valve at the bottom of the esophagus leading to frequent heartburn.


Stopping smoking will also reduce your risks of ulcers and cancers, including those of the digestive system., Excessive drinking can lead to inflammation of the stomach lining, ulcers, cramping, bleeding, abdominal pain, heartburn and acid reflux. Other organs involved in digestion such as the pancreas, liver, and gallbladder may also be damaged., Caffeine may cause an increase in acidity in the stomach that can lead to high levels of heartburn and acid reflux.
 Stress has been shown to cause weight gain, constipation, diarrhea and a lowered immune system. It will leave you prone to the h. pylori bacteria that causes ulcers.



Yoga, meditation, massage, baths and other relaxation techniques can help you to handle stress and inadvertently help your digestion.
Regular exercise will also release endorphins and help you relax.
 See a doctor right away if you show any of the following symptoms:Severe heartburn that is not helped by medication
Incontinence
Diarrhea or constipation that doesn't go away
Abdominal pain that interferes with your daily life
Vomiting
Bloody or black stool
Sudden weight loss

, Your doctor will probably ask you what you eat and what symptoms you have.Record everything you ate, how much you ate, when you ate it, and how your system responded.
This will help you and your doctor identify patterns indicating that certain foods might be triggers for you.
 If you are having GI issues, it's important you take a look at your poop before visiting the doctor, as this can actually provide him with a lot of information. You can look at a Bristol Stool Scale to determine what kind of poop you have and how to describe it and talk about it with your doctor. This information can help your doctor determine how quickly food is passing through your body and may give clues toward certain digestive problems., This is a physician who specializes in the gastrointestinal tract and liver. A Gastroenterologist can determine if you have reflux, motility problems, colon polyps, gallbladder disease or an infection, for which she can test with endoscopy and biopsy.
 If you are allergic, you will probably develop a raised bump.
An elimination diet in which you stop eating all foods you suspect to be allergens for one to two weeks (until the symptoms disappear). Then you add the food items slowly back into your diet, one by one. When the symptoms return, you know that that food is triggering your digestive problems.
A blood test to measure your immune response to various foods.
An oral food challenge in which the doctor will monitor your reaction as you eat foods that are potential allergens.

