 Clean your nails with a manicure brush and wipe away any old polish with acetone or nail polish remover. Trim and file your nails down to a shape that suits you.


If you don't have a steady hand, apply some petroleum jelly to your cuticle area. This way, you can wipe it off at the end.;
, Start by applying the base coat to just the tip of your nail first, then apply them over the entire nail. This helps further protect you nail and help the manicure last longer.
 This will be the base of your geodes, so make sure that it is flat and not shimmery or sparkly. Depending on how thick or sheer the polish is, you may need two coats.Consider adds some depth to the outside edges with a darker shade of grey polish., As your first coat dries, you can start planning out your geodes and setting out your supplies.
 Choose a bright, gem-like purple, and stay away from dark or pastel shades.The wavy line does not have to be dead-center. You can have it touch the side of your nail instead.You don't have to paint a geode on every nail. Try it on an accent nail, such as the ring finger.
 Pour out a few drops of clear nail polish that has chunky, iridescent glitter flecks in it onto a small tray. Use a toothpick to stir in a few pinches of light and dark purple nail art glitter. Apply the mixed polish over the purple, wavy line on your nail with a small brush., Use a thin brush to apply shimmery white polish to the outer side edges of the wavy, purple like. For a more realistic effect, pour out a few drops clear polish onto a small tray. Add in a few drops of white, pearly polish, and a pinch of iridescent nail art glitter. Stir everything together with a toothpick, and use that instead.Try to blend the line into the purple part of your manicure, but not the grey part.
 You can apply these using nail art glue. You can also paint your nail with a thin coat of clear polish, then apply the rhinestones on top. For a more organic look, use a combo of crystals and chunky nail glitter/foil pieces., Dip a fine, pointy, nail art brush into acrylic paint. Carefully outline the space between the grey and the purple polish. Move onto the next step quickly, before the paint dries.If you are doing geodes on all of your nails, do one nail at a time. The paint must be wet for the next step.
 Before the paint dries, dip the brush into water, then trace over the line. This will help blur the line., Use the same technique as you did for the black acrylic paint: outline a few spots in white, then blur them with a clean, wet paintbrush. You do not need to outline everything in white. Less is more here., Lightly some white, grey, and black polish on a little tray so that you get streaks. Use a makeup wedge sponge to tap this mixture onto your other, non-accent nails.


You should only do this on the nails you left grey., Make sure that you use a glossy top coat, or you will dull down the crystalline sparkle of your nail. If you added mini rhinestones, apply the top coat to just the rhinestones first, then over the entire nail.
 Take a close look at your nails. If you got any polish on your finger or cuticle, wipe it away using a thin brush dipped in nail polish remover or acetone. If you applied petroleum jelly earlier, wipe it off.

