 If you're planning on delivering at a hospital, you'll be surrounded by a trained support staff. If you're planning on a home birth or birth center birth, talk with your doula or midwife about what urgent medical services are available if a complication comes up.

For example, many birth centers are located next to a hospital. This makes transportation to the hospital for urgent treatment very easy.
 Before your due date, talk with your health care provider and support person about possible complications that could come up during labor. Ask about the likelihood of complications, how they're usually handled, and talk about how you'd like them managed.Ask your health care provider if they have a birth plan they'd like you to fill out. You can discuss your responses to ensure that you're agreed about the treatment you'll get.
 It's easy to read about complications and become fearful about labor. Remind yourself that you're prepared to give birth and you've surrounded yourself with people who know your wishes. Keep a positive mindset and realize that you and your baby will be cared for whether or not you develop complications during labor.For example, instead of saying, "I will not get a C-section under any circumstances," you might say, "I hope to avoid a C-section, but would accept one if the health of my baby is compromised."

, It's difficult to know how your labor will actually progress. This is why it's important to be open to suggestions from your health care providers. If a complication comes up, you may be urged to try a different labor strategy.

For example, if you plan on laboring on a birthing ball, but the baby is turned differently (malpositioned), you may be told to labor on your knees in an attempt to help the baby turn.
 If complications arise, your support partner may feel like they don't know how to help you. Make it clear in your birth plan how your support partner can be there for you and your baby. For example, you might have your support partner:Stay with you during a C-section
Hold the baby if doctors are caring for you
Contact family members to discuss the labor

, Before you go into labor, talk with friends or family members about how they can help out. You'll probably have people offer to bring you meals or help out once the baby arrives. If complications arise during labor and you'd like additional support, have your support person call these people and explain what's going on.

For example, your support network could show up and provide emotional support after a difficult labor. Or you could ask them to look after your other kids if your labor is prolonged or you end up needing a C-section.

