 The cardstock will be the size of your finished envelope. The envelope can be made in any size you desire. For a standard vertical envelope, try making the cardstock 7.5 by 10.5 inches (19.05 by 26.67 cm). You may also make a horizontal one using a measurement such as 9.5 by 10 inches (24.13 by 25.4 cm).These measurements are meant to include a one inch (2.54 cm) flap at the top.
Cardstock, along with all other supplies, can be found at craft stores.;
, Patterned paper is thicker than printer paper and looks better, but you can still use printer paper or junk mail. Hold the cardstock against the paper. On three sides, cut the paper slightly longer than the cardstock.The fourth side should be the one that matches up with the cardstock flap.
 The bubble wrap needs to fit inside the envelope. For the 7.5 by 10.5 inch envelope, cut the bubble wrap down to 6 by 9 inches (15.24 by 22.86 cm). By making the bubble wrap shorter, you can glue the ends of the cardstock together to prevent the envelope from opening.

Instead of bubble wrap, you may also use packing foam sheets. Cut out a piece, fold it in half, tape up the sides, and glue it between the cardstock and paper., Lay the paper facedown. Spread glue around the outside edge of the paper, forming a border. Any glue can be used to fasten the parts of the envelope, but a stronger adhesive, such as rubber cement, works best., Choose one piece of bubble wrap and line it up with the top edge of the paper. Keep the bubble side facedown and set it in the glue., Lay the cardstock flat, leaving the side you will use as a flap at the top. Spread an inch or two (about seven cm) of glue across the bottom edge. Next, apply glue about an inch below the top edge of the cardstock. Spread a line of glue from side to side, taking care not to put glue on the part above that will serve as the flap., Line up the top edge of the second bubble wrap sheet and the top strip of glue on the cardstock. Again, keep the bubble side facedown as you secure the wrap to the cardstock., Look at the bottom edge of the cardstock. Aim about ¼ of an inch (6/10 cm) from the left and right sides. Using scissors, cut diagonally upwards to the edge of the bubble wrap. Do this on both sides., Lay the cardstock flat with the bubble wrap facing upwards. Pick up the paper with the attached bubble wrap. Align the corners of the bubble wrap over one another., Work one edge at a time. While holding the envelope still with your palms, press two fingers on the center of the left or right edge. Move your fingers towards the corners. Repeat this with the opposite edge and then the bottom edge.

Run a rounded object such as a pen over the edges to make sure they stay attached.
 Use scissors to cut off excess paper hanging off the edges. On the flap, you can make diagonal cuts to take off the corners. Then, try using a scoring tool or empty pen to create a folding line on the bottom of the flap.