 What is more likely is that through its immune system-boosting power, vitamin C provides extra defense against cold-causing pathogens, so it may ease the cold and perhaps shorten its duration, but it's not likely to prevent it.;
, Most people should be able to get adequate vitamin C from a healthy, nutritionally optimized diet. If you're eating nothing but fast food, you probably aren't going to get a beneficial amount of vitamin C as part of your diet. However, simply changing your diet for the better can help you increase vitamin C intake.


Since vitamin C counteracts some of the inhibitors in foods, such as phytates in whole grains and tannins in teas and coffee,increasing your vitamin C intake can also help optimize your diet for a healthier lifestyle.
 Stress can be brought about due to a depletion of vitamin C, and ongoing stress uses up vitamin C rapidly,so eating foods high in vitamin C or taking a vitamin C supplement when you are feeling stressed can be a positive contribution to your diet and well-being. If you are aware of what you are consuming and the micronutrients that those foods contain, you can adjust your diet to ensure that you are getting enough natural vitamin C.
 While you should always raise health concerns with your doctor or health professional directly, the following signs can accompany a vitamin C deficiency: bleeding gums and nose, poor healing of cuts, fatigue, and lowered immunity to infection.These symptoms do not necessarily indicate a vitamin C deficiency, but you can speak with your doctor if you are concerned.


A severe deficiency of vitamin C, in fact, can result in a disease called scurvy, which is caused when your body cannot produce collagen or absorb iron due to a vitamin C deficiency.While fewer people in developed countries suffer from vitamin C deficiency to this extent, its onset can be very fast if vitamin C is not in the diet for about four weeks.Those susceptible to scurvy include the elderly, illicit drug users, alcoholics, the mentally ill, dependents given inadequate care, those suffering from eating disorders such as anorexia or bulimia, smokers (smokers need more vitamin C to deal with the added stress on the body), and fussy eaters., Vitamin C does not stay in the body; it needs to be constantly replenished. A big meal of oranges today will boost today's vitamin C, but tomorrow you'll need more.It is thought that adults need a minimum of around 45 mg of vitamin C per day,with the optimal amount being around 90 mg for men, 75 mg for women and teen males, and 65 mg per day for teen girls.Additionally, pregnant and nursing mothers need 75g – 120 mg per day.


Whatever vitamin C you consume in excess of your daily allowance is usually excreted, and high doses of vitamin C are not considered to be toxic, but they do increase iron absorption which can be a problem for for people suffering from hemachromatosis, an iron overload disease.Therefore, if you are already eating a balanced diet, it is unnecessary to take a vitamin C supplement.
Also, too much vitamin C can cause abdominal pain, nausea, headaches, fatigue, kidney stones, and diarrhea., Getting enough vitamin C in your diet is key to getting all its benefits. Vitamin C supplements are measured in micrograms—see part one for the required amounts of vitamin C for different people. Many foods contain vitamin C, and consuming these can help you increase your vitamin C intake.
, Citrus is an especially good source of vitamin C. One cup of grapefruit, for instance, provides an entire day's worth of vitamin C, while a glass of orange juice is the equivalent of 165 percent of your daily vitamin C intake. Fresh squeezed orange juice or a physical orange is better for you than processed orange juice.


What's more, the vitamin C in citrus will help curb stress by lowering stress hormone levels and possibly by reducing blood pressure, boost your energy by helping you to absorb iron better, and provide other essential phytonutrients that work in tandem with vitamin C, some of which aid memory., Check out the nutritional chart produced by your government's health department with respect to recommended daily intake of vitamin C. You'll be surprised how easy it is to vary your diet to include plenty of vitamin C sources. In the United States, the National Institutes of health have some recommendations., Vitamin C does not last in storage, so it is steadily lost the longer it is stored.As such, be prepared to eat your food as fresh as possible rather than leaving it to linger in the refrigerator or pantry. For example, leaving your broccoli in the fridge and then boiling it will reduce the vitamin C content considerably, compared to freshly picking the broccoli and steaming it that same day.


It's good to grow your own vegetables if possible, even if you just grow broccoli on a balcony or potatoes in a bag or barrel.

Wash fresh fruits and vegetables and then allow them to dry. Store them in an airtight container in the refrigerator and eat them within a few days.
Do not soak them or store them in water because the vitamin C dissolves out of the plant into the water. Vitamin C also leaches out in cooking water., Fresh food is the best source of vitamin C and most fruit and vegetables contain vitamin C. In particular, aim to eat food from the cabbage family, red and green peppers, potatoes, blackcurrants, strawberries, citrus fruit, and tomatoes., Eat the vegetables raw or steam them, using only a small amount of water to maximize the amount of vitamins the vegetables retain.


Have a salad with spinach leaves instead of lettuce. Spinach is a better source of vitamin C when eaten raw. Toss in green and red bell peppers and tomatoes for added vitamin C. Vegetables lose micronutrients when cooked.
 Potatoes are also a good source of vitamin C. In spite of what you may have heard, the skin does not have the highest concentration of vitamin C, but its fiber is good for you. When having a baked potato, be sure to also eat the skin.
 Juice is calorie dense and you lack the roughage and other benefits of eating the fruit when consuming it as juice. However, you can enjoy juice as a means of increasing your vitamin C intake by doing the following:


Juice with pulp is better for you than juice without it because vitamin C is better absorbed if it is consumed in the presence of bioflavonoids, which are found mostly in fruit pulp., Make fresh squeezed orange juice or purchase frozen concentrate instead of premixed, ready-to-drink refrigerated cartons. Frozen concentrates have significantly more vitamin C in them because the pasteurization process destroys some of the vitamin C in premixed juices.


Make your own vitamin C booster by making rosehip syrup.As an added bonus, this syrup is one that children will like.
 There are lots of brands of vitamin C supplements in pill form available over-the-counter. These supplements come in various doses, and you should take the dose that best corresponds your needs.Speak with a pharmacist if you are unsure of the dosages, etc.
 Topical preparations of vitamin C can be good for the skin. Some studies have investigated whether topical supplements might even have a rejuvenating effect on aged or wrinkled skin., Some vitamin C supplements are available in pleasant-tasting chewable tablets. These supplements should be chewed thoroughly and swallowed., Vitamin C lozenges are also available for vitamin C supplementation. These lozenges usually taste quite good. Allow lozenges to dissolve on tongue completely. Other indications include not eating, drinking, or smoking while lozenges are dissolving.These lozenges can be great when you aren't feeling well because of vitamin C's positive effect on your energy and immune system.

