 If you are co-parenting your children, it may help to delegate some of the social activities to them. Perhaps your spouse, partner, or the children’s other parent doesn’t mind attending birthday parties or school festivals. When they take them out to planned events, you’ll have extra downtime to recharge your batteries and regroup.


Sit down with them and say, “I know the kids need socialization, but all these social events are too much for me. Do you mind taking them to some of them each week to give me a break?”, Play-dates and get-togethers hosted by parents aren’t the only way to help your child learn adequate social skills. Afterschool activities in the form of sports, drama, music, or various clubs and organizations can help your child feel more connected to other children at school. In addition, these groups help children meet kids with similar interests and develop new abilities.Sign your young child up for a music or sports program in which you can drop them off. This gives you a much-needed break and also allows them to develop relationships outside of family.
 Events held in your local community also serve as platforms for friendship-making. Does your area have a 4-H Club, Boys or Girl Scouts, or a range of other interactive organizations? Do you attend religious or spiritual gatherings?


Getting your child involved in community events through various organizations helps them learn the value of volunteerism and servant leadership while presenting a range of opportunities to learn, meet new friends, and build self-esteem., Sometimes, a potential friend is much closer than you think. If the idea of going out into the community and organizing play-dates makes you want to climb back into bed, you could consider introducing your kids to friends they can naturally hang out with. Family members such as the kids of your siblings or cousins, the children of in-laws, and the neighbors’ kids are all possible outlets for socialization.


The perk of these connections is that you really don’t have to stray too far from your comfort zone for your kid to be engaged. Walk over and introduce your child to the neighbors’ kids and plan a play-date. Or, invite your extended family over for Sunday dinner and make sure they bring their kids along.

