 Before you begin any sort of treatment, you should see a doctor to make sure that what you are experiencing is eczema and not something else, such as psoriasis or a fungal infection. Your doctor can help you decide on the best course of treatment and may even refer you to a specialist if your hand eczema is severe. , To determine the cause of your eczema, your doctor can have your skin patch tested to check for possible allergies. If you suspect that your hand eczema might be caused by an allergen, talk to your doctor about getting patch tested. The results of the patch test will help you to know what substance or substances are causing your eczema so that you can avoid them.During the patch test, your doctor will apply a substance to a patch and apply the patch (or patches) to your skin to determine which ones are causing your eczema. The test itself will not hurt, but it may cause some pain and irritation due to the substances and how they react with your skin.Nickel is a common irritant that can cause eczema flare-ups. Patch-testing can check for a nickel allergy.
It may also be helpful to compile a list of the products you use on or near your hands on a regular basis. This list may include soaps, moisturizers, cleaning products, and any special substances that you may come into contact as part of your work or home routines.
 Your doctor may recommend that you use a 1% hydrocortisone ointment to help treat your eczema. This ointment is available over the counter and by prescription. Ask your doctor for recommendations if you are not sure what to look for.


Most hydrocortisone ointments are meant to be applied while skin is still damp, such as after a shower or after washing your hands. Make sure to follow the product instructions for the hydrocortisone ointment that your doctor recommends.Stronger topical corticosteroids may be needed in some cases as well, but will require a prescription from your doctor. , Eczema often causes extreme itchiness, but it is important that you do not scratch your hands to relieve the itching. Scratching can cause eczema to get worse and you may also break the skin in the process, which can lead to infections. If your hands are itchy, use a cold compress to soothe them instead.To make a cold compress, wrap a hand towel or a paper towel around an ice pack or plastic bag filled with ice.
You can also try keeping your nails trimmed and filed to help prevent yourself from scratching and making your eczema worse., In some cases, over the counter oral antihistamines can help treat occasional hand eczema. Keep in mind that these drugs may cause drowsiness, so you might not want to take them during the day or when you have lots of things to do. Ask your doctor if taking over the counter oral antihistamines might be a good solution to your hand eczema., Eczema can sometimes cause infections due to the openings caused by blisters, cracks, and lesions on your skin. If your skin is red, hot, swollen, and/or painful or if it does not respond to eczema treatments, you might have an infection. Be sure to ask your doctor if you might need an antibiotic to treat an infection caused by your eczema.Do not take antibiotics unless your doctor prescribes them. Using antibiotics when they are not needed can make them less effective when you do need them.
Take the full round of antibiotics that your doctor prescribes. Even if your infection seem to be cured, the infection may come back and be more difficult to treat if you do not take the full prescription., In some cases, hand eczema might not respond to over-the-counter topical creams and making lifestyle changes. In cases like these, your doctor may need to prescribe a systemic (rather than topical) corticosteroid or an immunosuppressant drug. These options should not be considered until you have tried to control your eczema by other means because the drugs may have negative side effects., If your eczema does not respond to any of the other treatment options, you may consider talking to your doctor about a prescription topical immunomodulator cream. Elidel and Protopic are prescription creams that have been approved by the FDA to treat eczema. These drugs change the way that your immune system responds to certain substances, so they may help if nothing else works.


These creams are usually safe, but may have severe side effects in rare cases, so they should be reserved as a last resort., Some skin diseases, including eczema, respond well to phototherapy, or exposure to controlled ultraviolet light. It is best used after traditional topical approaches have failed, but before systemic approaches.The treatment is effective in 60-70% of patients, but may take several months of consistent treatment before improvement is seen.