 The baseline for how much you should tip your server in the United States is at least 15 percent when eating in a restaurant. However, this is generally considered the minimum. If you leave anything less than this, it’s likely the server will be very offended.


Be aware that tipping only the basic 15 percent is considered a statement that the service was just average or OK to some servers. Consider tipping more if you thought the service was better than average.
Consider tipping 20 percent if the service was good, 25 percent if the service was great, and 30 percent if the service was exceptional.Some people believe you should also tip $2 for each person at the table if that amount is higher than the tip percentage would be.;
, Some people struggle to figure out how much 15 percent is exactly. You can use an easy math shortcut to determine the amount you need to leave!


To figure out the tip, you will need to do a simple mathematical equation. Some suggest rounding the bill up to the nearest $10 before figuring out the tip on the total.Move the decimal point to the left on your final bill amount. That’s 10 percent. So, if your bill is $55.00, 10 percent is $5.50. To figure out 15%, take half of $5.50 and add it to the $5.50. Thus, 15 percent would be $8.25.
To calculate 20 percent, shift the decimal point on your bill amount to the left. Round up. For example, $35.84 would become $3.58. Remember, that’s 10 percent. Then, double the number to get 20 percent.
 There will be some circumstances where the tip will already be factored into your bill. In those cases, you don’t need to tip again.


Typically, the gratuity will be 15 or 18 percent when it’s automatically included. Some restaurants have a rule that the tip is automatically included when large groups dine. It will usually say “gratuity included” on your bill or the menu in those cases.
This is done because if even one or two people in the group were to skimp on the tip, the server would be unlikely to make the basic amount.
Large groups are very time consuming for a server and more work. You should ask in advance or check the menu or restaurant website to see if the gratuity is included.

