 If you don't have any best/closest friends, make some! Only attract good and nice people into your life that will be loyal and surely support you through thick and thin. Trust is the base of all good and mutual friendship.;
, The first rule in popularity is to socialize. Be cool, laid-back and polite towards everyone you see (even if movies like MEAN GIRLS express that you don't have to be this way). This can begin with your partner in class, people sitting on your table. Just a quick "hey" or even a COMPLIMENT can work its magic in no time! But this rule doesn't apply with the person you're talking to is really annoying/rude.
 Even if you're not a tomboy, boys can be pretty cool to hang out with. This doesn't necessarily mean you have to have a boyfriend but even a friendly flirt will get you closer and also expand your clique to.
 Parties are ace for socializing but even if you don't get invited to one (which I doubt highly!), have your own! It might not be an actual dance boy/girl party, but a shopping spree, cinema trip or even a sleepover. But be known for having the best get-togethers ever; this way people will want you to invite them too!

, This is the ugly truth- people generally dislike dull, boring, shy and quiet people. People like wild, funny, loud, kind and daring girls who brighten up everyone's day. Doing something as simple as walking up to a complete stranger and saying something random will make people think you're confident and collected.
 Ignore them as much as possible but if they really get to you, STAND UP FOR YOURSELF!!! Shoot them an icy look and say something short, sweet and sharp that'll make them feel small. Look at some of the stereotypical bitchy people on the TV: Marc St. James (the guy receptionist) on UGLY BETTY, Kelly Jones (the Head Girl) from St. Trinians, Alex Russo on WIZARDS OF WAVERLEY PLACE and Mercedes and Kurt on GLEE. They're not afraid to stick up for themselves or their friends. Plus you don't to even fight. If your foe looks like she's about to throw a fist or give a slap or whatever, just say something like, "It's a shame you have to stoop so low that you're willing to fight me. Poor you" or even, "Well I guess this means I'm the bigger person here". That'll teach them.
 Everyone loves an all-rounder. So get stuck in in activities and clubs like orchestra, the school paper, the sports team or if there is one- a dance/prom committee. Your name will be on everyone's lips. It's a promise.
 By now, at least SOME girls will look up to you. Instead of taking advantage of that, acknowledge it. Ask them to join your table at lunch, say hi, create a handshake or even compliment them. Say things like, "Your hair looks really cute like that!" or "Hey, I love your top! Where'd you get it?" They'll feel so appreciated.

