 If you are prone to frequent boils, or your boils do not go away with treatment, you should consult with a doctor to rule out any underlying conditions that may be causing your boils, such as undiagnosed diabetes, anemia or infection. Your doctor can also prescribe or recommend additional preventative measures. These could include oral antibiotics, topical treatments, and iron supplements.You should also see a doctor if your boils return, if they last longer than 2 weeks, you develop a boil on your face or spine, the boil is painful, or you have a fever along with the boil., Some people who suffer from frequent boils or cystic acne may require a course of oral antibiotics to eradicate any infections in the body that may be causing them.A six-month course of the antibiotics tetracycline, doxycycline, or erythromycin are most commonly prescribed to eliminate boils and problem acne.
 Some people are unfortunately carriers of staph infections, which commonly live in the nose. If your doctor suspects you may be a carrier, she can give you an antibiotic cream or nasal spray to use daily for several days. This will help eliminate the staph colony in your nose and prevent the spread of infection to your own skin and to other people through sneezing, exhaling, etc., If regular antibacterial soap is not helping or is bothering your skin, your doctor may be able to prescribe a more effective, or gentler alternative. Topical antibiotics can also be prescribed to apply to boil-prone areas, or open wounds.
 MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) is a strain of staph that has become antibiotic-resistant, making it much harder to treat. It is often picked up in hospitals and other healthcare settings, such as nursing homes. However, it can also be spread by skin-to-skin contact, such as during sports activities.Boils occur with MRSA infections. Other signs to look for include abscesses (collections of pus in your skin),carbuncles (lumps that often contain pus and fluid),and impetigo (thick, crusted boils that itch). If you think you may have a MRSA infection, see your doctor as soon as possible.

