 Being able to swim proficiently does not mean a child (or adult) cannot drown. Learning about water safety at swim lessons does not mean that they will not do something unsafe the very same day. Let your children learn the basic water safety rules and review them anytime they need to go in a spa or pool., While it's a bad idea for anyone to swim alone, for children, it should be a hard and fast rule. Never let children swim without adult supervision, no matter whether they're at the beach, in your household pool, in a public pool, or at a friend's house.Even young children who have received swimming lessons can be more vulnerable to drowning than older children who haven't, so supervision is key to keeping your children safe until they're mature, responsible swimmers on their own.



Supervised means watching without distractions; no phone, tablet, book, or the like. It is one thing to make a quick text, but if you are absorbed on a game on your device, you are not really paying full attention to your child.
Ensure the distance between you and your toddlers is arm’s length while the child is in the pool even when he/she has a floating device. Floating aids are not as secure as approved life vests, and they can give adults and children the wrong sense of security.
If you’re leaving your child with a babysitter or a teenage supervisor, make sure they know your water safety rules. Be especially sure to remind them that drowning often has no audible warning noises, so visual supervision is necessary.
 Putting physical barriers like a pool fence between your children and your pool can often be enough to keep them out of it when you're not there to supervise them. Young children are attracted to pools and don't understand the danger. Below are just a few basic ideas for kid-proofing your pool:


Keep ground-level pools fenced off with an at least 4 feet high fence. Use play pens, iron, chain link or mesh pool fences to form a protective barrier around your pool.
Use a self-closing, self-locking pool gate. If you don't have a self-closing gate, be sure to lock any gates or doors in the fencing after swimming
Remove ladders for above-ground pools. If your children are too small to climb into above-ground pools without a ladder, simply take the ladder away to keep them out.
If possible, use a cover or lid for your pool. Many pools and hot tubs come with hard lids or plastic covers. Usually, these are used for weatherproofing the pool when not in use, but they can also be an effective deterrent against children if they're sturdy enough to keep them out.
Always ensure the spa and pool covers are working, and the walkways surfaces such as diving boards, ladders, decks are non-slippery. Replace or reinforce in case there is a wear out.
To avoid injuries in the pool, cover all sharp edges and raised hard surfaces.
Keep all electrical devices away from the spa or pool to avoid electrical shock. Ensure all the wiring are maintained and are installed professionally.
Do not go to the pool during rough weather like high winds or thunderstorms

,

You can install an underwater or surface alarm that will alert you when someone fell into the pool.
You can also set gate chimes or alarms to alert you when someone opens the pool gate
Keep tables, climbable surfaces and chairs far to avoid children from climbing over into the pool.
 These include:

Floatation device
An emergency portable phone
A pair of scissors
First aid kit

, Children are less likely to want to swim unsupervised if they are not tantalized by brightly-colored toys. After finishing a trip to the beach or a swim in your backyard pool, put away and secure the toys. The prospect of swimming may become much less attractive to your children. Plus, the toys will last longer and not become a tripping hazard.
 One sure-fire way to keep children from drowning in your pool is to remove the water from the equation. If the pool is completely drained, children will have less of a reason to enter it unsupervised and, even if they do, they won't be able to drown. This can be a somewhat tricky process, so, if you're unsure of how to proceed, contact a plumber or an experienced pool professional.


Keep in mind, however, that draining some types of pools and leaving them exposed to direct sunlight can damage the plaster material at the bottom of the pool., Babies and toddlers can drown in as little as one inch of water.Tragically, not all parents and caretakers are aware of this. For this reason, it's extremely important to monitor these types of young children whenever they're around water of any depth, including when they're in the bathtub or around buckets of water. If you need to leave for any reason, take your baby with you — the amount of time it takes to you to answer the door, for instance, can be enough time for a baby to start drowning.


Don't rely on bathtub seats to keep your child safe in the tub. There are multiple ways these can fail — for instance, their suction cups can come unstuck from the tub or the baby may crawl out of the seat.
Products around the house containing or collecting water can be drowning hazards. The most common of these outside are buckets or the top of pool covers which can collect rainwater. Drowning deaths have also involved ponds, sinks, fish tanks, among other products.

