 While it is absolutely possible to get the protein you need from a solely plant-based diet, it is a bit trickier and planning is essential to make sure you are getting enough of the right kinds of protein.


Since vegetable-based protein is not as readily utilized by the body as animal-based protein sources, you might also need to increase the number of grams of protein you consume to get the same effect. , Protein is made up of building blocks called amino acids. To be considered a "complete" protein, a protein source must have all eight of these acids; most plant-based sources of protein are missing at least one. While many used to believe it was necessary to combine incomplete proteins in specific combinations, scientists now agree that as long as you eat a variety of protein-rich foods, you will get all of the nutrients that you need., Quinoa is actually a seed, not a grain, and is rare in that it is a complete protein in and of itself.Quinoa is easy to prepare and is becoming increasingly popular and easy to find in stores and at many restaurants. You can eat quinoa for breakfast as a hot cereal, add it to salads, and incorporate it into sides and main courses, much as you would rice.
 Soy is an important protein source that studies have shown to be just as "high quality" in terms of how it effects your body as animal-based proteins.Eat tofu in a stir fry, or add some to a fruit smoothie for a creamy, protein-packed boost.
 Beans and peas are excellent sources of protein, as well as fiber, and many important vitamins and nutrients.Try a vegetarian chili, or a delicious lentil soup.
Hummus makes an excellent protein-rich snack or meal.
Peanuts are also legumes and are not just good dry-roasted or as peanut butter, but also in main-dish recipes such as African Peanut soup.
 Cereal grains, in particular oats and some varieties of wheat, contain a lot of protein. Some vegetables are also high in protein, including kale, mushrooms, broccoli rabe, artichokes, and corn.More high-protein vegetables include spinach, cauliflower, onions, asparagus, and potatoes.

