 Getting a professional facial massage, or giving yourself one in the comfort of your own home, may help stimulate collagen production and boost your circulation. Try gently massaging your face with your fingertips, using gentle upward circular motions. Start at your jawline and slowly move up to your forehead.Try giving yourself a facial massage once per week.
 Topical vitamin A, also known as retinol, might increase collagen in your skin. Talk to your doctor about a prescription for topical retinol. You can also purchase retinol treatments over the counter, but these creams and lotions will have a lower concentration of retinol in them., Antioxidant lotions, creams, and serums that contain vitamin C may increase collagen levels in your skin. Talk to your dermatologist about the best options for your skin type and texture. You can also purchase over the counter skincare products that contain vitamin C., Applying products to your skin that contain polypeptides may stimulate the synthesis of collagen in your skin. Try applying a penetrating polypeptide serum before your moisturizer, or a moisturizer that contains polypeptides.Look for a collagen stimulating polypeptide like matrixyl on your skincare product ingredients list.
 Exfoliating your skin can help to boost collagen production as well.Try using an exfoliating facial cleanser in place of your normal cleanser once per week. You can also use an exfoliating body scrub once per week., There are certain substances and activities that may deplete the collagen in your skin. Do your best to avoid these substances and activities. Things that may deplete collagen include:Smoking. Quit smoking if you are a smoker! Smoking damages more than just your skin.
Exposure to sunlight. Always wear sunscreen when you spend time outside in the sun. Wearing a wide brimmed hat can also help to protect the skin on your scalp and face from the sun.
Exposure to pollution. Avoid going outside on extra smoggy days. Exposure to pollution can also deplete the collagen in your skin.
High sugar consumption. Limit the amount of sugar in your diet to avoid depleting your skin’s collagen by consuming too much sugar.