 With your main color (MC) chain (ch) 3 and join with a slip stitch (sl st) to first chain to form a ring. A chain stitch is a basic foundation element in crochet. Follow this link for a review of how to crochet a chain.This hat is made by crocheting in rounds. Each round begins with a number of chains that will count as the first stitch and ends by joining the last stitch with the top of the beginning chain. This creates concentric circles.;
, Ch 3, 9 double crochet (dc) into ring, join with sl st to top of ch 3. You should have 10 sts. A double crochet stitch is twice as high as a single crochet and creates a firm, substantial stitch. Follow this link for a review of how to do a double crochet.
 Ch 2, dc into same st, 2 dc in each st around, join with sl st to top of ch 2. Now you should have 20 sts. A slip stitch is a small, flat utility stitch used, in this case, to join a ring. Follow this link to see how to make a slip stitch when crocheting.
 Ch 2, dc into same st, dc in next st, *(2 dc in next st, dc in next st). Repeat from * eight (8) more times. Join with sl st to top of ch 2. Your stitch count is now 30 sts.
 Sl st into back loop of same stitch, ch 2, dc in next st, 2 dc in next st, *(dc in next 2 sts, 2 dc in next st). Repeat from * 8 more times. Join with sl st to top of ch 2. You should have 40 sts.
 After completing Round 4, your swatch should measure 5" in diameter. If it doesn't, adjust your hook size to obtain the correct gauge.
 Ch 2, dc into same st, dc in next 3 sts, *(2 dc in next st, dc in next 3 sts). Repeat from * 8 more times. Join with sl st to top of ch 2. Your stitch count: 50 sts.
 Sl st into back loop of same stitch, ch 2, dc in next st, 2 dc in next st, *(dc in next 9 sts, 2 dc in next st). Repeat from * 3 more times and dc in last 7 sts. Join with sl st to top of ch 2. Now you have 55 sts.
 Sl st into back loop of same stitch, ch 2, dc in each st around, join with sl st to top of ch 2. At the end of Round 9, hold MC to back of work. Repeat Round 9 for a longer hat or skip it to create a shorter hat.
 Join contrasting color (CC). Ch 1, sc in each st around, join with sl st to beg ch.
 With MC, ch 2, dc tbl in each st around, join with sl st to top of ch 2.
 With CC, ch 1, sc in each st around, join with sl st to beg ch.
 With MC, ch 2, dc tbl in each st around, join with sl st to top of ch 2.
 With CC, ch 1, sc in each st around, join with sl st to beg ch. Tie off CC.
 With MC ch 1, sc tbl in each st around, join with sl st to beg ch.
 Ch 1, sc in each st around, join with sl st to top of ch.
 Tie off MC and weave in yarn ends with a tapestry needle. The finished measurements of your hat should be 8" long with a circumference of approximately 20" (unstretched). This one size should fit most ages teen to adult.

