 Unless you’re throwing the party for yourself, you’ll need to ask the guest of honor who they’d like to invite, since you may not know all of their friends. Ask for email addresses if you’ll just be sending out evites, or mailing addresses if you’ll be creating physical invitations.


If the party is going to be a surprise, you’ll need to contact a couple different friends or family members of the guest of honor to try to get an idea of all the people who should be invited.;
, You'll need to get an idea of how many people to expect before you can decide on a space, since 50 people might not fit into someone's studio apartment. Since the guest of honor’s belongings will be in boxes, avoid trying to schedule it at their home.If no one volunteers to host, research local parks if the weather will be nice, and look for areas that have picnic tables and public restrooms.
Call local restaurants to see if they have a party room available.
If the party will be at work or school, mention which room it will be in on the invitation.
 Make sure to select a time that will work for most of the guests. If you’re throwing the party for a coworker, schedule it during everyone’s lunch break. If it’s a school day party, throw it during lunch, recess, or immediately following the last class of the day. Otherwise, pick a time the weekend before your guest of honor is leaving.Avoid picking the day before the person is supposed to leave. They may have a lot of packing left to do, and a party could just add to the last-minute stress.
 If you’re just throwing a casual daytime party where people can drop in and grab a drink or some finger foods, you only need to send out invitations 1-2 weeks ahead of time. If you’re doing a more formal event, perhaps at night or where a meal will be served, send out invitations 3-4 weeks in advance.You can mail the invitations if the party is a few weeks away, but if it’s within two weeks, you risk not giving people enough notice. It’s safer to just design an online invitation on a site like Evite and email it to the guests., Before you purchase any decorations, pick the theme for the party. The most popular choice for going-away party themes is the person’s destination. Are they moving to England? Hang a British flag on the wall, place teacups around the room, and write ‘’Cheerio!’’ on a chalkboard. If they’re moving to California, opt for a surfing theme and decorate with seashells.Other possible themes include ‘’Bon Voyage’’ (decorate with airplanes and maps) or “Adios Amigo” (decorate with sombreros and a piñata).
 People will be interested to see the person’s new home up close, so hang a map of the new country or city on the wall. Tape a construction paper star to the exact spot where the person will be living. Keep a marker nearby and encourage people to write well-wishes and goodbyes on the map., Pick a chair where the guest of honor can sit and be the center of attention. Drape streamers over the back or tie balloons to it. Wrap it with battery powered Christmas lights or feather boas. Get crazy with it and then use it as a spot where everyone can take pictures together., Ask guests ahead of time to send you their favorite photos of the guest of honor. Or see what photos you can find on social media of them enjoying special occasions or nights out with friends. Hang these photos throughout the party space.Tape the photos to a long piece of ribbon and then hang it as a banner.
Put some of the photos in frames, place them around the room, and then give them to the guest of honor to take with them when they leave.
 If your budget is a concern, visit a dollar store and buy packs of balloons, streamers, banners, and other party accessories to make the room more festive. Even if you don’t want to do a themed party, you can at least use this opportunity to choose a color scheme.Some possible color schemes are black and gold, blue and yellow, or flag colors of the guest of honor’s destination.
 If the party is for adults, research cocktail recipes that would go with the theme of the party. For example, if you’re using a beach theme for the party, mix a large amount of sangria in a drink dispenser and write “Surf’s Up Sangria” on a small chalkboard or sign beside it.

For a kid’s party, you could pour strawberry lemonade into a drink dispenser and call it “Laguna Lemonade.” This is a cheaper option than offering a wide selection of beverages., If your theme is the destination of the guest of honor, research the traditional foods of that location. For example, if your friend is moving to Canada, put out a platter of poutine and some little plates for people to pile up with fries and gravy.If they’re moving to Japan, order or make different types of sushi.
For a Germany-themed party, grill some bratwursts and let people snack on large soft pretzels.
 Chips are always a popular party snack, but some people may also want a healthy option, like veggies and dip. Pick a few different types of food, like pretzels, mixed fruit, and small bite-sized cookies to keep everyone happy. Just make sure you’ve included some of the guest of honor’s favorite foods.Just like with the beverage, try to play into the theme. Serve macarons for a Paris-themed party, or chips and salsa for an “Adios Amigo” party.
 Unless you know the guest of honor doesn’t like sweets, send them off with a cake or cupcakes. If you’re not comfortable making it yourself, visit a local bakery or grocery store with a bakery section, and ask if they can write a custom message on top for you.

Either choose a message that goes with the theme, or stick with something simple like, “We’ll miss you, Kate!”

, Find a large mason jar and set it on a table with some small pieces of paper and some pens. Put up a sign telling people to write down their favorite memory of the guest of honor and put it in the jar. These can be read aloud later at the party, or kept private as a special gift to read later., Provide a suitcase, some clothing, and a few personal items, and have each guest try to pack it as quickly as possible. Use a stopwatch to time each person, and the one who packs it the fastest wins a prize., Research facts about the guest of honor’s destination and divide into teams to play a trivia game. Ask the questions aloud and have each team write down their answers. Whichever team has the most questions right at the end is the winner., Guests can give individual gifts if they’d like to, but it may be more fun and meaningful for everyone to pitch in on one big gift. Research the area around where the person will be living, and if possible, buy gift cards to restaurants or boutique stores nearby so that your friend can explore the area when they arrive.If it’s not possible to buy the gift card online, often you can call and purchase one over the phone, then have the owner hold it for the recipient until they come in.
Look into purchasing a deal from a site like Groupon, which offers fun excursions in lots of different cities.
For a simpler gift, have everyone pitch in for a gift card from a home furnishing store so that the guest of honor can buy decorations for their new space.

