 To treat headaches during MS treatment, you could ask your doctor about appropriate over the counter or prescribed pain relievers.Ask your doctor: “What pain relievers would be appropriate to treat my headaches during MS steroid treatment?”

, Headaches are more common among people with MS. Unfortunately, treatment can make them worse.If you are finding little relief from conventional pain relievers, you could try acupuncture. Acupuncture is a traditional Chinese medical treatment that involves the stimulation of parts of the body to improve the flow of energy. Typically, needles, heated cups or finger pressure is used.You will generally need to go for at least half a dozen sessions to see whether the acupuncture is relieving your pain.Use Acufinder to find state licensed acupuncturists., Mood swings and depression are common side effects of MS treatment. You may want to see a therapist to talk about your thoughts and feelings about the treatment. A psychologist may be able to give you coping strategies to deal with feelings of loss, anxiety or depression.Search for a therapist who specializes in patients with MS by using a referral service or asking your primary physician.


In addition, you may want to consider alternative therapies, such as acupuncture, when dealing with mood swings and depression., Anxiety is a common response to MS. Ask your doctor if there are some appropriate exercises that you could do to manage your anxiety. Exercise is one of the most effective ways of dealing with anxiety and stress. If you are able and your doctor agrees, try going for a daily walk, swim or join a class at your local gym.You could ask your doctor: “What kinds of exercise would be beneficial?” “Are there particular forms of exercise that are better for people with MS?” “How often should I get exercise?”
You can also look into physical therapy. A physical therapist can help you to learn stretching and strengthening exercises. They can also show you how to use assistive devices that can make your daily routine a bit easier.
Try relaxing exercises like yoga, as well as relaxation techniques like meditation and massage. These can help to ease the symptoms of your MS and help you to maintain your physical function, reduce fatigue, and boost your overall mental and physical well-being.
 You should breath in through your nose and into your belly, so you should feel your belly rising and falling with each breath. Breathe in through your nose for a count of seven seconds. Then, breathe out through your nose for a count of eleven seconds.You can breathe in for shorter or longer than seven seconds, as long as you continue to exhale for longer than you inhale. For example, you could inhale for five seconds and exhale for nine seconds., Aromatherapy is an alternative medical practice that uses scents to impact your mood and ability to sleep. You can purchase aromatherapy essential oils from a health food store, online or from some grocery stores. You can either put a few drops in a candle, essential oil diffuser or in a bath. Try one of the following essential oils to help relieve MS related sleep problems:Lavender
Lemon
Yuzu
Bergamot
Ylang Ylang
Clary sage
Jasmine

