 This is what the iFunny people recommend on their FAQ page as how to get your image on the Featured section.Of course, to do this, you first need to access the website or install the app on your mobile device and create a profile so that everyone else knows who the funny person who posted that image on the Featured page is. There’s no universally accepted standard of what is funny, but here are some guidelines to consider:


The target of your humor should be someone or something your audience considers worth making fun of. The foibles of politicians or celebrities are often considered suitable targets, while ethnic groups are not, at least from outside that group.
The best jokes have a truth that underlies them, while often exaggerating certain points to the level of absurdity. For example, coyotes are predators and scavengers, but only Wile E. Coyote goes to the length of ordering expensive, defective gear from Acme to catch the Road Runner.
Many of the best jokes build up an expected response, then go in a different direction. For example, a picture of a high-definition television with the caption at the top saying, “I bought this TV on Black Friday to see the big game,” but at the bottom, “I tell you, ‘’Jeopardy!’’ has never looked better.”These guidelines may prove important, as users can vote your images as “funny” or “unfunny.” The total of your “funny” votes minus the total of your “unfunny” votes is the overall score your image receives. The higher your score, the more likely your image is to earn Popular or Featured status.;
, If you can’t beat ‘em by yourself, join a group of other people who want to see ‘’their’’ images make the Featured section, too. Apps such as Palringooffer mobile users the chance to join up with groups such as the I Funny Feature Squad, who agree to share, comment, and like one another’s images in the hope that one or more of their submissions will get featured., If actually being funny or trying to get others to believe you’re funny doesn’t appeal to you, you can always try transferring the like count from an uploaded image of yours with a lot of likes to one with only a few likes.


Select one of your images with a high like count.
Tap the image count to refresh it.
While the image count is refreshing, switch the display to an image you know has a lower count. When the refresh is complete, the higher number count will display for both the first and the second image. You may have to repeat the refresh trick several times, however.Be aware that at some point, iFunny will fix this glitch, if it hasn’t already been fixed by the time you read this. At that point, you’ll be stuck with getting other people to think you’re funny.

