 It is paramount that the learner driver is insured correctly on the vehicle as a Provisional Licence Holder, or the insurance company is not obliged to pay out in the case of an accident. It may also be prudent for you (as the supervising driver) to be insured also, allowing you to take control should the learner driver be unable to continue driving.;
, This means that all road laws also apply to you, even if you are not driving yourself. In the United Kingdom, the supervising driver MUST be over 21 years old and have held a Full UK Driving Licence for over 3 years. You should not be under the influence of alcohol or drugs when accompanying a learner driver, and you must not operate a mobile phone or other electronic device.
 This includes the length of time of driving and that the learner driver is prepared to accept your instructions and criticism. If you are in doubt as to whether these boundaries will be respected or obeyed, then do not agree to supervise.
 A learner driver is not equipped with the same driving experience as you, and does not know how to read the road and traffic conditions as effectively. You should remain alert at all times, monitoring not only the driving but also the surrounding environment. Where possible, look in the mirrors often and ensure that you know about vehicles behind as well as in front. Provide guidance at junctions and roundabouts as to when it is safe to proceed, or when it is safe to change lanes or overtake where necessary.
 Make sure that you are familiar with the roads that you are supervising on, and provide clear guidance throughout the drive. Vague or confusing instructions can be frustrating and off-putting to an inexperienced driver.
 A learner driver will not drive in the same way as an experienced driver would. This is normal, as a learner driver is specifically taught techniques that will help them to pass the driving test. Do not attempt to un-teach these techniques or replace them with more casual or bad habits, as this will confuse a new driver and undermine their driving test readiness.
 Your judgement on speed for the given road or conditions is very important. If you feel that the driver should change their speed to match conditions, tell them.
 You should avoid becoming agitated, frustrated or argumentative whilst supervising a learner driver. Arguments can frequently cause car accidents, and can be very off-putting to the driver of the vehicle. Try to keep criticism friendly wherever possible.
 Make sure to also comment on things that the learner driver has done well. When evaluating with the driver, mention positive points before negative ones as this can help to reinforce things that have been done well or correctly. Do not make criticism personal - driving is a complicated art that takes time to master correctly.
 Unfortunately, accidents do happen, and sometimes they are simply not preventable.

