 Choose the colors of your favorite Hogwarts house to show off your personality. The colors are:


Scarlet and gold for Gryffindor
Canary yellow and black for Hufflepuff
Blue and silver(movie version) or blue and bronze(book version) for Ravenclaw
Green and silver for Slytherin.;
, It will take up a big part of the room, and it will certainly imply that you're a Harry Potter fan. Plus, it'll look pretty awesome!

, You can decorate it with banners that match the color of the room, or you could use authentic-looking items that were used in the books or movies. Or, if you don't have a lot of money, you can just decorate your walls with posters. Another thing you can do is get some statues or toys of your house's animal! The house animals are:


Gryffindor: Lion
Hufflepuff: Badger
Ravenclaw: Eagle
Slytherin: Serpent.



You can even make make your own. If you're good at drawing, draw a picture of your favorite character. Or just write the name of the house you're in, using a marker.
 For your bed, you can put curtains around it if you have the space, just like the students in your dormitory do. You can also change the sheets of your bed to your favorite house color.


Get Harry Potter pillows, bedsheets, etc. Etsy is a good place to look. However, you may find this is over-the-top to add Harry Potter bedding, so don't worry if you don't want it.
 If you have a bookshelf, put your Harry Potter books on top, so people know you treasure them (You can also put the movies too.).


Display your Harry Potter books and movies. It looks best if the books are in hardcover. There are many ways to display them; you could put them all on the top shelf of a bookshelf, or even get a special shelf just for them. Put them in a place where people coming in your room will notice them right away.
, There are some other ideas too like taking a regular broomstick, and painting it to look a little fancier, or for the spell books, put a fancy book cover on your books. You can also paint a stick to make it look like a wand if you don't have one.
 You can draw your own or print some off the internet. You could even show of pictures of you at Harry Potter World in Orlando or California. You could also have photos of you in your Hermione Granger Halloween costume.
 Or even better, have a hook somewhere outside your closet and hang the robes on that.


If you put them in the closet make sure the closet doors are open when company comes over.
 Have an old trunk like the ones they bring to Hogwarts? Set it near your bed and use it as a toy chest.


Have a stuffed animal owl? Put it somewhere where people can see it.
Have a Harry Potter wand? Set it on your nightstand.
You could even hang a Firebolt or Nimbus 2000 on the wall.
