 They are leak-proof and ensure that your clothes and the sheets do not stain. Use the Boxer fit for complete protection.;
, If your cycle isn't set yet, know what time of the month it generally comes (beginning, middle, and end). If you think it will come, use a pantyliner during the day, but a light/medium absorbency pad, depending on how heavy/light you flow starts at.
 These are internal like tampons, but they are not associated with TSS, (Toxic Shock Syndrome), so they can be worn for up to 12 hours (even during the night), unlike tampons. These hold more flow than tampons or pads and have light suction so they prevent leaking.
 Change your tampon when you go to bed and when you get up in the morning. You can use a panty liner or a heavy pad, according to your needs.
 You can even make your own. These are not only healthier and more hygienic than commercial pads but they are also far more comfortable and stick in your underwear better, plus you can get extra liners to insert when needed. Being more comfortable with cloth pads means you're less likely to move about in your sleep, so pads stay in place rather than gathering up leading to leaking.
 If necessary, use a third one in the middle.
 Use one as usual, then place one perpendicular towards your rear.
 Lay the towel on your mattress. When you go to bed, lie on the towel so that if you do leak it will go on the towel and not all over your sheets or bedding. Some people call these period blankets and may have dedicated soft blankets to use this way, they may also wrap around themselves in the morning to avoid mess when they get up before they can put in their normal protection.
 Remove the toilet paper in the morning.
 Nothing embarrassing about using them, they will protect your mattress so if you do leak the blood doesn't get into the mattress causing smell or stains.
 The pull-up kinds work the best, but any type will protect your bedsheets while you sleep.
,, Use Cycleliners Feminine Bed Protection. Instead of sleeping on towels, these bed liners are waterproof, comfortable, and go over sheets with tuck in flaps so they stay put. They also come in a discreet burgundy color.

