 This is one of the main, non-chemical ways to kill your bamboo. Use a sharp spade, mattock, or saw to cut the plant down and dig it out. Like all the other methods and ways, this will take some paying attention to the bamboo and continuing to root out its different culms (bamboo stalks) and rhizomes (bamboo's underground stems).You will want to cut down the clumps, but you'll also want to root out the rhizomes, otherwise the beast will keep growing. Rhizomes grow in the top foot of soil, so you'll want to dig down until you find them.
Sever the rhizomes as you go, especially if you want to keep some of the bamboo plant. This will keep it from sending out more shoots.
Keep cutting it down and digging it out. You will need to do this until the bamboo plant stops sending up shoots. This can take months, or even years to accomplish, but there isn't a faster way, because bamboo is so pervasive and resistant.
If you want to eradicate bamboo on your property, you must remove all rhizomes.
 Bamboo, like grass, is fine for the occasional mowing, but it does not like frequent mowing. This can help reduce the stalks, especially on a plant that hasn't grown too huge (you'll have less luck mowing bamboo stalks that have grown huge, unless you cut them down first).Mowing the bamboo frequently can reduce the rhizomes, because it takes away their way of collecting food (from the sun through their leaves).
You will have to mow whenever you see stalks arising, because this method can take awhile.
 Another way you can get rid of your bamboo is to basically starve it. You should start by cutting down the stalks below the soil line and then placing a dark tarp or thick piece of plastic over the top of the area. This will make it so the plant is cut off from rain, sun and air which will eventually kill it.Anchor the tarp or plastic down. People tend to use cinder blocks, but anything heavy enough to keep the tarp down will work fine. You have to make sure that the plastic or tarp does not move, because the point is to cut the bamboo off from the elements.
If you get new growth coming up beyond the perimeter of the tarp, you'll need to immediately either spray it with herbicide (containing triclopyr), or cut it down and put a cinder block or another tarp over the area.
Again, this can take awhile, so you have to be patient. Leave the tarp there for at least a month or so (but it can take up to a year to really eradicate the bamboo).

