 Getting a degree is often the best way to expose yourself to important aspects of both business and technology. While a bachelor of science in computer science will introduce you to many of the skills needed to work in E-commerce, other degrees can also be helpful. For instance, a business degree that incorporates classes on web-based business may be even more beneficial.Marketing and finance programs can also prepare you to be an E-commerce professional, though you will need to supplement these programs with classes more specific to web development and other technical skills.
In order to succeed as an E-commerce project manager, you’ll need to be familiar with best practices and products relevant to web design, data management, online transactions, online communication, and search engine optimization.;
, As an E-commerce professional, you’ll do much more than simply help businesses sell stuff online. In particular, you will be asked to help design the website that allows them to do so. Since you will be hired for your expertise in online business, knowledge about electronic showrooms, payment processing portals, and transaction fulfillment systems is of greatest importance.At the most basic level, the more programming languages you’re proficient in, the more capable you will be as an E-commerce professional. In particular, proficiency in Java, PHP, Python, and Ruby will each immediately make you a more capable developer.
If you do not already know how to design and built these online environments, take a web development course focusing on online business.
 As an e-commerce professional, you’ll be helping companies deal with large amounts of data. You’ll likely be tasked with organizing, storing, and protecting this data. Further, you’ll need to provide your clients with the ability to search this data, and otherwise learn from the data generated by your databases.Take courses that will train you to work with large amounts of data and identify information that can lead to actionable business moves.
 Electronic mailing lists provide your clients with a quick, effective way of reaching a massive targeted audience. You’ll need to know how to design e-mail communications that make utilizing this valuable resource easy. Further, you need to be prepared to consult clients on any social media platform that can help generate sales. In fact, you will often be asked to help plan an online company’s marketing strategy generally.For starters, make a personal account on any social media platform with relevance to the types of companies you're working for. This is the quickest way to get exposure to platforms that are brand new, and may not even be addressed in formal education courses.
 The Holy Grail of e-commerce marketing is knowing how to generate increased traffic to your clients’ websites. One of the best ways to do this is by helping their website show up earlier in search engine results. This often involves advertising with search engines, and can provide opportunities for you to develop pay-per-click promotions that increase your own and your client’s profit.If search engine optimization and advertising appeal to you, consider specializing in this area specifically, as it is of particular importance to many E-commerce positions.

