 Before you start applying your makeup, make sure that your face is clean and well-moisturized. Moisturizing your face well will help to ensure that your makeup looks even and does not flake off.Wash your face using a gentle cleanser and some lukewarm water. Do not scrub or exfoliate your skin. Just apply he cleanser with your finger tips and use water to rinse it away.
Choose a moisturizer that is appropriate for your skin type. For example, if you have oily, acne prone skin, then choose an oil-free moisturizer that is labeled as non-comedogenic (won’t clog pores). If you have fine lines and/or wrinkles, the choose an anti-aging moisturizer that contains petrolatum and antioxidants to help reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles.;
, Exfoliating your skin can help to reduce oil and prepare your face for a matte look. However, keep in mind that exfoliating too much can irritate your skin.To use an exfoliating cleanser, wet your face with some lukewarm water and then work the exfoliating cleanser into your skin using circular movements.


You may want to pay special attention to your nose, forehead, and chin since these areas tend to get oilier than others.
Make sure that you avoid your eyes and the areas around your eyes.
Rinse off all of the exfoliating cleanser with water.
 Toner can help to balance out your skin's PH level and reduce the amount of oil on your skin, so it is a good way to achieve a matte look.


Use a cotton ball to apply toner to your skin.
Allow the toner to dry completely before you apply moisturizer.
 Milk of magnesia can also help people who have oily skin to achieve a matte makeup look. Use the unflavored original formula and make sure that it does not contain mineral oil.








Use a cotton ball to apply milk of magnesia. Focus on your forehead, nose, and chin, since these areas tend to be oilier than your cheeks.
Wait until the milk of magnesia dries completely before applying any makeup over it.
 For example, you can choose a primer specifically for a matte finish or use a primer that will minimize your pores.








Apply primer to your entire face and blend it in well.
 You can use your normal foundation, a BB cream, or a special matte formula foundation. Choose one that improves the look of your skin and make sure that the color matches your skin tone.









You can use a blending sponge or makeup brush to blend in your foundation. Make sure that you blend it well on all areas of your face.
 Next, take some highlighter and apply it under your eyes and then follow it with some concealer. Make sure that you blend the highlighter well before you apply the concealer. Blend the concealer well also.








You can also apply concealer to other areas of your face that may benefit from a little extra coverage. For example, if you have a blemish that you want to hide, then apply a dab of concealer and blend.
 Complete your foundation look with a layer of setting powder. Choose a color that will provide a matte effect and blend it well over all areas of your face.








When you are finished, your skin should look even and shine-free.
A loose powder foundation is also fine to use.
 To create a matte look for your eyes, you will need to start by applying a matter neutral color to your lids and creases. Use a small fluffy brush to apply a few layers of a light brown or beige color.








This color should only be a couple of shades darker than your natural skin tone.
Do not use a color that looks shimmery or luminous. Choose a color that looks matte in the palette.
You can also sweep a bit of this color along your lower lash line to help accentuate your eyes even more but this is optional.
 Next, you will need to add a darker color to your crease to emphasize your eyes a bit more. Make sure that this eye shadow color is matte as well. Apply two to three layers to your crease.








This color should be a couple of shades darker than the first color you used, such as a medium brown.
 To brighten the look of your eyes, apply a matte cream color eyeshadow to your eyelids. Do not apply this color to any other part of your eyes, just to your eyelids. Apply two to three layers of the cream color eye shadow.
 To accentuate your eyes and add a bit of drama, apply a small amount of black eyeshadow near the outer corners of your upper eyelid. Make sure that you use a matte black eyeshadow and nothing shimmery.
 Finish by lining your upper eyelids with black liquid liner. Avoid shimmery eyeliners and stick with a matte black eyeliner. Apply the liner close to your upper lash line.








If you like, you can also add a cat tail to the corners of your eyes. To create a cat tail look, extend the liner out past the outer corner of your eye in an upward swooping fashion.
 Filling in your eyebrows will help to make your look more polished and dramatic. Use a matte brow powder or pencil to fill in the areas around and within your eyebrows. Make sure that you stay within the natural lines of your eyebrows and fill them out evenly.








You can also use an eyebrow mascara or wax to help keep your eyebrow hairs in place. These products are available in clear and in color. If you choose a color, go with one that matches the natural color of your eyebrows.

To apply mascara, wipe away the excess mascara from the brush and start near the base of your lashes. Move the brush up to coat the lashes to the tips. Apple multiple layers of mascara for best results.
You can also apply mascara to your lower lashes if you want to accentuate them as well, but this os optional.
 To finish your eyes, add a bit of highlighter to your brow bone and on the inner corner of your lower eyelid as well. Keep in mind that adding highlighter will add a small amount of shimmer to your face, but it will be subtle.








You can use a highlighting eye shadow on your bow bone, such as a champagne color or use a highlighter stick.
Then, use a highlighter eye liner on your lower, inner lash line, near your tear duct.
 You can also sweep some matte pink or peach color blush over your cheek bones to help accent them a bit. Just don’t apply too much. Your eyes should be the center of attention for this look.








If you have a round face, then apply the blush onto your cheekbones and sweep it out and up towards your temples.
If you have a heart-shaped face, then apply blush just under your cheekbones and up towards your temples.
If you have a long face, then apply blush just under your cheekbones, but do not sweep it out to your temples., Next, choose a subtle, matte lipstick shade to add some color to your lips. Go for a nude, pink, or earth tone shade. Apply lipstick to your lips and then press your lips together to distribute the color.








You can also line your lips with a matching lip pencil to prevent the lipstick from bleeding.

