 When you shop for meat, go for lean cuts of meat to reduce the saturated fat in each serving. Look for cuts of meat that have minimal visible fat at the grocery store or at your local butcher’s shop. Go for lean cuts of beef like the round, chuck, sirloin, or loin. Get lean cuts of pork like tenderloin or loin chop. Have lean cuts of lamb that come from the leg, arm and loin. Look for cuts of chicken like the breast or thighs that are skinless, as they will be leaner and healthier.The butcher at your grocery store or meat shop should be able to tell you which cuts of meat are leaner than others. Don’t be afraid to chat with the butcher and ask questions like, “Can you recommend a lean cut of beef?” or “What do you have that is a lean cut of pork or lamb?”;
, Chicken and turkey are considered leaner meats than beef, pork, duck, or goose. If possible, go for chicken or turkey when you buy meat. White chicken or turkey meat is often leaner than darker chicken or turkey meat.You may try buying more chicken or turkey and saving other, fatter meats for special occasions or special meals. This way, you end up eating meat that is not too fatty or that will increase your cholesterol levels on a regular basis.
Fish is also a good option for protein, especially if you are trying to cut meat out of your diet. Consider integrating fish into your meals, such as salmon, cod, or tilapia. Having fish as the main protein in some of your meals can make your meals less fatty and meat heavy.
 “Select” or “choice” grades of beef have less marbling than “prime” grades of meat. This means they have less visible fat and are often leaner cuts of meat than “prime.” “Choice” grades of beef are higher quality than “select” grades of beef. Both “choice” and “select” grades are good for braising, roasting, or sauteing.When buying ground beef, make sure the label on the meat says “lean” or “extra lean.” This will ensure the fat content is lower than normal ground beef.
After you brown the ground beef, make sure to pour off the fat.
 Processed meats like sausage, bologna, salami, and hot dogs are high in calories, sodium, and saturated fat. They are a bad meat option if you are on a lipid lowering diet and should be avoided.If you do eat processed meat, always read the label on processed meat carefully and look for brands that have lower sodium and saturated fat. They should only be eaten occasionally, if at all, on a lipid lowering diet.

