 If you have a plain cardboard box with a lid, you can cover each piece with colorful paper. This way, the person just has to untie the ribbon and open the gift. Here's a list of what you'll need:

Gift box with a lid
Wrapping paper
Pencil and ruler
Scissors
Clear, double-sided tape
Clear, regular tape

, You can wrap both the lid and the box separately. You can also wrap just the lid or just the box. This will create an interesting contrast. These instructions will work for both the lid and the box.
 You need enough wrapping paper to wrap over the box. Make sure that the blank side of the wrapping paper is facing you., You can make a large X-shape going from corner to corner. You can also place a piece of tape along each, bottom edge of the box. Now the box won't slip while you are wrapping it.

The tape must be thin and clear. Do not use the thick, mounting tape you'd put on your wall. That is too thick and will create bumps.
 The wrapping paper should be wide enough so that you can fold each side up over the sides of the box, plus an additional inch or two. You will need that extra paper to tuck inside the box., Use a ruler to help you make the lines straight. These will be your cutting guidelines., Start at the corner of the paper and stop when you get to a box corner., There should be about an inch or two of wrapping paper inside the box on each side. These are your hems. Secure these hems with some regular, clear tape. The cut/angled sides of the wrapping paper will be touching the left and right sides of your box. This is fine.


Consider gluing the paper to the sides of the box with a glue stick. This will make it last even longer.
 Secure the hems with more clear tape as before. The cut/angled sides of the paper will be touching the top and bottom sides of your box. This is fine too; it will give the box a "wrapped" look., You can use the same color and pattern of wrapping paper, or a completely different one., If you want, you can tuck some matching tissue paper inside the box. This will help keep the gift inside safe. It may also make the box more fun to unwrap.,