 This practice is especially common for flavoring plain water and tea. The juice from one or two wedges is usually enough for most individuals, but you may want to consider adding additional juice if you prefer a stronger, more refreshing flavor.
 Fresh cut fruit discolors due to a process called oxidation. The vitamin C or ascorbic acid found in lemon juice chemically reacts with the oxygen in the air to prevent fruits from oxidizing. Brushing your cut fruits with a little lemon juice will maintain their color for much longer.


You can also dip the cut fruit into a mixture made with 1 cup (250 milliliters) of water and 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of lemon juice to accomplish the same task.
 Like fresh fruits, fresh vegetables are also prone to oxidation. As a result, their colors dull. Squeeze a little lemon juice over your fresh vegetables and toss to mix in order to keep the colors bright.
 A simple dressing, known as vinaigrette, uses vinegar and olive oil. Instead of using vinegar, however, you can use lemon juice for an extra tangy taste. Try combining 1/4 cup olive oil with about 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of lemon juice to start. You can use more lemon juice for a stronger taste, or you can cut back on the sourness by mixing in 1 teaspoon (4.8 grams) of sugar or honey. You can also enhance the taste of the dressing by adding salt and pepper to taste, or other herbs and spices.


Aside from standard green salads, you can use a lemon juice dressing to coat cooked vegetables, cold cooked pasta, and more.
For tossed salads, you may want to consider drizzling the oil and lemon juice over the salad separately. You can also combine the two into a single dressing, but combining them can cause leafy salads to get damp quickly if the dressing is used in abundance.
 Boil the rice in water and squeeze in 1 teaspoon to 3 tablespoons (5 to 45 milliliters) of lemon juice. If you want the fluffiness lemon juice provides while minimizing the amount of lemon taste that comes through, stick with 1 teaspoon (5 milliliters) of juice. The more juice you use, the stronger the flavor will be.
 Salt preserves and flavors food. A little is a good thing, but a lot can have harmful side effects to your health. Lemon juice also preserves and flavors, so as long as the juice complements the other flavors in your dish, lemon juice can be a healthier choice than salt.
 Many sauces made with lemon juice involve butter. Hollandaise sauce, for instance, uses egg yolks, butter, and lemon juice. It is also flavored with a little salt and white or cayenne pepper, and the sauce is typically used with eggs Benedict and steamed vegetables.


A lemon juice sauce can also improve your digestive health. Lemon juice is an especially helpful aid in the digestion of fried foods.
 If you only want the lemon juice for its acidic properties, this is not necessary, since the acids will continue to work throughout the entire process. If you want to enhance the lemon taste, however, adding your lemon juice in at the end of the cooking time will prevent a loss of flavor.

