 You can do so by looking at some pictures of Yuuki and sewing it yourself. If you aren't keen on sewing, ask a friend or family member who is proficient in the skill to make the costume for you. You can also buy it online at a cosplay shop. If you want to cosplay Yuuki in her academy dress, her multiple artwork dresses, or her winter cloak, buy it or sew it after seeing reference pictures. Remember that she likes to dress in soft pastel colors.;
, Yuuki is seen wearing a necklace with the crest of her school. Also, she wears a small metal bracelet that allows her to control Zero. You might also want to get her staff/scythe, Artemis. Otherwise, she is seen with detailed jewelry and clothing in several artworks.
 Have medium-length, brown hair or get a wig. Unless you want to cosplay Yuuki as a vampire, then you need long brown hair down to your lower back. You can also buy a wig for that as well. Remember that she likes to wear cute "Alice bands" in her hair, mostly in pastel colors.
 If you have very large breasts, you may want to bind them but it's not really necessary. You could use thin cloth to bind. Don't use bulky cloth because that would make it obvious.
 If you have brown eyes, no need to wear burgundy contacts, but you might like it, though, since her eyes are more reddish brown. To emphasize eyes, wear MAKEUP! Yuuki is a bit of a tomboy, so she's not the type to wear a full face of makeup, but to get those big anime/manga eyes, wear black or brown eyeliner in a anime/manga shape on the upper and lower lash-line, some mascara, and false lashes if you are up to it. Use pictures of Yuuki online for ideas.
 Also, you might like to hang with some Yori or Kaien cosplayers, the people dear to Yuuki. As Yuuki is a very social and talkative person, cos-playing with some others will let you look more like her.
 Yuuki is very naive, comedic, and optimistic, but also very indecisive. Learn about her character and her traits, like being not able to cook something eatable or enjoying parfait.
 Yuuki is known for her kindness and caring nature toward everybody, especially her friends.
 Yuuki's is from time to time fairly insecure due to her missing past so it may help to act this way but don't overdo it. If your going more for vampire Yuuki then don't act indecisive or insecure for that she looses this trait later. Also, be more authoritative.
,