 You'll need a few basic supplies to build your own fog machine. These supplies should be available at most hardware stores, and are not expensive. Unless you plan to keep your fog machine for a long time, most of these items can be repurposed for other projects. The items you'll need include:


A 2-foot, 6-inch round sheet metal ductwork pipe. This is also known as a stove pipe, and this will be the container that you make your fog inside.
A 25-foot length of 1/4-inch copper refrigerator tubing
A 50-foot length of 3/8-inch copper refrigerator tubing
A 12-foot length of 3/8-inch clear plastic tubing
A 2-foot length of 1-1/2 inch pipe (used as a form, then discarded)
A 2-foot length of 3-inch ABS plastic pipe (used as a form, then discarded)
4 pipe clamps for the 3/8" Clear plastic tubing
1 small submersible pump (80 gal/hour)
A package of plastic wire ties
An ice chest or bucket

, One coil should have a diameter of 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) and the other coil should have a diameter of 3 inches (7.6 cm). Form the coils by tightly winding soft copper refrigerator tubing around a piece of PVC pipe. You should be able to wind the copper tubing around the pipes using your hands, but if you have difficulty grasping it, you could grab the tubing using pliers.To create the inner coil, wind the 25 foot (7.6 m) copper tubing around a 2 foot (0.61 m) (61 cm) long pipe with a diameter of 1.5 inches (3.8 cm).
To create the outer coil, wind the 50 feet (15.24 m) copper tubing around a 2 foot (0.61 m) (61 cm) long pipe with a diameter of 3 inches (7.6 cm).
Slide the coils out of their respective tubes once created.
 Slide the smaller coil directly inside the larger coil and secure it in place by using small wire ties. This allows the fog to pass in and around the coils, which provides the best cooling.If tying the smaller coil in place is too difficult, you can just allow the small coil to lay against the bottom of the larger one.
Because the coils will need to fit inside the stove pipe, stretch them out until they roughly match the length of the pipe.
 Slide the larger coil into your stovepipe, using wire ties to hold both coils in place. The goal is to have the two coils as close to the center as possible inside the larger pipe.Hanging the coils in this way allows the fog to pass in and around the coils and cool it even better.
The machine will work without using the ties, but it won't work as well.
 At one end of the chiller, connect the ends of the inner and outer coils using short pieces of plastic tubing and pipe clamps.You'll need to connect the ends of the coils on the other side of the chiller to a small submersible pump using longer pieces of plastic tubing and pipe clamps.
Cold water will come from the pump, and circulate through the coils.
 The pump should be completely submerged and there should be room for a small commercial fog machine to sit beside it.The water needs to be ice cold in order for the mechanism to work, so you may need to wait 30 minutes or so after dumping the ice in the water before you can create the cold fog.
Place your fog machine into the other end of the ice chest. The spout should face outward.
 After a minute or so, cold water should circle through the copper tubing.Test the temperature of the copper by touching it. You should be able to feel the cold water through the sides of the copper.
Follow by turning on your fog machine. Fill the fog machine with commercial fog juice and switch it on. Fog should roll out, but instead of floating up as hot fog does, it should sink to the floor thanks to the cooling mechanism.

