 You may experience many emotions such as depression, sadness, and anger when you live with COPD. Handling your emotions is just as important as taking care of your physical health. Take whatever steps you need to get some support.Talk to a friend or family member about how you are feeling.
Ask for help when you need it.
Let your doctor know how you feel.
See a mental health professional such as a counselor or psychologist.
Keep a journal.;
, Having COPD changes all aspects of your life. Joining a support group can help find other people who are going through the same thing. You will feel supported and learn how other people manage their COPD.You can call 1-866-316-2673 to find support group near you.
Also ask your doctor if they know of any support groups.
 Even though you get short of breath, exercising strengthens your respiratory muscles and helps oxygen circulate through your body. Before you begin an exercise program, talk to your doctor. In general, stretching, walking, biking, swimming, and strength training are safe.Do not exercise if you have a fever or infection, feel nauseated, have chest pain, or are out of oxygen.
 Pulmonary rehab will help you live with and manage your COPD. Your rehab may include an exercise program, disease management and education, mental health counseling, and nutritional counseling. The goal of rehab is to help you continue your daily activities and have a good quality of life.Pulmonary rehab is done by a team of professionals such as nurses, doctors, physical therapists, social workers, psychologists, and respiratory therapists.
Talk to your doctor or call 1-800-586-4872 to find a pulmonary rehab program in your area., When you breathe, you inhale oxygen and exhale carbon dioxide. Carbohydrates produce more carbon dioxide than fats. You may breathe better if you decrease the amount of carbohydrates in your diet and eat more fats. Consult with a doctor or a registered dietitian nutritionist before you make changes to your diet.You can find a dietitian that specializes in COPD by visiting the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics website.
 Try to eat four to six small meals a day. Large meals take up space and make it more difficult for your diaphragm to move. It is also easier for your lungs to fill and empty air when you are not super full.If possible, rest before you eat.
 Water helps keep your mucus thin so it is easy to remove. Try to drink six to eight 8-oz glasses of water a day. To avoid feeling too full, you can avoid drinking liquids when you eat. Try to drink an hour after you get done eating.You may need to adjust your water intake based on your specific situation. Talk to your doctor about your water consumption.

