 When looking for soaps, choose ones that are meant for sensitive skin or are moisturizing. If you choose a harsh soap for your face, it can strip your skin of its natural oils. These oils are important for keeping your skin moisturized, which in turn, helps your face stay looking young., Long, hot showers strip your skin of moisture. Over time, that can wear on your face. Therefore, keep your showers short, and use warm water rather than very hot water., Rather than roughly rubbing your skin after you shower or wash your face, pat it gently instead. When you're rough, you remove oils from your skin. In addition, being too rough can cause aging., The more you pull and yank your skin, the more likely you are to end up with wrinkles. In fact, the same goes for applying makeup. For example, if you're constantly pulling your skin down to apply makeup to your eyes, it can lead to more wrinkles.That being said, it's important to remove your makeup before you go to sleep. If you don't, it can clog your pores over time, causing them to become larger. Even if you're not wearing makeup, you should wash your face before bed, as grime and dirt build up during the day. Both makeup and dirt can cause damage to collagen - which helps keep your skin elastic., You should use a moisturizer after you shower or wash your face, as well as before you go to sleep. Moisturizers keep your skin hydrated, helping you maintain beautiful skin. If you choose one with an SPF built into it, you don't need to apply a separate sunscreen.When looking for a moisturizer, choose one that's appropriate for your skin type. A wide variety are available, meant for skin from dry to oily., Acne can mar the beauty of your face. Therefore, use tips to treat it, keeping your face clearer and more beautiful.Use a mild acne cleanser to treat acne, using it to clean your face two times a day. Acne creams and lotions can also be helpful.Lower your stress levels. Stress can cause breakouts, so if you want to minimize them, try to keep stress to a minimum. Yoga and meditation can help you manage your stress, as can cutting back on the number of activities you're involved in.Talk to your doctor. If over-the-counter treatments aren't working, try asking your doctor for something stronger. You can also ask about birth control, which helps some women control acne.