 Does your child actually want horse riding lessons? is a very important question to ask yourself, because some people who have always ridden from a young age may want to force their own children into horse riding when they do not actually want to ride so to stop you wasting your money on something your child would rather not do ask them first.;
, Find some which are at a fairly cheap price, if cheap is what you think is best. Take some time to decide which would be best. You can get a half hour group lesson for £9 or equivalent maybe but $18 for a 1 hour lesson is better. Also you have to bear in mind the price of private lessons as well.
 Ask them if they'd prefer to have riding lessons with other children or on their own. They will enjoy their lessons more if they are actually on the type of riding lessons they actually want. A child who would like to do private lessons will not be very happy if they have to do group lessons instead.
 If your child has never ridden before they will need to be on a lead rein lesson until their horse riding instructor decides they are ok to move up to a beginner lesson where they are not on a lead rein.
 When you have somewhere in mind for your child to ride, visit and watch the lead round/rein lesson you are going to be on. If you think it looks fine go ahead and book your child's lessons.
 Have a look that all the horses look happy, healthy, alert, clean and well fed.
 If the centre provides hats you should use them while your child is still on the lead rein lesson and probably nervous as if they fall off they will most likely want to quit riding.
 Also you need to find out if you have to buy your child jodhpurs, body protector etc. or if while they are still on the lead rein lesson if they can manage in normal trousers and no body protector and no gloves or normal gloves.
 Make sure your child has riding boots, they are a must or your child's foot may get stuck in the stirrup particularly when they fall off (every rider will fall off at some time).

