 Symptoms of dehydration are reduced skin elasticity, pale and dry gums, sunken eyes, concentrated urine, lethargy, and increased heart rate.Check skin elasticity by lifting the skin between your dog’s shoulder blades. If the skin slowly springs back or stays lifted, then your dog is dehydrated to severely dehydrated.
If your dog is severely dehydrated, take it to the vet immediately. The vet can administer fluids intravenously.
 If you notice that your dog’s water bowl is still full after an hour or two, try placing the water bowl in front of your dog. If your dog refuses to drink, then you will need to administer fluids manually. A dog should be drinking one ounce of water for each pound of body weight. If your dog weighs 20 pounds (9.07 kg), then it should be drinking at least 20 ounces (567 grams) of water a day.A loss of appetite is another symptom of distemper. If your dog will not eat its regular, dry food, then try feeding your dog softer, canned food. Additionally, you can try feeding your dog baby food, particularly the meats.
If the dog is vomiting, then do not feed him.
 If your dog refuses to drink water, you will need to rehydrate your dog manually with a syringe. You can buy a syringe from a pet supply store. Fill the syringe with water. If your dog will not open its mouth, it is ok. Just lift your dog’s lip and administer the water near the back part of the jaw and near the gums. Your dog will reflexively swallow the water.You will need to give your dog one cup of water per 40 pounds (18.14 kg) of body weight every two to three hours.
If your dog is also vomiting, give the water gradually in the beginning, for example, one or two tablespoons every 15 minutes.
 If your dog will not eat canned food, you will need to liquefy your dog’s food and administer it with a syringe. You can liquefy canned food by blending it with water and/or milk. To make the food more appealing, you can add small amounts of smelly foods, such as liverwurst, or chicken and beef liver.You can also feed your dog nourishing liquids, like plain chicken broth (without onions and spices). Chicken broth not only provides nutrients, but it will also hydrate your dog.
 Appetite-stimulating medication will increase your dog’s appetite. Consult your veterinarian before administering these medications. Your vet will be able to diagnose the severity of your dog’s inappetence, and prescribe an appropriate medication.

