 If you have no experience working with a jeweler, you will very likely have to start on the ground floor.


Keep your credit score as high as possible, no drug use, or legal problems. The jewelry industry is highly security oriented. Any bad marks on a credit score, legal issues or drug problems will bar you from an initial interview. Lying on an application will be cause for dismissal. They are required to check resumes carefully.
If you aren't sure what specific jewelry jobs to pursue, try working in a variety of environments so that you can get a better sense of what you enjoy doing.
Many beginners start out as polishers and gain valuable on-the-job experience through informal apprenticeships in manufacturing facilities, retail stores, or repair shops.;
, Jewelry industry positions and salaries vary widely. You may decide to pursue a career in retail sales or management, or if you prefer to work in a more creative capacity, you might opt for a job in design or manufacturing.
 More than half of all jewelry professionals and precious stone and metal workers were self-employed in 2008, and projections indicate that number will likely grow.
 Historically, an apprentice learned how to become a jeweler entirely through on-the-job experience. Today, however, more formal training and education is encouraged.


Based on your specific interests, you may need to learn math, design, or customer-service management skills. Research jewelry education programs at local trade schools, colleges, and universities. Programs may include Jewelry Repair, Jewelry Arts, Jewelry Appraising, Metal and Media Techniques and Jewelry Sales and Marketing.
Look online at organizations like Jewelers of America and Stewart's International School for Jewelers for a variety of distance education programs.



Get involved with organizations like the World Jewelry Confederation, which aims to promote and the jewelry industry worldwide and protect consumer interests.
Professional and master jeweler certifications are offered through national or international jewelry associations like the Gemological Institute of America and the International Colored Gemstone Association.
 Participate in continuing education opportunities that help jewelry experts stay up-to-date on legislative, economic, and other issues affecting the industry. Most professional associations sponsor conferences, online workshops, seminars and networking opportunities to members.
 Most of these are considered diploma mills preying on people desperate for a career. View http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/edu/pubs/consumer/alerts/alt149.shtm for more information.

