 Have fun with others when around him. Pretend you don't even notice him and act as if he doesn't even exist and as if he is not even there. If you talk sometimes, start distancing yourself from him (you can even do this if you hardly talk or anything similar to this), by not noticing him as much, not talking to him as much, not staring at him as much...but do it "little" by "little". If you two are very apart,this will probably work like a charm if he notices you have a life and it will leave him hanging. Remember, not all guys are the same. If this guy is a player (a player is a guy who just plays around and messes with girls and pretends to like them when they really don't),don't you worry, the steps below will work perfectly for you. He will realize the "real" and "true" meaning of "like" or "love" when he finds you.;
, Do not change your looks, the way you act, the way you dress, the way you talk, or the way you are. Don't change who you are. it's okay to dress up for a school dance and be a little romantic, beautiful, and sexy for the guy, but even if you do that, just stay yourself.
 Once he notices you, start acting like your taken. Example: Start a rumor without anyone knowing it is you by telling your friend: "Hey some random person in our grade level just told me that there is a rumor I'm going out with David?". Or you could just act like you like another guy by staring at him, being really close to him and near him, and by flirting with him when you're around that guy you like.
 Act as if you don't even know he is staring at you and pretend your just minding your own business.
, Guys can tell if you like them even a little bit by just a few body language. Like, don't let him catch you staring at him just because he is walking around the classroom or in the hallway!! In the hallway,just glance at him, that's all you have to do nothing more.
 This will make him jealous and want to ask you out before any other guy decides to.
 it will make him step up his game because 1) He thinks you will think that other guy is better than him, and 2) He won't want any other guy liking you, you liking any other guys, or for you to even have guy friends or actual relationships with a guy. As a matter of fact, he may get so jealous, he will even try getting your attention! Or at least eye contact!

