 Leave your betta’s current container alone for now. Use a water conditioner (available at pet supply stores) to remove chlorine and other harmful substances from the fresh water.


Follow all directions provided with the water conditioner, and use the exact amount required for your tank or bowl size.
 Putting your betta immediately into water that is a different temperature can harm it.Let the container of fresh, treated water sit at room temperature for an hour so that it will be safe and comfortable for your fish.


Alternatively, you can mix hot and cold water from your tap until it is the same temperature as the water in your betta’s current container.If you follow this method, use an aquarium thermometer to make sure that the water in both tanks is the same temperature, and add water conditioner to the new water as instructed.
 Using a fish net, remove your betta from its current container to the container filled with fresh water.Be very gentle when moving your fish, as its fins are very susceptible to injury.
 Gently clean the container itself, using only water and a clean, soft cloth or sponge; soaps and other products can harm your fish. Make sure to sift the tank’s gravel to remove waste, food debris, etc.
 Take some of the fresh water from the container your betta is currently in, and pour it into its container.Pour enough so that your betta will be able to move comfortably in its container.
 Using a fish net, move your betta from the holding tank back to its container, now partially filled with fresh water.As before, be very gentle when moving your fish.
 Take the rest of the fresh water from the holding tank and very slowly pour it into your betta’s container. If the container is too heavy to lift and pour, use a clean scoop (or similar container) or siphon hose to add the water. It is important to pour very slowly so that you do not disturb your fish., Most of the time, partial water changes are all that are needed for a betta's container.Complete a full water change, however, if the container becomes dirty all over.

