 Your niche will determine the type of articles you write, as all of the articles you publish as part of your marketing strategy should testify to your expertise and inspire web surfers interested in your specific product, service or topic to visit your website. For example, if you website is a blog about Japanese food, then all of your articles should pertain to that subject.;
, The titles you use are extremely important when it comes to attracting viewers and improving your search engine optimization (SEO), and you should therefore take some care in picking them. There are a number of factors that go into creating strong, SEO-friendly titles.


Titles should be as short and concise as possible and should accurately represent the information that can be found in the article. Don't make the mistake of choosing a catchy title just to attract attention if the article content does not match up.
To factor SEO into your article marketing strategy, research keywords to choose titles that are likely to be searched for by web surfers (high search volume) and that have low competition.
Place keyword phrases at the beginning of titles, rather than at the end. For example, an article entitled, "5 Fun Ways You Can Teach Your Bird to Sing" would be more aptly titled, "Teach Your Bird to Sing: 5 Fun Ways."
Draw from a variety of resources for article marketing title ideas. In addition to keyword research, you can find title ideas by searching related blogs, drawing from customer FAQs and searching the web for your keywords plus the terms "articles" and/or "blogs."

, Your article marketing will only be as effective as the articles you write, as low-quality articles are less likely to garnish attention and inspire visitors to your site.


Organize your articles into an opening paragraph, a body and a closing paragraph. The body should contain one paragraph for each main idea supporting the opening statement, and each paragraph in the article should contain 3 to 5 sentences; as with the title, keep the paragraphs as short and concise as is possible to get your point across.
If the publisher allows you to link to your own website within the article, the body content is a great place to insert article marketing backlinks.
Keep your articles between 250 to 500 words. Studies show that most web surfers are less likely to read articles longer than that.
Close your articles with a short (2 to 3 sentence) author bio containing a link to your website. This part is necessary to creating article marketing backlinks that can improve your site's SEO. Depending on the publisher, your bio may be placed at the end of the article on the web page, or in a "resource box" area.
 For example, if you have an online winter apparel catalog, you can feature summaries for articles like, "Wear Your Scarf These 5 Creative Ways" and, "Must-have Winter Coats" directly on your product pages. This will engage visitors and inspire them to stay and explore your site.
 Additionally, include social media sharing buttons on all of your web pages, so others can share your articles.



Search the web for article directories to find submission sites that will accept and publish your articles. Include both niche and general terms in your searches to find a variety of applicable submission sites.
Spin, or rewrite, your articles if you plan on submitting them to multiple sites. Search engines may not give high rankings to duplicate content, so it is important that you give each article a makeover before publishing it in more than one location on the web.
 Find blogs related to your niche and inquire with them as to whether or not they accept guests posts. When you find blogs that are willing to feature you as a guest poster, submit high quality articles with your bio and link.

