 Your teen’s school likely provides some tutoring services and they may have options suitable for your teen’s needs. For high school students, there may be options for tutoring on campus before or after regular school hours. For college students, the school’s Academic Support Center can provide information about available tutoring options. This can be an appealing option as the tutors will be familiar with the specific curriculum of the student’s school and classes.


The No Child Left Behind Act mandates that all qualified public school students in the U.S. have access to supplemental tutoring services. Ask for information about programs that meet this requirement from your school.If the student is homeschooled, check your state’s regulations before hiring a tutor as laws regarding acceptable teachers can vary.For students that do not qualify for supplemental tutoring services, speak with school representatives about additional options. They may keep a list of recommended tutors. The student’s teachers may also know of tutors that they could recommend for your teen.
 If your school does not have a suitable tutor for the student, look through private listings. You can first ask if the school maintains a list of recommended private tutors, or you can use an internet search engine to find tutoring companies in your area. Alternately, you can check local classified listings. Private tutoring services can connect you with vetted tutors and simplify the selection process for you.


Kaplan (http://kaplan.com) and the Princeton Review (http://www.princetonreview.com) are recognized companies for ACT and SAT test preparation classes.
The National Tutoring Association (http://www.ntatutor.com/find-a-nta-certified-tutor.html) and American Tutoring Association (http://www.americantutoringassociation.org/?action=search) both allow you to search their certified tutors by region.
 A satisfied customer may be willing to connect you with the tutor that they hired. This path can ease the selection process as you can confirm both the quality of the tutor’s work and their familiarity with the material that your teen is studying. Ask about the subjects covered, the student’s needs, and the tutor’s methods to get a sense for whether their tutor may be a match for your teen.


Some people may be sensitive about working with a tutor. Don’t ask about tutoring experiences publically. Accept that some parents or students may not want to talk with you about hiring a tutor.
 A former teacher can be an excellent choice for private tutoring as they will be trained and experienced in reaching a variety of students. They may also have connections at the student’s school and understand the specific challenges that they face. A retired teacher’s experience is valuable, so it likely that they will be expensive.

