 Wear a brown T-shirt or turtleneck to begin with. You also should wear a white karate GI suit over that. You can buy these at martial arts stores or online.;
, The Jedi wore clothing that fit their monastic lifestyle.A friar robe is a great choice to simulate the Jedi robe, but if you really are crunched for time you could always try a brown bathrobe.You can buy a Friar robe online.


Friar robe’s offer hoods, which make them a good option to replicate a Jedi robe.
The robe should reach to the floor or your ankles at the very least.
Stick with simple and comfortable robes.
 Don’t wear an expensive, flashy belt. Remember that the Jedi are very ascetic. That’s what you should be striving to emulate., Remember to keep the colors and tones of the boots and pants very muted. You shouldn't be wearing conspicuous or extravagant clothing, and the pants shouldn't be so baggy that they fall below your waist.


The material should be tough enough to withstand survival missions or work outdoors. There is no such thing as designer Jedi clothing., Wearing multiple layers of tunics is an ideal way to replicate the Jedi look. The under tunic should be white and the over tunic should match the color of your trousers.Remember that Padawans also only wore simple robes and tunics.
 The Jedi code should inform the way that you interact with the world and how you think about yourself. The Jedi code is a good mantra to memorize and try to recall on your path to becoming a Jedi. Try to remember the code whenever you get frustrated or worked up. The Jedi code is as follows:


There is no emotion, there is peace.
There is no ignorance, there is knowledge.
There is no chaos, there is harmony.
There is no passion, there is serenity.
There is no death, there is the Force.
 Fear is the path to the dark side, so you should try to avoid letting fear consume you. It’s totally okay to fear so long as you admit it to a master or an apprentice, or any one with you. If no-one is with you admit it to yourself out-loud, it is better to be mindful of being afraid than to contain it inside you. 

, To hone your full potential abilities as a Jedi you must be morally, ethically, and mentally stable.Patience is a huge part of being a Jedi. You shouldn’t find yourself riled up easily or constantly worried. Have faith in your abilities to handle extreme situations.
 The three pillars of the Jedi Path are self-discipline, knowledge, and the Force. Remember that the Force doesn’t necessarily need mean moving around objects with your mind. It also has to do with being able to convince people to do your bidding, being perceptive, and understanding the truth in things. Try to model all your actions after the pillars of the Jedi Path.Self discipline means you should exercise regularly and remain diligent. Don’t be someone of excess. Have you ever seen an out of shape Jedi?
Embracing the knowledge pillar means you should embrace your studies and learn as much as you can about the world and the creatures that live in it.
 Mindfulness meditation is an easy meditation to begin with. This will help you have a relaxed and capable mind. The idea behind mindfulness meditation is that your brain is constantly thinking and planning but never taking the time to be present. Sit with your legs crossed on the ground and practice breathing in through your nose and out through your mouth.Try to be completely present as you do this - only pay attention to your breathing and what your body feels like. When you notice that your attention has strayed from your breathing, move it back to your breath. Don't berate yourself, just notice that your attention has strayed and let it go., Taking fencing classes will teach you similar skills that you would use with a light saber. Martial arts is a great way to train your body and your mind at the same time. Being fit and capable are essential if you want to be a Jedi. However you should remember that fighting is not what being a Jedi is all about. The Jedi Path says nothing about fighting.
 Obi –Wan lived in a cave for nineteen years, so you can probably get rid of some of your clothes and belongings. If you really want to be a Jedi it means embracing the ascetic lifestyle. The more monastic your lifestyle the more you will be in touch with the Jedi Path., You should strive to be a good person. You must develop this just as you develop your other skills.You don’t need to be constantly saving people from danger, but you should try to find small kindness in life.


For example, offer your change to a homeless person or donate some of your clothes to charity.
 Anakin wasn’t corrupted until he started spending more time around Darth Sidious. Don’t allow people to negatively alter your worldview.


You should be open to new opinions, but take care not to stray from the code or the Jedi Path while you remain open-minded. Evil is evil.
 There are communities who offer practical advise such as "Jedi Living"