 To blend in better in social situations, try observing, rather than taking action. Observe how others around you socialize and communicate. You can then hang out and simply watch, rather than participate, in conversations.When you are observing others, you may also notice how certain groups socialize with each other. You may then try to socialize with them in the same way to blend in better with their social group.;
, If you are a tourist in a foreign country trying to blend in, you should try to adopt the customs and practices of the locals. You can also mimic others to try to blend in with social groups at work, chatting about accepted topics of discussion and speaking in a similar tone of voice as everyone else.As a tourist in a foreign country, you can also blend in by learning some of the local language and customs. Speaking with locals in their own language or acting like locals act in general will help you blend in better.
 Modulate your voice to fit the tone and volume of those around you. This way, you can blend into the existing environment and not startle or freak out others.In an office environment, this may mean keeping your voice low and unassuming when you speak. You may take on a gentle, low tone so you can blend into conversations going on around you or the quieter sounds of an office.
In a foreign country, you should also be aware of the volume and tone of your voice. You do not want to be the tourist laughing and chatting loudly in a quiet local cafe. Try to adopt a tone of voice that mimics the locals around you and that allows you to blend in rather than stand out.
 Let others dominate the conversation and speak up every now and then to ask thoughtful questions that help keep the conversation going. This way, you are participating in the conversation but not drawing undue attention to yourself.For example, maybe you are joining an ongoing conversation at the office. Your co-workers may be discussing their weekends. Let them both share and ask questions like, “Do you go to the lake often?” or “How often do you go camping on the weekends?” These questions will keep the conversation flowing and allow you to be a part of the discussion.
If you are hanging out with friends who know each other well, they may not be interested in getting-to-know-you questions like “Where are you from?” or “How do you know each other?” To blend in better during the hang out, focus on contributing to the conversation by sharing your own experiences and thoughts that are on topic.

