 Choose colors and styles to enhance your eyes, hair, skin and figure. Take time to experiment.;
, They're slimming. This includes black, brown, navy, maroon, olive or teal for t-shirts. Choose black, brown or navy jeans. Being monochromatic, such as wearing brown jeans with a brown t-shirt, is even more slimming. Black jeans with a navy t-shirt is fairly monochromatic.
 A thicker fabric will keep the shape of your t-shirt a lot longer. Hang your t-shirt at the waistline, on a clothesline, to keep an even hemline.
 They create a slimming line. A scooped or crew neck broadens your appearance.
 Sleeveless, short or long sleeves may be your best bet. Three-quarter length sleeves broaden your appearance.
 If worn outside your jeans, the hemline of a t-shirt should be about three inches below your natural waistline. Shorter broadens your appearance. Longer includes the bulk of your jeans.
 Clinging fabrics will accentuate the flaws of your figure. Buy a larger size for the appropriate length and width.
 If you bought a larger size, learn to take in the side seams and sew a hem by hand for a nice finished look. It's pretty simple and you'll get a custom fit. Folding the hemline over once may be the only alteration required. Most t-shirts are meant to cover a long torso; they're on the shelf with one-size-fits-all in mind.
 Jeans should be loose when sitting, if they're going to glide when walking. As said before, a larger size may be more appropriate. Straight legs will widen your hips. If you have a small waist, you can wear a lower waistline or tuck your t-shirt in.
 Look for stretch fabrics in jeans. They flow with you and are usually less bulky. Plain pockets and plain stitching are slimming. You can always add an embellishment at a later time.
 A slight heel is slimming, yet comfortable. Choose black, brown or navy to match your outfit. For more comfort, look for a shoe that coincides with the natural shape of your foot.
 Slimming accessories would be hoops or dangling earrings and medium to long necklaces. Wear one accessory at a time. Cluttered broadens your appearance.
 If you plan to wear a belt over your t-shirt, you may want to buy a larger size than normal. Wear a thin belt loosely around your waist. Try a fabric belt, that has some of the color found in your t-shirt, to lessen the accentuation of a wider waist. If you have a long torso, you can wear a wide belt. If you're overweight, go without a belt.

