 Getting to know your man should go beyond just the conversations that you have with him. Get to know with him by seeing how he responds to stress, fear, or excitement. Visit a local theme park together, go horseback riding, or try something like indoor skydiving Notice how he reacts to these types of situations..For instance, perhaps when he gets on a rollercoaster, he gets very anxious and then afterwards is frustrated with you. This could indicate that he is not a person who handles fear well.
He might also react to an adventure positively and the two of you may have a lot of fun.
 Expand both of your culinary palettes by trying a food you’ve both never had. Whether you head to the new restaurant downtown or you cook a meal together, this will show you how your boyfriend responds to newness.


He might not like the food very much, and yet not complain, which is a good sign. Or perhaps he goes on and on about hating the food all night, which could be a downer for you.
 Try something new together like dancing, horseback riding or painting. Notice how he reacts to learning something new. Some people will give up if they can’t get the hang of it soon and others will keep at it until they master it. Notice how your boyfriend responds in situations where he is a rookie., Some people are sore losers and others take losing or winning like a champ. Play some video games or board games with your boyfriend and see how he reacts to the outcome. He might have a competitive spirit that matches yours or perhaps he sulks or is cocky when he wins. Either way, this will help you assess his character.


You can also do something that is a team effort like a puzzle, escape room or even a DIY project. See if he leads, follows, doesn’t help at all, or takes over completely.
 In getting to know your boyfriend better, pay close attention to how he treats and talks about others. For instance, does he gossip or speak badly about friends? If so, he might speak badly about you, as well. Is he kind to waiters when you are out to eat or is he rude to them? An ideal partner is one who treats all people well, not just those who he views as having a similar social status.

