 Psoriasis medications can often help prevent flare-ups if taken as your doctor recommends. This is especially true for medications that work through your immune system, such as biologics.


It is also important not to stop taking medication without consulting your doctor first. Stopping a medication for psoriasis without working with your doctor can cause one type of psoriasis to become a more severe type., Psoriasis is an autoimmune skin disorder characterized by itchy, scaly skin rash. The cause of psoriasis is often unknown, but there are known triggers that can aggravate the condition and cause an outbreak, including stress.Take steps to reduce stress in your life. Try relaxation techniques, such as yoga and meditation.
Exercise regularly. Exercise helps release endorphins and can alleviate stress.
 Damage of the skin (vaccination, bites, scrapes and sunburn) can trigger the formation of new psoriasis lesions. This is called the Koebner phenomenon.Use protective clothing and care for all scrapes and injuries immediately using hygienic techniques.
Prevent sunburns by using sunscreens, protective clothing (hats and long loose clothing), or shades. Also, limit the amount of time you spend in the direct sun.
 Some medications are known triggers of psoriasis outbreak, including anti-malarial drugs, lithium, inderal, indomethacin and quinidine.If you suspect that your medication might be triggering psoriasis, ask your doctor for an alternative medication.
Do not stop taking a prescription medication suddenly without asking your doctor first.
 Anything that can affect your immune system may trigger psoriasis flare ups, such as strep throat (Streptococcal pharyngitis), thrush (Candida albicans) and respiratory infections.Seek immediate medical attention if you suspect an infection.
 One clinical study found that regular beer (but not light beer, wine or other types of alcohol) may be associated with an increased risk of psoriasis outbreak.


The risk was 2.3 times higher for women who consumed five or more beers per week compared with women who did not drink beer., Smoking makes psoriasis worse. It's bad for your health in general, too. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist about options to help you stop smoking.Women who are smokers are at particular risk of making psoriasis worse., Cold and dry weather removes natural moisture from the surface of the skin and might trigger a psoriasis outbreak.Stay warm and consider getting a humidifier to your home.

