 Head into your local butcher and ask around if they have pig cheek, though they will likely know what you mean by guanciale as well. You can order it online, as well, if you're serious about curing your own meat frequently.


This recipe is for 1 lb of pork cheeks/jowls.
 It will be about an inch and half thick when you are finished. If you are buying directly from the butcher, you can usually ask that they clean and prepare it for you., 2 curing salt and a seasoning mixture. The curing salt can be bought at big grocery stores but is also available online. The seasoning mixture can be tweaked to your preferences and style, but a good base recipe includes:


2 tablespoons Kosher Salt + 1 Teaspoon No. 1 or No. 2 curing salt
1 tablespoon rosemary, chopped
1 teaspoon black pepper, garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander., Make sure the entire jowl is covered by your spices. Note, again, that the mixture above is for 1 lb or jowls -- you'll need to add more if you want a bigger batch.
 This allows the salt to get to work curing and saving your meat, removing moisture quickly to speed up the process. Every morning when you wake up, flip the bag so that a different side is soaking on the bottom., They're now ready to hang, but make sure you get off as much moisture as possible. This, after all, is the point of curing it!

, This is often the tricky part for a home chef, but it doesn't have to be. You can make a simple hook with a cleaned metal coat hanger, hanging them in the basement, garage, or attack -- somewhere without a lot of traffic or light.If possible, hang it in front of a wood stove or fireplace -- this can speed up the process considerably if it is usually on.Remember that this meat still needs to be cooked before it is eaten.
 This will lead to a slightly different flavor and texture, but not so different that you can't use it to shortcut the curing process. The raised heat will speed up the drying out of the cheeks, giving you delicious guanciale in an afternoon instead of two weeks.