 You will get little to none kills with the chainsaw if you do not start strategy for you game. This may involve throwing smoke and hiding, waiting behind corners for your prey or looping around to attack enemies from behind - whatever it is, simply running straight into the action hoping to snag a kill will almost certainly end in your demise. More than with any other weapon, the chainsaw needs to be used with a plan in mind.;
, In every map there will be some area where enemies go where you can optimize your chain-sawing action. Corners or small corridors are perfect, but try to avoid wide open spaces or places with only low cover. You may find some maps are better than others to chainsaw on, while others can be good or bad, depending on who your opponents are.
 For example, if you've managed to loop around and they're in scope-mode with a sniper, they will probably be very easy to kill. In fact, most snipers are easy to cut down with the chainsaw. Or if they have grenades, be prepared to be tagged with one before you chainsaw, so that even if you do chainsaw that person, you will die afterwards - try to catch them from behind. However, of all the weapons you will come up against, the most common and difficult to overcome for a chainsaw-user is the shotgun. It is not impossible to kill them however, especially if you use a small zig-zag route when you are coming towards them - this will reduce their effectiveness against you. Understandably, if you attack them from behind they will be very easy to kill. If you get in quickly enough, they will only have time to get a glancing shot off which, if you are close enough, will not be enough to stop you killing them.
 More than anything the chainsaw is most effective when your opponent is not expecting it. Do not rev your chainsaw until the absolute last second and if you are following someone from behind, never run as it will alert them to your presence. If you are attacking them from behind or the sides, always try to attack from either behind or the left side of their body, since the third-person view crops that side more than the right.
 Entering a situation where you will be ambushed by several opponents is the bane of the chainsaw, so take the time to take note of who's where.
 If you've made sure it's safe, the enemy is unaware, that you have followed your plan and can successfully make the attack, simply walk up to the enemy and let your chainsaw rip! If your enemy does somehow become aware of you, rely on your skill to finish them off. Once your opponent knows you're there, it's no use trying to still be stealthy - use the terrain, roll around and try to get around them so you have a better chance. try to not get stunned, otherwise you will most likely get killed.
 If you still have your health, but several more enemies have come to your prey's aid, then simply run away. This can be useful for the ol' "retreat/attack" move, where you can hide behind a corner and wait for your pursuer to walk right into your chainsaw.
 If someone throws smoke, use it. If someone is about to pick up a weapon of friend, get them. Whatever the case, the general rule of thumb is: If you're not the point of focus, attack. If you can attack them without them having a chance to attack back, attack. If they are standing still, attack. You'll know a good situation when you see one.
 Use the chainsaw whenever you can. You'll find new ways to use maps and attack certain weapons and situations over time which will help you become better. Use nothing but the chainsaw if you feel comfortable - it will really help your development.

