 Choose some bright colors that you want to use for your flowers. You can use up to two colors for each flower. Add a few drops of water into each pan to turn the watercolor into liquid.


You can also pour some liquid food coloring into a small cup instead.
You can use liquid water color, but keep in mind that it is not safe for consumption, so you'd want to only use it on hallow/blown-out eggs.
 Don't worry too much about the shape right now. You will eventually draw a flower over it, making it look like a field-sketch or illustration done in watercolor.
 Try to make this blob a slightly different shape and size. This will create a petal-like effect for your flower. It can be the same color as before or a slightly different shade.


Use a clean towel to dab away any excess paint.
 You can do this with the tip of your brush or switch to a smaller paintbrush. Again, don't worry if it looks blurry. Yellow would work great with orange, red, or pink flowers. Purple would work better with blue flowers, and vice versa.


You can try dabbing the center of your flower with a wet brush or Q-tip. This will remove some of the color and give you a lighter/white stamen.
 Dip your brush back into your first color. Add a small blob over your stamen. You don't have to do this, but it will help tone everything down and create more layering.
 Once the paint is dry, you can move on to the outlines, or you can add more flowers. You should be able to fit up to three flowers on one egg.
 Make sure that the marker is non-toxic if your eggs are hard boiled. Don't worry about following the outlines of the original blob. Simply draw a flower shape using a wavy, squiggly line. You can even draw outside the blob a little; this will give your flower a more field-sketch look.


Can't find a non-toxic brush-tipped pen? Try a non-toxic watercolor pen. They usually have a brush tip attached.
 There is no right or wrong way to do this. You can make a simple stamen by drawing a circle in the middle of the flower. You can also draw a few, short lines with dots on top. Alternatively, you can draw 5 to 6 small circles close together.
 Draw one or two leaf shapes around your flower using the same black, brush-tipped marker. Try to make them different sizes for a more natural look. Let the ink dry before moving on.
 Again, don't worry about going outside the lines or filling them in completely. This will help lend your flower a more watercolor-like look.
 Set the egg down onto an egg holder or bottle cap so that the paint doesn't smudge. Once the paint dries, you can add the egg into your basket or display it however your like.

