 Leather requires more careful care than fabric or vinyl upholstery, as it is more susceptible to aging and fading. The best option to clean leather is to use cleaners specifically made for leather, such as cleaners and conditioners. These are often available as a kit, such as the Wolfgang Leather Care Cockpit Kitor the Pinnacle Contours Interior Kit., Leather responds to heat and will accept cleaners and treatments more readily in a warm environment. If it’s hot where you live, then you don’t need to turn on the heater. But if it’s the middle of winter, turn on the heater for a few minutes to warm up the car before cleaning the leather.
 For stubborn stains on leather upholstery, pretreat the leather with a leather conditioner. Then apply a leather stain remover on the stain and rub it in. Allow it to sit for about 30 seconds and wipe off the stain remover.
 Apply the leather cleaner to your upholstery, focusing on one section or seat at a time. Use a soft cloth to rub the cleaner on the upholstery. Rinse off the cleaner thoroughly with clean water.


Follow the instructions on the product’s label for proper usage.
 You can mix some mild hand soap with warm water and wash the leather upholstery. Do not use very much water. Be sure to thoroughly rinse off the soapy mixture by using a clean cloth soaked in water to wipe off the soap., After you’ve cleaned the leather, make sure it is completely dry before you apply conditioner. While leather naturally repels water, it will not hold the conditioner if it’s wet.
 Leather conditioner will replenish the oils that make your leather smooth and rich-looking. Less expensive leather conditioners may be petroleum-based, which tend to cling to leather and can transfer to clothing. They may also leave a greasy finish on the leather. Using a water-based, pH neutral leather conditioner will ensure that your leather upholstery and your clothes are kept in good condition.Apply the conditioner to a cloth and wipe over the leather. Wipe away any excess conditioner and allow it to sit for 15-20 minutes before using your car.
 On the seat upholstery, there are seams where the upholstery has been sewn together. Dirt and debris can easily gather here and it is often hard to lift this dirt with a vacuum or cloth. Use a toothbrush to get at these areas, scrubbing gently with your cleaner.
 Remove the floor mats from the car and clean them using the same cleaner that you’ve used on the rest of the upholstery. To clean the mats, make an all-purpose upholstery cleaner by mixing 1 part water with 1 part dishwashing liquid. Spray the mixture onto the mat and brush with a soft-bristled brush. Rinse thoroughly with warm water and use a microfiber cloth to dry the mats.


For rubber or vinyl mats, you can also apply liquid wax shoe polish to them. This will help improve their shine and will also make them easier to rinse off and keep clean.