 Even though your emotions might feel powerful, take a step back and look at the big picture.


Airplanes are a very safe mode of transportation.You have a much higher chance of getting injured or killed driving on the free-way (or even sitting in your own home) than flying in an airplane.By the data, there is a 99.99999771% chance that your flight will arrive without trouble.Lots of people are scared to fly, but the fact is, the chances of anything going wrong in an aircraft are virtually zero. If you don’t believe it, do some research yourself and find out!;
, Also try to think about your destination and how much fun it will be. If you hear or feel something that confuses you ask your flight attendant. Most likely he/she will have a very logical explanation and will reassure you that nothing is wrong. For example, many people dislike turbulence. However, turbulence is nothing to fear. It is the plane's way of coping with changing air flows. The pilots aren't fighting to stay in control of the plane and a wing will NOT break off.


Try getting a pen and writing down all of the reasons why you're feeling anxious. Go through it in your head thinking carefully about each fear. Ask yourself 'why am I scared of this?' ' what will happen?' And any other questions like that. Think positive. Talk to someone about some of the fears. See if that helps.
 It's hard not to feel stressed when you're too cold or sore from the hard seat.


Be sure to bring along a small throw blanket, a pillow, a shawl, slippers, a sweatshirt or whatever will make you comfy while traveling.
Close your window cover or ask your neighbor to if you don't like heights.
Wear a hat. It is scientifically proven that the simple act of wearing a cozy hat can relieve mental insecurity and make you feel more at ease.Bring something that makes you happy or comforts you. This might include a favorite small plush animal or maybe some kind of comfort food to indulge yourself in.
 Sometimes, though, just the noise of the engines is enough to stir someone up. Bring an mp3 player or iPod with quiet, calming music or nature sounds; you can get many free apps for iPods for this.


Close your eyes, pull up your blanket, and try this easy technique:

Hold your body still and breathe deeply. Listen closely to the nature sounds that you have on. Release (relax) your muscles and imagine you are wherever your sounds are (maybe on the beach or in a rainforest). Concentrate as much as possible on this. It might be a little hard at first but whenever an outside thought pops into your mind, push it out and keep focused that peaceful place in your mind.
 Bring along a small squeeze ball or stuffed animal to discretely squeeze as hard as you can. Just keep squeezing and squeezing and eventually you will have released a good deal of energy. This will help alleviate tension.


You can also try this: Starting with your feet, and moving up your whole body, tense and squeeze all the muscles in your body as hard as possible. Hold this as long as you can and then gently and slowly, from head to toe, release all you tension and completely relax every muscle in your body. Take a few slow sips of water, take a few deep breaths and repeat if necessary. This should help. Basically, when you feel that you can’t control your anxiety, do some simple in seat exercises that will drain excess energy.
 Watch a movie, read a good book or magazine, listen to music, eat, play a game, talk to someone, go on your laptop, do a craft project or a crossword puzzle--anything to keep you busy. Even if you don’t like reading, audio books are calming, soothing and distracting.
 play this game:


Put a big smile on your face. Sit back in your chair and try to display the utmost confidence. When the attendant comes by ask what time the flight will be arriving. Pull out an activity and start to do it. Whatever you do don't act nervous! This in it of itself will make you feel to much better.
 This can make you feel much better. if you're traveling with someone start up a perfectly normal conversation about your destination, a movie you saw, etc. If there is a stranger next to you who doesn't seem busy, say "hi" and introduce yourself. Even if you don't really talk they will appreciate that you're being friendly.
 See How to Sleep on a Plane for more info.
 If you try to do these things, you should be fine. Remember, flying makes everyone at least a little nervous, but, if you follow these techniques, you'll be there before you know it!

