 It is remarkable how much a simple recitation of the shahadah can help prepare you for the challenges of life. A reminder that Allah is Almighty, All-Powerful can be very encouraging and comforting.
Watch out for shirk. Shirk is the sin of associating partners with Allah and the only unpardonable sin in Islam. There are many categories and sub-categories of shirk including Polytheism . Watch out for them.


Shirk in Lordship is of two types. Shirk by association and shirk by negation. Shirk by association comes from believing anyone other than Allah to be God. Keep in mind, that people who say that intercession for forgiveness through Prophets or Sufi's is shirk are mistaken. An innocent child who died during childbirth, Hafiz (people who memorized the Qur'an), and martyrs all will intercede for their close ones. The most powerful person to intercede would be the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH). Qur'an mentions in various places (19:87, 20:109, 21:28, 39:44, 43:86, 53:26) that God gives power of intercession only to those who's words please Allah, in general. Shirk by negation comes from denying the existence of God either explicitly or implicitly. That is, in some cases God's non-existence is stated (Atheism), while in other cases His existence is claimed, but the way in which He is conceived actually denies His existence (e.g. Pantheism)

Shirk in attributes is, again, of two types. Humanization is the act of attributing human or animal attributes to God, while Deitification is the act of giving Allah's attributes to his creation, or claiming them. The former happens when God is portrayed like one of his creations (usually a human being), for example in paintings and idols, or he is said to possess human attributes like reproduction or the need of bodily organs etc. Deitification occurs when a creation is said to have, or claims to have, Allah's attributes, for example during the era of Muhammad (Peace Be Upon Him) there was a man in a region of Arabia called Yamamah, who claimed to be a prophet and took the name Ar-Rahman which, in Islam, belongs only to God.

Shirk in worship arises from worship directed towards someone other than God, or from seeking reward from the Creation rather than the created. This includes worshiping someone else besides Allah. Beautifying or prolonging prayer/fast prayers because someone else is watching is also shirk and comes under this category.

;
, Prayer, or Salaat is an obligation on all Muslims. Remember that missing prayer is excused only under certain special circumstances and is otherwise unacceptable.


Salat consists of five daily prayers according to the Sunna; the names are according to the prayer times:

Fajr (dawn)
Dhuhr (noon)
Asr (afternoon)
Maghrib (evening)
Isha' (night).


The Fajr prayer is performed before sunrise,Dhuhr is performed in the midday after the sun has surpassed its highest point,Asr is the evening prayer before sunset,Maghrib is the evening prayer after sunset and Isha is the night prayer.
All of these prayers are performed while facing in the direction of the Kaaba in Mecca and forms an important aspect of the Muslim Ummah.
Muslims must perform Wudu ("purification") before praying.
 Sawm is the Arabic word for fasting, and becomes obligatory on every Muslim after puberty. Of course, as different people experience puberty at different ages, it becomes obligatory at a different time for everybody. You can leave a fast if you are travelling, sick such that you need medication or those with a medical condition such as diabetes, elderly people, and pregnant or breastfeeding women or that a lack of food will worsen your condition, or, if you are a woman, while menstruating. Diabetics using insulin might be able to fast provided that insulin timing is calculated carefully. You can make it up later by fasting when Ramadan is over.


Fasting starts at Fajr. The Fajr adhaan signals the start of the day's fast. It is preferable to eat a small meal before Fajr. Eating a few dates and drinking water provides enough energy for the day and this depends upon the body of the individual.
During the day, you are to abstain from eating food, drinking water, using foul language, and engaging in sexual activity. If you eat or drink by mistake i.e. you had forgotten that you are fasting, your fast is not broken. In case that happens, throw out whatever is in your mouth and rinse your mouth with water, and continue fasting as usual. If you break a fast intentionally by drinking, eating, or having sex, you either fast for 60 consecutive days, feed and cloth 60 needy people, 'or' free a wrongfully accused Muslim, and there are many nowadays.
You "open/finish/end" your fasting at the time of the Maghreb prayer. This time is signaled by the Maghreb azaan. Most Muslims would eat a few dates and drink some water, following the sunnah of the Prophet (Peace Be Upon Him), and follow it with a meal after the Maghreb prayers.
 Muslims with earnings above the nisab are considered to be self-sufficient. 2.5% of your earnings are to be paid annually to poor people, freed prisoners, those heavily indebted, or new converts to Islam, in certain cases. It is also good to use Zakaat to help out needy family members first. However, Zakaat can not be paid to some family members i.e the wife, children, parents, and grandparents, because their financial needs are already your responsibility. Please seek help from a religious expert for details on nisaab and zakaat to be paid on gold and silver (e.g. jewelry) and land e.t.c. Zakaat is paid on the money that you have had for a whole year and also returns earned during the year which is also considered as earnings.An amount can be free of Zakat only if the Zakaaath has been paid for it in previous years and no returns were received from it after the Zakat payment while it exceeds Nisab level .


There are 5 principles that should be followed when giving the zakﾄ》:

The giver must declare to God his intention to give the zakﾄ》.
The zakﾄ》 must be paid on the day that it is due.
After the offering, the payer must not exaggerate on spending his money more than usual means.
Payment must be in kind. This means if one is wealthy then he or she needs to pay 2.5% of their income. If a person does not have much money, then they should compensate for it in different ways, such as good deeds and good behavior toward others.
The zakﾄ》 must be distributed in the community from which it was taken



, Able is defined in terms of finances as well as physical health, so it is advisable to perform the Hajj when young, if able to.


Occurs during the Islamic month of Dhu al-Hijjah
Both men and women are required to make the pilgrimage to Mecca
After a Muslim makes the trip to Mecca, he/she is known as a hajj/hajja
The pilgrim, or the haji, is honoured in the Muslim community
The Hajj should be an expression of devotion to God, not a means to gain social standing
The believer should be self-aware and examine their intentions in performing the pilgrimage.
This should lead to constant striving for self-improvement.
A pilgrimage made at any time other than the Hajj season is called an Umrah(not mandatory) is strongly recommended

