 Before you begin talking dirty, think about how to adjust your voice a bit to make it more conducive to sexy talk. Try to talk a bit slower and more softly. Don't use the same voice you would use to ask your lover if he/she took out the trash; find your own sexy bedroom voice.Be aware, consciously trying to adjust the tone of your voice to be more sexy seems to work better for women then men, according to a Albright College study.. So for men, it might be better to just talk naturally and let the voice come on its own.
Don't expect to have the perfect dirty talk voice at first. Experiment with it. The more practice you get, and the more comfortable you get, the easier it will be.;
, Before you go into all-out dirty talk mode, just verbalize some moans, groans, or sighs to show how much pleasure you're feeling. Your might already do this. If so, great. If not, get comfortable with using your voice as well as your body in the bedroom.Encourage your lover to make some noises too if they don't already; you don't want to be the only one moaning and verbalizing your pleasure.
 Start small. Just tell your lover how amazing he looks or how great he is in bed. Just say, "You look amazing with your shirt off," or "It feels so good to be with you tonight." You can give a compliment to a specific body part by saying something like, "Your arms are so toned" or "I just can't get enough of your legs." Just make your lover feel sexy and appreciated., Take it a step further by initiating some soft-core dirty talk. This doesn't mean that you have to say anything X-rated. It just means that you can start talking about how much pleasure you feel and how turned on you are in a PG-13 kind of way.Here are some phrases to try:


"I want you so bad."
"I've wanted you all day."
"You smell so good."
"I've been looking forward to this."
"You look so sexy right now."
"You always know how to turn me on right away."

, The easiest way to feel embarrassment or pressure when trying to talk dirty is to think of it as a performance. There's no wrong way to talk dirty; it should be an authentic expression of yourself. Don't say anything you don't want to, don't talk any more than what feels comfortable, and don't use any words you don't feel comfortable with., This is the perfect formula for a turn-on. There are a variety of verbs and body parts that you could insert into this sentence to turn your partner on.Here are a few of the milder options, though you can imagine some naughtier options as well:


"I love it when you kiss my neck."
"I love it when you touch my thighs."
"I love it when you lick my ears."
"I love it when you stroke my back."
Of course, you can always switch up the exact words you use for variation. For example, these same sentences can easily expressed as "It's so nice when you my as well.
 Describe what's happening as it's happening. Act like you're a sexy sports commentator and that you and your lover are the only team in town. Just add, "I love it when..." or "It feels so good when..." followed by what's happening to add extra pleasure to the event. Talking about what's happening while it's happening will make everything feel twice as good.Here are some things you can say:


"I love getting on top of you."
"I love seeing you take your shirt off."
"I love kissing your neck."
"I love taking off my clothes for you."

, As you continue to touch and caress your lover, ask him if he likes what you’re doing to him. Don’t just say, “Do you like that?” over and over. Instead, mix it up and make it specific, asking your lover if he/she likes exactly what you’re doing to him/her. Here are some things you can say:”Do you like it when I touch you there?”
"Do you like it when I kiss you like this?”
"Do you like how it feels when I stroke you there?”

, Don’t be afraid to tell your lover how good he/she is making you feel. Even a simple, “I’m so turned on” can go a long way. Your partner will be more turned on just by hearing about how excited you are. You can be more specific about how turned on you feel and can even refer to your private parts for emphasis., As you continue talking dirty, just remember to keep things fresh by finding new things to say that turn your lover on. Don’t just use one technique—try using as many as you can if they turn you on. Try to be as specific as you can while you’re mixing things up.


Don’t just say that something feels good—tell your lover which part of your body feels good. If you’re so turned on that you feel it in your toes, tell him.
 Revealing your sexiest fantasy is a great way to talk dirty. Tell your lover your most illicit sexual fantasy. See if he/she can fulfill it. If you and your lover are really comfortable with each other, just let loose. Tell him/her everything you’ve always wanted and see how much it turns him on.Just proceed with caution. If it’s really illicit, then you may want to get to make sure you’re really comfortable with your lover before you tell him/her your deepest darkest fantasy.
 Simply telling your lover that you’re about to have an orgasm or that you can feel it coming will turn both of you on more. This will add even more build-up and will make you both feel even more excited when it does happen., Don’t be afraid to boss your lover around a bit. Tell him/her what you want him to do to you and be the taskmaster as he fulfills all of your desires. You can start simple, by saying, “Take my shirt off” or “Take off your pants” and get more elaborate as you start making love. Don’t be afraid to get a little aggressive. Be the boss and tell your lover exactly what you want him/her to do to you.
You can both take turns giving orders. After you’ve been the boss for a while, try being a bit more submissive and do whatever your lover wants.
 Though dirty talking is an amazing part of sex for many couples, it does not make everyone comfortable. If your partner is just not okay with it, don't force it. If you try to force it, your partner will be ticked off instead of turned on.Also, it's okay if your partner enjoys your dirty talk but isn't comfortable reciprocating. Of course, if you only enjoy dirty talk when it's going both ways, it might be better to forgo it completely. But it's perfectly acceptable to bring dirty talk into the bedroom even if only one of you is actually doing the talking.
 Though you and your lover probably won't have a sit-down discussion about your expectations during dirty talk before your first sexual adventure, your boundaries should be communicated. You will probably start your first dirty talk session spontaneously, but at some point you should both make it clear if there are any words that make you uncomfortable.If your lover says something too crude or offensive for you in bed, don't stop and get angry. Just say something like, "Please don't say that again." If your lover doesn't get the message, then you can stop the action.
If you're too embarrassed to admit that a certain word makes you uncomfortable during sex, mention it afterwards. Just make sure your lover gets the picture.
 Remember that the things you and your lover say to each other in the bedroom are part of sex play and are not meant to be taken seriously in the real world. If your girl or guy lets you say certain things to her/him in bed or call her/him a certain word, this does not mean that she/he would be comfortable with this expression out of bed.You may find that you and your lover take on certain roles when you're talking dirty in bed. This does not mean that these roles reflect on your real roles in the relationship.
 Use common sense and avoid using words and phrases that could possibly offend until you've both talked about your boundaries and likes and dislikes when it comes to dirty talk. Start slowly and follow your lover's lead at first to understand what works for him/her. You don't want to kill the mood by saying something degrading or offensive that really hurts your lover.
 If you want to talk dirty but feel lost or uncreative, watch some porn for an idea of the kinds of things that people say to each other in bed. Of course, the dirty talk in porn may be a bit extreme compared to what you have in mind for your own bedroom moves, but it can help generate some ideas.


If you're both comfortable with it, try watching porn together with your lover. It can give you great dirty talk ideas and turn you on at the same time. You can both comment on what words and phrases the actors use that you like.
 Though dirty talk is part of sex play and is not meant to represent reality, you should still be yourself. You should still sound like yourself, just like a raunchier, naughtier version of yourself. The more you feel like yourself, the more comfortable you'll feel, and the easier it will be for you to explore your dirty talk potential.