 Tell them that you see them doing a maladaptive behavior, that it upsets you to see them so upset, and that you'd like to help them find a way to cope better.


Chances are, the child does not enjoy maladaptive behavior. For example, a boy who scratches his arms probably doesn't like the pain and injury that follows; he does it because he doesn't know how else to cope. He may be very pleased to learn that he can scratch his sweatpants or thin sleeves to get the same sensation on his body without leaving marks.
 Pull out a piece of paper and create a list of alternative behaviors. Encourage your child to come up with ideas. This will help them feel ownership over their treatment, and it makes them more likely to remember and implement the strategies. Consider...


Ways to minimize triggers (e.g. bringing earplugs or headphones, taking breaks from stressful situations)
Alternative actions (e.g. shaking the head instead of hitting it, fidgeting with a stim toy instead of ripping all the paper in the house)
Creating an action plan (e.g. coming up with a hand signal that means "get me out of here" when the child notices stress building up, so she can calm down somewhere quiet instead of pushing herself to the point of explosion)

, For example, if your son screams when upset, calmly ask him to take deep breaths and tell you what's wrong, just like you brainstormed together.


Be gentle with the child. Maladaptive behavior often emerges during stress, so (s)he may not be thinking clearly, and may need extra reminders.
Remind the child why the replacement behavior is good. For example, "It's hard for me to help you when you scream. If you talk to me and tell me what's wrong, then I'll understand why you're upset, and I can help you fix the problem."

, Praise their efforts and tell them how proud you are of their skills.


For example, "I noticed that you were getting mad, and that you started to take deep breaths and walked away. I'm really proud of how strong and mature you were. Good job!"
Emphasize why they did a good thing. This helps them learn the distinction between people-pleasing and constructively taking advice. Never pressure the child or teach them to comply for compliance's sake, as this will hamper their social skills as an adult.
 For example, each time a girl successfully uses breathing techniques to calm herself, she gets a gold sticker to place on her chart. When she fills the chart, you bring home a treat from the grocery store or let her pick out a small toy.

Avoid overusing reward systems, because the child may become too dependent on approval.Reward systems should be phased out as a child gets older. The child/teen should learn how to set boundaries and say no, so they can be safe.
 Treat the child's communication (verbal and nonverbal) with respect, and always presume competence. Talk regularly to the child so they know what's going on and what's in your mind. That way, the child will trust you and talk to you if a problem arises.

