 If you have a high-pressure job, or are facing other obligations that cause excessive stress, take some time to relax. Stress could cause or worsen psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. If you’re prone to anger or other forms of emotional imbalance (including depression and anxiety) you should find ways to reduce your stress.Learn to recognize feelings of anxiety. You might feel as if an icy hand has gripped your heart, or feel sick to your stomach with worry and anticipation of something bad happening.
When you feel yourself getting frustrated or angry, close your eyes and breathe in slowly through your nose for three seconds. Exhale out of your mouth for five seconds. Remind yourself that your anger will pass. Repeat several times until you feel relaxed.

Use positive self-talk to work yourself out of anger, depression, or anxiety. When a negative thought comes into your mind — for instance, “I am not going to do well on this project” — counter it with a positive, relaxing thought. For instance, you might respond to a negative thought by thinking “I am going to do well on this project, just as I have on so many others before.”Get more sleep. Lack of sleep leads to higher levels of irritability, depression, and anxiety. Adults should get seven to nine hours of sleep each night.
 In order to prevent and reduce the severity of psoriasis, integrate exercise into your daily schedule. Exercise can reduce the stress and anxiety that lead to depression and anxiety, and can help you reduce inflammation and pain in psoriatic limbs.For instance, you could walk to the store or to work. If you have low energy levels, try walking for just 10 minutes each day. After a week, start walking 20 minutes each day. After another week, increase your walks to 30 minutes. Continue in this way until your walks reach 60 minutes.
Try tai chi and gentle yoga for strengthening and stress reduction. Studies show that tai chi can improve arthritis pain, as well as increase balance and reduce stress.Ride a bike. Riding a bike is a great way to relax stiff muscles. You could ride your bike outside, at the park, or visit your local gym and use the stationary bike.
Swimming is also a great way to ease psoriatic pain or reduce stress. Water will help you float, making movement easier.
 Some people believe that eating anti-inflammatory foods can help reduce the swollen, painful joints associated with psoriasis. Foods with high levels of anti-inflammatory compounds — like cold-water fish, fruits and vegetables, seeds, and nuts — could produce an improvement in your condition.On the flip side, you should avoid eating foods that are known to increase inflammation. These foods include red meat, vegetables in the nightshade family (potatoes, tomatoes, and peppers), refined sugars, dairy products, and processed foods.
 If you’re overweight, you might be more likely to develop psoriasis and less likely to experience success during treatment. To lose weight, you need to ingest fewer calories than you burn.For example, if you ingest 1,000 calories each day, but burn 2,000 calories each day, you will use fat to make up for the extra energy you didn’t consume.
The best way to figure out your daily caloric needs is to invest in a quality fitness tracker to help you monitor what you’re eating and how much exercise you’re getting.
As you lose weight, you can use the fitness tracker to post your progress to social media. When your friends and family see all the effort you’re making, they’ll encourage you to keep going, which will in turn give you the energy you need to make even more progress.
Assuming you’re already exercising and eating a healthy diet based primarily of fruits, vegetables, nuts, and seeds, you’re on the right track. Add some lean protein (about 20% of your daily calories) like soy, tofu, and nuts.
 Some skin injuries can set in motion a long-term biological reaction, known as the Koebner response. The Koebner response could produce psoriasis long after you sustain an injury. For instance, sunburns, vaccinations, and scratches might result in psoriasis later.Be careful playing sports. Injuries to the elbows or knees — even if they are not severe — could produce psoriasis later. Always wear knee pads and elbow protectors.
 In order to minimize the harm psoriasis causes your hands, keep your hands as clean and dry as possible. Trim your nails regularly and clip any hangnails you might have. Use hand moisturizer and don’t neglect to work it into the webbing between each finger.In addition, you might consider wearing gloves in order to minimize the embarrassment caused by psoriasis.
Don’t bite your fingernails.
 Sunlight can help clear psoriasis, but you must be careful not to overdo it and put yourself at risk for skin cancer. In addition, sunlight can cause some medications to be less effective, while it can intensify the side effects of other medications. Talk to your doctor or dermatologist to determine how many times a week you should expose yourself to the sun and for how long.Sunscreen blocks the rays that can help psoriasis, but it also protects your skin from burning and skin cancer. Ask your doctor if it is appropriate for you to go into the sun without sunscreen for a short period — about five minutes — and then apply.
Some medical professionals recommend sun exposure three times weekly.

