 Take some time getting to know what your adult children are interested in doing. You could ask, for instance, “What would you like to do?” Listen attentively. Then, based on their feedback and suggestions, develop a game plan that ensures fun for you, your adult children, your partner, and other relevant parties (for instance, the partner of your adult children, your grandchildren, and so on). If discussing what your adult children would like to do in person, use positive body language like maintaining eye contact and nodding to show you are listening.
 Many people find that holidays are a great time to spend with their adult children and other family members. Identify the major holidays in your nation and offer your adult children the chance to celebrate one or more of them with you. For instance, if you live in Canada, you might choose to call your adult children prior to Christmas and invite them to share a pleasant home-cooked meal together., Even the most mundane activities or outings can be an opportunity to spend more time with your adult children. For instance, if you’re headed to the store (and especially if the store is near your adult child’s residence), you might ask your adult child, “I’m heading to the grocer’s. Would you like to accompany me?”In a variation of this, you could ask your adult children to help you around the house. For instance, if you are moving out of your house, you could ask your adult children to come over and box up your possessions.
This might provide you and your adult children an opportunity to bond over the house they grew up in, or to rediscover some artifact of their past (an old photo or beloved toy) that could make you and your adult child remember how special your family is.
 Host a large dinner party with your adult children. Cooking with your adult children can be great fun. For the ultimate adventure, choose a dish that neither you nor your children have ever made before. That way, you’re all learning together.Make a big batch so you all have some leftovers you can take home for the next few nights.
 If both you and your adult children have dogs, you could introduce them to each other for playdates and walks. This way, your dogs could meet new friends and you could spend more time with your adult children.When you first introduce your dogs to each other, keep them on their leashes. Let them see and sniff each other from a distance for a few minutes at first.
Some degree of roughhousing is expected, but if they start growling at each other, baring their teeth, and lowering their heads, you should separate them and try introducing them to each other another day.
 If you and your adult children have a show you’re both interested in, or if you and your adult children are both interested in seeing a certain movie, you can use your shared interest to spend time together. Have a movie or show night. After the show or movie, you can talk about your favorite scene or discuss your different interpretations of the story or characters., If you and your adult children live near a museum or university, you can probably catch a lecture on an important and interesting subject for free. Check the events calendar of your local university or public institution for free lectures on a variety of subjects, and choose one that you and your adult children are both interested in., If you have a soup kitchen or food bank nearby, they probably have unmet volunteer needs. You and your adult children might, for instance, be tasked with boxing food or picking up goods that will later be redistributed to those in need. Ask your adult children if they’d be interested in giving back to their community with you. If they are, contact the organization you’re interested in volunteering for and schedule time to volunteer.Volunteering for a charitable organization is not only a great way to spend more time with your adult children, but it is a good way to help those in need, too.
 Invite your adult children to head to the beach or mountains with you. You and your adult children can enjoy time away from the hectic pace of work to catch up with each other.If your adult children have significant others, be sure to invite them, too.
Float a few vacation destination options by your adult children. Talk to them about what sort of vacation they’d like, then decide together where you’d like to go as a family.
 You and your adult children could go on walks or bike rides at your local park. This will not only keep both of you hale and hearty, but it will also provide a great opportunity to catch up with one another about what’s going on in your lives and what sorts of 