 If you see failure as an opportunity to get closer to your goal, then it becomes something to be expected and even anticipated. In all likelihood, if you're not failing, then you're probably not pushing yourself enough.


Be future-oriented rather than dwelling on the past. While the past can help you to understand what to do better, fixating on past mistakes will deter you from seeing the possibilities for the future.
Don't let fear of failure determine your future fate. Believe that the willingness to try new things and learn from them will help you grow in the future.See your future goals as challenges. You likely will find greater reward when doing something difficult rather than something easy.
 Assessing what happened shouldn't be about your character flaws. Take an objective look at what occurred, and focus on what you can do better for next time. Depending on the situation, utilize your co-workers, teammates, friends, and family to help you get a different perspective.Review the challenges that occurred even before the failure. For example, let's say you had a team project with three other people, and this project ended up failing to meet your teacher's or company's expectations. Assess how the team could have communicated more effectively. Determine which aspects of the project were lacking and how they could have been improved. Evaluate external forces that your team could not control.
Avoid blaming yourself for all the problems, or blaming others for a mistake that you took part in. Be respectful to yourself and others regardless of the success or failure.
This review process should help you to prevent or decrease mistakes in the future. While finding solutions to your mistakes may not be easy or fun, it will help to prepare you for next time.
 Being accountable for your actions is an admirable quality in life and at work. It means that you embrace your own part in a difficult situation. Taking ownership of what you can do to improve or change will help others to see you as a flexible and resilient person. By taking ownership of your own faults, it shows that you are mature.
If you avoid admitting wrongdoing, you may lose out on an opportunity to move forward with your work, team, or situation. While it can be uncomfortable to admit fault, it may be worse when you avoid doing so.

