 Remember, girls won't bite you or anything. Girls are humans just like you.;
, Girls tend to like it when a guy has confidence. This may be especially for the girls who are shy themselves.



Be Pretty.
 It will help to not fumble your words. Think of what things you can talk about and what you would say. You can practice speaking to a friend or family member. You can also practice with a mirror.
 Being hygienic is always attractive. Girls definitely like guys who are concerned about their hygiene.
 Smiling can make anyone's day, especially a girl.
 If one of your classes or stairways has a door, open the door for her! It will make her feel really special. Also, compliment her on something, like her eyes, but don't go overboard.
 If you happen to lock eyes, smile! It can be very attractive. But don't do anything too cheesy, just a subtle, nice, reserved yet flirty smile. After a couple of days of doing this, if you're feeling brave enough and she looks in a happy mood, be playful and wag your brows! It's cute and funny, two things girls love!

, Brush up against her arm if you happen to be walking in opposite directions, but make it really gentle. Not a shove. Only do this in a slightly crowded area. If it's just you two in the hall, it will seem a little weird. And don't do this too often, maybe only once or twice.
 For God's sake, don't try to hold her hand before talking to her! You gotta get to know her first and it may make you look desperate. Never look desperate, or she'll feel like she's just a doll in a game.
 In conversations, the girl really wants the guy to go first. If you can't think of anything to talk to her about, try asking her 'What class were you just in'? Or maybe, if you share a class, ask about the homework, even if you already know it. Just talk about anything you can think of, maybe there's a dance or sporting event coming up.(This is when your "practiced speaking skills" would come into play!)

, Not every girl you like will like you back. Sometimes they just aren't interested- maybe they like you as a friend, they're not ready, or they just honestly don't want to have a relationship. Don't take it personally, there's plenty of girls out there, at least two of which are sure to like you!

, Take into consideration of the amount of time you're talking to her. Make sure her body language shows you if she's interested or not. Let her get a word in! If she's shy, go ahead and ask her a question. Avoid yes or no, or simple answered questions. Something like 'What's your fifth hour?' and then ask her what teacher she has. Hopefully she'll pluck up the courage to ask something back!

, Find her profile on Facebook and add her as a friend! Sometimes not everyone has a Facebook, so don't be surprised if you can't find her. But, if she happens to have a Facebook, send her a request.
 If you like football, ask her if she likes it! If you like art, ask her if she does too! And most of all, Have Fun! Make little jokes, but nothing too bad. Make sure she knows you're being sarcastic, but be subtle about it. Be nice about it. Girls like guys who can have fun and still be themselves!

