 Look around your house and find some paper clips of different sizes. You can go to your local craft store, convenience store, or office depot to find more paper clips if you ran out. Use different color paper clips to make your hoop piercing more creative.
Depending on how thick you want your piercing, you may want to use multiple paper clips. Two paper clip hoops can be placed together to create a thicker hoop.
 With one pair of flat nose pliers, pull the paper clip out of its original shape. Then use the pliers to help you straighten it out completely by pulling each end flat. Cut the straightened paper clip using scissors or diagonal cutting pliers, if you want to make it smaller.
The length of the straightened paper clip will affect the size of the hoop piercing.
 The size of the cylinder object depends on how wide you want your hoop piercing. Pens, markers, and highlighters can work for this step. Take one end of your straightened paper clip and curve it around your cylinder object. Roll the object to make the entire straightened paper clip curved into a hoop.
Depending on how long your straightened paper clip was, you may have to gently pull apart the ends of your “hoop” so you have a gap for your skin.
 Figuring out where you want your piercing will help you decide how wide of a gap to leave between the two ends of the paper clip, so your skin can fit inside. Hoop piercings are usually worn on the lip, nose, septum, or eyebrow.
 Apply a small amount of eyelash glue to the ends of the paper clip(s). Eyelash glue is the best adhesive for fake facial piercings because it is already made for the skin, so it will last the longest and not be harmful. Choose an eyelash glue with a small applicator.
Let the glue set on the ends for 20-30 seconds before applying to the skin.
 Tweezers are the most effective when handling paper clips. You will be able to hold them steady and not get any glue on unwanted areas of your face. Place your paper clip hoop where you want your piercing.

