 Put a curved line underneath for the basic shape of her chin. This will be her head. Draw in guidelines for the facial features (i.e., where her eyes, nose and mouth will be).


Ariel has a very rounded forehead, curved cheeks, and small chin. Though this may look funny initially, it's correct.
 Draw two curved lines for the brows that are up, happy, and a bit inquisitive. Add in two big eyes and draw thick eyelashes as shown. Draw a small nose and full, smiling lips. Add a half circle for each ear (if drawing both).


The majority of her eyes should be taken up by her pupils and irises. Think in terms of rounded triangles.
 Remember, Ariel's wavy, luminescent red hair is her trademark, so emphasize it as much as you can. It should go at least down the length of her back, ending in a soft curve.


Don't ask how the flap works -- it just does. And it seems to be floating off of her forehead. Don't worry about abiding by the laws of physics when it comes to drawing this princess! Work in a few lines for her hair layering and all will be well.
 Draw a small rectangle for the neck and a square for the torso. Add circles for her seashells, and a small circle underneath that for her waist. Put a larger one below that as the beginning of her tail.


Ariel (the water version, at least) always has a slight curve to her body. It should resemble a very loose "S." The placement of the shapes should mirror this angle.
 Draw two ovals connected by a circle. Draw small ovals for the hands and thin shapes for the fingers. Ariel's fingers and hands are especially delicate and pretty, so be careful with this part.


Remember, Ariel holds herself like a dancer. Her arms are strong but free, and her fingers hang gracefully.
 Try to have them gently arcing into smooth lines, converging at the end of a length about the size of the rest of her body. These lines will serve as the tail.
 They should fan out gracefully from the end of the tail, creating an inverted "V" shape within them. Draw lines inside the tail fins to make them look more like real fins.
 These fins are comprised of a round, ruffle-like shape at the top of her hips. It is where the tail begins, so don't make it too high.
 Erase any unnecessary guidelines. Color her in using violet for her seashells, green for her tail, and (of course) bright red for her hair.

