 Once your computer is on the router's network, you can use your computer's settings to determine the router's address, which will in turn allow you to open the router's settings.

If your wireless connection isn't working properly, you can connect directly to the router.;
, Click the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen., It's in the bottom-left side of the Start window., This globe-shaped icon is on the Settings page., It's near the bottom of the page, though you may have to scroll down to see this option., This is the router's address, which you'll use to access the router's settings online., Once your computer is on the router's network, you can use your computer's settings to determine the router's address, which will in turn allow you to open the router's settings.

If your wireless connection isn't working properly, you can connect directly to the router.
 It's in the top-left corner of your Mac's screen., This option is near the top of the Apple drop-down menu., It's a globe-shaped icon on the System Preferences page., This button is in the middle of the page., You'll find it near the top of the Advanced window., This is the router's address, which you'll use to access the router's settings online., To access your router's settings, you'll need to go online., Type the router's address into your browser's address bar and press ↵ Enter. This will take you to your router's page., If you haven't set up your router's username and password, you'll likely use "admin" for the username and "password" for the password.

Consult your router's manual for more information about the default username and password.
If you did change your router's password and/or username but you don't remember what it is, you can reset your router to restore the factory settings.
 Each router's page will differ slightly, but you can usually find the following information on every router's page:


Settings - View your router's settings, from the password and the current connection strength to the type of security your connection uses.

SSID - Your network's name. This is the name that you and others see when connecting to the Wi-Fi.

Connected Devices - View a list of any devices connected to your network, as well as recently connected devices.

Parental Controls - Review your router's parental settings, such as time limits for devices or blocked sites.
 Editing the "SSID" field will change the name of the wireless network. Keep in mind that doing this will cause any connected devices to lose the connection, and you'll have to reconnect them to the newly-named network.

You'll usually have to open your router's Settings page to do this.
 Most modern routers support multiple kinds of wireless encryption. Use WPA2 to ensure that your network key will remain secure.


If you change the password, use a combination of letters, numbers, and symbols. Avoid basing your password on personal information (e.g., your date of birth).
 You will use this the next time you access the router. The default name and password for your router is very unsecure, as anyone that is connected to your network can easily enter the settings and compromise the security of your network.

