 Whenever you have a strong emotion, record it in your journal. Write what you are feeling, what triggered that feeling, and what you're going to do about that feeling. Use your journal as a way to process feelings in the moment. If you feel overwhelmed, you might be able to release some of the tension by simply setting your thoughts down on paper.
 Write about what you did and how you did it. Write about what you thought and what you felt. Question what you did, and answer your own questions. Focus on the logical progression of your thought processes, and try to better understand yourself.Write about what you feel that you could or should have done; write about what you feel about what you chose to do; write about who you are; and write about what you want. Try to define your goals for the future, whether they are personal, professional, or otherwise.
 Record your thoughts about your most recent session, and take note of anything interesting that you learned. Experiment with journaling during your sessions, directly after your sessions, and later on when you reflect upon your experience. Set personal goals with your therapist, and use your journal to track them.


Some therapists are actually trained in journal therapy. If you'd like to explore journal therapy with an intentional and professional guiding hand, consider finding a licensed journal therapist in your area.
 If you feel that you can best express a thought by drawing it out, do not hesitate to do so. Use color! Paint, marker, crayon. Consider pasting photos, clippings, flowers, and other ephemera into your journal – anything that feels meaningful.


Try to incorporate scrapbooking. If your therapist gives you any worksheets or print outs of useful info, stick them in your journal! Use your journal as a scrapbook of self help techniques. Create lists of things that make you happy and triggers you should avoid.
Consider drawing "mind maps" to connect your ideas. Draw lines, arrows, or webs between related ideas. Find the themes that arc across your troubles, and try to identify the various ways in which they manifest.
 Later on, it can be easy to forget why you wrote or drew something. Push deeper, and try to flesh out your thoughts as thoroughly as possible. The more fully you examine your worries, the better you'll be able to understand them. The better you understand your worries, the more easily you'll be able to overcome them.
 Look for journal prompts on the Internet, ask a friend or a therapist for ideas, or try to come up with a few solid themes that you want to explore. Having a different question or journal prompt to answer each day can be a great way to keep up with writing. When you write to a prompt, you may feel more like you're writing to someone instead of just writing for yourself, and you may feel accountable to the journal structure. Consider these questions and more:


Are you proud of who you are? How would you like to be remembered?
What is a personality trait that you admire or seek in others – and why?
Think about something you feel obligated to do, daily or regularly. Why do you feel obligated?
What is the best advice that anyone's ever given you?, Journaling can simulate the feeling of pouring out your feelings to a close, trustworthy friend. Try to address your journal as though it's a close friend who anticipates each new entry; imagine that it is eager to learn of your progress through life, and that it cares about your emotional well being. The feeling of a one-on-one "relationship" can tap into the therapeutic effect of sharing experiences.
 Compare the things you have written recently with the things you wrote six months ago. Look for patterns, and try to chart your personal development. It may be difficult to go through the negative emotions again, but you will know you are progressing when you can remember these feelings without feeling swept away by them.