 You should not include any figure that you don’t mention in the text.Always refer to the figure by its number, not wording such as “the figure above” or “the figure below.”


For example, you could write: “As seen in Figure 1, tomato consumption has risen sharply in the past three decades.”, Label the graph or chart “Figure X.” Italicize this part.Figures should be numbered in the order they appear; your first graph or other illustration is Figure 1, the second is Figure 2, etc.
If the graph has an existing title, give it in “sentence case.” This means you only capitalize the first letter of the first word in the sentence, as well as the first letter after a colon.
 This description, or legend, provides your reader with information regarding the graph's content. Make sure you give enough information that the caption describes the figure adequately. In APA, this description ends with a period.


For example: Figure 1. Rise in tomato consumption,1970-2000.
Use sentence case for the description too.
 In most cases, you will begin this information with the words "Reprinted from..."This will signal to your reader that the graph is not original to your work, but rather comes from a different source.


If the graph you’re presenting is your original work, meaning you collected all the data and compiled it yourself, you don’t need this phrase.
For example: Figure 1. Rise in tomato consumption,1970-2000. Reprinted from.
 Place book titles in italics, and cite the relevant page number in parentheses immediately following the title with no punctuation in between. Use title case for books and journal titles, meaning you capitalize all the major words in the title.For example: Figure 1. Rise in tomato consumption,1970-2000. Reprinted from Growing Vegetables in Your Backyard (p. 43),

, This information should follow the format of "by first initial(s) last name, date, location: publisher." For example, "J. Green, 2002, Hot Springs: Lake Publishers."


For example: Figure 1. Rise in tomato consumption,1970-2000. Reprinted from Growing Vegetables in Your Backyard (p. 43), by J. Green, 2002, Hot Springs: Lake Publishers.
 For example, if rights to the graph in question are held by the American Tomato Growers' Association, you'll need to contact this organization for permission to use the graph. Then, state in your caption that the graph is "Copyright 2002 by the American Tomato Growers' Association. Reprinted with permission." Your complete citation, then, will read:



Figure 1. Rise in tomato consumption, 1970-2000. Reprinted from Growing Vegetables in Your Backyard (p. 43), by J. Green, 2002, Hot Springs: Lake Publishers. Copyright 2002 by the American Tomato Growers' Association. Reprinted with permission.