 First, you need to find or buy a large enough tub in which both of your feet can rest comfortably, and deep enough that your feet can be covered in water. Put a few drops of mild soap into the tub and fill half way with warm water. You can also try adding a few drops of your favourite essential oil to the water to add some aromatherapy while you relax. Sit on a comfortable chair and soak your feet in the water for 10 minutes.Use a 1/2 cup of epsom salts instead of the soap. Epsom salts are actually a mineral made with magnesium and sulphate. Both magnesium and sulphates have excellent health benefits, and both are absorbed quickly through the skin. This makes an epsom salt soak a great way to get magnesium and sulphate into your body. Both minerals have benefits such as: increased serotonin production, increased energy, reduced inflammation, foot odour elimination, and improved blood circulation.Use 1/4 cup of white vinegar instead of the soap. Vinegar has a lot more benefits than many realize, and many of those benefits are not in the kitchen. Soaking your feet in a vinegar mixture can help eliminate foot odour, and reduce your chances of getting a foot fungus like athlete’s foot. Vinegar is also acidic, which helps soften the skin, making it easier to remove dead and dry skin after you’re finished soaking., Use a pumice stone or foot file to scrub the dead skin and calluses off the bottoms of your feet.You may need to bend your feet behind you in order to reach all the way around your heals. Don’t forget to check your toes for calluses and dead skin as well.


Remember to wet the pumice stone before using it.Pumice stones, foot files, emery boards, etc., are all great options to remove dead or dry skin from your feet after you’ve soaked them. And while foot razors/shavers are available for purchase at many drug and department stores, they are not recommended by doctors. Unfortunately it is too easy to cut or nick your feet with a foot razor, which can lead to infections., Use wooden manicure stick to push back the cuticles on each of your toenails. Then, using either large-sized nail clippers, or specialty nail clippers, trim each of your toenails. If you decide to leave your toenails a little longer, make sure they do not go beyond the edge of your toe. In addition, cut your nails evenly along the whole width of the nail. Do not cut the nail such that the edges curve in or down. This can cause ingrown nails which can be painful.File the edges of your nail with a nail file or emery board after you’ve trimmed them., Massage a good quality moisturizer into each of your feet, including your toes and nails. Consider using a rolling pin or foot massager before or after you’ve applied the moisturizer to massage your feet even further.Feel free to use a decent amount of moisturizer on your feet during this step - but be careful about walking around afterwards if the cream hasn’t fully soaked into your skin.
 If you want to apply nail polish to your toenails, start by using a small amount of nail polish remover to remove any excess moisturizer that may be on your nails. Then apply a clear base coat to each nail and allow it to set before applying anymore layers. Apply 1-2 layers of a coloured nail polish, allowing each layer to set before moving onto the next layer. Finally, apply a clear top coat to each nail.Once all layers are applied, allow the polish to dry for as long as possible before slipping your feet into socks or shoes. Walking around in bare feet or open-toe sandals might be best until you’re sure the polish has dried.


Nail polish remover comes in acetone and non-acetone versions. The acetone version works better at removing nail polish, but it is also harsher on your skin and nails. If you’re prone to dry and brittle nails, and/or you remove nail polish a lot, you may want to use the non-acetone version. The non-acetone version is gentler on your skin and nails, but may take a little more 'elbow grease’ to remove the nail polish.