 A Striped candy is a special candy that results from matching four candies in a row.


When you use a Striped candy as part of a match, it will clear out a whole row or column from the board. The direction is dependent on what direction the stripes are on the candy.;
, A Wrapped candy is a special candy that results from matching at least three vertical and three horizontal candies forming a plus, T-shape, or corner-shape. This one’s more challenging and difficult to get as compared to a Striped candy.


When you use a Wrapped candy as part of a match, it will first explode and knock out the nine candies surrounding it, and then it will drop and explode again, knocking out another nine candies the same way.
 A Fish candy is a special candy that results from matching four candies in a box of 2 by 2. When you use a Fish candy as part of a match, it will swim towards a random candy or obstacle to clear it.
 A Candy Bomb is a special candy that results from matching five candies in a row. It can be difficult to get, but not impossible. You just have to work on getting the right candies in place so you can swap them to form the five-in-a-row.


Candy Bombs do not need to be matched in order to be used. You can just swap it with another candy, and all similar-colored candies will be removed from the board. By itself, it doesn’t sound like achieving much, but when combined with another special candy, it will give you more awesome results.
 A Coloring candy is a special candy that results from matching six or more candies. This is a new special candy introduced in Candy Crush Soda Saga.


Coloring candies do not need to be matched in order to be used. You can just swap it with another candy, and all candies of that color will be changed to the color of the Coloring candy.
 Special candy combos bring more awesome results than using a special candy by itself. Special candy combos are generated when you match two special candies side by side. Each combination brings different results depending on the special candies matched.

