 Cut each of the five ties with scissors, trimming each one so that it is approximately the same length as the sweater when measured from the wide end.


Try to choose ties that are Christmas themed. The patterns don't need to match--in fact, you can create an uglier sweater if you purposefully look for patterns that clash.
You'll use the broad ends of the ties to create the tree itself. Save the skinny scraps, though, since you'll need them later on to create bows.
 Position the first tie straight down the center of the sweater. Apply hot glue to the back of this tie and press it onto the front of the sweater.


The natural pointed end of the tie should face the bottom of the sweater and the cut end should face the collar. This cut end should also land just a little below the collar.
Fabric glue or fusion fabric tape can be used instead of hot glue, if desired.
 Place one tie to the right of the center tie, positioning it at a slight diagonal so that meets at the top in a blunt point. Repeat with another tie, placing that one to the left of the center tie. Glue both ties in place.


The bottom points of each tie should remain visible, but the corners above those points should connect to one another.
These outer two ties will overlap the center tie slightly, and the left-hand tie will slightly overlap the right-hand tie near the top. When finished, the bottom should form the base of the triangle and the top should form the tip.
 Position one tie next to the left-hand tie and attach it to the sweater with hot glue. Position the last tie next to the right-hand tie and glue in place, as well.


These outermost ties should roughly follow the same angle and placement as your previous tie layer. They will slightly overlap the ties of your previous layer.
When finished, these five ties will create a "tie tree" on the front torso of your sweater.
 Take three of the tie scraps and tie them into standard bows.


If the cut ends of these scraps start to fray, fold them down and hold them in place with a little hot glue to prevent further fraying.
Make sure that at least one bow is large enough to span over the entire top of your "tie tree." The other two bows can be the same size or slightly smaller, but they should roughly match one another.
 Use hot glue to attach the largest of the three bows to the top point of your "tie tree." This bow should completely cover the connecting point of all five ties.


Only glue down the center of the bow. Allow the loops and tails of the bow to hang loose.
 Glue one of the remaining bows to the top side of the right sleeve, near the opening of the sleeve. Glue the other bow to the same approximate point on the left sleeve.


The tails of both bows should flare out toward the opening of their respective sleeves.
 Randomly arrange 24 to 48 buttons over the "tie tree," spacing them apart at even but non-uniform intervals. Hold each button in place with a dab of hot glue.


Use buttons of varying sizes, shapes, and colors. Space them apart as you would space apart ornaments on an actual Christmas tree.
 Once everything dries, the sweater is done and ready to wear.

