 A cold water temperature can slow digestion and lead to constipation. While you're treating your goldfish's swim bladder disorder, keep the water temperature between 70 and 80 degrees F to help aid in faster digestion.
 Since swim bladder disorder is commonly caused by eating problems, start by letting your fish fast for three days. When fish overeat they can end up with enlarged internal organs, causing the swim bladder to be compromised. Give the fish a chance to digest the food that it has already eaten and allow its stomach, intestines and other organs to shrink back to normal size.Fasting for three days should not negatively affect your fish. However, do not continue the fast for more than three days.
During the fast, observe your fish to see whether the swim bladder disorder seems to have gone away. If the fish is still exhibiting symptoms, move on to the next step.
 Peas are high in fiber as well as being dense, so they help ease a fish's constipation problems. Buy a package of frozen peas and cook them until soft (either in the microwave or on the stove). Remove the peel from a pea and drop a bit of pea into the water to feed your fish. The fish should eat no more than a pea or two per day.Try not to overcook the peas; if they're too mushy, they'll fall apart before the fish can eat them.
When fish eat flake food, they often gulp too much air, causing indigestion and organ enlargement. Feeding them dense peas remedies this problem.
 When you drop a bit of pea into the water, it will be dense enough to sink to the bottom of the tank. Fish with swim bladder disorder may have trouble swimming to the bottom to reach the food. If necessary, hold the pea near the surface of the water until the fish is able to move close enough to eat it.


You can also skewer a pea on a toothpick and hold it within close range of the fish.
Lowering the water level so the fish can reach the peas is also effective.
 After a few days on a peas-only diet, the fish's digestion should begin to get back to normal, and you should see it begin swimming without problems again. At this point you can begin feeding the fish regular fish food again.


If symptoms persist, the fish may have an untreatable problem, such as an organ deformity or internal damage. Give it a few more days to see if the symptoms of swim bladder disorder go away. If your fish never regains the ability to swim and eat properly, euthanasia may be the most humane solution.

