 The best angle of any room is usually looking down from the corner where the ceiling meets the walls. Make sure you can clearly see all entries and exits and that the camera is near a power outlet.


If you are mounting a camera outside, place it above 10ft so that it cannot be easily knocked down., Some cameras come with sticky pads to adhere your camera to the wall, but screwing your camera in is the safest way to mount your cameras long-term. While every camera is different, most of them can be mounted the same way:


Place the mount in it's desired location.
Using a sharpie, make marks on the wall where each screw should go.
Drill a hole for each screw using an electric drill
Hammer in any molding pins.
Screw the mount into the wall.
Position the camera to your desired angle., Almost all cameras come with a power adapter that plugs into a normal wall socket. Plug the small, round end into the power input on the back of the camera and plug the other end into the outlet.


If your power adapter is missing or broken, contact your manufacturer.
 Surveillance equipment is connected using a BNC (Bayonet Neill–Concelman) connection. BNC cables are simple to use -- they are identical on both sides and you simply plug them into the appropriate port, turning a small nut on the end to lock it in place. Plug one end into your camera's "Output" and the other into one of the DVR "Input" ports.


Note which input you plug into -- this is the input your DVR must be set to in order to view your camera's video.
If your cable does not have a BNC connection you can buy a simple BNC adapter online or at a hardware store. This will slip onto the end of your cable to make it BNC compatible., Wireless cameras will come with a software disc that you need to install to view your feeds. Follow the on-screen instructions to access your cameras.Some cameras have a small receiver that attaches to your computer through a USB port. Make sure this is properly attached.
Write down your camera's IP address (ex. 192.168.0.5) if provided -- this number can be typed into any web browser to view your camera remotely.
 This connection frequently uses a BNC cable as well, but some DVR's can attach with HDMI cables or coaxial cables. Using your preferred connection, attach one end to the DVR's "Output" port and the other to the monitor's "Input."


You can hook up as many cameras as your DVR has inputs -- it will automatically record every camera you install.
Note which input you plug into-- this is the input you need to choose to see your cameras.
 Check that the camera, DVR, and monitor are all hooked up to a power supply and turned on. Make sure your cables are securely attached and that you have selected the right inputs for your DVR and monitor. Some monitors will display every camera at the same time, others have "input" buttons that allow you to switch between cameras.

