 In severe cases, the force applied to the finger can be strong enough to cause bones in your finger to break. This type of damage will require more intensive treatment than a splint., These sensations are signs that the injured area is not getting enough blood flow and oxygen. You may also have nerve damage in your finger as a result of the injury., Do not make a splint for this level of injury at home. This is an indication that your finger is fractured or dislocated. A part of your finger may also appear to point in the other (wrong) direction, and it may appear shorter or longer than the opposite, healthy finger on your other hand. The finger will also likely be swollen, painful, and stiff.


You may also notice bruising on the finger due to broken tiny blood vessels, and a sharp pain when you touch it.
Your doctor will examine your broken finger, and get your hands x-rayed. X-ray is a non-invasive procedure and will help your doctor visualize the condition of the bones in your hands.
Once your doctor applies the splint, avoid disturbing the splint so it can correct the injury., These are all indications of a sprained finger, which you can treat at home with a splint.Usually, injuries to the finger occur on the distal interphalangeal joint (DIP) which are the joints found near the tip of the finger and the proximal interphalangeal joint (PIP) which are the joints found at the midpoint of the finger.Sprained fingers usually heal after 2-4 weeks. Avoid applying pressure or weight on the injured finger to speed up the healing process.
 Wash the wound with soap and water to avoid infection.Put 3-4 drops of povidone- iodine (betadine) solution on a cotton ball and apply it to the entire wound.
Let it dry.
 If you end up using cardboard, make sure they are firm pieces of cardboard and not flimsy or floppy.If you can’t find two similar object, its fine to use two different objects as long they are both straight and firm, about ½ inch wide.
 If you are using two pieces of cardboard, make sure both pieces are long enough to cover your injured finger.


If the injury is on the distal interphalangeal joint (DIP) or the joints found near the tip of the finger, measure the length of your finger by placing the tip of the tape measure on the tip of the finger going to the midpoint of the finger.
If the injury is on the proximal interphalangeal joint (PIP) or the joints found at the midpoint of the finger, start to measure from the tip of the finger up to the base.
 Cut two pieces: one to be put on the top and one on the bottom of the injured finger. Make sure each piece of cardboard can cover the entire bottom and top area of the injured finger.
 You should have your chosen two straight, narrow objects (preferably two pieces of cardboard), a tape measure, a roll of medical tape, and scissors.
 Put one splint at the top of the finger. Then, put one splint at the bottom of the finger.


Using the medical tape, wrap at least 2-3 layers around the tip of your finger. Then, wrap at least 2-3 layers of medical tape around the bottom of your finger.
Tape between the first and second knuckles of the injured finger.
Make sure you do not move or bend your finger when applying the splint as further movement will cause further injury. Keep your finger as straight as possible.
 Do not wrap the medical tape too tight or too loose around your finger. If the tape is too tight, it will impede blood circulation to your finger. Your finger may turn slightly blue and the pain may become more intense. If the tape is too loose, the finger will not be stabilized properly, so you will be able to move your finger around inside the splint. Neither scenario will benefit your injured finger.Pinch the nail of your injured finger for three seconds to determine the blood circulation. The splinted finger has good blood circulation if it returns to its pinkish appearance in less than three seconds. If it does not turn pink after three seconds, the splint is likely too tight and restricting blood flow. Remove it and reapply or adjust it as necessary., Tape the two fingers together to give your injured finger more support.


Wrap at least 2-3 layers of medical tape around the tip of the two fingers. Then, wrap at least 2-3 layers of medical tape around the bottom of the two fingers., Commercial splints are available in various sizes and contain openings to allow proper ventilation. If you can purchase one yourself, the fitting of the finger splint is easy, but if you cannot purchase it in person and need to get a friend or family member to buy you one, measure your injured finger so it will fit properly.


Commercial splints have sizing information on their package such as small, medium or large.
To measure your finger, get the circumference or the measurement around the affected finger using a tape measure. If the injury is on the distal interphalangeal joint (DIP), determine the length of your finger by placing the tip of the tape measure on the tip of the finger going to the midpoint of the finger. If the injury is on the proximal interphalangeal joint (PIP), measure from the tip of the finger up to the base of the finger., The most common splint available is the fold over finger splint.
 You should have your chosen commercial splint, a roll of medical tape, and scissors.
 Then, insert the commercial splint onto the injured finger until it fits perfectly and comfortably. Keep the affected finger in a straight position.If you are using a fold over finger splint, you will slide your injured finger into the bottom of the cushioned splint. The folded part of the splint should be at the tip of the finger.
If the broken finger is at a strange angle and cannot be straightened, go to the doctor immediately.
 Make sure the tape touches the skin so it is secured properly.


Put two layers of tape at the top of the finger and two layers of tape at the bottom of the finger.
Once you are done wrapping the finger with tape, cut the tape using scissors.
 This will determine the blood circulation of the splinted area. If the nail has a pinkish appearance in less than three seconds, the splinted finger has good blood circulation. If the nail does not appear pink after three seconds, the tape or the splint are too tight, causing ineffective blood flow.If it is too tight, remove the finger splint and reapplied it until it feels snug, rather than too tight or too loose.
 This can make the skin around the injury moist and itchy, increasing the risk of skin breakdown and the development of wounds, which can become infected if they come in contact with the dirty surface of the splint.When taking a bath, cover the splinted area with a double layer of plastic and tape the edges so it won’t get wet.

