 Take a warm shower. Keep towels and a robe nearby. When you are finished with your shower, dry off in it and put on your robe. Put oil-free moisturizer all over your face and neck and lotion on your whole body. Try a scent like vanilla if you want a smell to it. Apply a light foundation, powder, if you want makeup on. No matter what you choose to do, apply plenty of lip balm!;
, You should layer, but not excessively, as you'll be staying inside. Put on a camisole or a tank top underneath a sweater or long sleeve shirt. If you aren't too terribly cold, wear a short sleeve shirt. Put on a warm sweatshirt with fur or fleece inside. Put on some jeans or warm sweatpants. If you want, you could even wear pajama pants. Wear a pair of fuzzy socks, and you are good to go!

, Soak your hands and feet in hot water for 10 minutes. Pat damp, and apply a nice foot lotion. Remove old nail polish, and trim all your nails (even ones you are not painting). Put on some lotion (see tips for extra moisture tips). Apply a clear base coat. Paint a soft color like beige or tan, or a French manicure/pedicure. Let dry. Apply clear topcoat.
 This is a basic idea, but mix it up; watch the corniest movies you own, watch movies you loved when you were younger, watch old Disney flicks (i.e., The Little Mermaid, Aladdin, Anastasia), romances, horror, chick flicks, or comedy. Pop some popcorn, add all the butter you want, drink a mug of hot chocolate, and enjoy the film!

, If you like to read, try this. If you have a fireplace or a favorite room, curl up near it in a cozy chair (or pile of pillows), and read. Have some hot cocoa while you read. If you have to do school reading, you can get it done this way also.
 Try the websites under tips. Try to find new websites, online diaries, advice websites, teen magazine websites (like Seventeen), or even just here on wikiHow.
 If you have dry skin, do a facial. You get the idea; pamper yourself. Do mani/pedis, facials, a warm bubble bath, foot massages, just relax. It will feel great. Another idea is to try to imitate hair styles and makeup you see in magazines or online and take silly pictures.
 You can look and be inspired by magazines like Seventeen. Read magazines, also.
 Wouldn't you rather get it out of the way now?

