 You may have a single speaker, two satellite speakers, a subwoofer and two speakers, or a full surround system. Computer speaker setups are often less involved than a home theater, but full-surround systems can still have a lot of pieces.
 Most computers have speaker jacks on the motherboard connector panel, located on the back of the tower. If you are using a laptop, your only speaker port may be the headphone jack, or there may be ports located along the back of the laptop. The location will vary depending on the computer, so refer to your documentation if you are having difficulty locating the plugs.


If you are using an older computer, you may need to install a sound card in order to connect speakers. This usually isn't required for anything built within the last ten years.
 Nearly all computer speaker ports are color coded. These colors will help you determine which plug goes where. Most speaker cables will be color coded to match these jacks.


Pink – Microphone
Green – Front speakers or headphones
Black – Rear speakers
Silver – Side speakers
Orange – Center/Subwoofer

, Make sure that you can identify the Right and Left channel cables. If you are setting up a full-surround system, place your surround speakers to the sides and behind your computer chair, angled towards the chair. If you are just setting up two speakers, placing them to the sides of your monitor angled towards you will result in good sound quality.
 Different speaker models will connect to each other in different ways. Sometimes, you will need to connect the satellite speakers to the subwoofer which then plugs into the computer, while other times each set of speakers gets plugged into the computer separately.
 Match the speaker cable plug colors to the matching colored jacks on your computer. You may have to twist the plugs if space is tight.
 Power on the speakers (if necessary) and then turn them all the way down using the physical volume control. Start a song or video on your computer and slowly raise the volume until you can hear at a comfortable level. Once you've confirmed that the speakers work, find a channel test online. This will help you ensure that your speakers are placed correctly.