 Place it on a table or counter so the refrigerator is completely emptied out. You will want to have empty space so that you can easily assess what items to sort through.


Although most food will be fine when left out for a short period of time, make sure that such food is not left out more than an hour or so. Food can reach "the danger zone" in a relatively short period of time.
Having a cooler can make the process a bit safer for food safety, especially during hot summer months.
If you are cleaning out the refrigerator in cold weather, you may be able to put the items outside while you sort at your leisure.;
, If possible, bag securely to prevent leakage or mold distribution. The yearly or quarterly refrigerator clean often alerts us to items we've completely forgotten about.


Check expiration and "use by" dates. These are indicators that a given item should be cleaned out.
Throw away items that you are unlikely to use. If no one in the house likes olives, get rid of the jar that has been in the refrigerator since the martini party.
Empty the bin afterwards to make sure your house doesn't smell of all the food you throw out!

, In order to get the job done quicker, you'll probably want to remove shelving and the like and place it near the kitchen sink, where it will be much easier to clean.


For a quick clean, you do not necessarily have to take out all shelving. But doing so assures a more in-depth clean.
Usually shelving comes out in a similar fashion to oven racks, or drawers in a bureau.
 Dish soap will be fine. Most of what you took out of your fridge either won't fit or shouldn't be placed in a dishwasher. Instead, lather up some suds, get a nice brush or sponge to scrub with, and start going at the removable items from your fridge.


Never wash a cold glass shelf with hot water. The sudden temperature change could shatter the glass. Instead, use cold water or remove the shelf and let it come up to room temperature before washing it.
For heavy-duty spills and/or stains, don't be afraid to use the power of hot water and ammonia. Dilute a little bit of ammonia in hot water (1:5 ratio should be plenty) and let the item(s) soak before scrubbing.
Be sure to let the shelving, and drawers dry out completely on a drying rack before inserting back into the refrigerator.
 Attack any big or stubborn stains and hit all the remaining surfaces with a clean cloth or sponge.


You probably don't want to use a strongly scented soap or cleaner on the inside of the fridge, as food may absorb the smell. Instead, use one of the following natural cleaning solutions:

2 tablespoons of baking soda and 1 quart hot water1 part apple cider vinegar to 3 parts hot water


For really stubborn stains or buildups, try using a dab of white toothpaste. It serves as an abrasive cleanser and it smells mighty fine to boot., If your refrigerator door has shelving space and is regularly used, make sure to hit that area too, either with a chemical cleaner or a gentler one (explanation above).
 With a clean cloth, wipe off any excess water from your removable shelving and place it back in the refrigerator.
 Don’t saturate the seal with undiluted bleach as this may ruin the integrity of the gasket. Pat the gasket dry and then apply lemon oil, mineral oil, or body lotion on the gasket to keep the rubber supple.
 Wipe off any jars, bottles, or tupperware and place them back into the refrigerator. Double-check the expiration dates on any perishable items before placing them back.



Pull the refrigerator forward to expose all sides. To avoid scratching your wood floor or tearing linoleum, use an appliance glide when moving your refrigerator.
Clean the all exterior surfaces using a towel and all-purpose cleaner.
If your model has the coils mounted on the back of the unit, skip wiping the back until Part 3.
 For information on your refrigerator's condenser coil location, reference your Use and Care manual. Depending on your refrigerator model, the condenser coils can be located in several places:


Along the back of the unit, or
Mounted under the unit and accessed via the rear panel, or
In the front of the unit and accessed via the toe grill.
 It is important to unplug the refrigerator to prevent electric shock. If your unit is built-in or difficult to pull forward, turn off power via your home’s breaker box.
 Be extremely careful not to puncture the coils.


After cleaning the coils with a coil brush, use a vacuum with attached brush to clean up the excess dust and dirt on and around the coils. Do not use a cleaning solution on the coils

, The fan circulates are across the coils, which aids in releasing excess heat. If the fan blade is obstructed in anyway, the coils will have a hard time releasing heat.
,,, Every three months, remove most or all of your food from the fridge and wipe all the surfaces with a baking soda or vinegar solution. Regular maintenance will save you time and energy in the future.


This almost goes without saying, but if you notice a spill or stain in the fridge, try to clean it up quickly and remove the source of the stain. Spills or stains that aren't cleaned quickly can set and become harder to remove in the future.
 Before food goes bad, and starts coating the inside of your fridge with regular blasts of bad odors, it's time to act. Here's what you can equip your fridge with to combat these smells:


A clean sock filled with activated charcoal — from an aquarium store, not from your bbq briquettes. The charcoal absorbs bad odors for up to three months.
An opened box of baking soda. Baking soda is another excellent odor absorber.Most baking soda packages say you should change your baking soda out every 30 days, but you can probably get away with 60 to 90 days of use before exchanging.
Freshly ground coffee, placed in a small dish at the back of the fridge, also works very well at absorbing odors.
Unscented chlorophyll cat litter is yet another odor buster. 1/2" kitty litter in a shallow pan at the back of the refrigerator should eliminate most offending smells.
 This may not be for everyone, but some people might enjoy the subtle hint of vanilla, for example, when they open their refrigerator. The operating word in this whole step is "subtle." You probably don't want any fragrance to be overwhelming upon opening of the fridge. Like cologne or perfume, a nice "afterthought" is much more pleasant, especially coupled with food:


Sprinkle a little vanilla extract, tea tree oil, or essence of lavender, lemon, or even bergamot in a cotton ball and place the cotton ball in a small dish at the back of the fridge. Exchange every couple of weeks.
 A crumpled paper bag works wonders at removing smells in the crisper.

