 Porcelain can pick up small scratches easily, so avoid using scouring pads or steel wool. For surface stains, simply start with a clean sponge and some grease-cutting dish soap. Wipe in circular motions, then rinse the soap away with a clean sponge or rag.


Use the hottest water you can stand for the best results.;
, Use a damp cloth or sponge and coat the stained portions of the sink with baking soda. Baking soda is a mild abrasive, so it will pick up stains without scratching your sink. Scrub it on in a circular motion, then be sure to rinse it all off -- it will leave a residue if left to dry on the sink.


Mix some ammonia or lemon juice in for further stain-fighting power.
 The paper towels will keep the bleach close to the sink, allowing it to soak into the stains. The next morning, remove the towels. Rinse and wipe the sink for an easy, hassle-free clean.


Make sure you do this in a well-ventilated area (or open a window) to prevent inhaling bleach fumes.Never do this on colored porcelain or antiques, as it can damage the color or any wood or metal fixtures attached to the porcelain., Close the drain of the sink and fill it with hot water. Then add 1-2 cups of vinegar and let it sit for 3-4 hours. Once you've drained the water, any water stains will be gone or easily wiped away with a sponge.


Rinse the vinegar out when you are done. It is acidic, which can damage the finish if you aren't careful., Products like Borax and ROG 1 can be used to remove tough stains, but you should know that not all cleaners are made the same. You want to avoid any abrasive cleaners (like Comet) and any acidic cleaners (Magic Eraser), as they can dull the polish on your porcelain sink., This should only be a last resort, as the abrasion and acid can dull the finish over time. However, for serious stains you should apply a little salt, then squeeze some lemon juice over the stain. Then lightly scrub the mixture with a sponge. You can let it sit for 15-20 minutes as well to get rid of really nasty stains.