 There are a number of different locations that you can buy topsoil, like home and gardening department stores, or sometimes you can buy it in bulk from a landscaping company. However, the very best place to get topsoil is at your local cooperative extension, which is sponsored by the US Department of Agriculture.Most of these extensions exist at local universities and specialize in creating the best topsoil with the highest nutrient count.


When you buy topsoil at a chain department store be careful because they often sell a wide variety of different soil for different purposes.
If you need to buy topsoil in bulk, sometimes the seller will have delivery options available for you.
 Ideal topsoil is a mixture of sand, silt, and clay. Percentages vary depending on what gardener you talk to, but typically you’ll want something close to 40%-65% sand, 20%-60% silt, and 5%-20% clay. This combination of elements in soil is sometimes referred to as loam, and is the ideal combination for most topsoil.The seller can sometimes provide this recipe and save you the trouble of determining it yourself.


Remember to look at reviews to see the seller's reputation.
You can purchase topsoil in bulk at a nearby nursery, landscape supply company, or a home and garden store.
If you are buying the soil pre-bagged, sometimes the recipe is on the side of the bag.
 You want pulverized or screened topsoil so that the majority of rocks, unwanted debris, and weeds are removed. Almost no topsoil is going to have a 100% guaranteed weed free blend, however, there are machines that can get most of the weeds out of your topsoil.Weeds will impair the growth of your garden or lawn, and screening will save you time in the future from having to de-weed your garden.
Screening or pulverization also gives your topsoil a more consistent texture.
If you want to save money, you can screen your own topsoil for unwanted material and debris, however removing unwanted seeds will be more difficult.
 Sometimes people who sell soil, or the manufacturers will have test data available that will inform you of its nutrient makeup and pH level. Having this information at the time of sale will save you time and money from having to test the soil yourself. This is different than the recipe and includes valuable information about the different chemicals in your soil.


Avoid soils with a pH value less than 4.5 or greater than 7.0 because these levels are not ideal for growing most plants.Soluble salts absorb water and prevent it from getting to your plant's roots. Ideal topsoil should have less than 0.5 mmhos/cm for soluble salts test performed using a 1:2 soil:water ratio.