 Concentrate on doing well in mathematics courses. Also consider taking basic carpentry or electrical courses if available. Study hard and take the SAT and/or ACT tests, as those scores may be considered when you apply for an undergraduate program., You have several degree options on your path to becoming a quantity surveyor. A bachelor's degree in Construction Management, Building Science, or Construction Science will help you prepare to enter this field. Look for a degree program that offers training or an internship alongside your education.Construction Management degrees teach construction skills and management, estimating, mechanical systems, and surveying.
Building Science undergraduate degrees include courses like alternative energy, building methods, sustainable building practices, and building performance, structures and science.
Construction Science degrees teach building technology, cost estimating, and construction safety, management and procedures.
 Look for internship opportunities if you weren’t able to secure one through your college or university. Check online job boards for combinations of keywords like “quantity surveyor,” “cost engineer,” “project controls manager,” “intern,” “internship,” and “summer placement.” You can also research companies you would like to work for and send them cover letters.Mention any relevant work experience you have, including any student jobs. Explain what was involved in each role. If you don’t have any work experience yet, focus on your education, strengths, and goals.
 You may benefit from getting licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) or a Registered Architect (RA). Many employers will require you to have a valid driver’s license to apply as a quantity surveyor, since you will need to drive to job sites. If you want to work overseas, you may need a quantity survey license.Professional certification is voluntary. If you’re interested in getting licensed, you can do so through the Association for the Advancement of Cost Estimating International, the American Society of Professional Estimators, and/or the International Cost Estimating and Analysis Association.