 While you may feel compelled to comfort your dog with snuggling, treats, and petting, this can actually reinforce the fearful behavior.Instead, do your best to behave normally, treating your dog as you always would, and pretend not to notice her fear.This may be difficult and seem cruel, but petting and feeding your dog treats when she is afraid is in fact rewarding the behavior you are trying to stop.;
, If your dog cannot see (or hear) outside, it may help him to forget about what's happening. Close any windows, curtains, or blinds to help comfort your dog.Take him to an area of the house where he’s less likely to be disturbed.
 The sound of music may help to drown out distressing sounds. What’s more, studies have shown that classical music can have a very calming effect on dogs in stressful situations.Begin with something classical, like Mozart.
Experiment with different types of music to see what your dog enjoys.
 If your dog has a crate, allow her to lie in it during the storm. If no crate is available, create a cozy den with blankets and dog items. Place some laundry that smells like you in the safe area to add a soothing effect.If using a crate, it may help to drape a blanket over it. Leave the door to the crate open so she doesn’t feel trapped.
Don’t close your dog in a room. Allow her to have some space without feeling trapped.
 A thundershirt is a snug garment designed to target calming pressure points. This has a similar effect to swaddling a baby, and can be very calming to your dog when he's distressed.Place the garment on your dog.
Use the velcro straps to tighten.
This can also be used to calm him in the car.
 Engage in fun activities that your dog likes. This will keep her mind off the storm and help her to cope.Toss a ball.
Wrestle with chew toys.
Try playing toys that dispense food or treats.
 If your dog’s anxiety is severe, schedule an appointment with his vet to talk about it. Ask about prescription anti-anxiety medication options.You may try the dog versions of Xanax, Klonopin, or Diazepam.
Most commonly, these are used for separation anxiety, but can also be used for severe noise-induced distress.
Follow the instructions your veterinarian provides.

