 Band camp is a great way to discover new artists and music that aren't always at the top of the charts. In order to create an account you'll need to first buy music or support an artist. The great thing about band camp is that many of the artists give away their music for free, so you can search for a free album or song and then you'll be able to create an account.


Josh Garrels often gives away his music for free with no minimum purchase amount (a donation is recommended) and there are other artists like this on Bandcamp that allow you to download their album without paying anything., This is the page where you will find a lot of the trending artists, new albums, and fan spotlight (recent favorites from artists, fans, and special guests). On the home page you should also see a "Discover" section which lists albums from different genres.In the discover section, you can choose the genre, the date (today, this week, last week, 2 weeks ago, ect.) and then decide between best-selling, staff picks, new arrivals, and artist recommended. By clicking on an album, Bandcamp will automatically start playing one of the songs from the album, and then you have the option to listen to more of the album by clicking on the "Hear More" link below the song that is being played. You can also choose to "Buy Now" or put the song on your wishlist, which will require an account.
 Whenever artists you like put out new music, you can automatically be notified by Bandcamp by following the artist on their home page. This requires an account, but it's great because it allows you to keep track of new and upcoming music. Bandcamp may also notify you via email of concerts from the artist you are following that are located in your area.
 With Bandcamp you can follow your favorite artists, but you can also follow other fans too. On your newsfeed you should see the activity of your followed fans and artists. You can listen to any music they have listened to, and you can also find "recommended fans" (people who have a shared taste in music with you that Bandcamp suggests you could follow).The difference between Bandcamp and something like iTunes is you have unlimited access to music, meaning you can listen to the full length of a song before you buy it. Bandcamp also features alternative, indie, rock, and folk music as their primary music so you're likely going to get a different variety of music selection than you would through a popular music streaming app.
 This can be done after you have created an account by adding music to your wishlist and purchasing music from artists. You then have access to your collection through the Bandcamp app or their website. You can also re-download purchases, which allows you to recover music that you may have lost.To re-download purchases you can visit your music collection and click "Download" below the album or track you want to listen to. Even if you have already downloaded the album before, Bandcamp lets you re-download it, which is nice if you lost the music.

