 Often, you will not share the positions of another group of individuals exactly. Look cautiously when becoming a member of any group that encourages you to dress, act, or believe in certain things. This is often the first step in losing your individuality.;
, The current news environment is a busy box that seamlessly merges political commentary, worthless entertainment, and actual journalism. Sometimes it would appear that almost all networks either have a problem with bias (left and right) or with slanted commentary. For these reasons, it is much better to receive whatever information that you want from unbiased books (those not written by pundits). If you need to know something about a subject, research it online (not from blogs, however.) If you can, it may be best to stop watching TV altogether, and start getting whatever entertainment that you want from online sources.
 Are you someone who is a "people pleaser?" There is nothing wrong with attempting to be sociable, but you should not have to do anything that violates your best interest or moral code merely for others. If you dress, act, or make decisions in a certain way just for the sake of "pleasing others," you may wish to re-evaluate.
 Do not mindlessly accept what others tell you to be true, but research it on your own. Keep in mind always that a creed which forces you to hate another person by default is foolish, and wishes to destroy a truly free-thinking spirit. The first step used by propagandists, politicians, and other influencers is distributing questionable or biased information. They assume that you will take their word for everything without any research. Being a questioning person does not mean that you cannot be religious; it is fine as long as you truly believe in what you claim, and you were not influenced by others to espouse your beliefs.
 The ideas of authoritarianism often favor power over reason. Lawful and morally instituted authority should be acknowledged, but some individuals want to abuse their power, and use their position as authority to justify their actions. This is not a good thing, because true authoritarians will attempt to tell you what to believe or encroach on your rights. There are some things that no one, not even authority, have the right to do to you.
 Many common logical fallacies are helpful to learn so you can recognize when they are being used in an attempt to influence you. For example, take this comment: "Senator A just has to be wrong about this economic plan. I heard that 20 years ago, he was an alcoholic." As you can see, the discussion mysteriously shifted from talking about the economy to talking about Senator A's past. This logical fallacy is called an Ad Hominem Attack. The above speaker was not criticizing Senator A's plan, but bringing up an old problem that the senator had with alcohol, in an attempt to damage his reputation. How do we know that Senator A has not reformed? There are numerous other fallacies like this one, and you should learn about a good deal of them to protect yourself from those who use them.
 Do not "lecture" others that you see who are not like you, because many people are not free-thinkers. Educate them whenever possible, however, about how it is good to have individuality.

