 Panic disorder affects roughly 6 million adults in the United States and is more commonly experienced by women.The attacks associated with panic disorder generally last only a few minutes, but can reoccur for hours at a time.Some of the symptoms of panic disorder include:Sudden and repeated attacks of fear.
Feeling out of control during an attack.
Experiencing a fear or terror that is almost paralyzing.
Fear or anxiety about when the next attack might occur.
Avoiding places where previous attacks have occurred .
Feeling that you are going crazy or are about to die.
Physical symptoms during an attack may include a pounding or racing heart, sweating, difficulty breathing, weakness or dizziness, feeling hot or a cold chill, tingly or numb hands, chest pain, choking, or stomach pain.;
, Experiencing general feelings of anxiety or one or two panic attacks, while frightening, does not mean you have panic disorder. The defining characteristic of the disorder is the persistent fear of having future panic attacks.If you have had four or more panic attacks and are fearful of when your next attack will occur, locate a mental health professional who specializes in panic or anxiety disorders.People with panic disorder are more afraid of when and where their next attack will occur than they are of particular objects or events.Remember that everyone experiences anxiety — it's a normal reaction to stress. Feeling anxious does not mean you have a disorder.Normal anxiety usually occurs because of something specific, like an upcoming presentation or a big game. For a person with an anxiety disorder, the anxiety is constant and can appear to have no source., When left untreated, panic disorder can have serious side effects. One of the most severe consequences of panic disorder is the development of phobias.If, for instance, you had an attack while riding in a elevator, you may begin have serious anxiety about elevators; you may begin to avoid them and may develop a phobia. You may give up a great apartment or job because you would have to use an elevator to access it, or you may avoid a hospital to get care, or a shopping center where you would normally shop and see a movie, and so on, all because you are avoiding elevators.Those who suffer from panic disorder may eventually develop agoraphobia, or fear of going outdoors, because they are so afraid of having another panic attack outside of their home.Other possible side effects include:Increased likelihood of alcohol and drug abuse
Increased risk of suicide
Depression
Spending less time on hobbies, sports, and other satisfying activities
Fear of traveling more than a few miles from home
Economic effects (giving up well-paid jobs that would require travel, losing employment, becoming financially dependent on others)

