 While there are many productive steps you can take to reduce the overall stress you experience day-to-day, it is important that you realize that, no matter what, stressful situations will occur in your life. Accepting what you can't change about the world will ensure that you aren't wasting energy and time worrying about problems you can't solve., This is crucial for developing your understanding of the role of stress in your life. Make a list of situations, both specific situations you have experienced recently or anticipate in the future, and general types of situations which tend to cause you stress. This list will help you recognize what situations to avoid, or prepare for, in order to reduce the amount of stress in your life.Journaling can be a powerful tool for identifying stress, since it is often difficult to recall at a moment's notice all the stressors in one's life. Taking time every day to record how you felt, and what stressed you out on that day will provide you with a record to draw from later as you think about reducing stress in your life.
 Sources of stress can be pretty much anything, from particular circumstances (like being stuck in traffic, or being under-prepared for a presentation) to particular individuals (work colleagues, schoolmates, etc.), but once you've identified which sources are causing stress in your life, you can take steps to avoid them. Think positively about what steps you could take to avoid interacting with these stressors in the future. For instance, if your daily commute to work by car is a significant source of stress, consider biking or using public transit. If a certain person in your life is often a source of stress, limit your interactions with them, and avoid engaging with them when you must interact.
Remember, no matter how well you prepare, there is no way of totally avoiding exposure to stress.Simply avoid what you can, and you'll have more energy to deal with the situations you can't avoid.
 Chaos and disorder in our personal lives is a common source of stress, and being disorganized can make already stressful situations even worse. For those who struggle with organizing time, finances, or personal or work space, focusing on becoming more organized can be a tremendous help relieving stress.Start small, and simply make a list of areas in your life you feel could be better organized.
Don't try to change too much too quickly. Disciplined organization is a skill that may take a long time to learn. Focus on making small changes at first, like making a budget for your finances, or cleaning up your office or home.
 Poor diet and exercise choices can severely exacerbate feeling of stress, preventing you from feeling well and healthy. Taking steps to eat healthier, and enjoying regular physical activity, can pay remarkable dividends in you sense of well-being, and in your overall ability to cope with stressful situations.Living healthier doesn't mean living like an athlete or personal trainer. Make small changes, and stick with the ones that help you. Going for a daily 20 minute walk in the morning, drinking more water, and avoiding fatty or high-calorie snacks between meals are all great options.
Avoiding alcohol and caffeine can help, since these chemicals can negatively impact your body's response to stress.
Don't make any drastic changes in your diet or exercise practices without first talking to your doctor. Be sure to ask them for recommendations and advice.

