 Attach the yarn to the size G (4.25 mm) crochet hook using a slip knot, then work a foundation of 20 chain stitches.

You'll need to create three separate pieces for this necklace: the bow body, the bow center, and the choker. This step starts the bow body.
 Work one half-double crochet into the third chain from the hook, then work one half-double crochet into each of the remaining stitches across the row. Turn the work over once you reach the end.

For rows two through six:

Chain two.
Work one half-double crochet into each stitch across the previous row.
Turn the work over upon reaching the end of the row.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 3-inch (7.6-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the yarn.

Using a yarn needle, weave the excess tails into the stitches to both hide and secure them.
This step completes the bow body.
 Attach new yarn to the size G (4.25 mm) crochet hook using a slip knot. Work a foundation of 8 chain stitches.

This step begins the bow middle.
Work with the same color yarn used to complete the bow body.
 Work one half-double crochet into the third chain from the hook, then work one half-double crochet into each chain across the rest of the row., Cut the yarn, leaving an 8-inch (20-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.

Weave the excess start tail into the stitches of the piece but allow the end tail to hang free.
This completes the bow center.
 Tightly wrap the bow center piece around the middle of the bow body piece, causing that middle to pinch together and create the bow shape.

Thread the yarn needle with the excess tail hanging from the bow center piece. Use this yarn to whip stitch the ends of the center piece together at the back of the bow body. Weave in the remaining excess when finished.
This step completes the overall bow.
 Attach new yarn to the size I (5.5 mm) crochet hook using a slip knot, then work a foundation of 54 chain stitches.

Vary this stitch count as needed. The final chain should be long enough to sit comfortably around your neck.
This step begins the choker portion of the necklace. You can work the choker with the same yarn used for the bow or choose a different color.
 Work one double crochet into the third chain from the hook, then work one double crochet into each chain across the row., Cut the yarn, leaving a 3-inch (7.6-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.

Weave the excess tails into the stitches of the choker.
This step completes the choker portion of the pattern.
 Thread an ordinary sewing needle with ordinary thread, then stitch the bow onto one end of the choker.

Position the center of the bow so that it sits on the fifth double crochet from one end of the choker. Sew the bow center onto this stitch.
 Sew a plain button onto the front of the choker at the end lying opposite the bow.

Place the button on the second or third double crochet of that end, depending on how tight you wish to make the necklace.
 The necklace should be finished and ready to wear. Wrap it around your neck, then slip the button in between two double crochet on the opposite end of the choker to secure it.

If properly placed, the button should remain hidden beneath the bow.
You can wear the necklace with the bow at the front of your neck for a traditional "bow tie" appearance, or you can turn the necklace so that the bow sits angled to one side for something more feminine.

