 The first thing you can teach your dog is to come to the handler so that the nose is in about the height of your left leg. That is easily taught by holding the target stick in your left hand by (or 5-10 centimetres behind) your left leg and clicking when the dog is in the right position.;
, If the dog walks to your left foot you click and reward at the foot.
 Click when the dog puts its forelegs on the box. Reward when the dog is still standing on the box with its forelegs. Click and reward several times when the dog is standing on the box.
 If the dog moves a hind leg, click and reward immediately. Move again, click and reward when you see the first movement of the hind paw.
 Continue until you can move a whole turn, and the dog twists its forepaws on the box 180 degrees in the ratio of you by just moving the hind paws.
 To start with, click when you see the least movement of the hind paws. Move willingly when the dog is eating the treat, but make sure you're standing still when the dog moves so that the dog won't rely on you moving. Keep on doing this until the dog can stand on the opposite of the box, and spin 180 degrees completely next to your leg.
 Move about 45 degrees to the right. Then the dog is supposed to move - click at the moment you feel the dog's back part hitting your leg. Then you move 90 degrees, 135 degrees, 180 degrees - and finally you should be able to move a whole turn while the dog is following you next to your leg just by moving the forepaws.
 The most important things to start with is that the dog is following your foot in the correct position and that the hind legs work well.
 The dog should know how to sit totally straight and close next to you. Train next to a wall or another backstop so that you avoid that the dog's bottom will "rip up". Have your dog standing on your left side between you and the wall. Take a step forward and hold the target stick by your leg. When the dog comes to the target stick, you lift the target up a little. If then the dog sits down you click and reward with the left hand. Then take a new step and repeat the same thing several times until the dog sits down quickly in the correct position when you lift the target stick.
 Click and reward if the dog comes to your foot and sits in the correct position. If the dog doesn't sit correctly, you don't reward but try again, or eventually some more times with the target stick before you make another try without it.
 Use the target stick in order to make the dog come to your foot, but remove it as soon as possible. Eventually you can train some more with different kinds of backstops.
 For example, you can start the training by letting the dog offering the initial position from the front. Click and reward. Then you move a little, so that the dog have to come in initial position from the right. Next time you stand so that the dog is on the left side. Then behind you etc.
 When you train turns on site you should reward the dog while it is still sitting in initial position. In the beginning you should train one turn at a time. For example, do 5-10 turns to the right. Then take a break.

