 For instance, perhaps you could go back to the campus you met and fell in love on. Alternatively, maybe you fell in love with each other while hiking on a favorite nearby trail. That might serve as a romantic backdrop to your elopement.The place you and your partner choose to elope doesn't have to be extravagant. As long as its somewhere that's meaningful to the two of you, it can be romantic.;
, If there's a place the two of you have always wanted to travel, an elopement is a perfect time to do it. You can be a bit extravagant; it's your big day. Maybe you've always wanted to see New York in the winter, or maybe you've always wanted to venture to Japan. Now's the time to do it. You'll make amazing new memories together while tying the knot., Another option is choosing a destination that is considered romantic. For instance, you could visit France (Paris, the city of love), or take a trip to Florence, Italy. You could try a romantic tropical getaway, or visit the snowy mountains of Colorado. Decide what screams romance for the two of you, then look at hotels and resorts that cater to couples., Another option is a romantic cruise. Spend a few days or week lounging on a cruise ship, enjoying each other's company and having romantic dinners together. Plus, captains can usually marry couples, if you make arrangements ahead of time. It's an all-inclusive deal that will leave you time to focus on the romance., When you're planning a big wedding, your options are limited. With a small elopement, your options are wide open. Most small bed and breakfasts are happy to host an elopement, for instance. Think about options that may not have been open to you with a big wedding, such as getting married at a museum or small garden., You don't need to spend a fortune to elope. For instance, the two of you could take a week at a campground or a state park cabin together. You could get married at one of the park's idyllic spots or in a city hall.
 City hall may not seem romantic to you, but you can make it romantic by adding extra special touches. For instance, you could get a pretty dress and bouquet of your favorite flowers. Afterwards, you could hire a horse-drawn carriage to drive you through a nearby park. Adding little details to a city hall wedding can make it a budget-friendly romantic elopement.
 If you and your partner are traveling far away, it will help to hire someone to plan the wedding for you in that area. Yes, you're just eloping together, but if you want some of the traditional elements like a photographer, a venue, and so on, a wedding planner can help you find appropriate people in the area you're going, which takes some of the stress out of it.A wedding planner can also help you look into things like getting a marriage license in the place you're visiting, which may have different laws than where you're from.
If you don't want to hire a wedding planner, make a list of the things you do want at your elopement. You'll need to spend at least a couple of days in the months before your elopement going through reviews online to find people to fill those roles. At the very least, you'll need to find someone to marry you!

, While travel agents aren't absolutely necessary anymore when planning a vacation, they might be helpful in booking a romantic getaway. Plus, you'll be able to focus on each other rather than all the nitty gritty details.
 Budgeting for an elopement is much like budgeting for a wedding. Sit down, and think about what you'll actually want for your elopement. Look at average costs for those things in the area you're visiting by researching prices on the internet. Next, seriously look at the money you have to spend on an elopement. You may need to make some cuts on the elopement, or you may need to be extra thrifty for several months to afford what you want.Talk to family members who would've contributed to the wedding. For instance, if your parents would have paid for a wedding, they may be willing to contribute to an elopement. However, keep in mind that an elopement may be a sore subject with some people.
If you want to remember your (not-so) big day with a photographer, it will likely cost you the same as if you'd had a big wedding. That is, it's usually based on how much time the photographer will spend with you, so take that into consideration when looking at costs., Of course, the traditional look for a wedding is a wedding dress and a tuxedo. However, with an elopement, feel free to be more open with your clothing choices. For instance, you or your partner could wear a dreamy, flowing dress in pastel vintage lace. Another option is a 1950s style dress with a full skirt in a flowery print. Instead of a tux, think about a vintage suit or slacks and a button-up shirt. You can dress up or down as much as you'd like.


Another option is to borrow clothing. You or your partner could wear your mother's wedding dress, for example.
 You're going to get a lot of different reactions to eloping, and it can leave you feeling guilty about your elopement. However, it's important to remember that this day is about each other. You shouldn't feel guilty about doing what you want. Don't let the guilt ruin your elopement., Just because you elope doesn't mean you have to leave everyone behind. If you want, invite your parents to come with you or a close friend to witness the ceremony. It's your day; stick to who you want to be there., Even if you stay close to home, consider adding something extravagant to your wedding. Maybe you want to spring for a professional bouquet. Maybe you and your spouse want a fancy dinner afterwards. Doing something a bit lavish will help the day feel more special., A wedding photographer is still a good idea, even if it's just the two of you, as they will help capture your special day. After all, you and your spouse will be the only ones who witnessed it, so you won't be able to ask friends and family what they thought. Plus, you can make family members feel included by showing them photos.If you don't want to hire a photographer, at least take a camera along to capture some pictures.
You could also spend some time writing about it at the end of the day. Save what you write to read on a later anniversary.
 If you still want to find a way to celebrate with your friends and family, host a big party to celebrate instead of having a wedding. That way, people will feel included, and you'll get to extend your celebrating a bit longer.