 Bring every person (parents, therapists, teachers, older siblings) who will be involved in replacing the maladaptive behavior. It is best if everyone meets at the same time and place so that no misunderstandings can exist.


One team member should take notes or record the meeting.






Describe and define the target behavior so that there is no confusion as to exactly what the problem is.
 A tertiary reinforcer is something above and beyond what the child normally has as a part of daily living. Examples include a special movie, earning money towards a purchase of a book or toy, etc.


Removal of something normally found in the child's life is considered punitive. It is best to avoid that for this purpose.
, Those involved must agree to stick to the plan, and not give in even if the child throws a tantrum in hopes of getting the reward. When the behavior arises, give a warning, and make the decision final if the child continues.


Giving in to a tantrum will hurt the child in the long run. If you do this, you have destroyed the plan and will need to create a new one in most instances.
 In the beginning, clearly explain to the child that it upsets them to see you struggling, and that you want to help them cope with it. If possible, talk to them about ways that they could cope with the trigger.


Present a clear coping mechanism that they can use in place of the maladaptive behavior. Simply telling the child "stop biting your arms" will leave them confused about how to deal with overwhelming emotions. Telling them "instead, you can bite on these chewy bracelets and take a break if you need to" will help them envision how they can act constructively.
Don't feel discouraged if the child doesn't start improving right away. Learning new coping behaviors takes time, and there may be a delay before the child understands what to do.
 There may be some lapses, due to severe distress or confusion, but in time the child will begin to use the better coping method all the time.
 If you see a spike in the target behavior, don't worry, because it is almost always temporary. Continue encouraging the child to adapt and it will eventually happen.
 After a certain amount of time in which the child hasn't behaved maladaptively, modify any rewards. Make longer stretches in between rewards, or increase the number of points to be earned. The plan can be faded out gradually until you no longer need it.



Check up with a relapsing child. Relapses may be due to stress or overwhelming feelings. Identify any new sources of stress in the child's life (the death of a grandfather, a new school, the introduction of manipulative compliance therapy) and remove them or help the child work through them.

