 The following types of oils can be kept at room temperature:Ghee oil can last for several months.
Palm oil can last for several months.
Peanut oil (refined) will last for two years.
Vegetable oil can last for a year or longer as long as it is tightly covered.
Olive oil may be kept in the cupboard (at temperatures between 57°F and 70ºF (14°C and 21ºC) for up to 15 months.
 Do not store it near or above the stove. The frequent temperature changes will cause the oil to deteriorate.
 Some oils will spoil if they are not kept in a cold place. Refrigeration will cause most oils to turn cloudy and thick. Because of this, you will need to take the oil out one to two hours before you need it, and let it sit at room temperature, allowing the oil to return to its usual consistency. The following oils should be kept in the fridge:Avocado oil will last for 9 to 12 months.
Corn oil will last up to 6 months.
Mustard oil will last 5 to 6 months.
Safflower oil will last for 6 months.
Sesame oil will last for 6 months.
Truffle oil will last for 6 months.
 Some oils can be kept either in the fridge or in the cupboard. However, in most cases, refrigeration will prolong the oil's shelf life. Note that refrigeration will cause some oils to turn thick and cloudy. If this happens, take the oil out of the fridge one to two hours before you need it, allowing it to return to its usual consistency. The one exception to this is coconut oil, which is solid at room temperature. The following oils can be kept either in the fridge or in a cool, dark cupboard:Canola oil can be stored in the cupboard for 4 to 6 months, or in the fridge for 9 months.
Chili oil can be stored in the cupboard for 6 months. It will last longer in the fridge.
Coconut oil can be stored in the cupboard for months. It can last longer in the fridge but is difficult to use quickly from the refrigerator.
Grapeseed oil can be stored in the cupboard for 3 months (up to 70ºF/21ºC), or in the fridge for 6 months.
Hazelnut oil can be stored in the cupboard for 3 months. It will last in the fridge for up to 6 months.
Depending on the type, lard can be stored either in the cupboard or in the fridge. Read the label for proper storing techniques.
Macadamia nut oil can be stored in the cupboard for up to two years. It can last even longer in the fridge.
Palm kernel oil can be stored in the cupboard for up to a year. It can last longer in the fridge.
Walnut oil can be stored in the cupboard for 3 months. It will last in the fridge for up to 6 months.
 Sunlight and frequent temperature changes can deteriorate oil and cause it to go rancid. Unfortunately, some of the most popular places to keep oil, such as windowsills and on the counter, are often the worst because the oil is subjected to too much sunlight and changes in temperature. Avoid keeping your oil in the places listed below, even if the oil can be kept at room temperature:Windowsills
The back ledge of a stove
In a cabinet above the stove
Next to the stove or oven
On the counter
Next to the refrigerator (the external side of a fridge can get quite hot through a cupboard partition)
Near cooking appliances such as kettles, waffle makers and toasters.

