 Stand with your feet hip length apart. Keep your arms at your side, and hold your weight evenly on both feet.Start breathing. Focus on getting a steady, rhythmic breath going.
Push your big does together and separate your heels slightly.
Lift up your toes and spread them for a moment. Then, set them back down on the mat one by one. Straighten your legs and transfer some weight to your heels, focusing on pressing your weight evenly across your feet.;
, Shift your weight to your toes as you lift your ankles upward. Squeeze your shins together as you lift.While you're lifting, move your thighs up and back while you rotate your thighs to widen your seat bone.
Without rounding your lower back, tuck your tailbone in a bit. Try to keep your hips even with the center of your body. Allow your pelvis to fall in its neutral position as you draw your stomach in slightly.
 Elongate your torso when you inhale. When you exhale, move your shoulder blades towards your waist. As you do so, keep your collarbone broad to stretch out your full body.Press your shoulder blades towards your ribs. Do not squeeze your shoulders together, however.
Stretch your neck, but keep your hips, and shoulders in a straight line.
Hold this pose for a minute, breathing evenly and steadily.
 Now that you have completed mountain pose, you can transition into crescent pose. To get into the starting position, interlace both your fingers. Your index finger should point over your head.Press your feet firmly on the floor.
Reach your fingers up over your head, pointing your fingers upward as you reach.
 It's very important you relax your shoulders and back. Even while you're reaching up with your hands and arms, you'll want to lower your shoulders and back slightly and allow them to relax.This can be difficult to remember, as many people are naturally inclined to stretch up with their whole bodies.
Keep in mind only your hands, arms, and fingers should be stretching upward.
 Exhale as you move your hips. At the same time, you should arch your torso.Your torso should move to the right as your hips move to the left.
Your arms should move with your torso, pointing to the left as well. You should form a crescent shape with your body.
 Breathe in and out in a steady fashion. If you're just starting out at yoga, you may only be able to hold the pose for 2 breaths. You do not want to hold the pose any longer than feels comfortable. After holding the pose as long as is comfortable, return to the starting position.Inhale as you straighten your torso. You should also press down on your feet until you're back in the original position.
That is, you should be standing straight up, with your hands held over your head and your fingers interlaced.
 This time, you will tilt your right hip to the side while your torso moves to the left. Again, hold the pose as long as you feel comfortable.You may be more flexible on one side of your body, so don't be surprised if there's a slight difference in how long you can hold the pose on the other side.
There is no need to return to mountain pose. You can simply return to the starting position of crescent moon pose.
 If you've never done yoga before, it's a good idea to work with an instructor. Yoga can be somewhat tedious, and you want to make sure you do not strain yourself while doing various poses. Enroll in a yoga class and work on mountain pose and crescent moon pose with an instructor.Make sure your yoga instructor has a decent amount of experience, and has completed an instructor training program.
Enroll in a class suitable for beginners. If you have any special needs, like a chronic health condition, make sure your yoga instructor is familiar working with students with those needs.
 Mountain pose is a fairly simple pose that's generally safe. However, the pose requires some balance. If you have any health conditions that make you dizzy, you should avoid the pose.If you are pregnant, talk to your doctor before attempting any exercise, including yoga.
If you have a headache, wait until it passes to perform mountain pose.
If you feel lightheaded or dizzy, avoid mountain pose.
Insomnia and low blood pressure can also make you disoriented, so it may be best to avoid mountain pose if you have these conditions.
 It's particularly difficult to do crescent moon pose if you have any recent injuries to the hips, back, or shoulders. If you have chronic pain or injury in these areas, you should also avoid crescent pose.Talk to your doctor if you're injured. Work with him or her about when you can return to yoga and which poses, if any, will be safe while your injuries heal.
 If you're new to yoga, it can take awhile to get comfortable with it. It's very important that you ease into yoga. Pay attention to your body. If you feel uncomfortable during a pose, you should take a break.Yoga is meant to stretch and soothe your body and not to strain it. If a pose is hurting you, do not push it.
An instructor can help you modify a pose so it's more comfortable for you. You may have to do a modified version of mountain or crescent moon pose until you're ready to do the full pose.

