 Always have a clear goal in mind when performing a spell. Remember that white magic is generally positive and for the good of others. White magic encourages healing, growth, happiness, peace, etc.


Many believe that a major aspect of white magic is that it cannot subvert the will of another person. When following this tenet, you should not, for example, cast a love spell on a particular person to force him or her to love you. Instead, a white magic love spell would involve attracting an unknown person, possibly with certain desired qualities, to either you or the person who asked you to perform the spell., The particulars of the items are generally considered secondary to their meaning to you, the caster. Draw from your culture or coven's traditions and symbols. Specific herbs and figurines are popular choices. You may add as many items as you want as long as they don't overcrowd your altar.Continuing with the example of a white magic love spell, place representations of the qualities you want in a lover. If you want someone passionate, add pepper or a dash of spice. Intelligence may be represented by a statue of an owl. A jar of saffron could be for a suitor who is happy or stable., Create a circle around your altar and stand inside it before beginning your spell. The circle can be made with chalk, string, stones, twigs, salt, or any other object you can fashion into one. Face towards your altar. If you are casting with other people, join hands and face into the center of the circle., Use the objects on the altar to clear your mind and focus on your goal. You can use either a wand or ceremonial knife to channel your focus by pointing at each symbolic object. Think about how each relates to the spell you are casting. Pray to your chosen deities for guidance and assistance.
 These are not always necessary for a spell, but many practitioners use them. You can either learn these by research or directly from another believer. You may even craft your own spell to write in your Book of Shadows. It's good to memorize everything necessary before starting, but you may also read directly from your book.For white magic, do not perform any actions that are either violent or symbolize violence. Similarly, do not speak negatively or use hateful words.

