 If possible, talk to your child in advance of their stay to give them an idea of what to expect and how long they could be gone. Get your child a book on going to the hospital, as many are available to help answer questions and relieve anxiety.

Let your child pack their favorite stuffed animal, blanket, or comfort object in advance, as these provide familiarity during their stay.;
, If your child has an admission time scheduled, arrive 30 minutes to an hour early, or as directed by your hospital. Neither you nor your child need the stress of running late. Your child's treatment could be affected if you are not ready at the time the hospital staff are prepared to perform any procedures. If being late causes you to feel stressed, your child will likely notice that and feel stressed also.
 Check with the hospital staff that you've got everything your child will require during their stay. Typically, a nurse will call you a couple of days prior to your stay for a pre-check, but if you are unsure you can always call again. Remember any medications your child takes, or at least a list of their medications so the hospital can supply them. Your child may need day and night clothes, their glasses, pacifier, diapers, their walking sticks or frame, CPAP machine, braces, shoes and slippers, or anything else they use on a daily or nightly basis.


If your child’s hospital stay was unplanned, ask hospital staff what your child might need overnight and in the days to come. It will help to write down a list so you can pick up what you need or ask another loved one to bring the items to you.
 Whether your child’s hospital stay is planned or unplanned, they will look to you to know how to react and respond to the situation. If you show fear and sadness about your child’s hospital stay, they will probably feel the same way. Stay calm and positive about going to the hospital.This doesn’t mean you should lie about where you are going, how long your child will be there, or what will happen. Don’t make promises you can’t keep (like, “you don’t have to stay overnight!”) because this will cause fear and mistrust for your child if it’s untrue.
Explain things honestly but in ways they can understand, for instance, “We’re going to see some doctors and you might get to stay in a special room until you feel better.”

, Give age-appropriate answers, and remember that it’s okay not to know something.Don’t make up an answer if you don’t know (again, don’t encourage doubt and mistrust) – say something like, “I don’t know right now, but everything will be okay and I’ll tell you as soon as I find out.”

