 This is an often overlooked step in pouring wine, and is not essential. However, some foil covers contain lead, which can leach into the wine in tiny amounts if the wine is allowed to contact it during the pour. Removing the foil cover can also prevent unsightly drips.


Aim to cut the foil cover about half an inch (1 cm) below the bottle's lip. This will ensure the wine does not contact the foil while you pour.
The foil is most easily cut using a special tool called a foil cutter, which allows you to pinch the bottle's neck and rotate a blade cleanly around the foil. Waiter-style corkscrews also contain small blades for cutting the foil away.;
, This step is also not crucial for serving wine, but is a good way to be considerate to your guests. Wiping down the bottle's opening will remove any cork debris or other dust and prevent this dust from entering the stream of wine while pouring.
 Wine glasses are best stored upside-down or in an enclosed space to prevent dust from accumulating in the bowl. Even so, you should hold each wine glass up to a light and buff away any visible smudges with a clean cloth before serving. This will allow the wine to be viewed clearly, which is an integral part of evaluating its quality.
 Cradling the wine bottle with both hands, carefully pour about 4 or 5 ounces of wine into the glass. You should leave the glass sitting on the table when pouring. Twisting the wine bottle gently towards the end of the pour will help prevent the last bit of wine from dripping down the bottle.


When pouring, aim for a "fall" - the distance from the bottle's lip to the bottom of the wine glass's bowl - of about 6 to 10 inches (15 - 25 cm). This distance allows to wine to aerate a bit during the pour, which improves the flavor by softening the presence of the wine's tannins.
 When you have finished pouring the wine, give the bottle's opening another quick wipe with a clean cloth. This will prevent any remaining wine from drying on the bottle's lip and tainting the next pour.
