 The first step in signing up for a private mailbox will be to locate a service near you. There are many different services and businesses that will rent you a private mailbox, allowing you to chose one that is right for you. Take your time and do some research to find a private mailbox rental company that has the price and services you are looking for.Private, non-government services are available to rent private mailboxes from.
Private companies will often offer competitive advantages over their government run counterparts. You'll often find more convenient hours and upfront pricing when searching for a private mailbox service.
You can try searching online for a service near you. Try searching for private mailboxes near your zipcode or address.
There are also government run services that can rent you private mailboxes. For example, you can rent a PO box at your nearest USPS office.;
, You'll want to know exactly what to expect when it comes to the fees and regular payments for your mailbox. There may be some initial service fees attached to your rental, as well as the usual monthly service fees. Talk with a representative of your private mailbox service to learn more.Generally, rental fees are around $10 a month for a private mailbox.
You may be required to rent a mailbox over a certain period of time, paying the entire fee at once., To finalize your service, you will likely need to fill out some information and agreement forms. These forms will specify your personal information so that the private mail company can contact you and make sure they are providing the best service. These forms will also be a business contract, providing the details of your rental agreement. Ask a representative at your private mailbox company which forms you will need to complete.You'll need to provide basic contact information such as your legal name, home address and phone number.
The contract will identify the terms of the services rendered and your responsibilities.
 Many private mailbox companies will require that you bring some form of identification with you when setting up a private mailbox. Without a valid form of identification, you may not be able to set up your service. Make sure you bring two forms from these following examples of identification:Driver's license.
Passport.
Voter identification.
Government employee identification.
University or college identification.
 You will need to legally state that your private mailbox rental service is allowed to claim your mail for you. Without granting your service the right to claim your mail, they will be unable to accept any mail on your behalf. Make sure you've properly signed this document to finalize your private mailbox rental.


You can find an example of this document at http://about.usps.com/forms/ps1583.pdf


, Many people receive their mail at their home address. However, there may be some documents that you don't want traced back to your private address. Renting a private mailbox can help keep your home address secure and safe, allowing you to pick up mail from another address.For example, you may want all of your business mail to go to your private mailbox, instead of your home address.
A private mailbox address can prevent your mail from being traced back to your home address.
 When you rent a private mailbox, you are also renting a certain level of security for your packages. Most private mailbox services will maintain their own secure premises, holding your mail safely behind the building's own security measures. If you need extra security for critical packages or messages, consider renting a private mailbox., Using normal post office services can be convenient enough. However, renting a private mailbox can bring even more convenience and benefits with it. Not only will your mail be more secure and private, you may also enjoy some of these following benefits when renting a private mailbox:Many private mail box services are open longer hours than the post office, allowing you plenty of time to pick up your mail.
You can allow your mail service to claim packages for you, preventing them from being sent back for redelivery.
If you need to move, your mailing address won't have to change.
 Having a private mailbox can help make your business or professional service look more polished and impressive. Many private mailbox companies share addresses with prestigious businesses and can help your own enterprise look like a neighboring business. Consider renting a private mailbox to help boost your image and impress business partners and clients. , If you are under 18 years of age, you may have some difficulty renting a private mailbox by yourself. Depending on the service you are working with, you may need to have your parent or guardian's permission before opening a private mailbox. You will also need two forms of identification when you go to open your account.You may have to open your account in person.
Service will usually be provided to minors who are under 18 years of age. However, parents can request that their child be denied such access.
 There are some companies and organizations that will not send mail to anyone with a private mailbox address. Before you rent your private mailbox, make sure that any important mail will still be sent to your new address. Mail that cannot be sent to a PO box or private mailbox will still need to be sent to your home address.
 If you are renting a private mailbox for your business or corporation, you will need to include the names of those organizations on any forms you fill out. You will need to give legal permission to your private mail company to claim mail for your business. Make sure you have included these business names when signing up for a private mail box rental service.The USPS will have a space for your to list your business or corporation names. This will allow an agent to claim mail on behalf of those businesses.
Only registered business names will be eligible for inclusion on your forms.

