 If you know the person well enough, then consider her interests when coming up with date ideas. The more appealing the date sounds, the more likely she'll be to say yes. Furthermore, having a concrete plan with a place and time in mind makes you more decisive then if you said "Let's hang out some time," or, "I don't know, what do you want to do?" Here are some date ideas you should consider before asking:


If you share similar tastes in music, then invite her to an upcoming show or concert.
Consider asking her to meet you for lunch or grabbing ice cream. If you enjoy cooking, then invite her over for a homemade dinner. Remember that dates don't necessarily have to revolve around meals; go for a hike together or hit the bowling alley!
Try to think of an activity that involves talking and getting to know each other. Avoid asking her to the movies, where you will be sitting in silence and won't get a chance to talk. However, if you're set on going to the movies, take her to dinner beforehand or go out for ice cream after, so you get a chance to get to know each other.;
, Greet her first to get the conversation going. If you have just met her and are unsure of whether she has your number saved in your phone, then you may need to remind her who you are. Say something like "Hey, this is , we met the other day." If you are positive she has your number, then text her something like "Hey, what's up?" or "Hey, how's your day going?"


If you have seen her recently, then try to come up with an excuse to start a conversation based on your last interaction. For example, if you were recently at a party together, text her something like "Hey, how was the rest of your night?" If you are in a class together, try something like "Are you ready for the test on Monday?"
Wait until she responds to your first text before asking her out. Remember that she may be occupied and not have her phone with her, so be patient.
 Once you have gotten the conversation going, it's time to ask her out. You may want to start by asking her what her plans are on a given day/weekend. If she says that she is free, then ask her out. Send a text saying "Would you want to do activity with me?"


Don't wait too long to ask her out. You don't want the conversation to go on a tangent and make asking her out seem too awkward or unexpected. There's no need to make too much small talk when you're just texting each other.
Keep it short and simple. Just say something like, "Interested in a movie?" or "Want to go bowling this Friday evening?"
Have a concrete place and a time where you want to meet. If you just say, "Want to go see a movie some time?" then you'll sound indecisive. It's important to state a time so she knows you're serious and you thought it out.
Give her an option to do something else. Maybe she wants to go out with you, but she's a terrible bowler; maybe she wants to go to dinner, but she just went to the place you suggested last night. Make it clear that you have a plan, but that you're open to doing something else, too.
 If she says yes, then iron out the details; decide on where/when you will meet and make driving arrangements if necessary. Once you have decided on the date, casually end the conversation by saying something like "Great, see you on Saturday!" Don't continue to text her too much afterward, or you may be coming on too strong. However, if she starts texting you a lot, then you can respond too.


Be sure to let her know that you are looking forward to the date if she says yes. This will make her feel special and have her looking forward to the date as well.
If she declines your offer, then let her know that there are no hard feelings and end the conversation. You want to keep your head up high and end things on a good note.

