 It is recommended that you stay within two to three shades of your natural hair color when dying at home. When deciding between two colors, always stick with the more conservative choice (the one that is closer to your natural color).









Do a strand test before dying your entire head of hair. Apply the dye to a one-inch section of your hair and check the final result under natural light before proceeding.












;
, Having another person apply the dye will ensure that you don't miss any spots and prevent the process from getting too messy.
 Follow the mixing instructions that come with your kit and transfer the mixed dye into a small bowl so that you can dip the paintbrush into it.
 Wrap a dark towel around your shoulders and fasten the ends together around your front. Alternatively, you can tear a hole into a large trash bag and pull it over your head.

Only use a towel that you wouldn't mind disposing of.













The person doing the dying should wear gloves to protect his or her hands. Latex gloves are usually included in dye kits.
 Use a comb to part your hair into two or four sections, depending on how thick your hair is.
 Apply the dye to one section of your hair at a time, making sure that you don't miss any spots.
 Leave the dye in for the designated time, being sure to keep your eye on the clock to make sure you don't leave it in too long.
 Once the necessary time has passed, shampoo your hair until there is no more color running from it. Apply the conditioner that comes with your kit or use a deep conditioner.









It's important to condition your hair after dying it to restore moisture and shine.
You may need to shampoo your hair multiple times for all of the dye to come out.
 Examine the color under natural light to determine if you have achieved the desired color.
 The acid in lemons works as a natural bleach that will lighten your hair slightly. Combine 3 parts lemon juice and one part water in a spray bottle, spritz the mixture all over your hair, and sit in the sun for 30-40 minutes so that the color can set.









The final color will vary depending on how dark your natural hair is. People with very dark hair may end up with a bronze, kind of orange tint whereas people with light hair will get a blonde, highlighted effect.
 Brew very strong coffee or black tea, and then let the liquid return to room temperature. Pour it into a spray bottle, spritz it over your hair, and let it sit for 45 minutes to one hour.









Wash and condition your hair to remove the liquid.
 If you want to add dramatic color to your hair, you need look no further than your pantry! Kool-aid can be used for colored streaks, colored tips, or overall color.









Bring 2 cups of water to a boil in a large pot. Remove the pot from heat, and then empty 3-5 packets (depending on how rich you want the color to be) of unsweetened kool-aid into the water. Mix until the powder dissolves, and either dip your hair into the pot or transfer the water to a spray bottle and spritz it over the surface of your hair.
Leave the kool-aid in for 20-25 minutes and then immediately wash it out with shampoo and conditioner.
