 Navigate to the login page and enter your username and password. Hit the “Log In” button to sign into your account and be redirected to your Account Summary page.


If you have a PayPal account, logging into your account is strongly recommended since it should provide you with help quicker. You can still contact PayPal by phone if you are not logged in or if you do not have an account, however.;
, Scroll to the bottom of the Account Summary page and look for the "Contact" link at the bottom of that page. Click on the link to be redirected to the Help Center.


Note that the “Contact” link should appear at the bottom of any PayPal page, so you should be able to navigate to the Help Center even if you don't start from your Account Summary page.
 Click on this link to be redirected to the phone inquiry instruction page.


If you haven't logged in yet, you'll be prompted to do so now. Either sign in by clicking on the "Log In" button, or scroll down to the "Contact Us as a Guest" header and click on "Help Center as a Guest."

, You should see the words "One-time passcode" on the phone inquiry instruction page. Below those words, there should be a number enclosed by an orange border. This number is your personalized passcode.


Each passcode is unique and temporary; passcodes expire after 60 minutes. If you cannot contact PayPal before the time limit runs out, you'll need to start the process over and obtain a new passcode before trying again.
Using your passcode should help speed up the contact process, getting you the answers you need at a faster pace. When using PayPal as a guest, however, you will not receive a personalized passcode. Simply proceed to the next step and call the Help Center without one.
 Dial the PayPal Help Center at 1-888-221-1161. When prompted, enter your one-time passcode (if applicable) and continue through the remaining phone prompts to be redirected to an operator or an appropriate recorded answer.


If you need to call from outside the United States, dial 1-402-935-2050.
When calling Monday through Friday, place your call between 4:00 AM and 10:00 PM (Pacific Time). When calling Saturday or Sunday, place your call between 6:00 AM and 8:00 PM (Pacific Time). These hours may change during certain holidays.

