 Raising your self-esteem first and foremost means setting aside time and attention for yourself. Showing that you value yourself is a first step in learning to see how others value you. Make sure that you do things like:Get plenty of exerciseDevelop a daily routine for yourself that makes you feel good, such as taking a bubble bath at the end of the day or going for a walk in the afternoon.
Gain a new skill or hobby, develop a talent, or just learn about subjects that interest you.Feel good about where you live! Set aside time to clean and decorate your home, even in simple ways.;
, To feel good, you need to be well-nourished. This means eating a balanced diet. Some nutrients, such as vitamin D and vitamin B12, can even give your mood an additional boost.Good sources of vitamin D include: salmon, dairy products, and fortified juices.
Good sources of vitamin B12 include: liver, fortified cereals, and dairy products.
 Low self-esteem can cause a great deal of stress. If you set aside time for things that you like doing, however, you can relieve some of this stress and connect with your sense of self-worth.Read a book, use a musical or artistic talent, go to the movies or a game, spend time with friends—whatever you enjoy!

, Problems with self-esteem are often tied to feelings that you are unsuccessful. A good antidote for this feeling is setting and meeting a goal of accomplishing something. Even small accomplishments will make you feel more confident and successful.Doing things to improve the appearance and comfort of your home can be a great place to start: cleaning your home, clearing out a closet, decorating, etc.
Taking care of low stress, low stakes tasks like running errands or going to the grocery store can also make you feel good about accomplishing something.
You can also set your sights on accomplishing long-term goals, such as lowering or eliminating debt, learning a new skill, loosing weight, etc.
 While image should not be your primary motivation, considering your appearance can have a positive effect on your self-esteem. This doesn’t mean that you need to buy expensive clothes, however. Dress in whatever clothing you have that makes you feel confident, and your inner feeling will project outwards!, You can show that you value yourself if you let yourself have something special now and then. Giving yourself a reward shows that you care about everything you do, especially if the reward comes after working really hard at something.Rewards don’t have to take the form of material things. You can also reward yourself with experiences. For instance, you could go to a concert after completing a big project at work or school.
 If you want to boost your self-esteem, then surround yourself with people who are positive, supportive, and kind. Avoid people who are negative, mean to you, or seem to hold you back., If you are struggling with feeling good about yourself, try doing something nice for someone else. You will feel good that you helped someone out. Showing that you care about others also boosts your expectations that others should care about you.Try:


Practicing random acts of kindness, such as paying for a stranger’s meal.
Visiting a friend or relative who is sick.
Helping neighbors with yard work.
Volunteering for good causes in your community.