 Use a deep, firm pressure when you are stimulating the points.The amount of pressure you place onto your body depends on your overall health. When pressing, you might feel a bit of soreness or pain, but it should be a balance between pain and pleasure.


Some points will feel tense; others will feel sore or ache when you press them. If you feel extreme or increasing pain, gradually decrease the pressure until you feel a balance of pain and pleasure.
Do not think of acupressure as increasing your endurance to pain. If something is so painful it's too uncomfortable or excruciating, then stop., Acupressure most commonly uses the fingers to massage, rub, and stimulate the pressure points. Knuckles, elbows, knees, legs, and feet can also be used.The middle finger is the best for applying pressure to the pressure points. It is the longest and strongest of your fingers. People also use the thumb, too.
To correctly manipulate a pressure point, use something blunt. For some pressure points, the fingers may be too thick. Objects that have a 3-4 mm thickness, like used pencil eraser, are ideal. Other objects you can use are an avocado pit or a golf ball.
Some pressure points can be pressed using a fingernail., When you press the area, you are reinforcing it. This is the most common acupressure method. To do this, use a blunt object. Don't rub or massage the area; instead, hold the point with steady pressure.


If you are pulling the skin, the angle of the pressure is incorrect. You want to apply the pressure at the center of the point.Make sure to press on the right spot. These acupressure points are very small, so they have to be precise. If you don't feel any effects, then try different spots.
When performing acupressure, you want to look for sore pressure points. If there is no blockage, you won't feel any effect from pressing the point and won't need to treat it.Relaxing can also help emphasize the effects., Acupressure employs steady presses to the pressure points. By pressing a point for only half a second, your body will start to respond. This is a good way to try to find the pressure points when just beginning.To get the full effect of acupressure, press for at least 2-3 minutes.
If your hand gets tired, slowly withdraw the pressure, shake your hand, and breathe deeply. Then reapply the pressure., After holding the pressure point for the desired amount of time, slowly release the point. Don't just yank your hand away. Releasing the point gradually is believed to allow the tissues to heal by giving them time to respond to the release in pressure.


Most believe that the gradual pressing and releasing of pressure points help make the treatments more effective., Acupressure should be performed when you are relaxed, preferably in a private place. You can sit or lie down when administering acupressure. Try to cut out outside distractions and stress. Turn off cell phones and play relaxing music. Use aromatherapy. Try any technique that will promote relaxation.


Wear comfortable, loose clothing. Any kind of restricting clothing, like belts, tight pants, or even shoes, can obstruct the circulation.
You shouldn't use acupressure techniques right before a big meal or on a full stomach. Wait for at least an hour after eating so that you don't get nauseated.
Don't drink iced drinks because that can counteract the effects of acupressure. Instead, drink hot herbal tea afterwards.Wait at least half an hour after heavy exercise or taking a bath.