 Go to https://careers.walmart.com/ to easily browse jobs by location and department. Because Walmart can train you to do just about any job, apply for as many positions as you can. Not limiting yourself will increase your chances of getting hired., Go to https://hiringcenter.walmartstores.com/OnlineHiringCenter/ct_logon.jsp?CTAuthMode=BASIC&language=en to register for Walmart's online application. Type in your email address in the user name field and create a password to create an account., Go to http://jobs.walmart.com/ to complete an application. Set aside about one hour to complete your application for the first time. You can reapply every 60 days and some of your information will be saved. Things to have on hand: Job history for the past ten years.
Professional references with phone numbers.
Career accomplishments.
 After you fill out the basic application, you will have to take a 65 question test that lasts about 30 minutes. The test covers how you interact with coworkers and guests. It may cover math skills and reading comprehension depending on the position you apply for.Choose answers that show a positive attitude.
If questions ask how strongly you agree or disagree, do not pick neutral answers.
 If you applied to a retail store, It’s a good idea to call them and ask to speak to a hiring manager. Explain that you applied online and you want to make sure they received your application., You will likely be interviewed in a group setting, during this first round. Dress professionally, look neat and polished, but most importantly be prepared to answer questions. Rehearse answers to common interview questions like:“How did you handle a difficult situation in the past?”
“What did you do to change something you didn’t agree with at your previous job?”

, If you made it to the second interview, congratulations! That means you beat out other people and you have a good chance at landing the job. Be ready to answer more questions like the ones from the first interview. Show the hiring managers good character traits by the way you answer.
 Walmart conducts credit, criminal and personal background checks. Your hiring manager may only call your references or they may conduct a more extensive check, depending on the position you applied for., You must pass a urine test that screens for any controlled substances in your system. Don’t do drugs and stay clean. Walmart conducts periodic tests, even after you get hired.
 When you fill out your application and even when you talk to hiring managers, be as flexible as possible with your schedule. Don’t be passed over because you can only work certain times or days.
 After you apply online, go to the store you applied to work at and try to talk to anyone you can. Explain that you applied for a position and highlight your strengths in that position. If you applied to be a stocker, talk about how you like to stay busy. Find a manager if you can.
 Walmart likes to know that the people they hire will be nice and friendly to their customers. Smile when you go in for your interview and always show off a positive attitude.
 Increase your chances of getting picked by applying to positions in surrounding areas. You don’t have to limit yourself to just Walmart either. Apply to Sam’s Club, since it’s the same company. Keep in mind how far you can drive back and forth to work on a regular basis.

