 It is not your job, as an actor, to rewrite the script so that you are "more likeable," nor is it your job to judge the writing or character and play a version of yourself instead. It is your job to portray a character that could believably inhabit the world of the movie, play, or TV show. Just like the writer, director, camera person, etc, you need to work as part of a larger, consistent group to make a great show.


Don't be embarrassed by something your character is doing, because it is ultimately just acting. If you hold back on a gross, violent, sexual, or emotionally difficult scene you only end up alienating the audience and coming across as "unrealistic."
All the best actors commit fully to their roles. Ever wonder why Tom Cruise is still an action star? It's because he never winks, jokes, or sleepwalks his way through the script. He always has high-energy and full commitment, even in bizarre or comical situations.
Committing to a role means doing whatever it takes to portray your character realistically, not doing what makes you, the actor, look the best.
 While not everyone agrees that acting is reacting, it is still an important thing to consider when you're learning about acting. This means that you have to work on your responsiveness to any given acting situation. Really focus in on the other actor's lines, listening to them intently like you would any other person's conversation in "real life." You want to respond honestly, in the voice of your character, even if you are not the main attraction of the scene.


Keep yourself in the moment. Don't try to start thinking ahead to the next scene, or agonizing about whether you said your lines appropriately in the previous scene.
For a humorous example, watch Charlie Day in the show It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia. Even when he is not speaking, his eyebrows, eyes, and fingers are darting around. He fully commits to his character's wild, unpredictable energy.
 It's important to remember that something as small as posture can make a big difference. Not only does it make you look more confident, it helps you further inhabit the life of the character. If your character is weak or meager, hunch your shoulders and sink away from the others. If they are heroic, stand tall with your chest and head held high.
 When reciting lines it's tempting to blaze through them as fast as you can. But this is a surefire way to lose the nuance of your role. Instead, let your pacing and volume mimic your character's internal state.


Nervous or scared characters often talk quickly, rushing the words out.
Angry characters will raise their voice, and may slow down their speech (to make a point) or speed it up (when overflowing with anger).
Happy/excited characters tend to speak with an even volume, or raise volume as the speech goes on. They talk quickly.
A variety of pacing and volume, depending on the scene, is a great way to show characters changing or reacting to certain events., Think about the subtext of every line, and emphasize accordingly. Emphasis the lined is stressed. Think of it as the most important word or phrase of the sentence. It may not sound important, but emphasis can have a huge role in anything you say. "I love you" has a different connotation than "I love you," for example.


This is another place where famous actors can help you practice. Research an old script online for a movie you haven't seen, then pick a character and try out a couple of line readings. When you watch the movie, compare how the actor chose to deliver the lines. There is no wrong answer here, but this can help you notice the subtleties of emphasis., Unless given permission to do so, or briefly improvising a word or two, stick to the script as much as possible. You may not be sure if there is a call-back to another line or scene, or if a director likes the exact line reading for some reason. When in doubt, always obey the script. Someone will tell you if they want you to improvise or deviate into something different., Blocking is where you move and stand in a scene. Once you've decided on blocking with the director, don't change it. Work on hitting the exact same blocking each take, rehearsal, or scene. This allows continuity, and helps the rest of the cast and crew plan their own jobs.


This is especially crucial for filmed projects, as identical blocking allows an editor to cut between different takes without the audience noticing.
 Noticing, reacting to, or acknowledging the audience is the quickest way to fall out of character. In most cases, characters do not know that they are in a play or movie, and you shouldn't either. This comes with practice, but a good way to get ready is to simply get in front of a camera. When you notice it, or feel like you're being watched, don't react to the feeling.


Many experienced casts and crews won't make eye contact with you while acting, knowing that is is a natural human tendency to make eye contact back. Try and help your fellow actors by doing the same while they work and you're taking a break.
Be aware of things that you do when you're nervous. Avoid playing with your hair, hiding your hands in your sleeves, or shuffling your feet. Instead, deal with your nerves by taking a deep breath and drinking some water.

