 The information available on the Web is enormous. One place to start is http://www.dropzone.com. Also, visit http://www.uspa.org which is the regulating body for U.S. skydivers.;
, This is a very good way of finding out if you'll enjoy skydiving or not.
 The two common methods are AFF and Static Line training. Research and find out which one is best suited for your personality, lifestyle and budget.



Choose the right time to start training. Skydiving is a weather dependent sport and the restrictions are stricter, the less experience you have. Each country's governing body has different rules regarding weather conditions though two conditions are important: low winds and a cloud cover that allows the drop zone to be visible from the airplane. It is ideal to start training during a time of the year when you'll be able to complete your training without weather breaks. Try to do your own research and take advice from drop-zones with a pinch of salt.






Ensure you have enough funds to finish training using the method of your choice. Besides the cost of training, you have to consider the cost of membership to your country's governing body for skydiving and transportation plus accommodation at the dropzone (see tips).






Ensure your lifestyle will allow you to finish training without major interruptions. While you can never predict weather or financial troubles, going away for extended periods will not allow for continuous training and may invalidate your theoretical briefing.



Make a list of all approved locations in your vicinity.






Research their reviews on dropzone.com or your country/ region's skydiving forum. Look for constant reviews from active members and be wary of "cowboys". Look at the fatalities section for the dropzone and avoid it if it has any student incidents.






Ask from information from the dropzone: student incidents, number of airplanes, number of loads, number of students and number of AFF instructors. Small drop zones are a good place to skydive, but large drop-zones offer more knowledge for the student skydiver. Do not be afraid of having a different instructor every time!







,


Go to your chosen dropzone and learn the theory behind skydiving.






During the course, be honest! Everybody is scared before the first solo jump. Even most of those with thousands of jumps will happily talk about their fears, worries, and stressful moments.



Follow your instructor(s) into the airplane and enjoy the ride.






Do not deviate from the plan. If you plan to do three dummy pulls and one did not succeed, do not try to do the fourth unless agreed beforehand with the instructor.






Smiling, relaxation and not over thinking can make a difference between a bad or a good skydive.
 Certain aspects of skydiving can be boring and frustrating, especially the weather.
 Rent, borrow and try as many different types as you can, before you spend your hard-earned money.

