 If you want a long acting reversible contraception, or LARC, method of birth control that doesn’t interfere with daily activities and which most women can safely use, have your doctor implant an intrauterine device. This plastic or copper T-shaped device can protect against pregnancy for 3-10 years.Your doctor must insert and remove an IUD for you to start using this method.Insertion may cause discomfort and you may experience breakthrough menstrual bleeding.Be aware that your insurance may not cover and IUD and that it can be expensive.
 Contraceptive implants stops ovulation and can help prevent pregnancy for up to 3 years.Like other LARCS, your doctor must administer a contraceptive implant by inserting it under the skin of your upper arm.The procedure to insert the contraceptive implant doesn’t require surgery or any incisions. It will only take only a few minutes for your doctor to insert this small and flexible rod with a special tool.There is a possibility that your insurance will not cover a contraceptive implant, which can be expensive.
 You may opt to receive contraceptive injections of the hormone depot medroxyprogesterone acetate, which can help prevent pregnancy for three months.Your doctor will inject the hormone every 13 weeks for the most effective use. You can get the first injection any time during your cycle.Like hormonal birth control such as the Pill, you must be consistent in getting injections. If you get your injection more than two weeks late, you will need to use a backup form of birth control.There is a possibility that your insurance will not cover contraceptive injections, which can be expensive.
Injections can also cause weight gain.
 If you are absolutely certain that you do not want children, consider sterilization. This form of permanent birth control is available to both men and women and requires surgery.The only sterilization option for men is a vasectomy, which is where the tubes that carry sperm are cut and sealed. If a vasectomy is successful, a man will not be able to father a child.Women may opt for either tubal ligation or the Essure system, which blocks the fallopian tubes. Tubal ligation, commonly called “getting your tubes tied,” requires surgery.In general, sterilization is permanent, though in some cases it may fail.Make sure to take proper time if deciding on sterilization since you will probably not be able to reverse the procedure.
Be aware that some care providers will not sterilize women under a certain age.
Be aware that insurance may not cover sterilization and it can be very expensive.

