 The table centerpieces should carry out the theme, color palette and overall decor of the wedding. Because they are highly visible, centerpieces are an easy way to make a decorative impact. Make sure the centerpieces are not too large that guests can't speak over or around them, but not so small that they don't get noticed.


Consider a beach bucket centerpiece. Paint galvanized buckets in colors that match the color palette for the reception. Glue embellishments to the outside of the bucket that complement the wedding reception theme, such as seashells or starfish. Fill the buckets with fresh flowers, tropical fruit or seashells.
Select an aquarium centerpiece. Pour sand and seashells into a fish bowl. For a fun and unexpected centerpiece, add water and some goldfish. If you decide to add live goldfish, be sure to have a few extra on hand in case one goes belly up during the reception.
Decorate with rustic beach lanterns. Situate a lantern in the middle of the table. Add sand, flower petals and/or shells on the table around the lantern. The beach lanterns also can provide light for an evening wedding reception.
Create flower arrangements with tropical flowers. Exotic flowers like orchids, heliconias, hibiscus, protias, gingers and bird of paradise can be used to create centerpieces that not only look beautiful, but smell great, too. Most tropical flowers can withstand the heat, sun and sand of a beach wedding reception, but check with your florist before selecting blooms.
Use native beach grasses as a centerpiece. Wrap natural beach grasses in ribbon or jute string, and place them inside tall glass containers filled with pebbles or shells.
Decorate with sand castles or sand sculptures. To enhance the theme of a beach wedding reception, use sand castles as table centerpieces. In addition to traditional sand castles, you may consider sand sculptures in the shape of hearts or created to look like the bride and groom. Be sure the sand sculptures are covered with clear glass containers so sand does not blow on reception guests.
Decorate with candles. Put candles in a glass container filled with sand, shells or sea glass. If wind is an issue, consider using electric candles in the place of traditional candles.

