 Signs of stranger anxiety can begin as early as four months. Some babies may go quiet or look at the stranger with fear. Others may become clingy or bury themselves in you. Some children begin to cry, scream, or become fussy.If you notice your baby having similar symptoms, it may be the beginnings of stranger anxiety and separation anxiety.;
, Let your friends and family know that your baby is afraid of strangers and may need some time to warm up. Tell them not to move too aggressively and to respect your baby’s personal space.Let them know to follow the baby’s lead and not to rush their introduction.


Keep in mind that your baby will probably show fewer signs of stranger anxiety around people who are not strangers and who they spend a lot of time around, such as family members and close friends.
It can be difficult from grandparents or aunts and uncles to be patient, but remind them that it’s important for the baby to feel comfortable around them. Say, “My baby will grow to love you, but right now she needs some time as meeting new people can be scary. Please give her the space she needs until she can warm up to you.”

, Have friends and family members come to your home to meet your child so that your baby is in a comfortable and familiar environment. If your baby meets strangers outside of the home, hold your baby when introducing and don’t immediately give the baby over to be held.Having a favorite toy or blanket can also help your baby feel more comfortable with a stranger.
 Ask people to wait a bit before picking up the baby. Babies tend to be more relaxed when people approach slowly and calmly and don't rush to pick up the baby.Let your baby feel comfortable before making contact with another person.


While many people are excited to pick up a baby, say, “My baby is a bit nervous around strangers. She’ll respond better if you give her time to adjust to you.”

, If your baby struggles to adjust to new people, try doing a gradual introduction. For example, introduce your baby to the person one day. On the next day, have your baby notice or interact with the person for a few minutes. Increase the length of time your baby spends with the person so that they can warm up gradually.


Be patient in introducing people to your child. Take it slow and find a method that works for them.