, Cover it, of course, and allow the chill of the fridge to come off - it will cook more evenly.
 Salt and pepper are a miracle from God and the cosmos - even if you don't have anything else at hand, these will be wonderful (sprinkle on and rub them into the meat a little).
 Use a skillet big enough to accommodate the length of the roast, and use tongs to turn it, not a fork (don't be poking holes in it). Let it get nice and brown - about 3 minutes per side. Be sure the pan is really hot - don't stew the meat by putting it in a cold pan and then turning the heat up. Making sure the pan is hot will ensure that you get a nice sear and golden "crust" on the roast - and this will help keep it moist inside (which is why you don't want to be poking it full of holes - you want to keep the juices inside).
 Remove the roast from the sauté pan. You can add things like powdered garlic, thyme, or my favorite: 1/4 c. Dijon mustard mixed with 1 T. honey. Mix them well, then slather on the pork roast (after salt and pepper).
 (Not a cookie sheet, a proper baking pan like you would use to bake brownies).h

, These little gadgets have a probe attached to a wire which plugs into a timer. Insert the probe into the thickest part of the roast, making sure to keep it well centered. Set the thermometer for the temperature, not the "meat", desired (155F).
 This may be the most important step of all. Do not remove the probe! Residual heat will continue to cook the meat and the temp may rise another few degrees. Resting the meat like this gives the juices a chance to be reabsorbed into the roast. Don't slice it or poke it, and don't remove the probe - the roast will literally "bleed to death". In other words, all of the delicious juices will run out without being reabsorbed into the meat, and it will be dry and yucky.
 Do not carve more slices than you want to serve - leave the rest of the roast for the next meal, then carve and heat the slices gently in a microwave or sauté pan - because they are slices, they will come to temperature quickly, so be vigilant.

