 Choose a group of people or a person that shares your desire to quit dipping or has already gone through the process. Doing so will give you someone to be accountable to and allows you to hold someone else responsible as well. Here's what to look for in a program:


Offers one-on-one or group counseling.
Counseling sessions last at least 15 to 30 minutes.
Your program meets for a least four sessions during a two-week period.
The group leader should be educated in tobacco cessation.
The longer and more intense the program, the higher the chance you will have of succeeding., Keeping a journal is a great way to record your quitting process and remind yourself why you chose to quit in the first place.


You will have good days and bad days, and the entries that you wrote on the good days will help you through the tougher ones when you revisit those feelings of accomplishment.
Journaling can also be a cathartic process that allows you to release your emotions in a healthy, focused way.
 Look at your addiction as something that is holding you back not just from being your best self, but also holding you back from living a free life. Sure, you chose to take that initial dip, but then you became addicted to the tobacco. Consciously remind yourself that you no longer want tobacco to rule your life.
 Refrain from looking to the past and dwelling on what you should have or could have done sooner, but also try not to look to the future too much. While you do want to retain hope that you can kick the habit and be a healthier person, try to stay grounded in the present moment.


Take your addiction treatment one day at a time. You are going to suffer throughout the entire process even after you've reached the 100 day benchmark. Try to retain perspective and take it day by day.
Don't dwell on a particularly bad day. You may experience periods of depression alongside days when you feel great. Don't beat yourself up if you experience a setback.
 Once you've reached a stable point in your quitting process (around the 100 day mark) directly mentor someone in your existing group, or join a group to start mentoring someone.


Giving back to others who need help will gratify you immensely and help you feel a sense of achievement.
Mentoring someone also keeps you accountable to another person. When you have someone relying on you and looking to you for support, you will feel a duty to stay honest to yourself and your partner.

