 Try some skinny jeans that are coloured light blue,purple, black and have a few pairs of distressed (ripped) skinnies. If you want to wear leggings, have many of them in many different colors. Make sure that you also have lots of sweatpants in different colors. Wear sweats while jogging, hanging out, and sometimes while shopping. For jeans, a couple of must-have styles are cut-offs, and distressed (ripped) jeans. Know that short trousers are a must and that you should have them in all styles. If you really want to wear skirts, make sure that you wear them only occasionally and that you have only a few different skirts in different colours.;
, Try some out printed shirts with prints like peace signs. Also wear Band-Fan shirts and hoodies with bands like Rolling Stones, and Metro Station. Remember that some rip-tanks in basic colors like white are acceptable. Wear lots of cardigans as well.
 Make sure that you have mini-dresses in these styles:


T-Shirt dresses
One-colored elegant ones
Printed dresses

, High heels, high heeled sandals, high heeled boots, and flip flops are all essential.
 Punk studded bracelets, long necklaces, necklace with your name on it, Helix earrings, expensive Sunglasses, and expensive purses are most of the accessories that Miley prefers.
,,, Line the tops of your eyes with black liquid eyeliner three times. Take a pencil eyeliner and line your waterline. Wear some darker shades as opposed to lighter ones. Try some colors like dark purple, black, and dark navy. To make your eyes look bigger and longer, take a black eyeshadow and and smear it on at the very end of the eyes and then smudge the eyeshadow. Also wear mascara on your top and bottom lashes.
 Look at some of Miley's music videos and copy her makeup on them, such as 'The Climb' or 'Party in the USA'.
 Wash out and apply conditioner to the ends of your hair only.
,,, This will help the look stay in place.
, Try to be very musical and sing everyday. Be diligent about practicing and never miss a day of singing. If you are serious about becoming a good singer, you should consider voice lessons.
 You can practice sounding like Miley Cyrus with easy voice training techniques. Look some up on wikiHow or YouTube for ideas. You can also ask your singing teacher (if you have one) or your school's music teacher for exercises for your voice.
 This way you can practice singing along with the same music Miley has. You can also invest in a karaoke machine or karaoke video game with Miley's songs on it so that you can practice that way if you don't know the lyrics to her songs.
 Work up from there.
 Watch videos or T.V. programs to see how she performs her songs in different settings.
 Try to learn to emulate both her high-pitched voice and her low-pitched voice like in her song "One In A Million".

