 The workouts that will best build your butt are the ones that work your glutes. You use your glutes when you extend your hip and thigh, lift your thigh out to the side, and rotate your thigh inwards. Fortunately, some of the most effective glute toning and strengthening exercises can be done at home with little or no equipment.These include: sets of squats, static lunges, butt bridges, lateral lunges, leg extensions, and leg lifts. If you need to bust some fat as well, fit two-minute intervals of intense full-body cardio (running, jumping jacks, jump roping) in between every few sets to keep your heart pumping.


If you are a beginner, start with only a few repetitions of different types of exercises, and gradually work your way up. Try to do 3 sets of 5 repetitions every other day. Depending on your comfort level, gradually increase to 3 sets of 10 to 15 repetitions 6-days a week.
If you do these exercise regularly (at least every other day), you should begin seeing results in 2 to 3 weeks.
 Bridge exercises can not only help you achieve a rounded butt, but also help prevent injuries by strengthening and stretching the muscles in your butt and lower back.Start by lying face-up on the floor. Bend your knees so your feet are flat on the floor. Raise your hips while squeezing your butt so you form a straight line from your shoulders to your knees. Hold this position for 3 seconds, and then lower your body to the starting position. Do 3 rounds of 10 repetitions per day, taking a short break between each round.


Combine this with other butt-building exercises to create a daily workout routine., Planks are a great total-body exercise in that they strengthen and tone your glutes, core, shoulders, and arms.To get the full effect, it is important you do this exercise correctly. For a basic plank, start by getting into push-up position on the floor. Bend your elbows 90 degrees and lower your forearms to the ground. At this point, your elbows, forearms, and fists should be flat on the ground and supporting your weight. Make sure your elbows are directly beneath your shoulders, and curl your toes under feet and pull your belly button toward your spine. Straighten your body that it forms a straight line from your heels through your spine to your neck and head. Finally, engage your core and butt by flexing (tightening) your abdominal muscles and glutes. Hold this position for at least 30 seconds and then relax. Repeat 3 times.


Modify this exercise by turning it into a side plank.Lie on one side with your legs straight. Bend your elbow 90 degrees and place it directly below your shoulder. Lift your hips and legs off the floor, and hold your body in a diagonal line, supporting your weight on the side of your foot, and elbow and forearm. Tighten your glutes and abs and hold for at least 30 seconds. Repeat 3 times on each side.
When doing a basic front plank or side plank, try lifting up one leg at a time and holding it for 5 to 10 seconds. Incorporating leg lifts into your plank exercise will give your glutes an added workout.
Avoid injury by doing this exercise on a yoga mat or carpeted surface.Planks are a great way to work-up to weight training. Once you can hold a plank for one to two minutes, you are in good shape to start heavy weight exercises., Unilateral training where you focus on one side of your body at a time helps with stability, posture, and lets you really focus on one area of the body at a time.Lunges are great unilateral glute workouts and can help prepare and strengthen your glutes for weightlifting exercises such as dead lifts and squats. Like with planks, lunge technique and proper form are key to preventing injury and getting the most out of your workout. For a basic stationary lunge, start by standing upright, relax your shoulders and back, and focus your eyes on a spot directly in front on you (keep them fixed on this point throughout the exercise).Step forward with leg and lower your hips until your knees on both your front and back legs are at 90 degree angles. At this point, make sure your front knee is positioned directly above your ankle – pushing your knee over your ankle can cause muscle strain. Hold your back knee just above, but not touching, the floor. Hold for 3 to 5 seconds before returning to your starting position. Do 3 sets of 10 lunges on each leg.


Challenge yourself with a walking lunge. Instead of returning to a starting position, push-off with your front foot and step forward directly into a lunge on your opposite foot. Reduce knee strain by taking smaller steps and going slow. The most important thing is technique, alignment, and balance – not speed.Add weight and increase the intensity of your lunges by incorporating bicep curls. Hold a small dumbbell in each hand. As you lunge forward, flex your elbows and curl the barbells to your shoulders.
Single-leg squats are another unilateral exercise that strengthens and builds your glutes. Stand on one leg and slightly bend your knee, making sure your knee is aligned with your ankle. Lift your opposite leg to just above knee height. You can extend your hands to help with balance. Push your heel into the floor and hold this position for 10 to 15 seconds. Do 3 sets of 5 to 10 on each leg. Start with shallow squats and try going deeper with each repetition.