


Travel by car. Driving to Adelaide from another capital city in the East Coast will take at least one day. The shortest route (Melbourne to Adelaide) takes approximately 8-9 hours. All roads used to travel are paved.
Take a flight. Adelaide International Airport (ADL) is 4 mi from the west of the city. West Beach is 2.5 mi away from the airport. Passengers can fly to and from Adelaide from or to anywhere in the world. Air New Zealand is helpful for flights to/from North or South America and the Pacific Islands. Adelaide International Airport offers things including ATMs, food, shopping and free Wi-fi.
Ride a train, bus, subway or other type of public transit. Great Southern Railway offers long-distance train services. Some train journeys include sleepers and let you bring along your car.;
, Decide where you are going to stay overnight and sleep. Look at the prices for staying in certain hotels and think about the location.
 They are home to many kangaroos, wallabies and koalas. National parks in Adelaide include Belair National Park, Cleland Conservation Park, Morialta Conservation Park and Warrawong Wildlife Sanctuary.
 Get off the tram at Jetty road, explore shops and go to the Glenelg Beach, which is very popular.



Rundle Mall is a shopping strip only for people crossing the road. It features over 800 shops.
TTP (Tee Tree Plaza) is easy to observe, and it features over 250 shops. It isn't very hard to get there. There is also abundant parking.
Shop at the Chinatown on Moonta St.
 They are very entertaining places to visit. Museums include the Adelaide Zoo, the Migration Museum and the South Australian Museum.
 A handful of them take place during "Mad March." Festivals held include the Adelaide Fringe, WOMADelaide, and The Adelaide Cup.
 If you have an emergency, call 000. Emergency and fire services are available, and so are the police.
 Lock all the doors of your car so no one can break in. Make sure you take everything out of your car, and keep your money, passport, and other vital papers in a safe location on your person. Don't broadcast that you're an out-of-towner, especially if you're traveling alone.

