 If you already know this guy likes you, it's just a matter of getting him to ask you out! Don't be too clingy.... Let this knowledge give you confidence. Embrace the strong, beautiful woman that you are and show this guy why he would be a fool to pass up the chance to ask you out!


Walk right up to him and start a conversation. Stand up straight, make eye contact. Voice your opinions. Guys love confident girls.
Overconfidence, on the other hand, is not an attractive quality. Be careful not to overdo it.;
, Displaying good wit demonstrates that you are intelligent and that you have a sense of humor, two things that many guys look for in a girl. If he finds you funny, he'll enjoy talking to you more and look forward to spending time with you. So if you can make him laugh, you're on to a winner.


Be able to laugh at yourself. This shows that you're easy-going and that you don't take yourself too seriously.
Go easy on the sarcasm and don't make jokes at the expense of other people.
 There's no point in denying it, physical attraction is a huge factor in any potential romance. With this in mind, take care to accentuate your best features. Don't be too modest. Everybody has something they like about themselves. Play it up!


Great smile? Flash those pearly whites! Bangin' curves? Use a belt to accentuate your waist. Beautiful eyes? The right eyeshadow can make the color pop! Find your best feature and work it, girl.
Don't go overboard. A full face of make-up, uncomfortably tight clothes or vertigo-inducing heels may have the opposite of the desired effect, especially if that's not your normal look. Stick to what works for you and gives you confidence.
 Newsflash! Guys like to be complimented just as much as girls do. Flattering him with a genuine compliment will achieve two things: it will not-so-subtly let him know that you're interested, while also giving him the warm and fuzzies, which will make him like you even more.


Not sure what to say? Tell him he has a cute smile or a great haircut. If he plays an instrument, compliment him on his musical abilities. If he's on a sports team, tell him you watched a game and were impressed by how well he played.
Keep the compliment simple and sincere and he'll really appreciate it, and take the hint.
 One of the major things that discourages a guy from asking you out in the first place is the fear that the two of you will have nothing in common and nothing to talk about. Show him that this couldn't be further than the truth. Ask him about his interests and hobbies, his family, his plans for the future - anything you could potentially bond over.


Don't fake an interest in something just to keep him happy. Pretending that you're an excellent bass player or that you love horror movies has the potential to backfire horribly once he invites you to jam with his band or accompany him to the latest Saw movie.
Even if you don't know anything about sailing or you're a terrible mini-golfer, all you need to do is show some interest and let him know that you're eager to learn. It might even give him an idea for your first date!

, Everybody likes a good listener, including your guy. Show him that you're interested in what he has to say. He'll be flattered by your attention and you'll also get to know him a little better. Let him talk and don't interrupt or talk too much and ask a lot of questions.


Many girls make the mistake of telling the guys they like about every tiny detail of their lives. Avoid doing this at all costs, you'll either overwhelm him, bore him, or scare him away. Maintain an air of mystery and listen more than you talk.
Stay engaged in the conversation, even if he's doing most of the talking. Ask thoughtful and stimulating questions. Maintain eye contact, smile, nod your head and use appropriate hand gestures to indicate interest and agreement.
 If you're feeling mischievous, try playing the damsel in distress. Guys can't resist helping a girl in need. Ask for help reaching something on a high shelf, or for advice on where to service your car. Then thank them and flash your most winsome smile. Works like a charm.


Don't play this card too often. Ask for too many favors and his patience will soon wear thin, along with his affections.
Don't play dumb. It's fine to ask for help when you need it, but don't intentionally act dumb just to have an excuse to ask. Remember: guys like smart girls, or at least the ones worth dating do.
 You've heard this little nugget of advice many times before, but that doesn't make it any less true. If you're to have any chance of a future together, this guy needs to like you for you - the real you, that is. Don't pretend to be someone you're not. Hang out with the people you usually do, dress the way you normally would, stay true to your opinions and beliefs. Let your winning personality speak for itself. If you are acting when you are around him, then your whole relationship will be fake, and you will eventually get tired of acting. Be you! Chances are, he will love your personality!

