 Because trusts are complicated, you’ll want a lawyer to draft one for you. You can get a referral from an animal welfare organization. Check with the lawyer that they have created a pet trust before.Discuss which type of trust you want. For example, you can create a traditional stand-alone trust, which allows you to leave detailed instructions for your cat’s care. However, you can also create a “statutory trust,” which might be easier but which doesn’t allow you to leave detailed instructions., The trustee manages the assets in your trust. They will invest any money and disburse it to the caregiver. They can also check up on the caregiver and make sure they are following your instructions. For this reason, the trustee and caregiver should be different people.Name more than one trustee. Your original pick might not be able to serve, so name one or more alternates.If you have a lot of money, you may want to name a professional trustee or trust company. Your attorney can help you identify an appropriate company.
 If you create a stand-alone trust, you can leave the caregiver detailed instructions about how your pet should be cared for. Even if you verbally discussed your expectations, make sure to include this information in your trust document.


You can identify the vet you want your cat to be taken to. Also identify the number of visits in a year.
Identify what food you want the caregiver to give your cat.
You can have your trustee inspect your cat each year to confirm that the caregiver is looking after your cat properly.
You can also decide to have your cat euthanized if they are not in good health. Specify what should be done with the remains.
 You can fund a trust with money from many different sources—cash, bonds, life insurance, retirement account, etc. Leave enough to take care of your cat but don’t leave too much. Your heirs might challenge any amount that seems excessive.You can fund a trust during your life or through your will, whichever is easier for you.However, if you fund it through your will, you’ll need to revise your will to reflect this fact.
If you cut a check, make sure that you identify the payee as the trustee. Include language such as the following: “Michael Jones, trustee of the Mary Smith Pet Trust, in trust.” On the check’s memo line, identify that the money is for “contribution to the Mary Smith Pet Trust.”

, The money you use to fund your trust might outlive your cat. In this situation, you will need to name someone to receive the remainder of the money. For example, you might leave the money to an animal welfare organization.However, you shouldn’t leave the money to the caregiver. If you did, then you have created an incentive for them to let your cat die early.
 You will probably sign your pet trust in the lawyer’s office, and your lawyer will keep the original. However, get a copy for your records and store it in the same place as your will. You don’t want it to be overlooked.


Also distribute copies to anyone who needs to see it. For example, share a copy with your trustee, caregiver, and vet.

