 There are so many different types of guns out there that are competitive, so search the Internet and find something you like. All i can do is recommend some brands for you. KWA, G&G, VHC, Classic Army, and echo 1 are the best brands for AEG assault rifles and etc. guns. Sub-Machine guns are good with Echo-1 brands.The best snipers are UTG, TSD, and Airsoft GI customs. You will also likely want to purchase a side arm. A Pistol is a good idea, KWA/KWC is the best. People who play extended games might want another primary like an assault rifle with a Sub or a Sub with a shotgun or a LMG with an assault, etc.;
, You might want a helmet to complete your load-out. MICH replica's and PASGT's are the easiest to find. Those who play CQB will want a great Face mask, like the save phase. Balaclava's and recon wraps make good face protection for those who use helmets and hats. Most of you should already have a good pair of safety glasses/goggles. Headsets are a good idea so you can communicate with your team or just to complete the look.
 You will want a primary camo color scheme, like Multicam on multicam, or ACU on ACU/OD, or MARPAT on OD, etc. Once you've made a mindset you should purchase your camo BDU's. When it comes time to finish the vests, MOLLE Chest Rigs and Plate Carriers are a good idea. These vests allow you to select whatever pouches you'd like. The best plate carriers are OE-Tech, Pantac (if you have the money) Condor, and NC Star. Same for chest rigs. Typically you will want to purchase Mag pouches, A dump pouch, Pistol pouches, A pistol holster, Admin pouch, utility pouch, hydration carrier, and a Radio Pouch(if u have coms).
 You will want matching BDU pants as mentioned above. Leg gear comes little to none but you might want Drop Leg holsters or drop legs in general. Knee pads don't hurt and only cost around $20. Boots can be purchased anywhere but are more or less necessary.
 Typically this step will cost money. Attachments aren't cheap, it can be as much as $200 for a grenade launcher and $100 for red-dot sights. This depends on where you play however! If you play field getting a noob tube or scope wouldn't hurt. If you play CQB, noobtubes are good bursts, but heavy, so it will slow you down. CQB should have grips and low-profile sights.

