 Property in London is very expensive, so before you start your search in earnest you need to have a clear understanding of your budget. Think about how much you can afford to pay each month on rent, and then add in the other essential costs, including household bills, council tax, and transport.


The UK government suggests that 35% of income is the most that many people can afford to spend on rent.
Be aware that unless you have a well-paid job, you will struggle to find a place in London that costs less than 35% of your income.You can search by postcode online to find out the council tax bands for particular areas: https://www.gov.uk/council-tax-bands
;
, Once you have your budget, spend some time thinking about what criteria you will use to judge the different properties you find. Are you looking for a room in a house or flat, or are you looking for your own place? Do you want to be near to a transport hub, such as a tube or train station? Do you want any private outdoor space, or is a nearby park good enough? Are you looking for somewhere furnished, or unfurnished?If you are moving from somewhere where the property and rental prices are lower, you may have to be prepared to downsize.
Try to compare your criteria and budget to some online listings. You may have to reset your criteria if your budget doesn’t stretch as far you hoped it might.
 One of the key criteria for you might be a particular area of London you want to live in. London is an enormous city, with distinct areas which each have different characters. If you don’t know the city, the best way to get an idea is to spend some time there travelling around a visiting different places.


You can use an interactive online tool to help you. Type in some basic information and you will get some details of areas you might be interested in.If you don’t know where to start, there are some useful online guides that will give you some basic information about different areas., If you are hoping to get a studio or a one bedroom flat for yourself, but are struggling to see how it will work with your budget, consider renting a room in a shared house or flat. This is very common in London, and is often the only way to afford rent unless you are a high-earner.The basic rule of thumb is that the larger the property, the cheaper the rent will be.
A house with six bedrooms will often be less expensive per room than one with three bedrooms.
Be aware that more bedrooms does not always mean more bathrooms or more space overall.
 One of your biggest living costs is likely to be transport. London is a big city and it can take a while to get from one place to another. If you know you will be commuting on public transport, be sure to check the costs and include this in your budgeting.


London has an integrated public transport system which includes buses, trains and the Underground.
You can buy an Oyster Card which you can top-up with credit, and enables you to travel on all public transport.For transport the city is divided into zones, with Zone One being the centre and Zone Five being the periphery.
 Landlords are required to check that you are eligible to rent in the UK, and a reputable landlord will want to see your identity documents and immigration status, if applicable. The landlord will make copies of your personal documents and then return the originals to you., When you have an idea of your budget, criteria and where you want to start looking, it’s time to begin trawling through the online listings. If you are not already based in London, this is the most practical and easy way to see what properties are available where, and at what price. There are many big properties websites that collect postings from numerous Estate Agents and independent landlords, such as RightMove and Zoopla.You can also look through the online listings of specific Estate Agents.
Bear in mind that good properties go very quickly in London, and you shouldn’t rely solely on websites.Emailing a response to a listing on a website doesn’t mean that your email will be read or acted on.
If you find somewhere you like the look of, be sure to phone up the agent directly., If you are in the area, local newspapers and magazines can be good sources for rental listings. Keep in mind that the rental market moves so quickly in London, that desirable properties can go quickly. If you see something you are interested in, be sure to contact the vendor quickly to arrange a viewing.
 A good and time-efficient way to find properties is to visit a local Estate Agents in person. If you know what you want you are looking for, being able to talk to somebody face-to-face can be the best way to discover what is available. Building a relationship with an Estate Agent may also help you receive notifications about new properties that fit your criteria before they are listed online.You should understand that there are usually significant fees for working with an Estate Agent.
If you are uncertain, find out the fees before you start booking in any viewings.
 An alternative to working with an Estate Agent is dealing with a private landlord. This can be a riskier option, but it can also be cheaper and more flexible. Private landlords advertise their rooms on websites such as Gumtree and SpareRoom, and will generally not apply the agency fees that an Estate Agent would.


If you are just looking for a room in an existing house share, this can be a good way to go.
This option is best for single people, rather than couples.Only rent from a private landlord who you trust and consider reputable, and ensure that you have a proper contract and your deposit is protected.
Try to use landlords that are registered with a professional body or accredited organisation. In London there is the London Rental Standards., It is generally best to view as many properties as possible to give you the best picture of what options there are and how far your budget will reach. If you are working with an Estate Agent, the last viewings tend to be held at 5.30pm, so you may need to book in some time off work to fit in some afternoon viewings.During viewings, it’s important that you ask plenty of questions. Be sure to ask about:


What furniture is included.
The fixtures and fittings. Turn on taps and lights to check they work.
Any rules about pets, smoking or children.
Who else lives there, and how the bills are paid.
Where the smoke and carbon monoxide alarms are.If you are moving into a shared house, make sure that you meet the people you would be living with.
 If you like the look of the property, you should make sure you ask all the important questions about the contract. You must understand what you would be signing up for. You can ask the landlord or letting agent about this information during the viewing. You should ask:


How long the tenancy is for.
When you would be able to move in.
How your deposit will be protected.How long the rent is fixed for.
What, if any, bills are included in the price., Once you have found a place and you want to go ahead with it, your agent your landlord will provide you with a written tenancy agreement. Read the agreement through, and don’t be hesitant to flag up anything you are uncertain about. Make sure that you are clear on the rent, the date you have to pay, and what the procedure and costs are for ending the tenancy early.If you feel unsure about the contract, and don’t think the agent is adequately responding to your questions, you can seek some impartial advice.Housing charities provide basic advice online that you can access quickly and easily.The contract may be subject to you passing a credit check, which the letting agency will charge you for regardless of whether or not you pass or you secure the tenancy.
 Before you move in you should make sure that the landlord has provided you with documents that prove the safety of the property. The landlord is required to provide you with the following:


A Gas Safety Certificate.
Deposit paperwork that shows how your deposit is being protected.
An Energy Performance Certificate.
You cannot be evicted unless your landlord has provided you with these documents.
The landlord should also provide with details of electrical inspections carried out in the last five years., When you move it’s important to take time to make an inventory of the property. Write down everything that is in there, and document the conditions when you move in. Take lots of photos and be sure to present this to your landlord and agree it. This can make things a lot easier if your landlord tries to withhold some or all of your deposit for cleaning or repairs that you are not responsible for.Keep a signed copy of the inventory yourself and give one to the landlord.
A landlord may try to charge you for things like a small amount of dirt or mould that was there when you moved in., It’s important that you understand and keep to your obligations once you move in. Try to build a positive relationship with your landlord by being attentive and treating the property as you would if you owned it. As a tenant you must pay the rent on time, look after the property, be considerate to your neighbours, and not take in a lodger without permission. You should also to:


Regularly test smoke and carbon monoxide alarms.
Report any required repairs promptly.
Ensure you know how appliances like the boiler work, and where fuse box and water stop cock are., You should also make yourself aware of the landlord’s obligations. The landlord must maintain the exterior of the property, as well as fitting smoke alarms on every floor and carbon monoxide alarms in rooms using solid fuel. The landlord must deal with problems with the water, electricity and gas supply, as well as arrange an annual gas safety check.


The landlord must maintain appliances and furniture that was supplied with the property.
She must also carry out most repairs required in the property.
You must be given at least 24 hours notice before a visit from the landlord.
The landlord should also get building insurance for damage from flood or fire.