 Fire all your rounds out to stop your enemy from rushing in with a shotgun. Once you are out, attempt to active reload and if successful lean out and shoot your heart out.;
, If you are not good, and rush in first, you will probably clash with about three enemies and probably die.



Once everything's up close, whip out your shotgun. Instead of holding LB to aim, quickly tap it before each shot to increase your accuracy. If you are close enough to melee someone you can also blow them up.
Use your chainsaw to take your enemy by surprise. Don't do it if there are 2 enemies, only do it to 1.
If you want to kill people fast and easy, use the grenade tag; just press B near someone while holding one, try to flank them or do it, and if 1 or more enemies are coming at once, roll a frag at them.
Use the Snub pistol. It is a very effective melee weapon and it is also more powerful than the Lancer. When using it, remember to quickly tap the right trigger to shoot faster.
The boomshot can be a very effective weapon, but sometimes rubbish, you must have a little practise with it first before you start blowing people to bits, When everybody is grouped up killing each other with shotguns, fire in the boomshot, you can rack up many kills doing this.
Sniping can be hard, but also very effective, if you are the last person on the team and you are facing the enemies last person, active reload, and if you get it perfect, you can down your enemies in 1 shot.Aim for the head, you will blow them away if you get it perfect and be chuffed with yourself.
,(when weapons are swapped you won't know where to go for certain weapons so get good with all the weapons)

, Move your team to all the other weapons to prepare for the next Annex Switch and gain the upper hand.


Never trade your shotgun for another weapon. Your shotgun is vital for close range kills. Never try to shotgun someone from far away. Also, never try to chainsaw someone from far away. Things like this are laughed upon.
 Try to run away, because you will easily get away as a meatshield makes you walk very slowly. He will eventually drop it and chase after you. Remember most pistols on Gears are very powerful and effective, Most chances are that when you get close to the meatshield you will have been punched and shot to death.

