 Find a PC Mac with the Blizzard Game you want installed/updated and use an external hard or flash drive to copy over each respective game folder.


On the PC these files are normally located in a subdirectory of either your C:\Users\Public\My Documents\ or the usual C:\Program Files(x86)\ folder.
On a Mac these file are located in your Applications folder accessible via Finder.
The Folders are labeled "World of Warcraft", "Starcraft 2", and "Diablo 3".;
,,, Go to each game you wish to install and click the install button to let the launcher create the folders and application data files necessary for your OS.
 Do so by clicking the pause button after it goes through the first round of initializing and has maybe 1-2% of the data downloaded just to be safe, perhaps 3-5 minutes or so.
 Once past the initialization phase, browse over to the respective folder directory where the games are installed or where you want them installed, then copy and paste the data required for each game to save yourself a lot of time during the install process.


For World of Warcraft, head into the "World of Warcraft" folder and copy over only the DATA folder into the folder you've created or located on your destination machine.
For Diablo 3, head into the "Diablo 3" folder and copy over only the "Data_D3" folder into the folder you've created or located on your destination machine.
For Starcraft 2, head into the "Starcraft 2" folder and copy over only the "Campaigns" and "Mods" folders into the folder you've created or located on your destination machine.



If you have the battle, net launcher app installed use the drop down "options" menu under the game title and select the "Scan and Repair" option.
 Afterwards, there will be only a minimal file download that occurs with each game and you should be ready to play considerably faster than having to download each game individually (File Size varies but expect 15-25 Gb if you had to download them fresh off of Blizzard's servers).


If you go to downloader preferences or the Blizzard launcher game install settings page and uncheck peer-to-peer, your remaining download should go much faster.







