 Observe how your teen seems to be acting lazy or wasting time. Does she spend all day on her computer? Does she opt to read a book instead of do her chores? Maybe she spends most of her time on her phone, talking to friends, and neglecting her chores or responsibilities. Before you can provide adequate motivation for your teen, you need to determine how she is being lazy. This will help you understand her current way of thinking and spot any patterns of laziness.
 Once you observe your teen’s lazy behavior, you can use these patterns of laziness to create a custom reward system. For example, your teen may like to spend a lot of time texting on her phone. You can then tell her before she can text on her phone, she has to complete her chores for the day. She will then see texting on her phone as a privilege and part of her reward for doing her chores. Or, if your teen tends to spend a lot of time in front of her computer, limit her computer use until she has set the table for dinner or cleaned her room.


Be specific about the tasks you use as rewards, as this will feel more immediate to your teen and motivate her to get things done. Tailor the rewards to the preferences of your teen, as she will feel the reward that much more if it something she is interested in.
 Most teens are looking to earn a little extra cash, especially if they do not receive an allowance from their parents. Provide opportunities for your teen to earn some side money by hiring her to complete special projects around the house or in the neighborhood. This will also help get your teen off the couch and on to doing something productive.You could hire your teen to paint a wall that needs a touch up, or to organize the garage or the basement. Give your teen a job outdoors, like pulling weeds or trimming the hedges, to get her outside and away from any distractions.
 Consider your teen’s skill set, such as a flare for drama, an interest in basketball, or a budding passion for computer science, and encourage her to participate in a school play, join the basketball team at school, or join a computer science club. This will get your teen to spend time on an activity she enjoys and motivate her to develop her talents and skills.
 Another way to set a good example is to spend time with your teen by volunteering together for a good cause. Think of an activity that you and your teen can do together that will allow you both to give back to the community and avoid laziness.


This could be as simple as spending a few hours at the local soup kitchen, or spending a day as volunteers at a local festival. You could also both donate time to a charity drive or a food drive.
 Once your teen demonstrates her motivation by winning an award or accomplishing a high score on a test, compliment her. This will show you appreciate her hard work and value her productivity.


Though you may want to give your teen a monetary reward like extra allowance or more time allowed on the computer, kind words of encouragement can be a reward in itself for a teenager.

