 When planning for the care of your pet, you need to choose a person to care for and adopt your pet if you die or are unable to care for the pet. When contemplating whom to choose, consider the following:


Choose someone you know well and who you trust to take care of your pet.You may want to choose someone who is in good health and has experience caring for animals.
You should talk to whomever you choose and make sure that the are willing and able to care for your pet. If they seem unwilling or reticent to take on the responsibility, it may be best to choose someone else.
Consider having a few back-up caregivers for your pet. Circumstances could change and the person you originally chose may no longer be able to care for your pet.;
, Once you and the potential caregiver agree that he or she will care for your pet, you should discuss any specific care requests that you have including:


The pet’s groomer and veterinarian.
The types of food the pet eats.
Any funding that you will provide. While you are not required to pay for the care of your pet, it may be a good idea to set aside a certain amount of money for the care of your animal. This topic is discussed in greater detail below.When leaving instructions for care, you should make them as detailed as possible to help ease the transition of ownership.
 In order for any agreement to be enforceable, it is must be in writing and signed by both parties.Your agreement should also include:


The name of the guardian who will care for your pet and one or two back-up guardians.
A statement that both parties agree to the terms of the agreement.
A statement that the guardian is undertaking the care of your pet if you become ill and unable to care for the pet or in the event of your death.
Any specific instructions for the care of your pet.
A clear description of the pet(s) that are the subject of the agreement.
That the guardian agrees to adopt the pet and treat the pet as a companion animal.
A statement of any funding that you set aside for the pet and how the guardian can receive the funds.A statement of what you are offering the guardian in exchange for caring for your pet. This is called “consideration” and in a contract it is the benefit that a person gets for entering into the contract. Consideration could be a sum of money, or a promise to do something or not do something that you have the right to do., Both parties must sign the document and you should consider signing the document in front of a notary public., Since you are drafting a legal document, consider having an attorney review your contract before you and the guardian sign it. This ensures that the agreement meets all of the legal requirements for a contract.


If you do not want to draft a care agreement on your own or hire an attorney, there are also online services that allow you to construct a legally enforceable pet care agreement. These websites charge between $40 and $400 for a pet care agreement that is tailored to the laws of your state and your own specific requirements.