 Whether the civil disturbance is brief, lasts for days, or even weeks, you’ll need access to basic necessities. This especially important because you won’t be able to go out and replenish your supplies. Plan ahead, think about what your family needs (not wants), and stockpile appropriately.


Make sure that you have enough water for every member of your family. The average adult drinks one half gallon per day, and children, sick people, and pregnant women drink more than that. It’s safest to store pre-packaged water, and don’t forget to account for your pets too.Store enough food for your family to survive several days, and remember to consider dietary restrictions, such as Celiac Disease or allergies. Opt for foods with the most nutrition and longest shelf life, such as canned vegetables, stew, and powdered milk. Some foods may even be stored indefinitely.Keep a 30-day supply of medications on hand, if you can, and keep them together so that you can easily stick them in your emergency kit if you need to. It’s also a good idea to make a list of all medications your family takes and the dosages.
Make sure that you have a fully-functional first-aid kit in your supplies.
Have emergency cash on hand in small bills., Having a group of people that you can trust, prepare with, and share resources with is invaluable. Should the unrest remain uncontrolled, your group will rely on one another for survival, as you won’t have access to supermarkets or drugstores., Work with your network, family, and friends to decide where you’ll all meet should civil unrest persist. Remember, cell service will likely not be good in the area, so make sure that you all know exactly where to meet, how to find one another, and when you’ll go to that location.For example, you might decide that if a state of emergency is declared, your group will meet at the predetermined location within an hour of the announcement.
Or you may decide that if roads become blocked, you’ll meet up so that you can evacuate safely.
 Don’t wait until there is a civil unrest incident to find out if your plan to avoid danger and stay safe is effective or not. Practice your plan with your family and your network so that you can work out any kinks and modify your plan as needed. There are emergency plans available on the internet for download that can serve as a good template from which you can develop your own plan.