 Atherosclerosis may be caused, in part, by high levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in the body, which damage the lining of the artery wall and trigger plaque accumulation.Doctors therefore recommend eating a healthy and balanced diet as part of a prevention scheme. A good diet will be rich in whole grains, fruits, vegetables, legumes like beans, chickpeas, and lentils, low-fat dairy products, and fish that are high in omega-3 fatty acids like trout and salmon. It will also mean giving up most red meat, sugary foods and beverages, and certain fats like palm and coconut oil., In eating a healthy diet, one of the key things that you can do to prevent hardening arteries is to limit your intake of saturated and trans fats. Saturated fats come from animals products like butter and lard; trans fats are often found in hydrogenated oils like margarine or in prepared foods. These two types of fat raise your blood cholesterol levels more than any other factor. If you are following a heart-healthy diet, no more than 5% of your daily calories should come from them. For example, if you eat 2,000 calories per day, you should not exceed 13 grams of saturated or trans fats.Keep in mind that not all fats are bad. Olive oil, peanut butter, nuts and seeds, and avocados are all very good for your cardiovascular health.
 The medical debate on salt is ongoing. While doctors have long warned that Americans eat too much salt, recent research suggests that the risks may be exaggerated.However, we know that salt raises blood pressure, which is a factor in atherosclerosis. So lowering your intake of salt will help to alleviate high blood pressure and, ideally, act as a preventative against the hardening of arteries. As part of a heart-healthy diet, you should consume no more than 2,400 milligrams of sodium per day. In fact, the lower the better.You might be consuming more salt than you know. Eliminate any prepared foods like canned soups which often contain high amounts of salt added as a preservatives or to enhance flavor. Check the nutritional label under "sodium" to find salt content. In California and several other states, restaurants are also required to display nutritional information or provide it on demand. Ask if you can see the sodium content of your order.
 Like sodium, alcohol raises blood pressure when drunk to excess. Recent research seems to link excess drinking, especially binge drinking, and atherosclerosis. However, there is evidence that people who drink moderately experience improved cardiovascular health and lower risk of atherosclerosis - this means no more than one drink per day for a female and two drinks per day for a male, with one "drink" being 12 oz. of beer, 5 oz. of wine, or 1.5 oz. of hard liquor. Drinkers who exceed these limits in "binges" of more than four drinks on any day for men and more than three for women show much poorer results. Scientists do not yet understand the mechanism, but, as Dr. John Cullen of the University of Rochester notes, “people need to consider not only how much alcohol they drink but the way in which they are drinking it.” Keeping the units of alcohol you consume low is a good idea for optimal artery health.