 Lemon juice is acidic and contains vitamin C. This kind of juice has been used traditionally to lighten areas of skin. Squeeze the juice from a fresh-cut lemon into a bowl. Wet a cotton ball with the juice and apply it directly to your tanned skin. Leave the juice on your skin for 10 to 20 minutes. Rinse off the lemon juice with warm water when done. Repeat daily to keep fading the tan.


You can also rub fresh slices of lemon along your skin to get the juice on it if you prefer.
Even though the bleaching effect becomes stronger in the sun, it is advisable to stay out of the sun while the lemon juice is on your skin. There is no way to predict how much of a bleaching effect the sun might have. Plus, you don't want to exposure your skin to more sun than necessary, especially without sunscreen.;
, Similar to lemons, tomato juice is also slightly acidic and it contains high levels of antioxidants. These antioxidants may react with skin pigments and lighten the suntan.Take a tomato and cut it, releasing all the juices on the inside into a bowl. Take a cotton ball and apply it directly to your suntanned skin. Leave the juice on your skin for 10 to 20 minutes, then rinse it off with warm water. You can repeat this daily.


You can apply slices of tomato directly to your skin if you wish. You can also look for 100% tomato juice in a can from the grocery store and try it.


You can get Vitamin E naturally through foods, take it as a supplement, and use it as an oil. To get it through food, eat more foods with vitamin E, such as oatmeal, almonds, peanut butter, avocados, and leafy green vegetables. Vitamin E oil can be applied directly to the skin to increase hydration in your skin and help heal the UV damage to your skin that causes suntan.

Daily doses of vitamin E supplements should be taken according to manufacturer's instructions., Apricots and papayas contain natural enzymes that may lighten a suntan in some individuals. Cut slices from fresh apricots and papayas. Apply these slices of the fruit directly onto the suntan for 10 to 20 minutes. Rinse off any residual juice with warm water. Repeat daily.


If you want to use it along larger portions of your skin at one time, you can puree the fruit and apply the paste to your skin. If you have a juicer, you can also make papaya or apricot juice and apply that to your skin.
 Kojic acid is derived from fungi and can lighten suntans. It has also been used to successfully treat melasma, a temporary skin darkening that occurs in pregnancy.There are a number of products available that contain kojic acid, such as oils, gels, lotions, soaps, and washes. They each have different concentrations of kojic acid, so you may need to try multiple kinds to find which will help you with your particular suntan.Try these products on a small area of skin first and follow all manufacturer’s instructions.
 Turmeric is a famous yellow spice from Asia often used in curries and dishes. Turmeric masks are used to remove facial hair, lighten and add glow to your skin, and get rid of acne on your skin. Gather 1 tbsp of turmeric powder, 1/4 tsp of lemon juice, 3/4 tbsp of honey, 3/4 tsp of milk, and 1/2 tbsp of wheat flour. Mix the ingredients in a bowl until you get a paste and use a brush or cotton ball to apply it to your skin. Leave it on for 20 minutes, or until it hardens. Wash off with warm water.


The turmeric may leave a yellow residue on your skin. Use make up remover, toner, or a cleanser to get the color off., Applying aloe vera may help with inflammation and pain caused by too much sun exposure.Aloe can also help to keep your skin moist and healthy, so it might help your tan to fade a little faster. You can buy aloe vera gel in the grocery store or pharmacy.

Apply the gel two to three times per day and after you have been out in the sun.

