 Massage promotes good circulation in the scalp, to keep your hair follicles active. Massage your scalp daily by hand for a couple of minutes. To enhance the massage, use a few drops of lavender or bay essential oil in an almond, or sesame oil base on your scalp.;
, Massage egg oil into the scalp and leave on overnight.


Shampoo off in the morning with a mild, preferably herbal shampoo. Use shampoo only once as repetition removes the natural lipids of hair making it dry and brittle.
Use egg oil 2-3 times a week for at least 12 weeks for visible results. Regular, continued use is important for proper nourishment of the cell membranes.
Continue long term massage therapy of egg oil to prevent hairfall and graying. Discontinuing use may gradually bring back hairfall problems and resume graying.
Egg oil (eyova) is mess free and stable. It is a more convenient alternative to egg yolk masks and does not smell like raw egg yolks or cook in the hair during a hot shower. There is no risk of salmonella which could give you a scalp infection.
You can make egg oil at home ] or buy it online.
 You can use any natural oil including safflower and canola or olive oil. Use this method judiciously as frequent use of hot oil or using oil which is too hot can bring on premature graying.


Heat the oil up so it is warm, but not too hot. The ideal temperature is not exceeding 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit). Then, massage the oil into your scalp.
Put on a shower cap for about an hour. When the hour is up, rinse or shampoo out the oil.
Mayonnaise also works well as a conditioner. Slather your hair with a generous dollop, put on a shower cap for up to an hour, and then rinse it off., Make sure you only use 1 of these juices; don't mix them. Leave the juice on your scalp overnight, and wash it out in the morning.
 It is a green powder with the texture of talc that seals the hair cuticle, which strengthens the hair shaft at the root., The tea contains anti-oxidants, which may prevent hair loss and help hair growth.


Brew 2 bags of green tea in 1 cup of water. Let the tea cool slightly, and then apply it to your hair.
Leave the tea on for 1 hour. Then, rinse your hair thoroughly., Strain the liquid, and use it daily as a hair rinse.
 This will provide shine and add strength to hair with regular use, helping to keep hair intact.


Soak and grind one cup of fenugreek (Indian methi seeds) with sufficient water to make a paste.
Apply to the scalp and massage it lightly.
Leave it for half an hour.
Rinse out with cold water.
 This treatment is good to control hair fall.


Mix aloevera juice with neem powder and add two-three drops of coconut oil.
Apply it on your scalp and leave it for half an hour.
Wash it off with shampoo. Follow this treatment once in a week for the desired results.

