 You can purchase octopus at seafood markets or specialty Asian stores. First, you will need to poach the octopus. This means you will submerge the octopus in a poaching liquid such as water or stock.
Poach for about 13 minutes per pound.
Let the octopus cool in the poaching liquid.
Once cool, remove the skin by rubbing it with a paper towel. It should come away easily.
Sear the outside of the skinned octopus in a skillet or grill for about 8 minutes per side. If sliced thin, only sear the octopus for 2 minutes per side.;
, You will need to do this with a sharp knife on a cutting board. This recipe calls for 3.5-5 ounces of cooked octopus but this amount may vary according to your tastes.Cut the octopus into small pieces. Most recipes call for 1/2 inch cubes of octopus. The chunks of octopus need to be small so several can fit into each piece of takoyaki.
Set aside in a large bowl.
 They will need to be ground into a fine consistency. This recipe uses about 1/4 cup of the flakes. You can do this using a mortar and pestle.
Place the flakes into the mortar and grind them with the pestle by scraping and pushing against the mortar.
Alternatively, you can use an electric spice grinder.
 These include: 1 cup of all purpose flour, 1 teaspoon of kombucha, and 1 tsp baking powder.Put all of these in a medium sized glass bowl.
Whisk together the dry ingredients to make sure they are evenly mixed.
If you do not adequately mix the dry ingredients you can get clumps of baking powder in the batter. This can cause parts of your batter to have an unpleasant taste.
 Make sure this is evenly whisked.Add the egg mixture to the dry ingredients.
Use a whisk to stir the mixture.
Whisk until the egg is evenly mixed into the dry ingredients.
 Whisk as you do so to make a smooth batter. The batter should be about the thickness and consistency of pancake batter.
If the batter appears too thin, add a small amount of flour and whisk thoroughly.
If the batter appears too thick, add a small amount of dashi stock and mix.
 You want the outside to cook quickly, but not burn.A takoyaki pan is a metal pan that resembles a muffin tin. It has small round holes for each piece of takoyaki.
If you don't have a takoyaki pan, a mini muffin tin will suffice.
Generously brush the takoyaki pan with oil.
Use a pasty brush to do this. Be careful when working with oil over a hot pan.
Don't forget to oil the ridges in between the small bowls in the pan.
 Fill the holes with the batter completely.It is ok for the batter to overflow slightly.
To make this easier, use a measuring cup with a handle to pour the batter.
This will also help with spilling and mess.
 Do this by putting 3 pieces of octopus into each takoyaki.Sprinkle on 1/2 cup of chopped green onion.
After that, sprinkle on the tenkasu and powdered katsuobushi.
The takoyaki will now need to brown.
If you like red ginger, you can also about 2 tablespoons of Beni shōga to the batter. , During this time, the base of the takoyaki will brown.Don't turn or disturb the takoyaki during these three minutes.
Let the takoyaki cook until the timer goes off.
Afterwards, you will flip the takoyaki.
 Use long skewers to do this by cutting and scraping the batter between each takoyaki.Turn each piece 180 degrees so that the cooked portion on the bottom of the each ball faces upwards.
Stuff the edges as you turn them so the ball ends up a nice rounded shape. To stuff the edges, push any pieces of takoyaki that are sticking up under the edge of each hole.
Use the skewers to do this so you don't get burnt.
 During this time, turn the balls constantly.This will make sure the takoyaki cook evenly.
The takoyaki should be golden brown on all sides when cooked.
When the 4 minute timer goes off, it is time to plate the takoyaki.
 Use the skewers to do this as they will be very hot. You will now add the sauces.Pour takoyaki sauce and spicy Japanese mayonnaise over them.
Sprinkle dried seaweed and some katsuobushi flakes on top.
Serve immediately, but be careful as the takoyaki will be very hot inside.
 This is a very simple procedure involving 4 key ingredients. In a small bowl, add 3 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce, 1 teaspoon mentsuyu, 3/4 teaspoon sugar, and 1/2 teaspoon ketchup.
Whisk the ingredients together.
Pour over takoyaki.
If you want to make the sauce ahead of time, you can store it in the refrigerator.
 This uses regular mayonnaise and some seasonings. Put 2 tablespoons of mayonnaise in a bowl.
Add 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon chili garlic sauce, and 1/2 teaspoon rice vinegar.
Whisk the ingredients together.
Serve on top of takoyaki or refrigerate.

