 Set up the den according to your needs and abilities.


For a nonmember, you could use the small house with trees on the outside.
On the inside of the warrior's and apprentice's den, use mostly mats and some Treetop Gardens nonmember plants and make sure not to use anything "too" fancy.
Use bamboo shields to make extra dens.
For the kit's/queens nursery, use plushies, mats, and couches.
For the medicine cat, use mats and lots of treetop gardens plants.
For elders, use mostly mats and few plants.
For the leader, use couches, mats, pillows, plants, and anything else you'd like to add.;
, Think of five names for each rank, such as Fernheart, Darkrain, Hawkflight, etc. The warrior's name can end with various things, such as pelt, tail, heart, claw, flight, and cloud and fur

,, Use colors that represent your name and clan, Bluestar of Thunderclan might use the light gray with the icy blue lightning pattern. If you want to wear something, use fox hats, bow and arrows, swords, leg armor, elf bracelets, tail armor, and for girls heart lockets.
 Keep a storage account there, and when it fills up, come back. Then proceed to the next step. You may also want to move around on your storage account, so people don't leave due to being bored.
 If somebody is being rude, though, you could unbuddy them and lock them out. Don't worry because you won't lock all your clan members!

, First name everybody, then train the apprentices with their warrior mentor, give the medicine cat an apprentice to train, sit the elders in their den to eat and sleep, and the kits and queens in the nursery.
 Clan meetings are important for ceremonies, and gatherings.
 Your clan members will respect you more and you will have a less chance of jammers leaving your den.
 Let your deputy know what the food chain is. For example, wood mice, moles, etc. Always send at least two senior warriors, one training apprentice, and one warrior.
 But don't be demanding. Try to roleplay so that the clan becomes more interesting for everyone involved. If the clan gets too crazy, try to not yell at people. You could call a meeting or tell people to calm down.
 Your clan members are part of your clan. Make sure to get some attention to everyone! Don't leave anyone out.
 Being fair is great. Let kits play around. Don't be the greedy one that gets the food and leaves crumbs for the clan.
 Playing by the warrior cat code will make the roleplay make sense.
 Nothing will continue to happen if your clan doesn't have any fun!

