 Different labs have different standards. However, closed-toe shoes, full-length pants and safety glasses are common requirements.
 Your lab should have at least one eye-wash station, as well as a shower head on the ceiling with a pull-chain. Locate them ahead of time, in case you need them in an emergency.
 Never do something to a compound or solvent that's not indicated in the lab manual. You might think throwing a leftover chunk of sodium in the sink is harmless, but it could explode when it comes into contact with even a drop of water. Always ask your lab TA how to dispose of materials if you're unsure.
 Read the procedure of your next lab at least a few days beforehand. It is probably better to read one more lab beyond where that as well. Have data that will be or could be in the lab write up, do not wait until the last minute. As is true in normal class, organic chemistry lab is best done one step at a time and not in a rush.
 If you do not use the wafting technique, you could end up passed out from the fumes of compounds like sulfuric acid. Be very careful. Here's how to do it:


Keep the sample at least a foot or so from you.
Move a column of air with your hand wafting toward you in a gentle circular motion.
Make sure you keep your hands, eyes, ears, mouth away from the sample.
 The format of a lab write-up can vary from course to course. In general, do not use personal pronouns like "I", "me" or "our". Use third-person voice ("the experiment," not "our" or "my" experiment). Here's how the report should be laid out:


Title: The name of the lab you are doing.
Purpose/Objective: Why you are doing the lab/what can be learned from it.
Materials: The chemicals, equipment and amounts/notes about each.
'Table of reactants/products:' The melting point, boiling point, density, phase and amount of each compound you use in the experiment.
Observations/Notes: What you see in the experiment, anything unusual or something that provides insight into what is going on (e.g the compound (name) fizzed and turned blue).
Results: Your tables, graphs, numbers, equations and work shown for the experiment.
Conclusion: What you conclude from the data you gathered, based on your results section. Explain your results in terms related to the experiment.

