 Moisture wicking clothes (including under wear and bras) help to wick the moisture off your body, keeping you cooler. There are even moisture wicking show clothes for hot weather.;
, Dark clothes tend to trap more heat, making you feel hotter. Lighter clothing reflects more of the heat, helping you to feel cooler.
, The list below features good fabrics to wear if you can’t afford to buy moisture wicking clothes. Good fabrics include:


Cotton
Linen
Flannel
Hemp
Leather
Silk
Seersucker
Velvet
Denim
Corduroy
Mesh––although this isn’t a natural fabric, it is good to wear in hot weather.
 Tank tops work well, also. Mesh tank tops are good to wear. Be sure to use sunscreen on all uncovered areas of skin.
 These can be expensive, but are worth it if you need to wear jeans in the summer.
 You can't wear shorts while riding, but you can while working. Mesh pants work best.
 Your shirts, pants or shorts should not be tight.
 If you can't use moisture wicking socks, then use thin socks, and not thick ones.
 Hats can help keep the sun off your face, and out of your eyes.
 Heavy shoes, and working boots normally are insulated. This will make your feet sweat, and your feet will become very sticky and hot.
 The less layers, the cooler you will be.
 While you are working, spray yourself every 15 minutes or so. Once the water on your skin gets warm, dry it off, or else it will just cause you to feel hotter, and will turn to sweat.
 Every 30 minuets or so (or shorter) so, sit in an air conditioned room, or in the shade. Drink some water, and take time to cool down.
 Know your limit, and how long, and how hard you should be working. Don’t work too quickly, either. Take your time, and go slow.
 If possible, ride under trees, or in a covered arena.
 Don’t ride for very long. The heat effects your horse as well as you, so only ride for about an hour. Some days, you might have to only ride for 30 minutes.
 Keep it easy. This will benefit both you and your horse.
 This will help to cool you down, and keep you hydrated.
 That way, when you need to, you can dry off any sweat.
 If you are at the barn for a long time, change your clothes. This will help you to stay dry, and fresh. Chance shirts, pants, socks, and underwear. The main clothing to change would be your underwear, shirt, and socks.
 Keep them in a cooler so that they stay cold.
 If your hair is off your neck, your neck won't sweat as much.
 For example, water, energy drinks, sodas and drinks made from powders or concentrate (cordials/squash).
 The following foods are good for hot weather eating:


Watermelon (you can give the rinds to the horses)
Apples (give the core to the horses)
Oranges
Chips
Pineapples
Granola bars.
 Spray your face, hair, and body with the hose. After enjoying the cool water, dry off with a towel, to prevent the water from sticking and turning to sweat.
 If your barn doesn’t have a fan, bring one and plug it in.

