 This can be found in the app drawer.;
, This is located near the bottom of the menu and will take you to detailed device info.
 Upon completion, you will see a popup message notifying you that developer options are now enabled.
 You will now see “Developer Options” listed in the settings menu.
 You will be taken to a list of developer and testing-specific tools.
 This will allow ADB to communicate with your device properly.


On some devices you may also see an option labeled “OEM Unlocking”. If you have this enable it as well., Go to https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html#downloads and scroll down to “Command Line Tools”. Select the installer for the platform you are using.


If you want, you can download the entire Android Studio suite. It contains the tools you need but also includes a lot of extraneous features not necessary for this process.The Android Debug Bridge (ADB) is a shell that will allow you to communicate with your device via the command line to perform actions not normally accessible through the device interface.
 Sometimes this can be acquired from the device manufacturer’s website. If you cannot access it you should try to use the universal ADB driver.
 Make sure that your device is powered on or it will not be recognized by the computer.
 Hit ⊞ Win+R and enter CMD (Windows) or open the Launchpad and search for “Terminal” (Mac). These programs allow you to access and run files using text commands.
 Enter “cd” followed by a space, then the entire filepath leading to the “platform-tools” folder in your Android SDK folder.


As a shortcut, you can open the location of the folder from your desktop, then drag and drop the “platform-tools” folder into the command line after typing “cd “. The filepath will automatically be copied into the command line window.
The final result in the command line might look something like the following on windows: “cd C:\Users\\AppData\Local\Android\platform-tools”. Note that this path will vary depending on the location you chose when installing the Android SDK.
 Hit ↵ Enter to activate the command. This will verify that ADB recognizes the connected device.


If your device is having trouble being recognized, try uninstalling the USB driver, restarting the computer, and installing it again.
 Hit ↵ Enter to activate the command. This command will force your device to reboot into fastboot. You will see a black screen with some text including the word “fastboot mode” when it is finished.
 Hit ↵ Enter to activate the command. You will be prompted to verify your decision to unlock on your device.


Remember, unlocking your bootloader will wipe your phone of any data stored on it. Make sure you have any files or information you want to save backed up.
 This will confirm your choice to unlock the bootloader. After a moment you will see a message on the screen verifying a successful unlock.
 Hit ↵ Enter to activate the command. This will boot your device back into the normal system mode. With your device unlocked, you can proceed to flash a custom ROM or root your device.

