 Unless you're a professional poet or writer, you probably won't accidentally spit out a masterpiece. It takes work. Think of a topic you care about, and know well enough to write about; also think about a wide enough and deep enough topic that you have something meaningful to say about it. You can write a poem about baseball if you really want to, but try to come up with something relevant to say about the topic. The best poems, and the poems best-liked by audiences, are ones they can relation to, and that seem applicable to their lives.
 Whether you prefer country or instrumentals, listening to some good, emotional music can do a lot to get you in the writing mood. If you find you tend to be influenced by lyrics you hear when writing, or if you just don't like writing while music is playing, listen to some beforehand. Or if you don't like music at all, try looking up artwork or cool photography online for something to inspire you., This is optional, and may be superseded later but is a good springboard. Write down any phrases that come to mind when thinking about your topic, or any morals you hope your poem will convey. Then branch off of those - try to think of metaphors for your main point, or a simile to help bring some imagery to your poem., This doesn't have to be perfect - it's only a first draft. Try to include poetic devices and imagery but mainly focus on getting your point across., This is the stage where you can focus on making the words flow better, making the poem longer, and bring more "poetry" to your writing., The basic length of a slam poem is three minutes, but depending on your audience (is it a school project, for a shorter slam, etc.) a different length may be acceptable. Read your poem out loud to your self, trying to approximate the speed you will read it at the slam. Don't just read it in your head - you think a lot faster than you speak, and you'll be shocked when a page or two of writing only lasts you forty or fifty seconds., You may not want to do this, but remember, you will be sharing this poem with an audience full of people soon: a dress rehearsal of a single person isn't a bad idea. Plus, they can give you feedback, or critique your readings when you practice those., When performing a poem its good to move around a bit  - don't fidget  or shift on your feet, but make some nice, strong hand gestures that add to your piece. For most slams, memorization is necessary, so make sure you keep that in mind, too., Right before your slam, you're probably going to be extremely nervous - don't be. Everything will be fine. Be confident when you go up to perform - shoulders back, chin up. Read in a loud but slow voice, skimming the room and making eye contact with as many people as possible., You're done. You did great. Now move on to making your next poem.