 Flight numbers, hotels, car rentals, and restaurant reservations are all key pieces of information to manage and maintain. You may also want to include directions to your hotel, the car rental company you are using, as well as directions to the airport for your return flight. If you will be using airport transportation to get to your hotel, include information about fees and hours of operation.;
, It’s helpful to list all of the things you want to do on your trip. Even if it's more than you think you can manage, create a list of everything you'd like to do. Research local events, holidays, and observances of the places you're traveling too as well. You may be able to witness or experience a cultural event that other travelers don't get to experience.Be conscious of the amount of time you will spend at each stop. Certain destinations, like the Museum of Modern Art, can be an all-day endeavor.
If you’re traveling with one or more people, be sure to get feedback and ideas for your destinations.
 Match your stops to specific locations on a map and note their locations. Try and map them sequentially to efficiently use your travel time. You’ll most likely be traveling from adjacent cities as you travel. For each activity, estimate the length of time it will take to get to there, and how long you will be there. Be sure you have local maps for the areas you will be exploring. It is also helpful to obtain schedules for bus and train services and numbers for local taxis.
 Do you want a trip with days spent at four star restaurants and nights spent in five star hotels? Or are you more interested in finding local favorites and rustic B&Bs? Your vacation is as expensive (or inexpensive) as you want it to be. It ultimately comes down to what you can afford.


A spreadsheet program like Microsoft Excel can help create an organized and portable budget and itinerary., Don’t hesitate to give yourself a free day or two. You can use this free day to explore, or take some time off to rest. Ultimately your itinerary is a guide to keep you on track while visiting. If you miss a reservation, it isn’t the end of the world. Consider asking around about a local favorite to eat at, find a local market, or see if there’s a museum or oddity nearby.Never lose sight of the fact that your trip is supposed to be an enjoyable and fulfilling experience.
 Record your check in times, confirmation numbers, hotel names, and any other information you might need on hand. Don’t worry about organizing this information yet. In the meantime, focus on accumulating and documenting as much helpful information as you can think of.
 Try and condense your travel information into a single document for easy access while traveling. Keep a printed copy or type the details of your itinerary into a word processing document. If you prefer, you can use an online travel itinerary template.You may also consider downloading a travel app to keep organized during your trip., Your travel itinerary can be placed into a 3-ring binder. As convenient as an app can be, batteries can die. It never hurts to keep a physical backup handy. Use page dividers to separate documents in your trip binder into categories (rental car, tours, hotel reservations, etc.).
 Compile a print-out or Notepad note of information for your emergency contact(s) back home, and any special medical needs you or your travel companions may have. If you are traveling out of the country, include the address, telephone number, and directions to your country's embassy or consulate if applicable.


You may want to save a list of addresses of family and friends, so you can send them postcards from the destinations you will visit.
 Even if you will only be gone for a weekend, it’s a good idea to make sure that everything at home will be in order and accounted for. If you have pets, plants, or will need your mail checked for an extended amount of time, ensure that a friend or family member will be there to do so. This will ultimately offer you peace of mind so you can relax and fully enjoy your vacation.

