 Ask your parents to sit down with you for a discussion during a time when they won’t be distracted (e.g. after supper, before the evening news). Arrange the time a day or two in advance to make sure that you have time to prepare. Right before your discussion, make sure to turn off the TV, radio, or anything else that could distract from your talk.;
, Begin your presentation by telling your parents what type of bird you want and list some of the things you like about it. Talk about the positive qualities of this bird (e.g. that it is a lively and entertaining). Mention the reason why you think this bird would be a good addition to the family.For instance, tell your parents that you want a pet cockatiel because cockatiels are intelligent, friendly, quieter than other birds, and family-friendly.
To make sure you give a detailed presentation and don’t forget anything, write down everything that you are telling your parents and read it out to them. If you wish, give them a booklet with all of your points and research listed clearly.
 Tell your parents exactly how much the bird you want will cost and where it is available. Contact local pet stores to see what birds they have available and what prices they are being sold for. If you can, visit the store to see which bird you like best and get pricing information in person., Show your parents that you have done a lot of research about the bird you want by telling them exactly what kind of indoor cage it will require. As a general rule, smaller birds like finches or canaries require a minimum of 1000 square centimeters in floor area, while larger birds like parrots need 15,000 square centimeters.Write down the specifications for the cage you need, and look into stores that sell cages like it.Look into a travel cage as well, for use in case of vet visits or emergencies.
 Outline the tasks that you will do regularly to care for the bird that you wish to get. For instance, note that you will feed it and change the lining of its cage daily (which is required for proper hygiene). Doing so may reassure your parents that they will not be the ones left to take care of the bird all the time., Research the type of bird you want, and then write a sample menu for what you would feed it in a given week to keep it healthy and satisfied. In general, birds are healthiest when fed high quality pellet food, with a side of fruits, vegetables, and grains. Take note that, contrary to popular belief, seeds are fattening and not as nutritious as other bird foods., Show that your bird’s health and well-being will be important to you by writing down a list of local avian veterinarians. In addition, write down any walk-in or emergency veterinary clinics that treat birds. You should also look up a number for poison control, in the event that your bird ingests something potentially toxic.


To find an avian veterinarian near you, visit the Association of Avian Veterinarian’s website at http://www.aav.org/search/custom.asp?id=1803.
 Try to guess what arguments your parents will give for not wanting to get a bird and write them down. Come up with answers and solutions to these concerns beforehand so you are prepared. If you have a well-informed response to their concerns, you will prove that you have done a lot of research and thought things through. For instance, if you think your parents will be worried about a bird chewing wires or getting caught in a ceiling fan, show them a plan for bird-proofing certain rooms in the house (i.e. hiding or covering wires, closing windows and doors).

