 To imitate the patina effect, you'll need a special kind of paint that has tiny metal particles in it. This is called oxidizing paint or surfacer. This will react with a special patina solution to create that patinated look. For this project, you'll need:


Containers (x2; for paint and sealant; optional)
Degreaser (optional)
Foam brush (x2)
Gloves
Metal (to patinate)
Oxidizing paint & patina solution (often sold together)
Paint stirrer
Plastic/rubber gloves
Sealant (spray-on recommended)
Dish soap & water, Fumes from the paint and oxidizing solution you'll be using can build up in areas with poor airflow and cause injury or death. Choose a well ventilated work area and a flat, stable work surface for this project.


Paint can sometimes spatter and spread where you'd rather it not. Lay down a tarp or some newspaper to catch unwanted paint droplets in your work area.
Depending on the container your oxidizing paint and patina solution came in, you may be able to work straight from the container or you may want to pour these into separate containers.
If you decide to use a separate container for your oxidizing paint, be sure to mix the paint with a stirrer thoroughly so it is consistent throughout before transferring the paint., Dirt, oil, and other contaminants on the surface of your metal can negatively impact the outcome of the patina. A little bit of dish soap, warm water, and a good scrub will be enough to clean most metal. Allow it to air dry, then you're ready to apply the oxidizing paint.


The most thorough cleaning will yield the best results. An overnight soak in a suitable degreaser will remove contaminants entrenched deeply in crevices.
Wearing gloves will prevent you from accidentally leaving behind fingerprints, which can cause the patina to deform., The small metal particles in the paint can sometimes clump up and create inconsistencies in your patina. Take a paint stirrer and thoroughly mix the paint so it is smooth and consistent throughout. Then, use a clean foam brush to apply the paint to your metal.


Each brand of paint will be different, so you'll have to follow your paint's directions for the best results. Generally, apply two thin coats of paint with one hour of drying time between coats.
Depending on your surface, you may need a few coats before it is completely and evenly covered with oxidizing paint., After the second coat, wait until the paint is tacky to the touch. Be sure to wear your gloves while checking tackiness. Then, take your clean foam brush and:


Use liberal applications of the patina solution to create an intense effect. Be consistent, inconsistency will lead to patchy patination.
Use incremental applications of the patina solution to gradually intensify the effect. This way, you're less likely to overshoot your ideal patina.
Wait patiently for the color change. Many factors can influence the time it takes to oxidize and create a patina effect. Generally, color should change in 10 to 15 minutes., At this point, you will be able to see how the paint interacts with the patina solution. Once the paint and solution are dry, you can reapply more paint and solution to modify the patina to suit your preferences.


Much like paint can flake off or fade over time, so can your imitation patina. A thin layer of clear sealant will help prevent this from happening.