 Generally, the Keeshond appears medium in size, compact, and well proportioned. Its back is short and straight and slightly slopes downward near its hindquarters. Relative to its body, its neck is moderately long. Additionally, the Keeshond’s chest is deep and strong and its stomach is only moderately tucked up near its loins.Males grow to be 18 inches and and females 17 inches. Both male and female Keeshonds can weigh up to 35 to 45 pounds.
 A thick double coat covers the Keeshond’s body—a long, straight overcoat stands out from a thick, velvety undercoat. Its neck is also covered with a thick mane. The thick mane extends from the bottom of its jaw to its chest (covering the whole front part) and shoulders, including the top of the shoulders near the withers.Its coat does not part down the back, if it does, then this is a disqualification.
The hair of its overcoat is characterized as harsh in comparison to the velvety hair of its undercoat and face.
 From an angle, the Keeshond’s forelegs look straight, well-boned, and proportionate to its body with a slight slope near the pasterns. The hair on the forelegs is short, smooth and slightly feathered.The Keeshond’s hindquarters are muscular. Its hocks are perpendicular to the floor. In comparison to the forelegs, the hind legs are covered in dense, feather-like fur down to the hocks (but not below) creating a trouser-like look.
 The tail lies flat and close to its body seamlessly. When viewed from the side, the tail should look less like an appendage and more like a part of the dog’s silhouette or body.A tail that does not lie flat and close to its body is a disqualification.
The fur on its tail is thick and well feathered forming a rich plume.
 The color of its coat is a combination of cream, gray, and black. The undercoat is typically gray or cream, but never tawny. Its outer coat, i.e., the guard hairs, is black tipped giving it its characteristic shading. The Keeshond’s head, muzzle, and ears are darker in color in comparison to the rest of the body.Its tail and legs are lighter in color, typically cream colored.
Keeshond that are entirely white, black, or any solid color is a major disqualification. Also, distinct white markings and black markings halfway down its forelegs (except for penciling) are also disqualifications.

