 This can be done at USPS locations around the United States. For short stays, visitors do not need a visa, but travelers visiting for longer periods of time do need to obtain a travel visa.;
, Citizens and travelers to Hong Kong must carry identification on their persons.
 Though the primary languages of Hong Kong are both English and Cantonese, not everyone will speak English fluently. English to Chinese dictionaries will help you when communicating with natives of Hong Kong.
 The exchange rate varies, so be sure to check the rates before your trip. If you are reluctant to bring all the money necessary for your visit in cash, bring a credit card. There are ATMs that accept most major credit cards and will dispense Hong Kong Dollars.
 Depending on in which time of year you will be travelling to Hong Kong, you will need different articles of clothing. If travelling during the winter months, you should pack sweaters and light jackets. The temperature averages around 60 degrees Fahrenheit, 18 degrees Celsius in the winter, and around 82 Fahrenheit and 28 Celsius in the summer. Hong Kong is in a humid area, and rain anywhere from drizzle to thunderstorms can be expected in the summer. Pack a raincoat, an umbrella, and cotton clothes.
 If you are planning on doing any sightseeing or touring, this is a must.
 Hong Kong has a wide range of luxury tourist attractions available, from cruises on Victoria Bay to fine dining establishments to concerts at the famous Hong Kong Coliseum. Bringing a few articles of formal attire will ensure that you are dressed for any occasion.
 Hong Kong has many public swimming pools, and most hotels have a guest pool. In addition, Hong Kong also has many beautiful beaches along the coastline.
 The Hong Kong outlet style is not used in most countries, so to use any appliances, such as hair dryer or electric razor, you will require a special adapter. These are available in most hardware stores.
 Hong Kong is one of the most popular cities in the world for shopping. It is a good idea to be prepared for this, and bring a spare bag to store any new purchases.

