 Usually TV shows have one big plot in each season that keeps you coming back, while some episodes of that show have different plots. Will your character deal with being a new vampire while hiding it from their friends? Or is he or she trying to fight off vampire hunters while on the run? The overall plot can be more complex than this.


Write down your ideas. You don't want to forget them!;
, For example, is it really possible to ride on a unicorn? Does this plot fit the effect your show wants to have? It's okay if you want to keep certain ideas to use in just one episode, or in the next season.
 YouTube shows usually have about 8-12 episodes per season, but shows on TV usually have about 20-30.


Make sure the season finale and first episode are some of the most interesting of the season, the first episode is what will give the viewers their very first opinion of the show, and the final episode is something they've been waiting for a long time, make it special! Audio and video quality and acting also counts, but we'll get to that soon.
 Now that you've got the idea for the episodes and plot, make a name that describes the feel and plot of your show. For example, Vampalicious could be used for a cheerleader who becomes a vampire or Midnight Shadows could be about a vampire hunter who got the wrong impression trying to take down your character who's a vampire.
 You'll need this later for casting.
 Where will you film? Will your video be interrupted by other background noises? Figure out where you will film later for each scene, and make sure you have permission to film where you want to.
 Some parents might not want their child's face being visible on YouTube to creepers and drama llamas who love fights in the comments section.


If you can't film your face, try filming your toys instead. A lot of people like to use LPS or Webkinz instead of using their faces, and using toys makes more things possible, but using toys for each character makes the show aimed more toward the younger audience out there.
 Choose people who are good actors, so even if your BFF from kindergarten is begging you to get a part, you may have to let her/him down easy. But then again, you should be familiar with the people you want to be in it and shouldn't be pulling random people off the street. Make sure people you want to cast have their parents permission to be in your show.
 It doesn't have to be anything fancy, you can use your cell phone or maybe a webcam on a laptop until you can get a better camera.
 Try to get everyone's feedback on different episode plots. After all, that girl who can't even do a cartwheel may not want to jump onto a dumpster from the roof and then use a closet hanger to slide down an electrical wire (actually, unless this is the next James Bond movie, you shouldn't be doing this at all).


Make sure to get everyone's advice. You don't have to use it, but they might point out things you didn't notice, like, "Where are we going to find a beach? We live in Colorado." Answer: Green screen magic.
 Yes, this may be a bore, but it'll help in the long run. When you film your episode, you don't have to do exactly what the script says, but don't go riding on a unicorn when it says you teleport to where you need to go. Too much improvising can change the entire plot.
 Make sure your parents are okay with ten kids screaming and wrestling in your backyard for a battle scene. If you can't go anywhere you need to, you can use a green screen.


Note: Don't wear any green at all while acting in front of the green screen. Later when the green is edited out and the background is edited in, you'll be a floating head if you wear a green shirt!

, Before you start filming, collect any props you will need and practice the scene a few times to get a hang of it and make sure nobody laughs when the film starts rolling. Not everyone is perfect, so don't expect to get it on the first try.
 How would you look if you found out your boyfriend is a werewolf? Probably surprised, in disbelief, maybe fainting. Act as best as you can, and don't try to sound like a robot.
 Like for example, fighting in Ikea and screaming is going to be interesting, but you will be kicked out before you finish filming. You could even get arrested!

, If you just finished filming the season finale, then maybe a little cast party or outing at the amusement park can be in line. It's okay if you don't finish filming on your first session; Rome wasn't exactly built in a day. Schedule another time for filming.
 Something like Windows Movie Maker or IMovie. There should be other articles on wikiHow on how to edit videos, so if you're new to video-editing you can learn how to edit from those. If you filmed on your smartphone, don't worry, there's a ton of apps like VideoStar to help you edit.
 Don't forget to add in your sound effects, a good place to get them is freesound.org. If you can, see how others may think of your episode before you post it on YouTube. Maybe you didn't notice that the theme song is in the wrong spot?

, Invite your cast over for a premiere party! Don't be afraid to get dressed up, even if the first episode is only five minutes long, it'll be a moment that'll last forever in your memories.

