 Since the publication of "Superman: Last Son of Krypton" in 1978, there has been a growing market of superhero novels and anthologies, particularly since the mid-1990s. You can learn about these anthologies from "Locus" or from Web sites such as Superhero Nation (http://www.superheronation.com/category/writing/getting-published/).
 Marvel Comics co-founder Stan Lee, who hosted the now apparently defunct reality show "Who Wants to Be a Superhero?," sponsors a contest through his foundation, in conjunction with art supply company Prismacolor, in which entrants submit superhero designs, with the winning design rendered as an action figure.


"Who Wants to Be a Superhero?" had both an American and British version. In the American version, adults dressed up as their superhero and competed in various contests, with the winner getting his or her superhero published in a Dark Horse comic book written by Lee. In the British version, children aged 9 to 13 competed in similar contests.
 Many of the publishing services that have sprung up to permit authors to publish their own novels also deal with comic books and graphic novels. If you go this route to publish your superhero, you will have more control over the character, but you will also bear the publication costs and have to do more of the marketing work, just as you would if you self-published a work of prose. If you don't both write and draw, you'll also need a partner to do the part of the work that you can't.


As with self-publishing a work of prose, you should also employ the services of a copy editor to ensure the integrity of your work and subsequent adventures, if there are any. The Hulk's real identity became Robert Bruce Banner because of an early writer error in which the Green Goliath referred to his alter ego as "Bob Banner" instead of "Bruce Banner."

, Another option to get your superhero published is as a character in a role-playing game, such as Hero Games' "Champions." You'll need to know the gaming system in which you want to have your character published, as well as how to adapt comic book conventions to role-playing games.


Publishing your superhero in a role-playing game involves writing game statistics for the character, an origin story, a description of how the character uses his or her powers and suggestions for using the character in a campaign. The write-up is usually accompanied by a visual depiction of the character.
Also be aware that many gaming companies will want to buy all rights to your work. If you want to publish your superhero in other markets, you'll either have to choose a different game publisher or negotiate for having the rights revert to you after a certain period of time.

