 If your cough does not go away, you should make an appointment with your doctor. She will be able to determine the source of the cough and treat it accordingly.


Although it can be difficult to pinpoint the underlying cause of the cough, it is essential to do since in most cases, a chronic cough disappears once the underlying condition is addressed and treated. The three most common causes of a chronic cough are asthma, postnasal drip, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). These three causes are the reasons for 90% of all cases of chronic coughs.Most doctors will begin by taking your full medical history and conducting a physical examination. In general, physicians will try treating one of the common underlying conditions of coughs and only if those treatments are unsuccessful will they conduct additional testing, including X-rays, CT (Computerized tomography) scans, bacterial tests, lung function (spirometry) tests, etc.Your doctor will also ask you what medicines you're taking. Sometimes, prescription medications can cause a cough. ACE inhibitors, used to treat high blood pressure, are common culprits behind chronic coughs.In the case of a child, the doctor may initiate testing, including a chest X-ray and spirometry test, if the history and physical exam don't reveal a clear cause., A cough that is caused by asthma may come and go depending on the time of year, but can also develop if you've recently had an upper respiratory infection, also known as the common cold. An asthma-related cough can also worsen if you're out in the cold or are exposed to certain chemicals or fragrances. In addition there is also a type of asthma known as "cough-variant asthma" that is typified by the hyperactivity of the airways due to pollutants and often in conjunction with seasonal allergies.


Most physicians will recommend that you use an inhaler with corticosteroids to treat asthma, such as Flovent and Pulmicort. These inhalers reduce inflammation and expand your airways. Inhalers are only available by prescription so you'll need to talk with your doctor directly.Generally, these inhalers are taken twice daily. The user must follow a certain procedure for the inhalers to be effective: take a deep breath out, then take a deep inhale while squeezing the pump of the inhaler. Rinse your mouth out after use to avoid potential thrush from the steroids remaining in your oral cavity.
If you have asthma, your doctor will prescribe bronchodilator medications such as Albuterol that relax muscles in the airway (thus averting a coughing spasm) and help increase air flow to the lungs. These are generally inhaled every 4 to 6 hours, as needed.However, inhaled steroids remain the foremost treatment for asthma that causes a predominant coughing pattern.
If you have a cough due to asthma, your doctor may also prescribe montelukast (Singulair), which can help treat coughing and other symptoms.
 This is a very common condition in which stomach acid leaks back into your esophagus, the tube that connects your stomach and throat, and irritates your esophageal lining. This irritation can eventually result in a chronic cough. The cough in turn worsens GERD, so a vicious cycle eventually develops if you do not seek treatment for GERD. If you are also experiencing indigestion or heartburn frequently, then GERD is a likely cause of your cough.To treat GERD, you can take either acid blockers or Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs). Acid blockers (also known as H2 blockers) reduce the production of stomach acid. The most widely recommended H2 blocker is ranitidine, or Zantac, which can be obtained OTC or with a prescription. Ranitidine can be taken orally in tablet form. In general, most H2 blockers are to be taken 30 to 60 minutes before eating (but only twice per day maximum).PPIs work by blocking a chemical system called the hydrogen-potassium adenosine triphosphatase enzyme system, which produces stomach acids. They reduce the production of acid and also increase the tone of the lower esophageal sphincter, thus preventing the acid from traveling into your upper airway and triggering a cough.One PPI, Prilosec, is available over the counter, whereas others, including Aciphex, Nexium, Prevacid, Protonix, and stronger Prilosec, require prescription. PPIs should not be used for longer than 8 weeks, unless directed by your doctor.For more ways to treat GERD, including dietary tips, see Treat Acid Reflux Naturally. Common suggestions include avoiding "trigger" foods like fatty or fried foods, drinking more water, and eating smaller meals throughout the day., Postnasal drip occurs when the mucus from your nasal passages and sinuses drips down the back of your throat. This can trigger your cough reflex. This condition is also called upper airway cough syndrome.The standard treatment for postnasal drip are antihistamines, such as Claritin, Zyrtec Xyzal, Clarinex, and decongestants (such as Sudafed tablets or liquid and Neo-Synephrine and Afrin nasal sprays). They can be found over-the-counter in your local pharmacy. Follow any directions on the label and do not use more than the recommended dosage because these medications can have side effects, including dizziness and dry mouth. You may want to consult your doctor before use, especially if you have medical problems such as high blood pressure or take other medications.More recently, Flonase and Nasacort, which are inhaled corticosteroids, were released for over-the-counter use. They are not addictive and should not be confused with a nasal decongestant spray.
 Smoking is the most common cause of chronic bronchitis, which can cause a chronic cough. Chronic bronchitis results in the long-term inflammation of your bronchial tubes, which are your major breathing airways. These changes can become permanent if you do not seek treatment or stop smoking. In addition to a chronic cough, chronic bronchitis can also cause wheezing and an inability to breath deeply and clearly.Smoking also irritates coughs from other sources, and can cause serious issues such as lung cancer.
Most people with chronic bronchitis either smoke or used to be smokers.
It's also important to avoid second-hand smoke, as this can trigger a chronic cough even if you aren't a smoker.
 If environmental allergens are causing your chronic cough, an over-the-counter allergy medicine can greatly help relieve your symptoms.Antihistamines (e.g., Claritin, Zyrtec, Tavist, Clarinex, and Xyzal), decongestants (Sudafed, Neo-Synephrine, Afrin, and Visine) and combination decongestant and antihistamine medications (Allegra-D or Zyrtec-D) are standard treatment for allergies.Antihistamines work to block the substance histamine in your cells, the production of which is your body's response to an "attack" by an allergen on your immune system. Histamine is what causes redness, itching, and swelling. Note that although some antihistamines may cause drowsiness, there are newer ones the market that are explicitly labelled as non-drowsy. Take as directed.Decongestants help to alleviate congestion and are usually recommended for use alongside antihistamines. Nasal spray and eye drop decongestants should be used only for a couple of days at a time because can worsen symptoms. Tablets and liquids can be used for longer. Follow the dosage and directions as specified on the bottle or box.Nasal corticosteroid sprays, such as Flonase and Nasacort, can be very effective in reducing nasal allergy symptoms and reducing allergy-related cough., If you are suffering from bacterial pneumonia, bacterial sinusitis, bronchitis, tuberculosis, or pertussis (whooping cough), your doctor will prescribe the correct kind and dosage of antibiotics according to your particular needs.Be sure to complete the full course of antibiotic treatment. For example, if your doctor prescribes a 10-day treatment, make sure to take the antibiotics as specified for the full 10 days even if you feel like your symptoms have been improving.

