 Although the amount of time spent in line will depend on the number of people, expect more than a ten minute wait. Items you should include in your backpack are:


Granola bars
Water bottles
A few sandwiches
Portable source of entertainment (ex: book);
, Form a list of the items you want to buy, and plan in what order you'll visit the stores. The best pattern for this is going to the most crowded stores first while leaving the more organized ones last. If you leave the crowded stores for last, they'll be filled by the time you get there.


Browse through the stores before Black Friday hits. Familiarize yourself with the aisles and what items are sold.
 Make sure they are close friends or relatives. They'll be the ones who will stand in line for you if you need to go to the bathroom or grab something. They'll also snatch needed items for you before anyone else can get it. Repay the favor for them as well.
 Three a.m. is a suggested time. As early as it may seem, remember that Black Friday is a special day. If you get there at seven in the morning, everything you planned to buy would be either in layaway or sold out. Before you leave, grab a bite of breakfast to keep yourself energized and ready to go.
 Get a few chairs from the camping aisle to sit in. Simply return them to the aisle when you've already paid for your items. You could also bring your own foldable chairs or a blanket/towel to sit on.
 Don't be afraid to pull out your backpack and munch on your packed items. This way, you'll avoid blacking out or losing energy during the mad rush to shop.
 Have a few shopping buddies stand in line for you while you and some other shopping buddies go find your desired items. Then, exchange positions and stand in line so your other shopping buddies can get what they want too.
 Don't fret if your item was $60.00 the last time you checked! If that item is on 50% off, it will cost you only $30.00.
 Open your items and wrap any presents you bought.
 Put on that shirt you bought, put up that picture of the beautiful mare horse, and try to wait until Christmas to give the gifts to the children.

