 You will want to choose a particular studying approach early on in the process. This will depend a great deal on the subject being studied and your personal preferences. Once you choose a format it is best to stick with it or only change once at most.


For example, if you are studying history facts it may be helpful to create quiz questions or ID term notecards. If you are learning a foreign language your notecards will likely focus on vocabulary practice or sentence structuring.
 This is probably the most commonly used notecard study method. You put a topic on one side of the card and you add your notes on that subject to the opposite side. These types of cards are also sometimes called “summary” or “concept” cards.If you notice that you are putting a great deal of information on the back of one card, it may be time to split that particular subject into multiple cards.
This system is also used quite frequently for quick memorization of specific terms. You put the term on one side and the definition or alternate translation on the other.
 Your cards can also help you to write a long or short paper. Arrange your cards with notes or key points in the order that they will appear in your essay. Move the cards around until the order makes the most sense. This is much easier than re-writing entire portions of your paper. When you are ready to write simply move from card to card adding additional information or transition sentences as needed.To keep everything clear, once you’ve established the order of the cards write a brief note at the top of each regarding its final location. For example, all introduction cards might have “Intro” in the upper corner.
Keep a set of notecards with your source information listed as well. One source per card. Include the title, author, publisher, publication date, etc. This information will be used to create your bibliography and references., Whether you are writing a paper or preparing for a test over various sources, you can use notecards to keep track of your research materials. Put the title and author on one side of the card and few statements about the argument, evidence, methodology, etc., on the other side.Depending on your end goal, you could also include a few points of criticism as well. For example, “Crit. for being unreliable in sourcing.”
As you take notes over sources, make sure to include quotations when pulling directly from the text. Otherwise, you could accidentally plagiarize if you use these materials when writing later.
 Put yourself in the mindset of your teacher or professor and ask: what questions would you include on an exam or test? Which topics must be covered? And, which ones are the least important? Come up with a list of the very best questions that you can think of and then transfer them to notecards. Put one question per card, leaving the flip side for brief answers.Use your cards to create a realistic practice test. Randomly select the same number of cards that will appear on the test. Give yourself the correct amount of time to finish answering. It is also helpful to write out your answers if that is what you’ll have to do on the actual test. When you are finished, flip the cards over and check your answers.You might also approach your professor or teacher after you’ve created the cards and ask them to look them over. Not all instructors will do this, but if they do it could help you a great deal., To make studying more exciting, it might help to get a bit competitive. Some apps with allow you to engage in flashcard competitions against your peers or classmates. This is like having a study group that meets virtually. You can even set-up the competitions to follow a timer. Quizlet is one of the more notable apps in this category.