 You can buy the grape vines in some craft or floral shops. However, they also grow in many places in the wild. You can get them from an arbor or even from a neighbor who grows grapes.


Sometimes you can find grapevines growing down fences, and some people grow them on a trellis in their yards.You can find the grapevine in some woods and along stone walls and roadsides.
It’s easiest to find grapevines in the end of August and the earliest days of September, although people find the vines from mid-summer through late fall.Many people use these vines to create wreaths for the upcoming holidays. You can also buy them for about $30 in flower shops.;
, Instead of hunting around for them, you could just plant your own. You will also get some actual grapes out of this method!Go to a nursery and purchase the grapevines. You want to choose vigorous 1-year-old plants for planting.Plant in early spring, and erect a trellis to train the vines to grow up.
Soak the roots in water for two hours before planting. Plant in a spot with full sun and about 6 feet apart. Dig a hole that is 2 inches deep and 12 inches wide. Fill the hole with about 4 inches of topsoil. Prune the leaves in the spring before the leaves grow long. Wind and insects will self fertilize the grapevines. Water the plants regularly, especially at their base., Once you’ve located the vines, use a pair of sharp shears to cut them. Then pull them out and away from their growing spot. Gather and untangle the pieces of the vine, and organize them into a bundle.


Remove the dried leaves or fruit that might still hang on the vines. You want to pull out the canes. Try to leave the curling tendrils if you can because it will make your wreath look better.
For a large wreath, you will want about 10 vines, six to eight feet long. For smaller wreaths, use thinner and shorter vines., Some people turn the vines into wreaths immediately after collecting them. That’s because it’s easier to mold them when they aren’t dry.


If you don’t want to do so, loosely wrap the vines in a bundle, and tie them together with tine or string. It will be easier to move the vines this way.
If you wait too long and the vines become brittle, simply soak them in water for a couple of hours, and they should be easier to twist.
 It will be easier to shape the grapevines if you use them right away after collecting them. Basically, taking a few of the thick vine strands, wind them around into a circular shape.


Make the first ring the size you want the wreath to be in the end, perhaps about 30 inches across. The first ring is the most important for this reason.
Start the process by looping the vines into a circle.Hold the thicker end of a strand in one hand, and loop the vine around in a circle as if winding up a garden hose.
 You will continue the process over and over again to continue making the grapevine wreath.


Every time you wrap the vine around the newly formed circle, twist it four or five times around the other pieces that are already in the circle.
Continue the twisting until you reach the end of the vine. Loop the vine around in the circle until you’re about midway through a second circle.
 This will help you to anchor the wreath together. It can sometimes take several attempts to do this.


Once the ring is secure, wrap the vine around the outside. Pull it back through to the inside of the circle in a spiral. Continue spiraling until you get to the end of the vine.
Tuck the loose ends into the body of the wreath. Because the vines are stiff, you probably won’t need to hold the circle together with string or wire. Wind the outer vines around the circle to secure it. Tuck in loose ends.
 Set the wreath somewhere so it will dry. This way it will take and hold its shape. It’s a good idea to store the wreath in a warm, dry place.


The wreath will shrink a little bit as it dries, so make it bigger than you want.Lie it flat, and do not hang it while it is still drying. If you hang the wreath before it dries, the vines might warp and make the wreath look too oval.
It usually only takes a few days to dry a grapevine wreath, as long as there is low humidity. The green grapevines will turn brown as they dry.
 You can leave the vines in a natural state or you can spruce them up with craft items to make them look better.Some possibilities include adding baby’s breath, dried flowers or ribbon. You can add items that will turn the vines into a Christmas or other gift. You could attach the items with a hot glue gun or florist wire. Decorate with plastic berries and bows for the holidays.You can use ornamental birds, silk ribbon ends; the possibilities are endless. Use your own creative spirit and artistic talents when figuring out how to decorate the wreath. Some people spray paint the grapevine wreaths.
 Now that you've finished your project, it's time to hang the wreath. First, choose the spot where you want to hang it. You can hang a grapevine wreath on a door or wall or outside on an arbor.


It's easy to hang the wreath. Simply hook one of the top grapevines on a nail. You could also loop a piece of wire through one of the top vines.
Twist the pieces of wire together, and then hang that onto the nail. You could also use a glue gun to glue a ribbon loop to the top of the wreath.

