 Your diary doesn’t have to have a specific purpose, and you can decide daily what you want to write or draw in it. However, if you find yourself not writing as often as you’d like, it can help to have specific diaries. It can be overwhelming simply trying to sit down and write about your life each day.


For example, you might want to keep a travel diary logging all the trips that you go on, and write down what you do on those trips.Also, if you have a hobby, like cooking or dancing, you might want to keep a diary related to achievements and things you’ve learned in your hobby.
If you like to write poetry or stories, you might want a diary in which you write a poem every day.
You could keep a diary in which you simply logged everything you did each day.
Thankfulness diaries help you keep track of all the things you’re thankful for.
You can also keep a diary of all the bad things in your life, just to rid yourself of those thoughts.
 The best way to find new inspiration is to simply sit down and write on a schedule. Pick a time that you enjoy sitting down to write. Don’t plan to write in your diary every morning if you hate getting up in the mornings.


Write something. Even if you don’t feel like writing in your diary one day, just write down a few sentences. Allow yourself to be brief if you don’t have a lot to say. It’s better to write something than nothing at all.
Unless you want to hide it in a special place, keep your diary somewhere that you’ll see it every day. That way, you’ll be reminded to write.
 If you’re stuck for inspiration on what to write, try some of these writing prompts.Choose ones that interest you, and write about them. Some prompts include:


“If I had three wishes I would...”
“What would you do with a million dollars?”
"Describe your ideal adventure."
"If I were an animal, I would be a..."
"My most prized possession is..."
"What are your pet peeves?"
"If you could have one superpower, what would it be?"
"What person from history would you most like to meet and why?"
"If you could time travel, would you?"
"What are your biggest fears?"
"What's your favorite holiday?"
"If you could create the perfect day, what would the weather be like?"

, Lists can be a great addition to your diary, and you’ll appreciate looking back at them and seeing how they’ve changed with time.


Write your favorites. List your current favorite books, songs, smells, clothes, places, foods, or colors.
Create a list of your favorite recent memories.
List out your friends, and write what you like about each of them.
Make a bucket list of things you’d like to achieve, see, or do in the next year or in your life time.
 Your diary is mainly a way for you to record your every day life, and all the fun parts of it, as well as the problems. A few general topics you can write about in your diary are:


Things you do each day
Problems you faced in a day
Your crushes
Fights with your family or friends
Things you were thankful for that day
Things you're looking forward to

, Read the poem, and write one with a similar rhyme pattern or subject matter.
 You can look back on them for future inspiration.
 Sometimes it can be scary to try to stare at a blank page in your diary, and try to think of things to write. Free writing can help you to just get started.


To free write, set a time limit for how long you will write, as brief or as long as you want.
Start your timer, and begin to write. Don’t stop writing for the entire time you have set. Write anything that comes to your mind, even if it is just, “I don’t know what to write.”
Once your timer goes off, stop writing and go back to read what you’ve written. You might find a phrase that inspires you.

