 First, you will need to remove the core of the head. Using a sharp knife, cut around the large “stem” in the center of the head, so that you are removing the hard center. Then, simply use your hands to break the head into smaller florets, and put them in your food processor., Once you’ve added all of the florets, pop on the lid. Use the pulse button to chop the florets in short spurts. Once you’ve pulsed a bit, you can switch to the blending feature. Let your food processor run until the cauliflower is finely ground., Use a rubber spatula or spoon to get all of the ground cauliflower out of the food processor and into a pan on the stovetop. Add your water to the ground cauliflower, which is necessary for cooking.
 Once you’ve added the water, turn your stove temperature to medium-high. You’ll want to cook your ground cauliflower for about five to six minutes. Stay at the stovetop, continuously stirring the mixture as it cooks. While you’re cooking, add a pinch of salt –or however much you desire in a pizza crust!, After five or six minutes of cooking, remove your pan from the heat. You can just turn off the stovetop and let it cool slowly on the stove. If you’re in a hurry, feel free to pop the pan near a window or in the refrigerator to cool it off faster. It’s important that the mixture has cooled before moving onto the next step., Once your mixture has finished cooling, transfer it onto a clean napkin or cheesecloth. Pick up the cloth from the corners, so that the cauliflower is in a pouch. Over your pan or over the sink, squeeze the cauliflower as hard as you can so that water drains from the cloth. Continue doing this until you aren’t getting any more water out.


This is the most important step of the process. In order to create sturdy crust that doesn’t fall apart when you pick it up, you have to get as much water out of it as possible.
 Once your cauliflower is thoroughly drained, it’s time to mix in the other ingredients. Put it in a mixing bowl and add the other ingredients. Use a rubber spatula or a spoon to blend this mixture up thoroughly. When you’re done, you should have something similar to dough., First, line your baking sheet with parchment paper. The crust can stick to foil, but it will not stick to parchment paper. Roll your mixture into a ball, and place it in the middle of the baking sheet. Press it out with damp fingers, until you’ve created a circle about 1/4 inch thick.If you want, you can create a ridge with your fingers around the perimeter of the dough, so that it will look a bit more like regular pizza crust.
 Preheat your oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit, or 200 degrees Celsius. Set your timer to 40 minutes. This is the typical baking time for the crust, but keep your eye on it. The crust is ready when it is a medium golden brown color., Once you’ve removed the crust from the oven, carefully flip it over. You want to build your pizza on the bottom side. While you are adding your toppings, turn the oven up to 450 degrees Fahrenheit, or 220 degrees Celsius. This is where the customization happens. Add whatever toppings you like on pizza!You can make a “traditional” pizza with things like tomato sauce, cheese, and pepperoni. If you want to get unique, try adding something like barbecue sauce, pesto, or Alfredo sauce.
 Remove it from the oven when it looks finished to you. The edges will crisp up even more when you make it the second time. Transfer your pizza to a cooling rack for about five minutes before you try to cut it. This will help your cauliflower crust dry a bit and ensure that it doesn’t fall apart. Then, slice and enjoy!