 Pick your favorite...or mix 'n' match! (Since Los Angeles, Orange County and San Diego more or less flow together, hot vacation spots from all these places are included here.);
, (Wow!) They are (from north to south) Six Flags Magic Mountain; Universal Studios Hollywood; Knott's Berry Farm; Disneyland Park; Disney's California Adventure; Legoland California; and SeaWorld San Diego.
 You'll find Malibu Beaches (Malibu alone has 27 miles (43 km) of coastline!), Santa Monica Beach (with Palisades Park amusement area on the pier!), Venice Beach (home of the wild and weird); Manhattan and Hermosa Beaches (LA's beach volleyball mecca); Redondo Beach (including marina and pier lined with shops & restaurants); Huntington Beach (surfing and active sports headquarters); Newport Beach (has Balboa Fun Zone and harbor tours); Laguna Beach (art colony and famous because of MTV); Doheny Beach at Dana Point (good beach tent camping); San Onofre Beach (another famous surfing spot); Mission Beach (San Diego; with Belmont Amusement Park); Pacific Beach (San Diego) and Imperial Beach (closest beach to Mexico). And between THESE beaches? Why, there are still more beaches!

, Also check out the Yamashiro restaurant. It has incredible views of LA., Angeles Crest Highway, where you'll swear you're in Colorado; visit Big Bear lake and village, then drive the Rim of the World Highway; go boating and camping at Lake Arrowhead; take the Palm Springs Aerial Tramway ride for an outstanding view.
; visit downtown LA's jewelry and fashion districts; take a quick jaunt south...south of the border! Tijuana, Mexico is part of the "continuous city" which makes up Southern California; visit one of greater LA's many outlet malls---Ontario Mills in Ontario is the biggest, Viejas Outlet Center in San Diego has the most "atmosphere," and The Shops at Las Americas overlooks Tijuana from its back parking lot!

, For a very remote island experience, visit the islands of the Channel Islands National Park.
 But, Mission San Diego de Alcala beats even Olvera Street for age...being the first of the whole California Mission chain. (Other Spanish missions in Southern California include Mission San Luis Rey, Mission San Juan Capistrano, Mission San Gabriel, Mission San Fernando, Mission San Buenaventura, and Mission Santa Barbara. All are different, and all are worth paying a visit.) In San Diego, Old Town was the Spanish core of the city...and is a lively mix of historic displays, shopping, and dining. San Diego's Gas Lamp Quarter...which was the original "Gringo" downtown...is now a hip 'n' happening' nightlife center. San Diego's waterfront Maritime Museum is a "can't miss" spot for lovers of the sea.
,); whale-watching tours leave from several metro LA ports during the winter and early spring months; go snorkeling or scuba diving in the clear waters off Catalina Island.

