 "Jeopardy!" is intended as a test of general knowledge. Except for specialized versions of the game, such as "Rock and Roll Jeopardy!" and "Jep!" (a version of "Jeopardy!" for preteens), the categories selected for each round of the game should cover a broad range of knowledge without overlapping with one another.
 Even though "Jeopardy!" is a test of general knowledge, the show is creative with its category names and how it pairs categories in its games. Some of the methods are described below:


Theme boards. On a number of occasions, the 6 categories have names that suggest a common theme. For example, the Jeopardy! round of a game that aired in 2004 had a Shakespearean theme, with categories "Richard III" (about the king, not the play), "Much Ado About Nothing" (questions related to nothingness), "Measure for Measure" (covering units of measure), "Hamlets" (related to small towns), "The 'Temp'-ist" (all correct responses included words with the letters "temp"), and "Shakespearean Actors."
Paired categories. When an entire board is not devoted to a single theme, categories may be paired creatively, such as a category named "St. Paul" about the apostle, followed by a category "Minnesota" about the state of Minnesota. On occasion, the same or a very similar category name may be used in the Jeopardy! and Double Jeopardy! rounds to cover different subjects, such as "Notions" used in the Jeopardy! round for a category about ideas and in the Double Jeopardy! round for a category on sewing items.
Gimmick categories. In recent years, "Jeopardy!" has developed a few gimmick categories that test players' knowledge beyond simple recall. In "Stupid Answers," the key word of the correct response appears somewhere in the clue. (For example, "While Billy Batson says 'Shazam!' to become Captain Marvel, Freddy Freeman says these words to become Captain Marvel, Jr." "What is 'Captain Marvel'?") In "Rhyme Time," the correct response must include a pair of rhyming words. (For example, "What is a green bean?") In "Before and After," the correct response is a name or phrase composed of 2 parts made into a portmanteau. (For example, "Longtime host of 'American Bandstand' who is secretly Superman." "Who is Dick Clark Kent?")
Traditional category names. "Jeopardy!" has established traditional names for some of its categories, such as "Name's The Same" for 2 or more items with the same name, "Unreal Estate" for fictional places, and both "Potpourri" and "Hodgepodge" for general knowledge. Category names that include quotation marks about part of the name indicate that correct responses will include the letters or word enclosed in the quotes.
Category name puns. "Jeopardy!" category names frequently are plays on words, such as "See What the CAT Scan Dragged In" or "I'll Be Your Waiter," about people who waited for something. The show has frequently punned its "Potpourri" category name with such categories as "Poe-Pourri" (about Edgar Allan Poe), "Pope-Pourri" (about popes), and "Pan and Pot-Pourri" (about cooking).

