 Even after forgiveness, the rawness of the conflict might still linger and issues of trust are still not strong. Don’t rush back too soon. Instead take the time and necessary steps to rebuild your trust by showing maturity, patience, and understanding.Don’t assume that once you are forgiven that everything will go back to the way it was. It will take time to establish the same level of understanding you had before the disagreement.
Remember who you are giving valuable time and attention to and try to get her to reciprocate. That way, the slower you go the faster you will get to forgiveness. Finding out if she is on the same page as you can help you formulate reasonable and realistic expectations moving forward.
Take time to make sure you are on the same page. Taking things slowly will put her mind at ease and encourage her to communicate more clearly about future expectations. It will also give you time to bond all over again.
 Good communication is the key to any kind of healthy relationship. If she accepts your sincere apology, start building better lines of communication so that you talk through any issues in the future. Being open to communication might mean discussing things that you never have before and trusting her to empathize with you.Pay closer attention to nonverbal signs that you did in the past. For example, look for signs in body language, tone of voice, or eye contact. These nonverbal signs are important, but you have to be patient and learn how to read them. These can be either positive or negative.
Always stay focused on the present moment. Try not to give off disinterested signs or be thinking about something else when she is talking to you. Be interested in talking and listening to her while you are together.
Minimize your emotions when discussing serious topics like money, sex, politics, or religious beliefs. These are topics are lightning rods for emotional responses. Remain rational and understanding, even bite your tongue if necessary, or even cede the conversation in their favor to avoid an emotional outburst.
Remember communication is not just talking face-to-face but other ways exist: nonverbal, phone, texting, email, and Facebook or Twitter. Always be cautious of the words you type, but keep in mind that a friendly message once in a while to let them know you are thinking about them is a good idea.
 Although we find comfort in routine, try to find something new to do together to build a connection. Think about things you both enjoy like sports, amusement parks, theater, cooking, or relaxing in the park. If you spend all your time analyzing each other and trying to find solutions, you will forget to have fun and the reasons why you care about her in the first place.It can also be with friends. Make sure it is a time you can relax without tension and simply enjoy the moment together or with friends.
Don’t try too hard. Getting too elaborate might seem too formal or serious. Keep your focus on fun and enjoying the experience.
Take it slow. Don’t try to do something special every night. Instead, plan something for day during the weekend. Let the memories sink in during the week so that she will realize how much you really care about her.

