 If you’ve tried your hand at creating a word from scratch but haven’t had much luck, you may want to consider a portmanteau. A portmanteau is a word or morpheme whose form and meaning are derived from a blending of two or more distinct forms (as smog from smoke and fog) .


Write down some of your favorite words on a piece of paper. Spend some time mixing and matching the words together. You’ll be surprised by all of the fabonderful (fabulous + wonderful) words you come up with.;
, There are a plethora of words to choose from when you expand your search to those found in other languages. Loanwords, or borrowings, are words which are adopted into a native language from a different source language. Such borrowings have shaped the English language almost from its beginnings Buy or borrow a Spanish, French, German or Italian dictionary. Highlight some of your favorite words and then write them down on a sheet of paper. You’ll want to modify the words slightly, as the intention isn’t to use the same word, but to create your own.
Rent a movie in a different language. Don’t use the captions and listen as the actors speak. Have a pen and paper on hand and write down what you think the words are that are being spoken.
 "Google (it)" has quite literally been transformed from a company name, into a verb. There are no shortage of objects or nouns that can also be repurposed with a bit of imagination.


To start, try spotting objects around your house and use them in a sentence as a verb. Don't expect everything to catch on, but over time, you may find one that will be a hit.
 Inspiration for new words can be found in surprising places. One such place is in your own family. Young children, who are learning how to speak, often don’t get it right on the first try. They create their own language as they navigate the English language.


Ask your young child what their favorite word is. If they are able to write, have them write it down. Otherwise, do your best to spell out what they are saying.
Listen to the babbling of your baby. You’ll be surprised how many words you come up with in a short amount of time.

