 The easiest way to fire a rubber band off your finger is by hooking it on the tip of your index finger, pulling it back and lettin' it rip. To fire the band off your index finger:


Place the rubber band on the tip of your index finger, pointing your finger where you want the rubber band to go.
Pull the rubber band back with your other hand, past your raised thumb.
Let go of the rubber band to let it fire, or hook the rubber band onto your thumb.
If you hook it onto your thumb, move your thumb forward and let it slip off to fire.;
, Firing rubber bands off your thumb is a good way of making sure that the band won't catch and snap against the back of your hand when you're firing. You can also get a lot of power out of it. To fire a rubber band off your thumb:


Hook the rubber band around the tip of your thumb, pointing your thumb in the direction you want the rubber band to go.
Point the tip of your thumb forward so it will slip off the end of your thumb easily.
Grab the other end of the rubber band with your other hand, pulling it back as far as it will go.
Release the rubber band with your other hand to let it fire.
 One creative way of firing a rubber band involves using your index finger to create a pivot, from which you can pull the band back and release it with your other fingers. To fire a rubber band this way:


Place your hand with your palm facing up.
Hook each end of the rubber band around your middle finger and thumb.
Use your index finger to stretch the rubber band forward a few inches, pointing it in the direction you want the band to travel, and pulling it tight.
Let the rubber band slip off your middle finger and thumb simultaneously to release it.
 The most-complicated, but also most-classic way of firing a rubber band is by shaping your hand into a gun and wrapping the band around to really let it fly. To fire a rubber band this way:


Make your hand into a gun shape, with your thumb as the hammer and your finger as the barrel. Point your index finger in the direction you want the rubber band to go.
Hook the rubber band around your pinkie, pulling it back toward the inside of your wrist.
Hook the rubber band all the way around your thumb.
Secure it on the very tip of your pointer finger.
To release the rubber band, let go with your pinkie.

