 Choose a color of denim that’s right for you. Vests come in many shades of blue, a variety of blacks and even whites. Denim is typically available in several types of washes as well to really add a variety of color. Choose one that best suits your tastes and personality.;
, Pick from a wide variety of denim vest styles. Do you want a lot of pockets? Maybe distressed denim is more of your thing, complete with holes tears and rips. Or maybe you’re looking for a denim vest with a wide variety of zippers and buttons. Perhaps your perfect vest is a combination of all of these factors. Denim vests come in almost every style you can imagine – keep looking until you find one you love.


Be aware that denim vests are great for layering during the warmer months of the year. In other words, vests are typically worn with other items of clothing. Be careful not to buy something too distressed to go with elegant clothing and vice versa. , Determine what fit works best for you. Denim vests range from flowing down to the waist to hovering just above the belly button. Vests can also vary in their tightness, whether you’re looking for slightly baggy and loose fit or an elegantly tight fit. Try to choose one that highlights your natural features or other parts of your wardrobe, whether it be a t-shirt or stylish skirt.


A tighter or smaller denim vest will highlight what you’re wearing over your legs. Have a favorite pair of pants? Go for a smaller fit. Larger, looser vests serve to really unite an outfit in the same way a light jacket can in the fall. If you’re unsure or wish to wear your new vest with almost everything, aim for something in the middle., A denim vest is typically worn during hotter months to spice up summer outfits. Add it to your own favorite summertime outfits to make your look more interesting and give yourself a fashionable edge. It’s also seen as more on the casual side due to its association with jeans, so don’t try to pull it off in more elegant situations unless you’re extremely confident it works. While it’s possible to wear a denim vest during colder seasons, the lack of bulk and cloth make the item of clothing little more than a fashion accessory. Save your denim vest for spring, summer and early fall.
 Pair your denim vest with existing items in your wardrobe. A vest is usually paired with sundresses, shorts, a floor-length skirt, and loose fitting pants. If it’s spring or fall, you can also pair a denim vest with an all-black outfit to give it a pop of color


Denim vests are best paired with black outfits, crop-tops, colorful pants, and stripes to both spice up and neutralize worn colors. Wearing denim vests with other denim is doable, but requires the two items of clothing to be of two obviously different washes. , After you’ve properly sported your denim vest, know how to properly keep it clean. Denim is a very strong material – originally invented to withstand a blue-collar workday – but is very sensitive to washing. Washing too much can cause your denim to lose its color.


Spot-clean your denim vest with a toothbrush and a minimal amount of laundry detergent. This will only clean the vest on a need-to-clean basis and save it from the wear and tear of a normal washing machine. Soak your vest in vinegar and water. Water itself will cause the vest to lose its color. Vinegar helps conserve the color. Soak the vest for about an hour before hanging it up to dry. The same technique can be used with a washing machine by washing your vest on the hand-wash setting and adding vinegar over laundry detergent. , Since denim vests are typically a summer item, pick out a pair of sunglasses to go with your own. The pair you pick should go along with the look you’re looking for – if your vest is serving as a pop of color for an all-black outfit, wear neutral black sunglasses. If your vest is serving to neutralize an already interesting outfit, keep the outfit especially interesting with a pair of over-the-top aviators.


Use the same fashion tips as you would when picking out an outfit to go with your denim vest. Shades of black, colorful highlights, and neutral browns go great with a wide variety of denim colors. Make sure your sunglasses follow suit.
 A great way to accessorize your denim vest is the addition of buttons. Whether you’re adding a button with a band logo, a political slogan, flower pattern or funny saying, the button-on-denim look has been a staple of fashion for decades. Find or buy a wide variety of colors to really rock the style.Be aware that buttons can be damaging to any item of clothing, including denim. If your denim vest is more on the elegant side, you may want to shy away from adding buttons. However, if your denim vest is more rustic and worn, a button is practically begging to make its home there.
 A fantastic way to accessorize your vest is to add patches. Use the same rules as when adding buttons and don't be afraid to venture out beyond band name logos or funny sayings. Add something uniquely your own.Patches serve as a great way to show off your stylistic expression as well as your personality.


Patches also come in many popular shapes. It’s not at all unusual to find patches in the shapes of flowers, hearts or even animals. Choose whichever shape you feel says the most about you.
 It’s not at all unusual to decorate denim clothing with a colored marker or paint. Are you artsy and see your vest as a blank canvas? Make your vest the way you feel it should be if you feel it’s too plain. The greatest thing about denim is how much wear and tear it can take – take advantage of this fact and make the vest your own!

