 However, know that pre-medical programs also offer other graduate studies, such as pharmacology. If you want to pursue these fields, pre-med is still for you. Be sure, however, because the time, effort, and commitment put into pre-medical program, plus the preparation to be admitted to one, differs greatly from other fields.;
, All major universities believe that getting into college is indeed a four-year process. At the latest, you must start preparing during the tenth or eleventh grade, as after this, your chances of getting into a good premedical program if you haven't prepared before are close to nothing.
 This can be done by talking to a counselor, or reading a course description book. Information can be found online on the websites of some high schools. Plan out the courses you will be taking for all four years. First, fill in the required core classes, such as English, Mathematics, Social Studies, and Science, for all four years in high school. Even if not required by a school, they are critical to success. Try to take at least four years of the same language (Spanish, French, etc.) Several high schools have certain requirements, such as one year of English electives, one year of computer credit, one year of physical education, etc. Fit in these courses next. Attempt to finish most of them within freshmen and sophomore year, so that you can take advanced courses available to only juniors and seniors.
 While AP (advanced placement) is often reserved for upperclassmen, honors courses are available to the majority of high school kids. For example, can you make that, "Chemistry", in your tenth year, "Honors Chemistry?" Colleges and universities take the difficulty of curriculum into account.
 Aim to have as least normal courses as possible. It will be hard to take honors and AP if you are a lazy student, but you can change that by putting homework and studying first. If you are efficient, you will always have time to relax. However, remember that high school is not the time to socialize only, it is the time to work for your future.
 Take other AP or honors courses in the place of electives, because it will help your college application. Make sure you fill any prerequisites beforehand. Do not hesitate to seek tutoring, often offered in the community or school, if you need it. Talk to your counselor and science teacher about your interests. Maintain good grades and good relationships with teachers who can give you college recommendations.
 Also, take AP biology, AP Chemistry, and AP Physics. These are crucial. If you can, take English, Social Studies, and math in honors and AP as well. Some schools offer science electives, such as Human Biology, and Human Anatomy. Take as many of these as possible to show your interest in medicine.
 Balance out your college application.

