 If you want to become a medical diagnostician, you'll need to become a physician. To do this, you'll need to get into medical school, which is quite competitive. Begin preparing early by getting excellent grades and participating in extracurricular activities.


Great grades, standardized test scores, and a strong resume of extracurriculars make you a more attractive candidate to prestigious colleges.
While in high school, get involved in science or biology clubs to learn more about science and whether a career in medicine is right for you.
 The first step toward becoming a doctor is getting your bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university. You can choose from a variety of majors, but The College Board lists pre-medicine, biology and exercise science as suggested majors.You’ll need excellent grades in order to get into medical school, as admissions are highly competitive.
While you’re in college, participate in extracurricular activities that will help you look competitive as an applicant for medical school. Join a science club, volunteer at a hospital or hospice center, or tutor other students in science.
 The MCAT stands for Medical College Admission Test (MCAT). College juniors who plan to apply for medical school should register to take the MCAT. It is a standardized, multiple-choice exam that medical school admission committees use to assess how likely an applicant is to succeed in their program.The MCAT is notoriously rigorous. Make sure to study hard for it, giving yourself lots of time to prepare, rather than trying to cram or wing it.
Get a tutor if you need one. You can hire a private tutor or attend a test prep class offered by a private company.
 In order to be a medical diagnostician, you’ll need a medical degree. To do this, you must attend medical school. Most medical schools in the US use the American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS), which centralizes the application process. This way, you can choose your preferred medical schools and submit a single application that will go to all of them.Apply to several medical schools. The application process is highly competitive, so it’s good to have a backup plan if you don’t get into your top schools.
Most students begin the application process for medical school during the summer after their junior year in college. Some choose to take a year off after completing their undergraduate degrees before applying.
 Medical school is generally four years of intensive, full time study. The curriculum includes classroom-based instruction as well as hands-on work that will bring you into a clinical setting.You’ll also need to receive a passing score on the first two parts of the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE). This is a three-part exam.
You must pass the first part of the exam before entering your third year of medical school. The second part is taken during your fourth year. This second part focuses more heavily on patient diagnosis, which is key to becoming a diagnostician., Your medical residency is generally a three year period after medical school when you work intensively in a specific field of medicine. It’s during this time that you get most of your experiential education to be a professional doctor. The process of matching with a residency program is complicated, but all doctors in training must go through it.If you’re planning to be a diagnostician, aim for a residency that will support that aim. Areas of specialization that are heavily focused on diagnostics include: internal medicine, emergency medicine, family medicine, pediatrics, neurology, psychiatry, radiology, radiation oncology, dermatology, and pathology.
Once you’ve completed your residency, you’ll also need to pass the third part of the USMLE and get a state license in the state you plan to practice in.
You may also choose to become certified by a board in a specific field. This is not always a requirement in order to practice in a field, but it boosts your credentials and can make you eligible for jobs such as being a medical director in a hospital or clinic.
 Many doctors begin looking for jobs during their residencies. It’s also common for residents to transition to full-time positions wherever they’ve done their residencies.If you’re looking to do something that would give you more experience in diagnostics, you can search for jobs elsewhere.
Recruiters from hospitals and private practices often seek out young doctors to hire for open positions.
 Differential diagnosis is when you take a given symptom and from that determine what it could be caused by. Diagnosticians are familiar with a range of symptoms and their possible causes. When a patient presents a given symptom, use your knowledge of medicine to determine what probably and unlikely causes are.There are online tools that offer "instant differential diagnosis." These can be useful and interesting to the lay person, but nothing replaces a doctor's thoughtful and experienced opinion.
 The way to build a career on being a diagnostician is to hone your skills and practice. Whether you work at a hospital or in a private practice, you can become well known as someone who does excellent diagnosis by taking your time with patients, asking the right questions, and remaining curious.Pay attention to the context in which a patient’s symptoms arise and the background story they tell you.Don’t discount uncommon possibilities simply because they’re not the most obvious.Master the art of physical examination and reading any kind of diagnostic tools, such as electrocardiography machines and medical imaging.

