 To gain access to the Dark Portal, you will need to take the “Outland!” quest from either the Warchief Command Board (Horde) or the Hero’s Call Board (Alliance). These can be found in all the major capital cities in Azeroth.


You will need to be at least level 58 to start the “Outland!” quest.
Horde players can find the boards at Orgrimmar, Undercity, Silvermoon City and Thunder Bluff. Alliance players can find them at Ironforge, Darnassus, The Exodar and Stormwind City.
You can also use the quest “Through the Dark Portal” to gain access to the Outlands. This quest is available for both Alliance and Horde players on the Blasted Lands side of the Dark Portal.;
, In earlier versions, getting to the Blasted Lands could be fairly difficult. After recent patches, portals have been opened in all major capitals that make getting to the Blasted Lands a snap. You can find these portals next to the Mage Trainers.


If you don’t know where the Mage Trainer is in your city, ask one of the guards for directions.
The portal by the Mage Trainer will take you directly to the Dark Portal.
If undertaking “Through the Dark Portal”, speak to the NPC on the Blasted Lands side of the Dark Portal before going through it.
 When you enter the Dark Portal, you will be transported to the Eastern edge of Hellfire Peninsula. You will arrive on the Stair of Destiny, where you will see a large battle raging at the bottom. Ignore the battle and instead talk to the NPC for your faction (Commander Duron for the Alliance, Lieutenant General Orion for the Horde).
 After speaking to the NPC on the other side of the Dark Portal, you will be given instructions to take a report to the base for your faction. Don’t try to run through the battle that is happening at the bottom of the Stair of Destiny. Your character will most likely be killed by monsters far too powerful for you to currently handle. Horde players will take a flight to Thrallmar by talking to Vlagga Freyfeather.
Alliance players will head to Honor Hold by talking to Amish Wildhammer.

