 Chew slowly and carefully. The days of taking huge bites of food or "wolfing down" your meal are over once you get braces. SLOW is your new motto!Foods that you used to eat by the handful should now be eaten one at a time - like chips, for example., Especially within the first few days and weeks of getting your braces put on or tightened, it may be all but impossible to bite into anything with your front teeth for a while. Instead, bite and chew on your side and back teeth.Learning to use your side and back teeth more will also help prevent food from getting visibly stuck in your braces, which is what often happens if you bite into something like a sandwich, pizza, or burrito with your front teeth., Though there are lots of foods that are better than others for your braces, you don't have to cut all of the non-ideal foods out of your diet. Instead, use your creativity and make appropriate modifications that accommodate your appliance.


Cook hard or crunchy foods. Foods that have a heavy crunch, like vegetables, could loosen the brackets on your braces if eaten raw. However, a lot of vegetables, such as carrots and celery, soften when cooked. So cook them before eating and this way avoid having to make an emergency visit to your orthodontist!
For foods or meals that are likely to have hidden chunks of meat or vegetables, such as burritos, sandwiches, and wraps, your best bet is to eat these with a fork and knife.Foods traditionally considered bite-size or a single serving, like a sushi roll, are challenging to eat with braces. There is the possibility of choking or gagging if you eat these foods whole. Instead, try cutting pieces and portions in half to make sure that you can chew it slowly and completely.For foods with cores or pits, such as apples, pears, and peaches, slice them into thin pieces, instead of biting into them. You can even eat corn on the cob by running a sharp knife down the length of the cob and cutting off all of the kernels., If you find that eating becomes painful or unmanageable because of poking brackets or mouth sores (called cankers), try applying dental wax. Dental wax forms a barrier between your bracket and gums and lips and can provide hours of pain relief from irritation. 