 Add 2 cups (250 g) of all-purpose flour and ½ teaspoon (2 g) of salt to a medium bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are fully combined. Set the bowl aside., Add 1 cup (227 g) of unsalted butter that’s been softened to room temperature and ½ cup (63 g) of powdered sugar to a separate large bowl. Use an electric mixer to beat the two together on medium speed until the mixture is light and fluffy.You can mix the shortbread dough in a stand mixer if you prefer.
You can mix the dough by hand with a wooden spoon, but it will require more time and effort.
 After you’ve creamed the butter and sugar, add ½ tablespoon (7 ½ ml) vanilla extract to the bowl. Blend the mixture on medium until the vanilla is fully incorporated.If you prefer, you can substitute almond extract for the vanilla or use a combination of the two extracts.
 Once the vanilla is blended into the butter mixture, gradually add the flour mixture to the bowl. Mix in the dry ingredients on low until the mixture starts to form large clumps.It’s best to add a small amount of the flour mixture and mix the addition in before adding any more.
 When the dough has started to come together, add ¾ cup (75 g) of maraschino cherries that have been drained and finely chopped and ⅔ cup (115 g) of chocolate chips to the bowl. Use a wooden spoon to gently mix the cherries and chips in until they are fully incorporated.You can use whatever type of chocolate chips you like for the shortbread. Milk, semisweet, and bittersweet all work well with the cherries.
 After you’ve mixed in the cherries and chocolate chips, use clean hands to form the dough into a log. Press on the log to ensure that it’s firmly packed, and wrap it in plastic. Allow it to chill in the refrigerator for at least 1 to 2 hours.You can make the dough the day before and allow it to chill overnight if you prefer.
 When you’re ready to make the cookies, set the oven temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat. Next, line a baking sheet with parchment paper to prevent the shortbread from sticking.You can use a silicone baking mat in place of the parchment paper if you prefer.
 When you’re ready to bake the cookies, use a knife to cut the dough log into ¼- to ⅓-inch (6- to 8-mm) thick slices. Place them on the baking sheet at least 1-inch (2.5-cm) apart, and bake them in the oven for 10 to 15 minutes, or until they become a light golden brown.If the slices crumble as you cut them, use your fingers to press the dough back together.
 When the cookies are finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Leave the cookies on the sheet for 5 minutes to cool before transferring them to a wire cooling rack to finish cooling for another 15 to 20 minutes.