 There are certain chores that a senior citizen will have difficulty performing and could benefit from someone’s assistance. Doing things like sweeping and mopping floors, cleaning the bathrooms, vacuuming, washing windows, and cleaning the kitchen will greatly assist a senior citizen.


You can always say something like, “How about I give you a hand mopping the floors today?” Ask them which tasks need to be completed and set to work getting those things done! , Senior citizens may not be able to move, bend, and lift as well as younger individuals. If a senior citizen is living in their own home, they may need help with yard work, especially in the fall and spring seasons. Take a look at their yard and then talk about what things you can do to clean it up and keep it looking nice. You can say, “It looks like the garden has some weeds that need to pulled and the lawn should be mowed soon.” Once you start a conversation about it, you can find out specific things you can do for them.


Remove debris, like fallen branches, from the yard.
Cut down branches on trees that are taking up too much space or look like they need to come down.
Pull weeds in the garden.
Rake leaves in the autumn.
Mow the lawn as necessary.
Assist with snow and ice removal to prevent dangerous falls.
 Some senior citizens love gardening and regard it as a beloved and rewarding hobby. A strong pair of hands can be a great help to a senior citizen while gardening. There is a lot of bending of legs, being on one’s knees, scraping, and back bending that an older person might have trouble with or be unable to do.


Be prepared to work hard and do a lot of pulling and bending. Try wearing knee pads to take the pressure off your knees when working on the ground., Many senior citizens need assistance with grocery shopping because they cannot lift heavy objects very well.


Talk about the groceries and supplies they will need for the next week or two and then put together a shopping list.
Offer to drive them to the store or simply go on their behalf. If they go with you, take your time going up and down the aisles and make sure that they have everything that is on their list and more.
Carry all of the grocery bags into their residence and put the groceries away.
 If you have a car and a valid driver’s license, set aside a few hours to drive a senior citizen around to do all of their errands. They may need to do things like go to the post office, go to a certain store, go to an appointment, drop something off, etc.


Before you go out, sit down and talk about all of the places they need to go and what time their appointments are. Then figure out the most efficient way to complete the errands. Be sure to be prompt in picking them up if you first dropped them off somewhere.

