 Bark-control collars will reduce excessive or unwanted barking by your dog. However, they do not address the reason your dog is barking, and will not help your dog understand that they do not need to bark. In other words, your dog will still feel the stress that leads to barking, whereas training to address fear or territorial behavior is a better way to reduce both your dog’s bark, as well as the discomfort they may be feelings.Use spray or ultrasonic collars temporarily. If you need relative silence for a specific period of time, an anti-bark collar can reduce your dog’s barking.
Spray collars will expel a burst of citronella when you dog barks, interrupting them and deterring continued barking. Similarly, ultrasonic collars will emit a sound that only your dog can hear.
Do not use these collars with dogs that have high-pitched barks, nor around other dogs.
Never use shock collars to inhibit barking, as this is inhumane.
 It can be hard to get the attention of a dog that is old or does not have full hearing. Fortunately, you can get a collar that can be made to gently vibrate by remote control. This can be used to train, or simply get the attention of a dog that cannot hear or see.It is not mandatory to get a vibrating collar is your dog is deaf, though it can greatly help with training and social interaction.
Options vary widely. Talk to a trainer about what type of collar and training are likely to work the best for your dog.
 While surgically implanted chips are an option to help ensure you never lose your dog, you can also get a collar with a chip in it. These collars use global positioning satellites to identify their position anywhere on the planet!There a various products and brands you can choose from. Make sure to opt for a collar that employs "A-GPS" which includes updated technology to improve GPS readings.
Expect to pay somewhere between $40 and $80 dollars for this sort of collar, depending on attributes such as battery life of the device.
 If you often take your dog on walks at night, get them a reflective collar. This will increase both their safety and your own. These are usually made of nylon, with various types of light-reflecting accents. Definitely get your dog a reflective collar if you ever let them off leash at night or in low-light areas.