 Although those premade cocktail mixers are convenient, many are loaded with extra sugar and calories. To keep your summer cocktail on the healthier side, skip these mixers.Whether it's a margarita, daiquiri or piña colada, you can often find a premade mix in the grocery store or liquor store; however, these usually are higher in calories.
Instead of using these mixes, consider making your own cocktails from scratch. You'll be able to control the calories and total sugar much more easily.
Look for recipes online for your favorite drink mixes so you know what ingredients you need to use to make these beverages.;
, Many summer cocktails are mixed with one or more juices to give them a sweet flavor. Make sure you're careful about the type and quantity of juice you use in your summer cocktails.


Although juice isn't overly unhealthy, it usually contains a ton of sugar.
If you're using juice, always choose 100% fruit juice and stay away from the fruit juice cocktails and fruit flavored drinks.These have added sugar are are overly high in calories.
Also, keep the portion of juice low. Mix more seltzer water or diet soda instead of fruit juice. This will allow you to have some of the flavor, but keep total calories and sugar in check.
 Similar to fruit juice, many summer cocktails feature sodas to give them a little sweetness and extra fizz; however, sodas are also loaded with empty calories and sugar.


Sweetened beverages like sodas, are not something you should have in larger quantities or on a regular basis. Using them to make summer cocktails is something you should try to avoid or minimize.
Sodas and other sugary drinks have been linked to increased risk of developing obesity, type 2 diabetes and of having a heart attack.If you do want to have the fizz and flavor of some soda, go for diet sodas for a calorie-free beverage. Or, if you want to avoid artificial sweeteners, have a very small portion size (1 – 2 oz per drink) of soda.
 Another great tip for keeping your summer cocktail a little healthier is by keeping it simple. Whether you're ordering a drink out or are making some cocktails for friends, keep the recipe ingredients to a minimum.


Some summer cocktails have several ingredients. There could be multiple types of liquors, simple syrups, fruit juices, sodas, bitters, etc that can all end up adding up to a lot of calories or sugar.
Items that have just a few ingredients are easier to control. You'll only need to worry about the calories, sugar and portion size of just two or three ingredients.Consider ordering or making summer cocktails like a infused vodka and club soda or a mimosa with reduced calorie orange juice.
 Alcohol itself is relatively high in calories with roughly 7 calories per gram. Depending on the size of drink consumed, one can end up taking in more calories just from the alcohol before even considering the amount for calories from the rest of the ingredients in a cocktail.


Some liquors are overly high in sugar content, which makes them much higher in calories.Stick to distilled alcohol like vodka, whiskey, gin and rum. After being distilled, what remains is mostly alcohol with little to no carbohydrate content. A 1.5-ounce serving (1 jigger) has about 100 calories.
Liquors and cordials, like brandy or schnapps, are sweet to the taste which makes them a great summer cocktail mix in; however, this sweetness is from the extra sugar.
 When you're enjoying the occasional summer cocktail, make sure that you drink in moderation. Even if you choose healthier or lower calorie cocktails, you can still overdo it if you drink more than the recommended amount.


Health professionals will typically tell you to only drink occasionally and drink in small quantities. Women should have one serving of alcohol or less per day and men can have up to two servings daily.Also, don't drink on a regular basis. It's not recommended to have one to two drinks everyday either. Drink only occasionally during the week or month.
 Just like moderating how many drinks you have per day or per week, you also need to measure the overall portion size of your drink. This will help make sure you keep the total calories in check.


Again, even if you're making a healthier summer cocktail or found a recipe for a low-calorie drink, if you're not measuring the portion size and drink larger quantities of it, you'll still end up consuming more calories or alcohol than you should.
Always measure drinks that you consume. Measure them out when you're serving yourself at home or ask the bartender what the portion size is of drinks you order out.
In general, you want to have a mixed summer cocktail drink that has 1.5 oz of liquor or spirits. This counts as one serving of alcohol., If you want to keep your drinking moderate, make sure you eat as you sip your summer cocktail. This can help curb how much you drink overall.


If you don't have something to eat, or have an empty stomach when you start drinking, the alcohol will hit your body harder and more quickly.If you get a little tipsy or buzzed, you're more likely to drink and eat more and eat more. Alcohol increases the tendency to reach for salty, fatty and generally unhealthy foods, packed with extra calories. This inevitably causes weight gain and other health issues.
Instead make sure to eat a meal before having your summer cocktail or drink your cocktail along with some small appetizers. This helps slow the absorption of alcohol in your system.
In addition, alcohol can cause problems with the body's normal process of nutrient absorption and burning of energy. Since our bodies cannot store alcohol, removing it from the body takes preference over normal functions, which in turn interrupts the fat burning process.
 In addition to eating some food while you drink or before you drink, also plan on sipping on water too. This can help keep you hydrated and slow down your drinking pace.As a rule, try to alternate summer cocktails with a glass of water. This can help get in some hydrating, calorie-free fluids while you're also enjoying a cocktail.
For the whole day, it's recommended to aim for about 64 oz (2 liters) of clear, hydrating fluids. Go for water, sparkling water, or water with a squeeze of lemon or lime., The perfect combination of summertime flavor, this watermelon limeade is sure to please everyone. Make this ahead and have a pitcher on hand for BBQ or summer cookouts. To start, slice up some watermelon. Set aside three medium sized cubes of watermelon — these will be used to mix with the other ingredients.
In a glass, add the cubed watermelon, a squeeze of fresh lime juice and 1 teaspoon of agave nectar.
In a separate shaker cup, mix together 2 oz of a low calorie or "skinny" cosmopolitan mix and 1 oz of your favorite tequila. Shake together with ice.
Pour the shaken alcohol over the watermelon cubes and lime in your glass. Give it a quick stir and enjoy.
 If you enjoy a nice cold glass of summer tea or lemonade, this Arnold Palmer drink will definitely make you happy.


Start by making a pitcher of low calorie lemonade. You can make your own from scratch, by the premade diet lemonade or use the calorie-free lemonade flavoring packets.
Pour about 6 oz of the lemonade into a large glass with a few ice cubes. Then, measure out 1.5 oz of sweet tea flavored vodka. Add to the lemonade.
Gently stir or shake the lemonade and vodka mixture until combined. Serve over ice and enjoy.
 Another popular summertime drink is a mojito. Many times this sweet drink is overly high in calories and sugar. Try this lower calorie version instead.In a medium glass, pour in 2 oz of sake or rum (whichever you prefer). Add in a few ice cubes and stir to help chill the alcohol.
Also add in a splash of citrus flavored soda (like lemon lime), a splash a fresh lemon and lime juice and fresh mint.
Stir to combine all the ingredients. Try to bruise the mint gently to help release all the flavors. Serve over ice and enjoy.
 If you want to start your day with on a relaxing note, consider making yourself a mimosa. Full of 100% fruit juice, it's a great summer drink.


In a champagne or wine glass, pour in about 2 – 3 oz of champagne or sparkling wine. Choose a drier wine to cut down on the amount of sugar.
Then, add in about 2 oz of reduced-calorie orange juice. You can also use 100% orange juice, but this will have a more sugar and calories compared to the low-calorie version.
Stir gently and serve immediately.

