 It's important to know the basics before you start trying to make a difference. Listening to autistic voices will help you understand what the needs are, what hurts, and what helps.


Make sure that you are supporting all autistic people—nonspeaking autistics, late-diagnosed autistics, non-white autistics, female autistics ("mostly boys" is a myth), mentally challenged autistics, autistics with unusual behaviors, etc.
 Consider voices both in your local area, and on the internet. They can help you understand where needs are.
 For example, ask your school to celebrate Autism Acceptance Month, or for your town to celebrate Autistic Pride Day. You can reach out to organizations for resources.
 Is the environment autistic-friendly (understanding, flexible, not too loud, etc.)? Are autistic people given extra support so they can have equal opportunity? Does your school or workplace provide appropriate accommodations, and help autistic people figure out what they need?

, Once you have found helpful organizations, you might want to run a fun event to raise money for them. Try starting an autism acceptance walk, bake sale, art event, or other activity.
 Do people know how to approach an autistic person, help with sensory issues, and respect behavior that looks different? Understanding can combat stigma and exclusion.
 Some autistics may not speak, but they understand everything that is going on, even when they seem to be "elsewhere" (that may be when they are paying the most attention). Autism doesn't mean nothing gets through: it means everything gets through. Nonverbal autistic children have the same capacity as a non-autistic child for absorbing language in passive vocabulary—they understand all or most of what is said. Never talk about an autistic person as if they're not there. It's dehumanizing and objectifying.


Ask yourself—if an autistic person heard or read what you had to say, how would they feel? Think carefully about it. There will be autistic people in the audience, and they deserve to feel valued and loved.
 With the high suicide rates and barrage of hate speech, autistic people can have low-self esteem. Show that you support autistic pride, and that you value neurodiversity. This will help autistic people feel welcomed and loved.

