 Surround yourself with things that cheer you up, your favorite images, mementos, plants, or books. Don't forget to improve your lighting. Some people that suffer from seasonal affective disorder experience symptoms of depression if they don't have enough sunlight. If you are in a dim room, open up a window for some natural light. Or, if you are using artificial light, try lighting a lamp or candle to cheer you up.


If you are at work and in a poor mood, you can try to introduce things from home to make you feel more comfortable. These might be pictures or a certain air fragrance. You can even try bringing your favorite tea as a warm, soothing reminder from home.
 Even if your house doesn’t smell bad, a good smelling candle or favorite fragrance can lift your mood. Try aromatherapy, inhaling or topically applying essential oils, to cheer you up and reduce stress.Studies have found that lemon oil in particular elevates and improves mood,while bad smells in general make you feel tense, depressed, or angry.


Researchers are uncertain about what makes essential oils and aromatherapy effective. But, they believe that receptors in your nose stimulate parts of your brain which control emotions and memories., Spend some time cleaning or re-organizing your home or office. Research has shown that having clutter in your apartment or at work can increase your stress level greatly which can bring down your mood. Try to declutter the space, which can reduce your stress level and improve your mood.Donate, throw out, or recycle things you no longer need or want.


You might even find that organizing things to make them more functional may cheer you up.
 Color can greatly impact your mood. Consider painting a few rooms or adding decorative elements with a cheerful color to lift your spirits. Yellow is a good choice for brightening a space, while shades of pink might make you feel more playful.Don't think that you have to use the brightest, boldest shade of the color. Even a pale yellow can help you cheer up.


Try balancing several shades of cheerful colors. For example, you could alternate yellow and orange stripes to make a room feel more energetic and welcoming.