 There is no reason why the beans need to sit without flavor for 2 hours while they cook! After you've covered the dried beans with water and have the heat set to boil, toss in the following to cook alongside the beans for 1-2 hours. When done cooking, remove and discard before proceeding:

1 half white onion, whole
2-3 cloves garlic
1 large sprig epazote or Mexican oregano, Kick up the flavor with some of the most popular additions to a good pot of refried beans. Each of these flavors can be added after the onions, with the garlic, depending on how long you want them to cook. They will all mash up wonderfully with the beans.

Can of fire-roasted peppers
Can of green chilis
Chipotle peppers canned in adobo sauce1/2 fresh green bell pepper, chopped sauteed alongside the onion.
Cooked, chopped bacon bits.
 While some people love the simple, but rich, flavor of plain beans, every now and then you'll want a little extra kick to your dish. You can add a flavored stock or broth in place of the bean liquid to give a little more flavor to the beans, omitting the bean cooking liquid., Refried beans are a decidedly Latin American dish, but at their heart the are just a smooth, cooked bean paste, which has inspirations from across the globe. If you want to use navy or cannellini beans, nothing is stopping you, and some adjusted spices can make them an appealing dish in their own right:

When cooking the beans the first time in the water, add half an onion, a sprig of rosemary or thyme, and 2-3 cloves fresh garlic. You can also add bay leaves, celery, and whole carrots as the beans boil.
Fry up onion and garlic, like normal. Discard anything boiled with beans and add to pot.
Replace cumin/chili with any combination of the following spices:

Rosemary
Thyme
Oregano
Basil
A touch of cumin (1/2 teaspoon)


Drizzle finished beans with fresh lemon juice.
 Beans love to cook slowly, absorbing liquid as they do to stay tender and creamy as they cook. Once cooked, all you are really waiting for are the flavors to marry and develop without the beans drying out. This makes refried beans perfect for the moist, warm environment of a slow cooker, and they couldn't be easier:

Add dried beans, finely chopped onion and garlic, and 2 teaspoons of salt to the pot.
Add any desired spices, such as 1 tablespoon cumin and chili powder. If desired, add pork/ham bones or bacon strips for a richer flavor.
Cover everything with water.
Cook for 8-10 hours, adding more liquid if the beans seem to be drying out.