 You will be brought to Gameloft’s support page for all its games and the related issues.
 This will filter out only issues related to the game.
 A list of known issues is displayed on the page. Scroll through it to see if your bug has already been reported or if it’s a known issue. If it’s already there, you will not need to report it anymore.
 Scroll through the bottom of the page until you see a box titled “Was this information helpful?” Click on the “No” button then the “Contact form” button. You will be brought to the form for reporting issues to Gameloft. Populate each field properly. Provide as much detail as possible to aid Gameloft in their investigation and resolution.


Your name, email address, and country will be required. Type them in.
 Choose “Technical Issues” since your bug has something to do with playing the game.


It is also important that you provide the manufacturer, model, and firmware of the mobile device you’re using for playing. Gameloft needs to know if there are compatibility issues with your hardware.
Under the Game field, select “Spider-man Unlimited” from Gameloft’s list of games.
The last field in the form is for “Description.” Type in all the relevant details of your bug here. Be thorough and clear.
 If you want, you can upload up to three screenshots related to your bug or report. Choose the files from your computer and upload them with the form. These screenshots will help Gameloft in identifying and repeating your issue. These will also serve as support for the report you’re submitting.
 Your report won’t be sent just yet. A next page will display some known issues that may be related to yours. Review these. If your report is still valid, scroll through the bottom of the page until you see a box titled “Was this information helpful?”

, Your report will now be sent. You will receive an email with the ticket ID for your issue to acknowledge receipt of your report.


Gameloft’s customer care may get in touch with you. If they do, work with them to resolve your issue.

