 Generally, the best shredded chicken comes from a whole chicken, as you will get both white and dark meat. You can buy chicken pieces, but you may end up with too much white meat or too much dark meat. Remove all wrappings and paper from the chicken.









If you are short on time, you can purchase an already cooked rotisserie chicken at your local grocery store. This will save you the time it takes to cook the chicken and you can get right to the shredding. Note, however, that most rotisserie chicken has been seasoned.;
, Do not use warm or hot water as warm water can lead to bacterial growth in raw chicken. Pat the chicken dry and salt and pepper it if so desired. 








If you are cooking a whole chicken, you may have to remove the bag of extra parts that has been placed inside.
 There are several different ways to do this. The chicken must be cooked before it is shredded, as it will not shred easily if uncooked.










Boiling the Chicken: Place the chicken in a large pot. Cover the chicken completely with water or chicken stock. Chicken stock will give the chicken a saltier flavor. Add salt and pepper to your taste. Cover the pot with a lid and bring the water to a boil. Once boiling, reduce the heat to medium low and allow the chicken to cook for about an hour or until it is fully cooked. The chicken is done when there is no pink coloring and the meat comes off easily from the bone. If you are cooking chicken breasts, you should be able to tear parts of the chicken off easily with a fork.

Simmering the Chicken in a Skillet: (This method works best for chicken breasts.) Place one tablespoon of olive oil in a 12-inch skillet and heat on medium. Add the chicken breast top down and cook it for five minutes until it is golden brown on top. Add ¾ cup of water or chicken stock to the skillet and flip the chicken over. Place a lid on top and let the chicken simmer on medium heat for seven to ten minutes, or until the chicken is cooked all the way through. If the water or stock evaporates too quickly, you can add ¼ cup of water or stock.Using a Crock-Pot: This method works especially well if you’re cooking a whole chicken and have about seven hours before you need to serve it. Place your chicken in a crock pot. Add any seasoning you would like such as salt, pepper, paprika, etc. You do not need to add any liquid. Set the Crock-Pot to low, put the lid on, and let the chicken cook for about seven hours., Place it in a shallow pan to cool. It is best if you let the chicken cool thoroughly before you shred it, as it will be too hot to handle with bare hands when first removed from the pan or pot.
 There are several ways to do this. Make sure to remove all skin and pieces of bone.










Using your hands: Shred the chicken with your fingers as you pick it off the bone. Using your hands will result in larger pieces of shredded chicken. Simply pull the meat apart into chunks.

Using forks: Use one fork to hold the chicken steady. With the other fork, scrape and tear the chicken apart. Using forks will result in thinner pieces of chicken.Using a mixer: This method only works with chicken breasts. Using a mixer is the fastest way to shred chicken and will not hurt your hands or wrists. Place the chicken breasts into a mixing bowl and use a mixer on low speed. You don't need a high-end mixer. You can use an electric hand beater. It should take about one and a half minutes to shred two chicken breasts., See the ‘Ideas Section’ below for some great recipes that call for shredded chicken.
 Shredded chicken can be store in the refrigerator for about three days. If it will not be used in that time, freeze the chicken and then defrost it later.
, Taquitos are versatile and tasty; eat them as a meal, a snack, or bring them to a potluck!








, Chop up some celery, toast some bread, and you’ve got a delicious sandwich on your hands.
 These tacos might not be straight from the street, but they are sure to win praise.
 Very little is more comforting that a big bowl of homemade chicken noodle.
 This chicken-stuffed puff pastry can be served as an appetizer at a party, barbecue or any other festivity.








