 Bring your oriental rug outside so that you can lay it out on a flat surface. Sweep and clean the area before you begin to clean your rug.Vaccum the rug until most of the dirt and debris is lifted from it, then flip it over to the other side and repeat the process. After you vacuum, shake the rug to remove any additional dirt or debris.


You can also use an electric sweeper if your vacuum is not effective., Soak the entirety of the carpet on one side then flip it over and spray the other side with water. You should only have to do this for a few minutes on each side for your oriental rug to become saturated with water., You can use a mild liquid detergent or dish soap to clean your rug. Fill a bucket with one gallon of cold water and three tablespoons of your mild soap. Mix the solution together in your bucket.You can also use a mild shampoo for oriental rugs that are made from wool., You can use a long haired brush or a non-shedding sponge to clean your carpet.Dip your sponge or brush into your water and soap solution until it's saturated and lightly go over a small part of the rug. Wait up to ten minutes to see if the cleaning solution has an adverse effect on it before proceeding to the next step.


If the cleaning solution is changing your carpet's color or making the colors bleed, stop cleaning it and take it a professional.
 Lather your rug in the direction of the nap, or so that the fibers lay down, opposed to sitting up.Lather your carpet enough to create suds on the surface of the rug.
 Rinse the remainder of the cleaner off with the garden hose. Once you're done doing one side, flip the rug over and rinse the other side of it. The suds on the top of the rug should be washed off thoroughly before drying.
 Wet rugs can build mildew over time and create a bad odor. Once you're done rinsing your rug, it's important that you allow it to dry before putting it back to where it belongs. Use a squeegee to squeeze the rest of the water out of your rug, then allow it to dry flat on the ground. Remember to flip your rug over so that both sides can dry.If drying is taking too long try pointing a fan on to quicken the process.

