 Certain topics like politics, religion, and polarizing issues can cause heated arguments and may alienate some of your followers. If you don't want to engage in arguments or lose followers, avoid posting about these topics or post neutral comments.
 It’s easy to post or reblog something instantaneously, without giving it much thought. But is the story, image, or other content you’re posting really necessary? Does it contain content you’d feel was appropriate to communicate to someone in person? If not, reconsider sharing it at all.Imagine your mom, brother, or best friend is sitting beside you while you share something online. Would they be upset by what you’re posting? Offended? Grossed out? If so, don’t post it.
Use your judgement and try to imagine how you would feel if you randomly stumbled across the content you intend to post.
 Instead of posting about negative interactions with others, post only information about your positive interactions. For instance, don’t post content related to your child’s misbehavior or a conflict you got into with your spouse. Instead, post content related to your child’s good grades, or a pleasant date you went on with your spouse.Posting negative content is quite personal and could make others uncomfortable – even if they are not referenced directly in your post.
 If you’re using strong language in a post, you might want to limit it to only certain people, or adjust the settings on the post so that certain individuals cannot see your post. Or out of respect for your parents, for instance, you might choose to prohibit them from seeing your posts regarding a certain sensitive topic. Think carefully about your audience before sharing to social media.In other cases, you might want to share an inside joke with friends. Instead of opening the post up to all your social media followers, you might instead just send the joke as a group message directly to your friends.
 Nobody wants to know about your most recent bowel movement. Likewise, avoid sharing information (including imagery) about menstruation, colonoscopies, and urination. Unless you’re pregnant, losing weight, or have a cold, avoid sharing details about your physical condition and bodily habits.You can tastefully share some physical states or events. For instance, you might post that you gave birth to a child on social media. You could even post an image of the newborn wrapped snugly in a blanket. But it would be inappropriate to post an image of your child being born.

