 Go to the . A “Join Twitter Today” page will open.;
, Enter the name of the business on the first text box, the phone number or email address of the business on the second box, the password you would like to use on the third text box, and on the last box, enter the username that identifies with your business. The username should be less than 15 characters long.
 The “Sign up” button is below the text boxes and is in blue color. This will direct you to a new “Phone Verification” page.
 Select your country from the country field on the page by clicking the arrow button on the first box. On the second box, preceded by the country code, enter your business’s phone number.
 Click the big blue “Verify phone number” button. You will then receive a message in your phone containing the verification code. This code will be used in the next page that comes.


Once you receive the code, enter it into the text field area on the next page. Click the blue “Verify” button below to go to the Twitter account starting page.
 This button is blue in color and is found at the top left side of the Twitter account start page. This will take you to the page for choosing the business interest.
 On the “Business Interest” page, you will see a bold title “What are you interested in?” Below this title is a list of business categories. Select the category that best suits your business by clicking on it.


After that, click the large blue “Continue” button at the top right side of the page. The continue button will direct you to a suggestion page that contains Twitter accounts with interests similar as yours.
 On the suggestion page, click on the checkboxes to the right of each Twitter account you would like to follow. These are the accounts that share your business interests. You will be able to see what they are up to through their tweets. You are only able to see tweets of the accounts you have followed.


Click the large blue “Follow & continue” button on the top right of the page to begin following the accounts you selected. This will also lead you to “Customize your profile” page.
 This simply means adding images to your that speak more about your business and a brief description of what your business does. To do this:


Upload a profile picture—On the left side of the page is a square box. This box contains a camera icon named “Upload profile picture.” Click this icon then browse your computer to the location where the image you would like to use as profile is saved. Select that picture and click “Open” below to have the picture uploaded. The uploaded picture will occupy the square box mentioned above.
It is advisable to use the company logo as the profile picture. The picture need to be 400 x 400 pixels and 2MB maximum size. The picture format supported are JPG, GIF, and PNG.
Upload a cover photo—At the top part of the page is a rectangular box. Inside this box is a camera icon named “Upload header photo.” Click this icon then browse your computer to the location where the picture you would like to use as cover photo is saved. Select that picture and click “Open” below to have the picture uploaded. The uploaded picture will occupy the rectangular box mentioned above.
A picture to be used as cover should be able to communicate more of what the business does. It can contain the business products or the business colors. The picture needs to be 1500 x 500 pixels and 5MB maximum. The picture format supported for header pictures are JPG, GIF, and PNG.
Add a business description to your page—At the bottom left of the page are three text boxes. On the first text box, type a short description of your business. The description should be at most 160 characters long. On the second box, enter the location of your business, and on the last box, type the website address of your business.
 The “Save” button is found at the top right of the page. This will direct you to your new business Twitter home page.

