 It’s important that you continue making your existing payments as you complete the consolidation process. Until you’ve been informed that your loans have been paid off and your consolidation loan has taken effect, you are legally required to make those payments.
 If you’ve done your research and compared terms and interest rates from various companies, you should have a sense of which lender you would like to use. Call or email that lender to get the process started.


This is a good time to ask any questions you may have about the terms and conditions associated with a consolidation loan. Keep in mind, though, that you can only trust information that’s given to you in writing – don’t assume that lenders have your best interests at heart.
 Most companies will allow you to apply either in person or online. Either way, you’ll need to have the following information handy:


Your current address
Your Social Security number
The names, addresses, and phone numbers of at least two personal references
Proof of your monthly income
Information about your monthly expenses
The estimated amounts of all your loans to be consolidated. You may be asked for a “pay-off amount” for each loan. Contact your servicers to determine this amount.
All relevant loan account numbers
The names and addresses of your loan servicers. This information should be on your monthly statements.
 If your company of choice turns you down, you may have to try again with another company.


If you have poor credit, or if your income suggests that you will struggle to make your payments, you may have difficulty getting a consolidation loan with relatively favorable terms. If you are sure that consolidation is the best route for you, you may, unfortunately, have to apply for a loan with a company that offers you less favorable terms, including a higher interest rate.
 Once your application for a consolidation loan is accepted, read all the terms and conditions carefully before signing. It’s crucial to understand how much you’ll pay each month, how much you’ll pay over time, and what the other conditions associated with your loan might be.
 Don’t neglect your payments once your private loans have been consolidated. Delinquencies will have a negative impact on your credit, and you’ll probably have to pay additional fees as well.

