 Some states delegate investigation of animal cruelty cases to the state Humane Society or SPCA. However, in more rural areas there may only be one office covering several counties.You can use the map on the USDA's website to find the appropriate office. Look for the map at the website's Animal Welfare Information Center, and click on "I want to report suspected animal cruelty or neglect."
Go to the Humane Society's office or visit their website to confirm the classes of animals over which they have jurisdiction. Some humane societies only handle animal cruelty cases involving companion animals, not farmed animals or livestock.
 You need to gather as much information as you safely can about the perpetrators of the farm animal abuse and what is taking place. The more evidence you have, the more likely the Humane Society will be to investigate the matter.Take photos of the animals and the conditions in which they are being kept if you can do so safely and without trespassing on private property.
If photos aren't practical, write descriptions of what you've seen. You might consider asking others to serve as witnesses and confirm your observations.
While laws differ among states, certain acts are typically illegal, including overt acts of violence such as kicking or punching an animal. Denying adequate food, water, or veterinary care also can lead to criminal prosecution.
 It may be better for you to go to the Humane Society office in person to speak to someone about the farm animal abuse you've observed. However, if the office is far away you may be able to file your report online or over the phone.The state humane society typically will take suspected cruelty complaints through a toll-free hotline or email.
Keep in mind if you file your report outside of the office's normal business hours, it may take a day or two for them to receive your report.
Include as many factual details in your report as possible, including the dates and times that you made your observations. If you observed the abuse on multiple occasions, provide the same information for each time.
Be as accurate as possible, and don't guess. For example, if you observed farm animal abuse at some point in the morning, but don't remember the exact time, don't just make up a time – give a range of hours or say "before noon."

, After you've filed your report, make yourself available to investigators who look into the situation. Try to get a name of the person in charge of the investigation so you can contact them directly if you get additional information.If you filed your report outside of business hours, call the office on the next business day to confirm that your report was received.
Ask for a written copy of your report if you filed it over the phone.

