 Clasped bracelets are more advanced than stretchy bracelets. You will need additional tools and supplies in order to finish one. Here is a list of what you will need:


Beading wire
Clasp and hook
2 crimp beads
2 seed beads
Beads
Wire cutters
Needle nose pliers
Tape or binder clip

, You are making the bracelet longer so that you can finish it. You also want the bracelet to be somewhat loose, or it won't be very comfortable. Lastly, you are adding extra length because some beads add more bulk than others., You want to use a soft, flexible wire. Do not the stiff kind meant for wire wrapping. You can find beading wire in a bead shop or in the beading section of an arts and crafts store. It usually comes on a flat, disk-shaped spool.
 You are doing this so that you can string the beads on without losing any. If you don't have any tape, you can use a binder clip instead.
 If you do not have a beading tray, lay your pattern down on a table, right next to the measuring tape. This will allow you to determine how many beads you will need for your design. If you are doing a simple design (such as two altering colors) or a random design, you do not need to do this.
 Once you have decided on your pattern, start putting the beads onto the wire. You do not need a needle for this. Simply hold the wire close to the end, and start popping the beads on. Be sure to measure against your wrist from time to time; large beads will add bulk, so you may need to make the bracelet longer to make it fit.
 Once you have all of the beads on the wire, put on a crimp bead, then a seed bead, and finally a clasp. It does not matter which part of the clasp you put on first.


You can use any type of clasp. A spring or lobster-claw clasp is the most traditional, but a magnetic one may make the bracelet easier to take on and off.
 The clasp should be hanging off of the top of the loop.
 You want them to be snug, but still loose enough so that the clasp can still wiggle. Leave about an inch (2.54 centimeters) long tail on the wire.
 Be sure to pinch the bead tightly. The crimp is your "knot," so it needs to be secure. Gently tug on the wire. If it moves, pinch the crimp bead tighter. Do not trim the tail off.
 The beads will slide down towards the crimp and clasp. Tuck the tail into those first few beads, hiding it. Take off the tape or binder clip from before.
 Put on a crimp bead, a seed bead, and the other part of the clasp. Thread the wire back through the seed bead and crimp. Gently tug on the tail until the beads are flush with the clasp.
 If the bracelet is too big, you will need to take off a few beads. If the bracelet is too small, you will need to add some more beads. To do this, simply pull the clasp, seed bead, and crimp off, and then make the adjustments. Be sure to replace the crimp, seed bead, and clasp once everything fits.
 If you see things shifting a little, simply pinch the crimp harder.
 Press the flat side of the wire cutters against the bead and carefully snip off the read of the tail.

