 There are some situations when simply saying “no” might put you in danger. This can include being mugged or held hostage, being alone with someone who is heavily intoxicated, or being in a romantic situation that becomes aggressive. Many of the same principles of saying “no” respectfully still apply. For example you should understand what the other person wants and why they want it. This might help you reason with them., De-escalation is not about being right or wrong. It is about being in control by staying calm and creating a calmness in the other person. Do not criticize or berate them, but talk calmly. One way to bring most people down is to ask them to help you understand how they feel. Allow them to work through “how” and “why” they feel that way while you listen attentively, without interrupting or challenging them.Note that you will most likely not be calm. Breath slowly and steadily to help keep yourself calm., You are much less likely to be in danger if you are in a crowd of people. If you feel threatened, try to move to a more crowded area. If you cannot move the interaction easily, shout and flail to draw attention to yourself if you must., If de-escalation isn’t working and you feel like you can get away, run! Do not try to fight if you can avoid it. This keeps you in a dangerous situation longer and can really anger the other person., If no other option exists and you are in danger, you will have to fight back. It is important to remember the goal is not to win the fight, but to get away. Go for vulnerable areas such as the nose, throat, and groin. If you do manage to hurt an assailant, get away as fast as you can. Go straight to the police.In romantic situations where a clear no is being ignored and you cannot walk away, use the open palm of your hand to hit the offender in the nose with an upward motion. Do not use a fist - an open hand is more effective. Regardless of what Hollywood would have you think, this will not kill them. It will give him a bloody (and possibly broken) nose. Do not resort to violence unless it is absolutely necessary.

