 So wear foundation if you want to, and remember to bronze your face, but not too much just so it looks natural. Focus on the eyes. In the film she mainly wears brown smoky eye, which looks very natural due to blending and not using dark eye-shadow on all of the lid. YouTube the style, and find out how to create a brown smoky eye. Lips - Keep it natural. lip balm/natural coloured lipstick. If you can't live with out lip gloss. apply it then blot it on a piece of toilet paper, so that you have a slight sheen.;
, if you have naturally curly hair just flatten it a bit and apply anti-frizz balm. If you have straight hair, you could just add texture to the layers, or curl it loosely with an inch curling iron, or whatever you have. If you have wavy hair, then you're all set. If it is an uneven wave then apply sea salt spray (you can make it if you want or just buy it).
,, To get the distressed look you could grate the denim with a cheese grater or cut it, Google ways to distress jeans.
 So if you buy a few tank tops in neutral colours and then you can layer them up or wear them on their own. Then you could layer a cardigan on top of that or a checked shirt. Then a leather jacket or something to that effect. This would look good, but in summer you would overheat. So just wear shorts, and a tank top. and if its cold you can find 3/4 length button down tops (which she wears a lot in the film

, E.g. A floral skirt, with a grey tank top tucked in, a thin cardigan and a pair of ankle boots would be a perfect example.
 For normal shoes, pick plimsolls and other shoes like that. For heels, you could pick wedge boots, or anything really. just remember not too girly.
 Finally, long necklaces, layer them up or you can buy them already layered.
 Fringing looks great on bags, just look for whatever style you like. remember to put your style in everything, and don't just copy mindlessly. I personally think that borrowing from the menswear section looks quite good, but not with everything. I think that if you were wearing a skirt, you could buy a men's belt and either just tie it round your waist, or get a hole puncher for belts and this will emphasise your waist and make it look even smaller. :)

, so get in shape and even if you don't want to act like that. it will reassure you that if you were to get in a fight you could protect yourself.

