 Many natural breast enhancement products, such as breast creams and dietary supplements, have little effect on changing your breasts and may actually be harmful. Many medications interact poorly with such products and no medical research exists that indicates they work., Breast augmentation is a surgical procedure in which breast size is increased by the insertion of breast implants. Breast augmentation is usually performed by a plastic surgeon. There are a variety of reasons for augmentation, from simply desiring larger or firmer breasts to reconstructing breasts after losing them to medical conditions such as cancer., While many women are happy after a breast augmentation surgery, keep in mind it carries some risks. Learn about the negative aspects of breast augmentation surgery before deciding if it's the right choice for you.


As with any surgery, there's a risk of complication. Scarring, infection, breast pain, and changes in breast sensation can occur.Breast augmentation is expensive and is generally not covered by insurance. Getting mammograms after surgery can be complicated as you'll need specialized machinery.Breast implants do not last a lifetime. They do not prevent sagging of breasts with age. Weight loss or weight gain can affect the appearance of your breasts even with implants., If you decide breast augmentation is right for you, you need to prepare for the surgery. There is also a recovery period afterwards.


Your doctor will go over how you should care for yourself in the weeks leading up to the surgery. Your pre-surgical routine depends on your age, lifestyle, and overall health.During healing, your breasts will be sensitive and there may be some leaking or scarring. You may have to wear a compression bandage, which will need to be changed regularly. Avoid strenuous activity for at least two weeks after the procedure., If increasing your breast size seems too intense, a skilled cosmetic surgeon can enhance the appearance of your breasts by making them perkier and more shapely. A breast lift removes excess, stretched out skin, reshapes breast tissue, and raises the nipples to change the appearance of your breasts.There are a variety of types of breast lifts ranging in intensity. You can talk to a cosmetic surgeon about what type of lift would best suit your needs.A breast lift is an outpatient procedure performed with general or local anesthesia. It takes about 1 to 2 hours to perform. Your breasts will be bandaged directly after the procedure and you can expect to experience some soreness in the weeks after the surgery.