 Prior to introducing your dog to the flock, you will want to tire them out. Make sure they get plenty of exercise beforehand so that they will not use the chickens for play or exercise.Take your dog for a long walk.
Go for a swim with your dog.
Play a game of fetch.;
, Make sure your dog is well fed and has had plenty of exercise. You don’t want them to be hungry or too energetic for the first meeting. If you leave them hungry, they might want to eat your chickens., Your chickens should be in a fully enclosed chicken coop. The chicken coop should be predator proof, without any holes or gaps in the wire mesh.
 You will need to have strong command of your dog for the introduction. A short leash will give you greater control, allowing you to keep them on heel throughout the introduction and hold them if they get too excited., Start by slowly walking your dog around the perimeter of the chicken coop. On the walk, keep a close eye on your dog’s body language. Depending on their behavior, you may want to take them closer to the coop or, if they get aggressive, take them inside.If the dog doesn't react towards the chickens, give it a treat.
If they exhibit aggressive behavior, you should take them inside and try the perimeter walk at a different time or the following day. Do not reward the dog for the bad behaviour.
If they seem relaxed but also interested, you can take them a little closer and let them smell the area around the coop.
Look for warning signs such as barking, growling or staring hungrily at the chickens. If they exhibit these behaviors, you should take your dog inside.
 Once this has been completed, let the chickens out of the cage so they can wander around. Keep the dog on the leash at all times.


If the dog doesn't react to the chickens, give it a treat.
 If your dog has exhibited good behavior in training outside the coop and is able to walk around the perimeter of the coop without exhibiting aggressive behavior, you could try going inside. Walk into the coop to check for eggs with your dog. Let your dog sniff the chickens and explore the coop a bit, while leashed.If your dog seems comfortable with the environment, they will hopefully get used to the chickens as part of the house.
If your dog gets aggressive, you should restrain them and bring them inside.
 This step will require two people. Pick a chicken that is completely comfortable being handled. While one person holds the chicken, the other person holds the lead of the dog. The first person needs to be cuddling and talking to the chicken in a soft, soothing voice; this will let the dog know that the chicken is a friend.


If the dog behaves well, you can reward it with a treat.
If the dog barks or growls, you should take it away. You will need to do additional training away from the chicken coop. You may need to hire a professional trainer.
 Remember, you know your dog; if you feel or think that something bad might happen, remove the dog from the situation. It is better to be safe than sorry.
 Despite your best efforts, it may be the case that your dog will always want to hunt the chickens. If this is the case, don’t blame your dog or the chickens. Rather, take practical measures to keep your dog away from the chicken coop. Make sure the chicken coop is secure. Keep your dog on a leash whenever you are working in the coop or whenever the dog is close to the chickens.