 Start FrameMaker, point to New on the File menu, and then click Document. This displays the New dialog box.
 A new FrameMaker document is displayed.
 Type some text in your FrameMaker document or just copy some text from the Lorem Ispsum site., On the View menu, click Master Pages. This displays the default master page for your newly created FrameMaker document. Note that a default master page is the master page for the right page and contains a header frame, a text frame, and a footer frame.
 On the Format menu, point to Page Layout, and then click New Master Page. The Add Master Page dialog box appears.
 In the Name box, specify a name for the master page and then click the Add button. This adds a master page to your FrameMaker document., Place the insertion point in the header frame and then press and hold the Ctrl key to select the header frame.
 On the Graphics menu, click Scale. The Scale dialog box appears.
 In the Height box, enter 0.65" and then click Scale. This increases the height of the header frame.
 On the Graphics menu, click Tools., Click the Place a Graphic Frame Button and draw a small graphic frame inside the header frame.
 On the File menu, point to Import, and then select File. The Import dialog box appears., The Imported Graphic Scaling dialog box appears.,, Click Set. This places the image inside the graphic frame.
 Place the insertion point inside the text frame and then press and hold the Ctrl key to select the text frame., On the Format menu, point to Customize Layout, and then click Customize Text Frame. The Customize Text Frame dialog box appears., In the Height box, enter 8.00" and then click Set. This decreases the height of the text frame., With the text frame still selected, drag it downwards using the mouse; so that the text frame is equidistant from the header and footer frames., Now place the insertion point inside the footer frame and enter the text, Page., On the Special menu, click Variable. The Variable dialog box appears., This inserts the current page number into the footer frame.,, The Variable dialog box appears., This inserts the count of total number of pages in the footer frame., To apply the master page, to your body pages, on the View menu, click Body Pages.
 On the Format menu, point to Page Layout, and then click Master Page Usage. The Master Page Usage dialog box appears., In the Use Master Page section, from the Custom list, select MyMasterPage., In the Apply To section, specify the page numbers to which you want to apply the master page and then click the Apply button.




