 The board itself has 64 squares, the same number of spaces as an international chess board. However, the Chinese chess board has a river in the middle that divides the board between opposing players. It also has diagonal lines in some places that designate the boundaries that some pieces may not move beyond.No plays can be made in the river. Pieces must cross it to make a play.
On each side of the playing board, there is an Imperial Palace where the general and guard pieces are not allowed to leave.;
, Chinese chess pieces are placed on line intersections, which are called points, instead of in the actual board squares. The board is made up of 9 by 10 points.On a Chinese chess board, pieces may only move on the line intersections, much like in the game Go.
 These pieces are quite similar to the pieces in International chess. Each player gets 1 general (king), 2 guards, 2 elephants (bishops), 2 chariots (rooks), 2 horses (knights), 2 cannons and 5 soldiers (pawns). Each piece is a flat white disk with either red or black markings that make up the Chinese word that corresponds to the piece. , Each piece has a designated place on the board, as in International chess. To play Chinese chess, you need to make sure that your pieces are all in the correct place on the board. Remember, the pieces go on the intersections, not on the squares.On the row nearest you, place your pieces on the points from left to right: the chariot, horse, elephant, guard, king, guard, elephant, knight and chariot.
On the third row, place your two cannons on the intersection that is one space from the edge of the right and left side of the board.
On the fourth row, place your soldier pieces on every other intersection, beginning with the first intersection on the edge of the board.
 As in International chess, your goal is to capture the other player’s general (king). You will need to use your other pieces to put your opponent’s general into checkmate. In the process, you will try to capture as many of your opponent’s pieces as possible to make it easier to put your opponent into checkmate. , Each piece in Chinese chess has a specific type of movement that it can make. It is essential to understand these rules for movement in order to play the game. The pieces’ movement rules are as follows:The general can move 1 space back or forward, right or left but cannot make a move diagonally. This piece is also not allowed to leave the Imperial Palace area. The general piece may capture any enemy piece which strays into the Imperial Palace area unless that piece is protected by another piece. Generals on the opposite sides of the board cannot be across from each other without another piece between them.
A chariot or rook piece can move any number of spaces in a straight line horizontally or vertically through the rows of the board.
The horse piece is equivalent to the knight in international chess rules, in that it can move 1 point any direction and 1 point diagonally (aka 2 points in one direction and 1 point perpendicular to it). However, the horse cannot jump another piece (e.g. If there is a piece in front of the horse blocking it's path of 2 points forward).
Cannon move rules are the same as the chariot/rook with one difference. In order to capture, the cannon has to jump over only 1 piece but it can be of either color.
Guards can move only 1 point diagonally in either direction but, they cannot leave the Imperial Palace.
The elephant can move 2 points diagonally, as a bishop can in international chess. However an elephant cannot cross the river on the board. If there is a piece on the point which the elephant has to jump over in order to get to the second point then the elephant can't get to the second point.Soldiers can only move and capture 1 point forward (not diagonally) until they cross the river. Once they cross the river, soldiers can move 1 point to the left or right or forwards but not backwards.
 The player with the red pieces always makes the first move, and then the next player goes. The players alternate turns throughout the entire game. Players may only make one move each per turn. Make sure that you consider the ways each piece is allowed to move before you make your moves.To "capture" is to take over the point that the opposing team occupies. It's the same strategic move that's used in international chess.
You put your opponent's general in "check" if your next move will capture the piece. Your opponent's next move has to be to protect the general from capture.
 You and your opponent must move and capture each other’s pieces until one of you checkmates the other or neither of you can checkmate the other. In a stalemate situation, the game is considered a draw.A "checkmate" occurs when the general cannot escape capture. You can also win if you force your opponent into a "stalemate," in which your opponent cannot make a legal move to protect his general.
The game is a draw when neither player can force a stalemate or checkmate.

