 If you want to go for practicality, it is important to consider what you intend to do with the knife. This will prevent you from buying knives that have too many tools, as they can be bulkier and more expensive.There are several broad categories of knife users, and where you fit among them can offer good clues on what to look for in a knife. They can be used for everyday carry, backwoods use, hunting and fishing, and home handiwork. Each of these types of uses will emphasize different tools, and your own experiences will help decide which are necessary.One way to help yourself think is to make a list of things you need to have on your knife for it to be useful. Then, make a list of tools you would really like having on your knife, even though you might not use them too often. This will help you limit your options while shopping, and get the knife best suited for your needs.
Another way to help think about your needs is to put yourself in a situation where you intend to use the knife, say a camping trip, or doing repairs around the house. Make a note of all the times you thought a pocket tool would be useful, and how often you thought about that. This should give you a pretty good sense of the tools you want to be looking for.;
, Good knives aren’t expensive, but you will probably have a price point in your mind that you don’t want to go over. Your list of necessary tools will help limit this as well, though you will also need to consider manufacturer quality as well.


A manufacturer’s website is a good place to start. They will have detailed, accurate descriptions of their knives, which should give you a good sense of what certain items cost.
When you compare prices, don’t look at the manufacturers only. Check online retailers and in-store displays to get the best sense of the price ranges.
 The great benefit of a pocket knife is having it on you at all times. There are a number of places you can carry the knife, and these will affect the size of knife you get.You can always put it in your pocket, just like the name suggests. Your pocket should be deep, and secure, so the knife won’t fall out when you are sitting. Your best bet is a cargo pocket to cover the top, or a dedicated slot in the fabric. That way, you will always know where your knife is, and it won’t get jostled around with other items.
Some pocket knives, even the multi-tool ones, come with a clip. This clip could attach to a key ring, or be used to hold your knife on a belt loop or the edge of a pocket. This can give you the flexibility to get a smaller knife to fit on the key chain, or a larger one that doesn’t need to fit inside your pocket.
You will also want to consider the easiest way for your dominant hand to access the knife. That is the hand you will actually use the knife with, so you will want to get it on the knife without too much hassle.
 Knives are not as heavily regulated as guns or other types of weapons, but can be a number of restrictions surrounding where you can carry or use a knife. Small folding blades like Swiss Army Knives are usually okay, but make sure you are familiar with these laws before you start searching for a knife, just to be sure.According to the Transportation Security Administration, small pocket knives are on the Prohibited Items List, and cannot be carried on to airplanes.Domestic travelers can carry them in checked bags, while rules for international flights depend on the country you are travelling to.If you fly a lot, you might want a cheaper knife. That way, if you forget to leave it at home, and TSA takes it from you, it’s less of a loss.
States and municipalities have a variety of laws dealing with the ownership of blades. Most state laws allow the concealment of blades less than 3 inches long, like a Swiss Army Knife, though in general you must keep the knife closed while carrying it. Some states do have age laws. In New York, for example, you need to be 16 to possess “any dangerous knife.”Many public buildings, like courthouses, schools, or other office buildings, forbid the carrying of knives, even the small folding knives like your Swiss Army Knife. Some private businesses will ban them as well., Narrowing down options can be a bit tougher if the knife isn't for you, but instead is a gift for someone else. Unless you want to tell the person what you are getting, and ask about their desires, you will need to exercise some judgment. Think about the person you are purchasing the knife for, and how you hope he will use it.


A beginning user, like a child, doesn't need a large knife with a variety of gadgets. A knife with one or two blades should be enough. Of course, you will also want to make sure the recipient is familiar with knife care and safety. That way, he'll use it properly, and have something that can last for a long time.If you are purchasing for a more advanced user, he will probably have more specific needs. You will want to balance versatility with heft, as he will consider the knife's weight and need for using it when packing.Alternatively, if you expect this person to be pickier, you may consider a larger knife with a variety of gadgets. It won't necessarily be practical, but that isn't the point. The knife becomes a souvenir or conversation piece, a nice way to recognize something important to him.
High tech users. Newer knives on the market include fancy technology like USB drives and LED flashlights. These can be a great gift for someone more tech-savvy. They might also enjoy a knife that includes a screwdriver, or other tools that would be useful for small gadgets, or computers with small parts.
The most famous brand of knives from Switzerland is Victorinox, which holds the copyright to the term "Swiss Army Knife." Victorinox also owns the brand Wenger, the other prominent Swiss knife manufacturer. These knives are easy to spot due to their red shell and Swiss cross.There are many other brands of pocket knives, plenty of which are also quality. For a gift, you may prefer the name recognition, but consult with a knife or outdoor supply store for other reliable manufacturers.
 Because so much of the knife’s use involves your comfort, you should take a visit to an outdoors shop to sample and handle blades before buying. Pictures online can’t compare to holding the knife in your hand and getting a real feel for how the size and weight will impact your usage.


While you are at the store, try handling a variety of knives. Use both hands and different grips to ensure you have something that you will be comfortable using in any circumstance.You don’t need to purchase the knife at the store, especially if you can get a better deal online. You should make sure you feel comfortable holding and using a certain model before pulling out your credit card.
 The benefit of a Swiss Army Knife isn’t the main blade, but the variety of additional tools you get with it. Check that you can open and close each one of them easily. Also make sure each tool is the size you will need.


Open everything on each knife you look at. While looking through the knives, you may find a tool you didn't know existed, or you forgot about, that you really like. As long as it doesn’t interfere with the tools you’ve already decided that you need, it can be a nice addition to your knife.
 Swiss Army Knives are becoming even more versatile in their gadgets. There are knives out on the market that include USB drives, LED flashlights, and digital clocks. Like any other tool, these will impact the size and price of your knife., To make sure your knife stays useful for a long time after purchase, make sure you have other products necessary to keep it in top shape. The most important maintenance needs of a Swiss Army Knife are sharpening and oiling. Just don’t forget to use these items after you buy them!


For sharpening the blade, you will want a sharpening stone or honing rod. The blade on a pocket knife is very thin, so you don’t want anything too coarse. If you have a knife set at home, the honing rod there is good to use, though you may want a small stone to take with you out in the woods.
You will need to regularly oil the hinges where the blades come out. This will prevent gunk from getting in there, allowing your knife to open easily and safely. Some knife companies produce their own cleaning oil, but you can also soak the hinges in warm water to keep them loose.You can also use vegetable oil to help keep the hinges lubricated.