 Toasted bread is fragile and little pieces can accumulate in your toaster over time. Clear out the removable toaster tray and wash it with dish soap. Then turn the toaster upside down and gently tap out any remaining crumbs. Wipe the toaster and area around it. This can keep fires from igniting., Depending on what you put in your toaster, there may be grease or other residue. Cleaning the toaster vents and other surfaces with residue can prevent fires.Wash the areas with mild dish soap and water every other month. Then wipe dry with a clean cotton cloth.Make sure the toaster is unplugged when cleaning up residue.
 As toasters heat up, they can also heat up things near them. This may cause a fire. Make sure there is space between your toaster and cabinets. Clear the area around your toaster as well. Some items that present a burning or fire hazard include:Paper items
Plastic items, including bags
Clothing, Unattended cooking is a common cause of kitchen fires. Make sure that you are close to the toaster when you’re using it. This can help you smell or see any potential burning and prevent a larger fire.If you need to step away at all, stop the toaster until you can come back and watch it.
 Toasters continue to draw on electricity when you’re not using them. Although rare, this can cause a fire. Unplugging your toaster when you don’t use it may prevent burnt surfaces or a fire., Acting quickly if you notice any burning or fire is important to prevent a fire. Installing a fire extinguisher on the wall or someplace else in plain view in your kitchen can keep potential fires at bay.Avoid putting a fire extinguisher in a cabinet or cupboard where you can’t reach it quickly.
 Some companies have recalled toasters because of defective pieces or risk of fire. Figure out if your toaster is recalled by consulting the website https://www.recalls.gov/. This site will also email notifications about product recalls. This can automatically alert you if your toaster is recalled.Most companies will compensate you or provide a new toaster if they recall your appliance.
 Frayed power cords can also cause your toaster to catch on fire.Check the cords of your toaster regularly to detect possible sources of fire. If you notice any of the following, replace your toaster to prevent fires:Frayed wires
Chewed wires
Scorching or discoloration on walls
Tripping circuit wiresPopping, buzzing, or sizzling coming from the outlet

, Toasters may come with features such as a clock or timer. If these don’t work properly, they can cause fires. Checking the toaster’s features each time you use them can minimize the risk of fires. Some features you can check are:


Timers
Handle
Springs
Lifts that raise the food, Toasters and toaster ovens can have a long life. However, like other appliances, their parts are only safe for so long before they wear out. If you notice any features not working or problems with the cord, get yourself a new toaster.If you keep your toaster clean and it’s in working order, buy a new one every 6-8 years.Many newer toaster and toaster oven models have jazzy features such as automatic shut-off in case of burning, see-through walls, and special settings.