 Always a good choice; take at least two books, depending on the scheduled length of your flight. Get books that are easy and fun to read, because you'll be stuck with them. But it is not recommended that you take your book about aircraft disasters or hijackings for obvious reasons!

, Take your iPod/MP3 player. There is always lots to do on them, and you can buy songs on iTunes (or similar) beforehand. All electronic equipment needs to be turned off for take-off and landing for safety and so you are fully alert. In flight, iPhones and other mobile phones should be set to "in flight" mode - if it doesn't have it, don't turn it on.
 Movies are a good choice because they last longer and are generally enjoyable.
 These are (unsurprisingly) fun, at least for a little while and help kill time, like this Dull swipe app. There are lots of games on iTunes besides what your iPod comes with. Also, you can play games while you listen to music. There are also (on long haul) games on the screen tucked away somewhere near you. If you have a PSP or DS, ensure the wireless function is turned off.
 These are also available and take a long time to finish. You can just sit back and relax and listen.
 Talk to your seatmates. Sometimes you meet great people. You can have long talks if you are from the same country or you have the same cultures.
 Take difficult ones. Time flies when you attempt to solve them.
 This is a great opportunity to catch up on that crocheting or knitting that you never get to do at home. Bring a dull needle that all airlines will accept, sharp ones will be taken away at security.
 Start that autobiography on yourself that you have been wanting to do for a while, or journal!

, Watching the scenery flow by 30,000 feet (9,144.0 m) below can be fascinating especially with the aid of the map on the back of the seat in front of you. Enjoy the different colors and textures, hills and valleys, structures, and roads. A road atlas can add to your enjoyment on domestic flights, but only if you've got a window seat.
 Some of us can, some can't. If you want to sleep during the flight, try to get a window seat. That way, you can rest your head on the window or side of your seat. It is a lot easier to sleep in First Class, but if you're in Economy, sleep on the little pillow they give to you.
 This is so you can enjoy your game while the time goes by. Make sure any wireless functions are turned off.
, Most of these things can be done with others: sudoku, listening to music, etc.
 You can enjoy hours taking pictures of the Sahara, Caribbean islands, clouds, or sunsets.
, Have fun!

, Surprisingly, this is quite amusing.

