 If you plan to ask a guy to the dance directly, it might make you feel a little more confident if you internally go over what you plan to say a few times before you actually ask. That way, you won't have to worry about what the right words should be; you only need to worry about the act of saying them.


On the other hand, you do not want to sound as though you are reading from a script. Get a general idea of what to say and how to say it, but ad-lib as needed and prepare yourself for unexpected questions or responses.;
, Asking loudly in the middle of lunch with all of his friends and the entire cafeteria watching might not be the best idea, especially if you're not sure about his response. The best time to ask him is toward the end of the school day, during a moment in which you can pull him off to the side and ask him discreetly.


Avoid asking him at the beginning of a shared class or school day. If he turns your invitation down, the rest of the time you spend around him that day can feel awkward.
 Keep in mind that there might be another girl who has already asked him to the dance, or that he might have other plans that day that would prevent him from going. Asking about whether he plans to go or not can save you some embarrassment.


If he says that he's going with someone else, that should give you your answer without you needing to ask the question.
If he says that he's not going, find out why. He might be busy and unable to go, which rules him out as an option. If he just hasn't been asked, though, you have your chance.
 If you get the green light, directly ask him, “Would you go to the Sadie Hawkins Dance with me?”


Look him in the eye and smile as you ask. Your body language should be confident and friendly.
 If his answer is yes, you can show your excitement, but try not to get too crazy about it. If his answer is no, smile, stay calm, and walk away with your head held high—after all, at least you were brave enough to ask.


If you do get rejected and feel like you might get teary-eyed, excuse yourself politely before that happens and find friends who can console you. Avoid crying in front of your crush.
 While you should not have a friend ask the guy to the dance for you, if you and he do share a mutual friend, you can ask that person to find out if your crush already has a date or if he would be open to the possibility of going with you.


Ask a mutual friend who is reliable and trustworthy. You do not want a friend who will use the knowledge of your feelings against you or someone who will fail to live up to the promise.
 The simplest way to ask your crush is to slip him a note. Keep the tone lighthearted and the message brief, and leave it in a place that he is guaranteed to spot it in.


You can slip a note into his locker or bookbag, for instance.
Try to be fun and casual. Instead of confessing your undying love and scaring him off, just casually say that “it's lady's choice” and you choose him.
You could also use the classic “check 'yes' or 'no'” format. Write “Will you go to the Sadie Hawkins Dance with me?” and create separate checkboxes for “No” and “Yes.”

, If you are on close enough terms with your crush to have his phone number, send him a quick text asking him if he would be interested in going to Sadie's with you.


This is only an option if he gave you his phone number directly. If you got it from a third party, texting him without warning can be a little startling.
To the same end, you can also use email to ask him to the dance.
 Send a private message or create a Facebook event that only he can see. Request a response of “yes” or “no,” rather than a “maybe” response.


It is generally best if you create a private event or use a private message rather than asking for the entire social media world to see. Keeping things private can save you some embarrassment if his answer ends up being no.
 If the two of you share similar tastes in music, you can create a CD of your favorite songs and pass it along to him. Write your invitation on the CD case or use the track titles to ask him out.


You could include songs on the CD with lyrics about a girl asking a guy out, especially if the song talks specifically about the Sadie Hawkins Dance. For example, Reliant K has a song actually called “Sadie Hawkins Dance.”
You could also create a track list that asks the question in acronym form. The first letter of each track title could spell out the word D-A-N-C-E.
 A cute way to drop your crush a written invitation is to slip it into a glass or plastic bottle. You can even fill the bottle with candy or other treats, treating him to something sweet while piquing his interest.


If you do fill the bottle with candy or other treats, make sure the guy you have your eye on knows that there is a hidden message inside he needs to get to. Otherwise, he might not touch the jar of candy or be suspicious about it.
 Another cute and creative way to leave your crush a written invitation is to roll it up tightly and slip it into a balloon. He will need to pop the balloon in order to read the letter.


Consider giving him something to pop the balloon with along with the balloon itself. Tie a thumbtack, pen, or other object with a sharp point to the other end of the balloon's string.
 This question should ask, in specific terms, whether or not he will go to the dance with you.


The question should be direct. Try something like, “Matt, will you go to the Sadie Hawkins Dance with Amanda?”
The answers should be in multiple choice format. Most of the answers should be in the affirmative, but you should still include a negative reply, just in case. Consider an answer key like:

A) Definitely yes!
B) I was hoping you would ask!
C) Both A and B
D) Amanda is a wonderful girl, but unfortunately, I can't



, As the old saying goes, the way to a man's heart is through his stomach. Write your invitation using candy, pizza, or a favorite treat of his.


Write the question “Dance?” in pepperoni on a pizza.
Bake him a cake and write “Dance?” in icing or chocolate candies on top.
Arrange cupcakes, cookies, or candy in a box. Tape them to the box so that they form the word “Dance?”
Make sure that you include a note so that the guy in question knows you left him such a sweet surprise.
 One good way to get a guy curious about you is to make him wonder about your identity for a bit. Ask him out anonymously, but along with the note asking him out, give him a secret message to “decode” that will reveal your name to him.


On a t-shirt, write “Will you go to the Sadie Hawkins Dance with me?” in permanent marker on the front. On the back, write your own name in permanent marker. Write the names of other girls in washable marker, and slip the shirt into his locker along with a note instructing him to wash the shirt. When he does, the other names will fade and yours will be revealed.
By a blank puzzle from a craft store. Write the invitation on one side of the puzzle and sign your name on the back. Leave the puzzle for him in pieces so that he needs to put it together to receive your invitation.
 If you are on good terms with the guy and know both his address and his parents, ask his parents if you can write a huge invitation to the Sadie Hawkins Dance using sidewalk chalk. Write it directly on his driveway, and make it big enough for him to see from a window.


This should only be done if the guy in question is already aware of the fact that you know where he lives. If you found out his address through less-than-honest means, he might be more creeped out than impressed.
 If you have some extra time, form the question “Dance?” using sticky notes. Place the sticky notes on his car, locker, or desk, and make sure he knows that you're the one behind them.


You can sign your name to each sticky note so that he can tell you were the one behind it, but just to make sure that no other girl tries to steal the credit for your hard work, a better idea is to stand next to your message and wait for him to read it and see you at the same time.
 If the guy you have your eye on is an athlete, make a banner or sign asking him to the dance and hang it in the locker room or hold it up at a game. Even if your guy isn't an athlete, you can still hang a sign in a hallway or other spot you know he will visit.


Make sure that you have the school's permission before hanging signs up in the halls. Usually, you can at least get away with hanging a sign the size of a standard piece of printer paper on the guy's locker, but you should always check school regulations to avoid getting into trouble.
 Along the trail, ask him in writing if he would want to go to the dance, but do not reveal your name yet. Wait for him at the end of the trail so that he can see who the girl behind the invitation is, and hopefully give you his response.


The arrows can spell out part of the question. For instance, on each arrow, you can write one word of the message, “Will you go to the Sadie Hawkins Dance...” At the end of the line, hold a sign that completes the question, reading, “with me?”

, Write your question on the windows of his car using washable car paint. Make sure to sign your name to the question so he knows who did the asking.


Make sure that the paint you use is easy to wash off. Otherwise, your crush may not appreciate your invitation later on.
As an added gesture of good will, you might even want to consider offering to wash the invitation off after he sees it and responds.
 If you feel really brave, get permission to make a special announcement over the P.A. system in the morning, along with the usual school-wide announcements.


In the announcement, you need to clearly state his name and your name along with the actual question. Repeat the question a couple of times so that you can be extra sure he heard it.

