 Nobody likes to rush in the morning, so if you get your stuff (clothes, snacks, lunch money, lunch, etc.) ready the night before, you won't have to!;
, They fit great in your locker (or at least, they should), and it's easy to keep everything in one place. Write the subject on the spine or get different colors so you don't get mixed up. Try the standard 1 inch (2.5 cm), 3 ring. Avoid large, all-in-one binders as it is easy to accidentally file subjects incorrectly, leading to disastrous results. Also, if your school does not have lockers, manila file folders are helpful, especially if you have a habit of "stuffing and running" from class. They come in all sorts of colors, and are an easy, affordable solution!

, If you don't memorize your schedule, then you'll have to go around holding a piece of paper for the whole day. Believe me, you'll be the kid who can't think of his classes.
 Once in middle school, you'll probably be rushing in the morning. Come up with a routine and stick to it.
 Don't worry too much, or your bad dreams will come true. Just relax and stay positive.
 and write "1st period, Miss _____", "Second period, Mr. ____" etc, so you know the teachers names and where your classes are.
 Don't go too heavy on the make-up: some fruity gloss, a tiny bit of mascara, and some concealer and blush. If your school has a dress code, follow it. Wear whatever you like, what makes you comfortable.
 On the first day of middle school, make sure that you dress kind of nice. For example, don't wear your sloppy long black tee with saggy pants. And you don't have to wear a dress or something. Wear something like a nice tee and sweater with long jeans that fit. Or maybe a skirt and nice shirt. Something cute, but not too overdressed.
 Be sure you have paper and pencil first. They are the MOST important, but you should consider getting the following supplies, too.



Pencils. Consider getting a couple of mechanical pencils and a pack of #2 pencils. You will be prepared for tests that way. If your friends ask you if they can borrow a pencil, get them one of your #2 pencils because they don't cost as much.

Pens. You'll need these little widgets. Get several that are blue or black and several that are red. The blue and black ones are just in case your pencils don't work. The red ones are for editing ONLY. Do not ever use pens in math. Chances are, you will get in trouble and lose points.

Coloring supplies. They are for any class. Even my health class required them so talk about unexpected. You might want to bring skinny markers and color pencils. Skinny markers trace better and color pencils don't smell or look as bad as crayons.

Pencil boxes/bags. These are VERY important. It keeps all of your school supplies organized.

Elmer's Glue. Buy a bottle of liquid glue for the tough papers and a glue stick for those thinner papers. Make sure to buy the ones that dry clear because if not, you will be in lots of trouble.

Calculator. Calculators are a really cool widget for math class. Except, unlike all the other supplies, you'll have to check in with your teachers to make sure this is okay and which ones to buy. Most middle schools will ask you to buy Texas Instruments ones. They get pricey but they are all worth it. Sixth grade uses the TI-34II ones usually. Seventh to eighth grade uses TI-83 or 84 most of the time.

Book bag. You should buy a sturdy backpack for middle school because most schools don't offer lockers so you'll have to carry all your books around. Make sure that it doesn't have any childish cartoons. If you're a girl, you can also use totes. Messenger bags are also acceptable in some cases. Jan sport backpacks offer cute backpacks for all ages. Also try "Aeropostale" or "Hollister" bags. The material bags, not the bags you get your clothes in. But the bags you get your clothes in make great book covers :).

Keep your papers organized. Go for the plastic types because they don't rip as easily as paper folders. You can get cute designs and 3D effect ones, too.



Lock. Most schools ask you to buy one directly from the school, but you can go to a dollar store and buy one to learn from. If your school requires you buy one of theirs', dress it up! Draw on it in Sharpie! Polka dots, stripes, and smiley faces are cute.

Stapler. Always have one around in case you didn't staple your two page essay. You can make this cute too! Stickers, Sharpies, anything you can think of!

, Color coding is a great way to keep organized: 1 color for each period of class! Ex: Green folder, green binder for reading period 1.
 It'll help you. You won't be grumpy the whole day through, or fall asleep in class. A good first impression is very important.
 You MUST have a great breakfast or you won't be able to concentrate. It's the most important meal of the day. Be sure to include grains, such as toast or cereal.
 It's common sense. Don't wait till the last minute!

, If you're not sure how to do your hair, makeup, or outfit, wake up a bit early. That way you can get exactly the look you want with room for error. If you mess up, but still have 10 minutes left, wipe it off or comb it out, then try again! If your running out of time with one minute left for hair throw it in a hair band and for makeup throw on lip gloss and a little blush.

