 Having people that you can trust and that support you will make it easier for you to judge the trustworthiness of your thoughts. Professionals like therapists and counselors are an important part of your support team because they can offer suggestions and strategies for telling if your thoughts are accurate. They can also help you address any underlying issues that may be causing you to question your thoughts and help you boost your self-confidence.Attending therapy or seeing a counselor for even a short amount of time can help you trust yourself again.
You can ask your physician, human resources representative, or school counselor for a referral. You might say, “I’d like to talk to someone about trusting myself again. Do you have any recommendations?”
If you are already in therapy, talk to your therapist about the concerns you have about your thoughts. You could say something like, “Could we talk about my thoughts? I don’t know if I can trust them.”

, Your family and friends can be a great resource when you are trying to determine if your thoughts are trustworthy. They can help you fact-check and help you rebuild confidence in yourself. Take time to include people close to you in your efforts to know if you can trust your thoughts and accept their support when they offer it.


Make a list of one or two people close to you that are supportive and honest with you. You might ask them, “I’ve been questioning my thinking lately. I’m going to overcome this, but do you think you could help me?”
Let them know that some time you might need them to help you fact-check. You could say, “Sometimes I might need to ask you if something seems true. Please be honest with me.”
Avoid people that make you question yourself or that make you feel bad about yourself.For instance, if your mom has a not-so-endearing tendency of questioning every decision everyone makes, you might not want to turn to her as much as you do someone else.
 Being around people experiencing similar challenges can be a great relief and may help you cope with any underlying issues you might be having. It can also be an excellent way to learn strategies to determine how trustworthy your thoughts are.


Talk to you physical or mental health provider about support groups in your area. You could say, “I’d like to join a support group. Do you know any in the area that would be appropriate for me?”
You can also find a list of support groups at https://healthfinder.gov/FindServices/SearchContext.aspx?topic=833.

