 Waiting for an important day like Valentines Day, their birthday, or your anniversary is a way to make giving them the ring extra special. Think ahead and see if you any of these days are coming up. If you don’t want to wait that long or nothing is coming up, don’t worry. There are other ways to make the occasion special.
 Try to make the day special and romantic even before you give your significant other the ring. Take them to their favorite restaurant or do an activity that you both enjoy. This will make giving them the ring even more special. If you are giving the ring to a friend, do not do anything out of the ordinary, or anything that could be seen as romantic. It could give them the wrong idea about the ring.
 You want the moment you give them the ring to be intimate and special. You don’t want to be interrupted, so make sure that you are in a place with just the two of you.


You could also make giving them the ring a fun challenge by making a scavenger hunt or hiding it in a place that they will find that night, like on the bedside table or underneath their pillow.
 Present them the ring (or wait until they find it) and slip it onto their finger. Look into their eyes as you put it on their finger: this will make it even more romantic. Don’t get down on one knee. You don’t want to do anything that will make them think that this is an engagement ring. This could make them confused or even disappointed!

, Your friend or significant other may not be sure what a promise ring is. First, tell them it's a promise ring, not an engagement ring. Tell them what the ring means to you and why you bought it. Also explain to them what makes them so special to you. Your partner should be incredibly touched and excited after you tell them about the ring and put it on their finger. For example, you could say something like, "I bought you this promise ring because I wanted to show my commitment to you. I want you to be able to look down and remember exactly how I feel about you."

, If your partner or friend doesn’t want the ring, don’t be upset. It doesn’t mean that they don't like you or want to be with you. It may just be that they don't like the tradition of the promise ring. You can ask them why they don't want the ring, but try not to sound accusatory.
Remember that your significant other or friend is incredibly important to you. You may feel hurt but try not to do or say anything that could hurt their feelings.

