 Any good burp starts with a good meal. For huge burps, you'll need to make your stomach very active. Eat and drink your meal as quickly as possible, taking big bites - you'll swallow more air.Soda water, Coca-Cola, beer, or any other carbonated beverage with lots of fizz are great choices. The bubbles in these drinks release carbon dioxide gas. The faster you drink, the more rapidly the carbon dioxide will hit your stomach. For even better results, drink through a straw - you won't lose any carbon dioxide to the air.
If you're up for it, "shotgun" a beverage - that is, drink the entire thing in one gulp. See How to Shotgun a Beer for good instructions on shotgunning a drink in an aluminum can.
The gas from a huge burp will contain gas from the food you've eaten. For truly horrifying odor combinations, experiment with different foods!;
, If you can't, at least sit up. If you're not upright, the contents of your stomach won't be oriented with the your gas at the top of your stomach, so it will be less likely to be released through your throat.
 Jump up and down or do a few jumping jacks. This will agitate the gas in your stomach. If you've had any carbonated beverages, it'll make them fizz and release gas as if you're shaking a can of soda.


Be aware that exercising on a full stomach can cause nausea. Don't go too crazy with your jumping - belches are funny, but projectile vomit is not.
 Get your abdominal muscles ready - in the next step, you'll be using them. Get ready!


Keeping your mouth open does two things. First, it makes you look grosser. Second, the cavern-like acoustics of a wide open mouth will make a burp louder (see: How to Burp Loudly).
 This may take some practice. The goal is to squeeze your stomach like a bellows to force the burp out in one loud push. Use your diaphragm and abdominal muscles to firmly (but not violently) push. If done correctly, you'll get a loud "bark." Practice until you're comfortable with this step.


For longer burps, try to release your burp gradually, with less force. It can be challenging to strike a precise balance. Push too hard, and your burp will be too short. Push too softly, and your burp will die out.

