 A lot of people overlook this phase, but if you can create a solid outline for your movie, it will be more polished. It also prevents you from sidetracking as you're filming.

Remember to keep it short. It will take months to shoot a three-hour epic.



 

;
, Explore different locations and find out what works. Equipment is usually difficult to obtain. You probably know someone who owns a camera, so ask around and see if they'll lend one to you. It doesn't matter whether the camera is brand new or twenty years old. Just get something that records moving images. For actors, you can just ask your friends if they want to be in a movie, and odds are, they'll say yes.
 When you shoot your movie, make sure you're at least somewhat prepared and know what your movie's about. You don't want to take too long, so remember to stop shooting as soon as the take is as good as it's going to get. Pay attention to what's in the frame; if you're shooting a futuristic space adventure, you don't want your mom doing dishes in the background. Once you've shot your movie, it's editing time!

, Depending on your camcorder, this could be as easy as plugging the camera into the computer or having to use a digitizing board. Most computers nowadays come with an editing system you can load your movie onto. If not, there's an external link to a free, basic movie editor on the bottom of this page.
 Once your clips are imported- start editing by selecting the shots you want from the bin and putting them onto the timeline. Read the manual for your particular editing system.
 Drag all the files, one by one, down in the order you desire. Play it through a couple of times, improve the order, cut some of the clips, and play again. When you're satisfied, add some effects and transitions (You can probably see, where to access these. If not, find the help menu). Again try your way through the options.
 Background music is key.
,, You can now burn it to a DVD or email it to your friends, or perhaps throw it up on Youtube. You decide. After all, it's your movie!

