 The Coast Starlight it not prized for its on-time record, but it is famous for its beautiful views. The trip itself takes approximately 12 hours, from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., but that can vary based on Amtrak train schedules.;
, You are encouraged to book early and during the week. Amtrak advertises weekly specials for people traveling 1 way Tuesday through Friday. Book early to receive the best offers. There are 7 different room or coach options available. Prices run from $50 to over $600 (34 to 413 euros, 31 to 371 pounds) per person.
 This city is just across the bay from San Francisco. You will depart at Oakland's Jack London Square Station and get a bus that can take you to San Francisco's Ferry Building, Caltrain Station, Union Square or the San Francisco Shopping Center.
 Although the Coast Starlight runs primarily in the day, you may want to sleep for a duration during the long ride.


If you book coach, you will get large seats with plenty of space, especially compared to airplane seats. You will have pillows and an at-seat meal service if you would prefer not to go to the Dining Car.
If you book a sleeping car, you will receive what Amtrak calls a "living room on wheels." This includes Internet access, complimentary meals that can be eaten in the Parlor Car and a personal amenities kit.
 Although this is not required on other trains, all bikes must be boxed. You can purchase a box at the Union Station in Los Angeles. You will have to pay a $5 (3.4 euros, 3 pounds) bike transport fee.
 The address is "800 North Alameda Street, Los Angeles Union Station, Los Angeles, CA 90012." The train station is near the Chinese American Museum, just off the Santa Ana Freeway. The station is open nearly 24 hours a day, with baggage checking starting at 5:45 am.
 Trains are often late, although the on-time record has improved in recent years.
 The Coast Starlight travels a large length of the California coastline. View the coast from the observation car.
 As part of your Coast Starlight route, you will be provided with a bus that takes you to San Francisco. Although not all train rides provide this bus, the Coast Starlight includes a bus ride with checked baggage service.
 There are boarding options on side and center platforms. Board the Coast Starlight bus into San Francisco.
 Stations include the Ferry Building, Financial District, Fisherman's Wharf, the S.F. Shopping Center and the Caltrain Station.
 You can find San Francisco transportation in the form of cabs, rapid transit trains and electric buses.

