 Look at your student’s eyes. Are they dull and unfocused? Are they focused at a point on the floor, ceiling, or wall? If so, the student is likely not paying attention. Similarly, if a student appears alert and keeps their eyes on you as you move around the room, you can be assured that they are paying attention., Your students’ facial expressions will reveal a variety of emotions and thoughts, from anger to interest to happiness. As you make eye contact with each student, pay attention to what their facial expressions are telling you.If a student’s mouth is turned down and their eyes are dull, they are likely unhappy to be in class just then.
If a student appears alert and is smiling or half smiling, they are most likely responding well to the class discussion and feel engaged.
If a student has an indifferent expression on their face, they may be bored and simply biding time until you let the class leave for the day.
 Are they slouched over the desk? They may be trying not to fall asleep. A student who is paying attention will usually be sitting up, whereas a student who is bored or disengaged may very well be slouching.You can help perk up your student by moving around the classroom. They will have to sit up to keep their eyes on you, which should be enough movement to re-engage them.
 If a student is tapping their foot against the floor or bouncing their legs up and down, he or she may be impatient with the lecture, conversation, or presentation. They may also have a physical or psychological reason for these movements. Leg position varies from student to student - some prefer to cross their legs, or to place them firmly on the floor., In addition to looking at students individually to assess and interpret their body language, try looking at the class in quadrants or even as a whole. You will likely find several students engaging in similar body language, which should give you an idea of the overall class atmosphere that day.


If a majority of the class appears disengaged or bored, consider stopping your lecture and moving to a group project or open class discussion.

