 Work with a doctor to create a customized action plan for your child.The doctor can help you understand asthma symptoms and medications. The asthma action plan you make should include at least the following:The name and dose of the child’s long-acting medications, and how often to take them.
The name and dose of the child’s short-acting rescue medication.
A list of the child’s asthma triggers, or at least a list of common asthma triggers and how to avoid them.
A system to rate severity of the child’s symptoms from normal breathing to mild symptoms to moderate symptoms to severe symptoms.
Indications for when to use rescue medication and when to contact emergency services.
Emergency contact information for the child’s doctor.;
, Sit down with your child and review their action plan with them, explaining things at an age-appropriate level. Help your child learn self-management skills to empower them and encourage them to stick to their care plan. You can use tools from the American Lung Association to determine if your child is ready to carry their own inhaler, and interactive websites for kids to learn about asthma management.For instance, you can say something like, “This is your inhaler to use every day, just like how you take a vitamin every day. If you ever really can’t breathe well, this other inhaler will help. You should always have it with you, but just use it when you need to.”
One interactive website is called ‘Lungtropolis: Where Kids with Asthma Learn to Play.’Check out a Student Readiness Assessment Tool to see how prepared your child is to manage their own care.
 Record when, how often, and the duration of when your child experiences symptoms like coughing, shortness of breath, and wheezing. Note times when symptoms interrupt school, playtime, and sleep. Keep track of how often your child uses a rescue inhaler.Use a wall chart, journal, or anything that helps you stay organized. If your child is old enough to participate, consider using an electronic system like GoogleDocs – something that you can both access and update regularly.
Note any medication side effects so you can discuss these with your child’s doctor., If your child is old enough to use a peak flow meter, they should have one and use it every day. This simple device can help indicate how well their lungs may be working; a low peak flow reading means their lungs might not be performing as well as they should be.Record peak flow readings in your records so you can correlate these measurements with symptoms you have noticed.


These readings may help you determine whether their condition is getting worse or better. If your child’s peak flow readings are decreasing, contact their doctor’s office. The doctor will assess your child, as well as any recent symptoms, to decide if a new treatment plan is needed. If the readings are increasing, they may be able to decrease their medication.
 The Asthma Control Test (ACT) is a questionnaire that measures symptoms over the course of a month. You can also use other systems to keep track of symptoms severity – the asthma plan that you and your doctor create should give you some guidelines.For example, the green-yellow-red traffic light system indicates severity of symptoms. Green means “go:” breathing is normal and peak flow is at least 80% of your child’s normal best flow reading. Yellow means “caution:” there are some symptoms like wheezing and chest tightness, and peak flow is between 50-80% of normal. Red means “danger:” symptoms are interfering with daily activities and peak flow is less than 50% of normal., Your asthma action plan should indicate when changes in symptoms require changes in medications. Many people on asthma medication, including children, will be on a long-acting inhaled medicine. Most people are also prescribed a “rescue” inhaler, a fast-acting medicine like albuterol for quick relief.As symptoms change, doses and medications may need to change as well.


Remember that some medications are used daily while others should only be used in case of emergency. You may want to label these different medications with different colors to help you and your child remember which is which.
You, your child, and your doctor should discuss your child’s asthma medications. It’s important to know which medicines to use when. For instance, it is not appropriate to use a rescue inhaler multiple times per day to “control” asthma – if your child needs their rescue inhaler that often, their asthma is not controlled and they require different long-acting medications., Many children and adults do not use their inhaler properly, and thus don’t get all of their medication. Asthma can be much better controlled if inhalers are used correctly so all the appropriate medication is delivered.


When your child receives their first inhaler, have the doctor show both of you exactly how it works. That way you can re-teach your child if they ever forget how to use it.
Metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers, and nebulizers are all slightly different. Check with your doctor to be sure you’re using yours properly.If your child has a metered inhaler, your doctor may recommend that they use it with a holding chamber or spacer. Make sure your child uses these as directed, as they can help the medication reach deeper into their lungs.
 What triggers asthma attacks can vary between individuals. Common triggers include mold, pollen, dust, pet dander, cold air, smoke, exercise, and infections of the lungs and upper respiratory tract.Simple things such as vacuuming and dusting while your child is not home, replacing regular pillow covers with hypoallergenic covers, and helping them to minimize their exposure to pollen can help minimize triggers.

Never smoke around a child with asthma. Tobacco smoke is a big asthma trigger.
If your child has exercise-induced asthma, be sure they always keep a rescue inhaler around when being active. Some doctors may recommend that your child use the rescue inhaler shortly before exercising to prevent problems.
 Provide a copy of the asthma action plan to your child’s teachers, school nurse, coaches, and babysitters or other caregivers.Make sure all of the caregivers know how to give your child their medicine. Also keep a copy in your purse, briefcase, or car in case an asthma attack happens away from home.


Check your child's school for its policy on asthma medications. In some schools the child is allowed to carry his or her inhaler, but in others the child must leave the medications with the school nurse.
 Discuss any questions or concerns with your child's doctor, as well as any changes in symptoms. Asthma tends to evolve over time as the child ages, so make – and keep – regular appointments with the doctor to talk about asthma symptoms and management.Bring your asthma action plan to every visit for updates and to ensure that you are tracking information accurately and using medications properly.

