 Regardless of the length of the marriage or who initiated the divorce, you will experience a sense of loss.Let the pain and the sadness have their way in the first weeks after a separation happens. Your heartbreak is real, and acknowledging your feelings will bring you relief.When you feel a wave of sorrow coming up, stop what you're doing and greet it. You will deal with loss in your own unique way — give yourself permission to grieve.


You may experience a physical response to the loss, such as shortness of breath, headaches, nausea, loss of appetite, insomnia and fatigue.Emotional responses to loss may include denial, numbness, sadness, anger, anxiety, guilt, relief, hopelessness, confusion, helplessness, longing, or being distracted or preoccupied.
Find appropriate outlets to deal with these emotions. Writing in a journal, going for a long walk, painting, and exercising are all ways you might be able to express your feelings and find relief.
 Anyone you spend a lot of time around becomes linked to your biorhythm. You may experience cravings similar to those of an addict, and feel actual pain. You may also have trouble eating, sleeping, and exercising like you used to.Take care of this by setting new routines for yourself.


Remind yourself to eat at least three meals a day, with snacks in between.
Make sure you are getting adequate sleep. Aim for seven to nine hours each night.
Reinforce your old exercise routine, or start a new one.
Avoid turning to drugs and alcohol to cope with the pain. Though it may be appealing to lose yourself in mind-altering substances, you can end up feeling more depressed or numb and unable to work through your feelings., The decision to divorce can be very stressful, not to mention the sometimes long, difficult process that follows. This is guaranteed to be a stressful time, and it is important you find healthy ways to reduce your stress as much as possible. Try meditation, spending more time with supportive friends, or removing items that remind you of your partner.Consider joining a support group. Divorce is common, and it may help to talk with other people going through it, too.
 It probably hurts to think about what went wrong and how it went down, but thinking it through will help you process your emotions and regain your sense of self.Write in your diary, talk to yourself, and open up to others as soon as you can.


The more you open up, the more likely you will find yourself again.
Open up to loved ones. Talk about what happened and how you are feeling to your nearest and dearest. Vent a little, and admit any feelings of ambiguity or regret you are feeling.
 Consult a therapist to help you readjust and embrace your new life.Your therapist will help you understand what happened and what is still happening to you.


If your sorrow is long lasting, intense, and interfering with your ordinary life, you may be experiencing complicated grief. Get a referral from your doctor to see a therapist immediately.