 Don’t compare your child with their classmates, siblings, or even yourself as a child. Show your child that you value them as an individual, not by how they are better or worse than others.Don’t say, “Your older brother was such a better reader at your age,” or “Why can’t you be more social, like your friend Bianca?”
If your child is worried about how they measure up against their peers, reassure them that you love them no matter what, and that everyone has different strengths and weaknesses. You could say, “I know Ian is the best in your class at math, so it must be really frustrating to sit next to him sometimes. But I know how creative you are, and how much you enjoy writing stories.”

, Make sure your child is friends with other children who appreciate them and treat them with respect. You likely want your child to be surrounded by people who bring out the best in them and will help give them self-confidence, so monitor their friends and relationships closely.Notice your child’s behavior after playing with a friend. If they do not seem like they are in a good mood following a playdate, it may be helpful to keep a closer eye on the relationship to ensure good compatibility with the friend. Good friendships have positive influences on a child’s self-esteem, but bad friendships can be harmful.
If you are concerned about your child’s friend being a bad influence on your child or that the friendship is incompatible, do not hesitate to intervene. Kids often need a lot of help figuring out how to have healthy friendships.
 Welcome your child’s friends into your home. You will have a noisier home and more bags of pretzels to purchase, but you get the benefit of watching how your child interacts with their friends. If your child and their friends need extra assistance, you can step in and role model appropriate behavior.If children are able to develop their self-confidence in social situations at home, the more likely they will remain confident in new social situations away from your watchful eye.
If kids aren’t getting along or behaving inappropriately, you can step in and correct the behavior. You could say, “In our house, we don’t exclude friends. Everybody is playing the game,” or “How do you think you could solve this problem? Both of you want to play with the truck.”, If possible, schedule some one-on-one time with you and your child once a week. Have a special outing or set aside some time to just be together. This shows your child how much you value them and the time you spend together.Younger children may want to play, while older children may want to do a special activity. Ask your child what they might like to do. You could give them a choice, for example, “Would you rather go to the park or go for a bike ride together tomorrow?”

, Make sure your child has lots of opportunity for unstructured play during their day, both with and without others. Children learn through play, and through it they gain feelings of accomplishment and confidence.Play with your child. Take time to play with your child as often as you can. Let them choose the activity -- it will make them feel important and special to know that you are playing “their” special game.

