 VPN (Virtual Private Network) services off many more servers that you can choose from, and are much more secure than the free proxy. If you upload a lot of videos to YouTube and need to be able to bypass regional filters and log in with your account, you may want to consider paying for a VPN service.VPNs are also a good choice if you find yourself locked out of lots of content and service online, as it will unblock all of your internet traffic.
You can use a VPN on your mobile device as well.
 There are lots of VPNs out there, so you'll need to do a little research. Look at reviews and investigate their customer security and privacy claims. You'll also want to find one with a variety of servers around the world, especially if you look at YouTube content from lots of different regions. Avoid free VPN services, as these are usually slow and not very secure or trustworthy.


When you sign up for a VPN, you will be given a username and password, as well as connection details for the different VPN servers. Some VPN services include their own custom VPN client, but you can use the VPN service built-in to your operating system to connect as well.
 The process for connecting varies depending on the device you are using. Once you are connected, all of your internet traffic will be routed through the VPN. See How to Connect to a VPN for instructions on connecting to a VPN in Windows, Mac OS X, iOS, and Android.


Windows - Open the Start menu or screen and search for "VPN". Launch the VPN connection wizard and enter in your VPN server and user login information. Your VPN will appear in the Networks list.
Mac - Open the System Preferences menu and select "Network". Click the "+" button and select "VPN" as the interface type. Enter your server and user login information. Your new VPN will appear in the Network list from the menu bar.
iOS - Open the Settings app and select "General". Select the "VPN" option and then tap "Add VPN". Enter in your server and user login information. The VPN icon will appear in your notification bar when connected.
Android - Open the Settings app and tap "More" under "Wireless & networks". Tap the "VPN" option and then tap the "+". Enter in the VPN server and login information. A VPN icon will appear in the notification bar when you're connected.
 Now that you're connected to your VPN server, you can visit the YouTube website or open your YouTube app. Because you're connected through a secure VPN, you can login without worrying about your credentials being stolen. YouTube will load the version of the site for the location of the server you are connected to.
 Search for the video or copy and paste the URL into your browser's address bar. Since all of your traffic is routed through the VPN, you'll be able to load the videos without any problem in any browser (as long as the server you are connected to is in a region that is allowed by the video).

