 Whatever game you may be playing, whether it is Mario jumping around on turtles or shooting people in Halo, it is bound to make a noticeable amount of noise. Do not take the chance that your parents will not hear while you are playing; it is too risky. Though turning the speakers off may impair the game experience, most games are still feasible without any sound. You could also try using headphones or Earbuds, but that could get you caught if you don't hear your parents coming towards you.;
, Your parents will usually come to check up on you to see if you are actually doing your schoolwork or not. If you hear any indication of them coming towards your room, minimize your game immediately, even if it may be a false alarm. Do not make the mistake of taking the time to pause your game, you would be surprised at the speed with which some parents would make it towards your room. Even if you lose one life, what is a life in a game compared to the countless hours you could be playing if you do not get caught?

, Try to shorten the space the game takes on your monitor as much as possible. On the offhand chance that you do not realize your dad just snuck up behind you, he is less likely to notice that you are playing when the game isn’t thrown out full screen.
 You will need to be able to focus enough to realize when someone is coming up behind you. If you are one of those hardcore gamers that fall into a state of coma whenever you play, try playing something else that will not take as much concentration. It is essential that you watch out for anyone that may be making their way towards your room.
 The greatest mistake that you can make is to leave only your game file open on your computer. After you minimize it, you have nothing to show that you have been working for the past hour. Open anything school-related, such as past essays, projects, or math homework. If it is an essay, it is recommended that you delete about half of it so that it looks like you actually wrote something in an hour instead of just opening a random file. If you're on a mac, fullscreen both your work and school files and switch it when your parents are here.
 Do not just open up an essay and sit there playing for two hours straight. Change the files you have open related to school every 45 minutes or so. Remember, parents usually know the common tricks that their children play to get around them. If you keep changing files, it looks like you have made progress in your work whenever they check in on you.
 This step will ensure that even if someone does walk in, they will not be able to see what you are playing. You will be given a few extra seconds to minimize the game before they reach you. Do not try this step if you have a computer table that is facing away from the entrance. Turning your computer and the whole desk around is a big giveaway because it shows that you were probably trying to hide what you were doing. If you have a laptop, this step will work best for you.
 Often, pop ups display random games with ads attached to them. If you made your game small enough, it may seem like just an ordinary pop up at first glance to any parent. Do not take any more time than necessary, say, “Stupid pop up,” and move on. Caution must be taken when using this step though, as parents might quickly realize that it is not any ordinary “pop up.”

, In the worst-case scenario, your parents realize that you have been playing games for a couple of hours, and they start yelling. You can quickly stop all of this by having a handy excuse ready, such as, “I already finished all my homework,” or, “I’m taking a quick break from all this work.” Whatever excuse you make, the key is to NOT HESITATE when speaking. Speak clearly, and do not give any indication in your voice that you are lying; the key here is to sound confident. Hesitating when giving an excuse is a quick way for your parents to realize that you are trying to make something up on the spot.
 Last, but certainly not least, always think smart. If your parents are on the other side of the house, then it’s a good idea to try gaming for a while. If suddenly your parents move to the room right next to yours, it’s probably a good idea to stop gaming for a while. Think according to the position of your enemies at the moment; never play like a fool. Besides, your parents will probably move away after a couple minutes or so, and you can go on happily gaming.
 If you hear someone coming, switch back to your schoolwork.
 If you have windows 10 installed on the computer there is a button with 3 rectangles. That lets you create 2 or more desktops on one PC, use that to your advantage and play your game on another desktop while on another is your homework or essay.

