 Hold the card parallel to the ground and grip the bottom of the short side of the card on the corner farthest away from you between your index and middle finger, or your middle and ring finger. This is sometimes called "The Ferguson Grip," named after a famous card player. Alternate finger grips for the basic throw include:



For the Thurston grip, place the short side of a card between your middle and index finger so that the side runs parallel with the two fingers all the way through. This is perhaps the most common, if not the most accurate grip on the card.For the Hermann grip, hold the card between your thumb and your middle finger, letting the index finger reach all the way to the opposite corner.

For the Ricky Jay grip, place your index finger on a corner and place your thumb on top of the card with your three remaining fingers along the bottom of the long side of the card. Your thumb on top should be right around on top of your middle finger.;
, The opposite corner of the card (top corner, closest to you) from where you're gripping it should come back and touch the inside of your wrist to cock it for the throw. Most of the power comes from the flick of your wrist, not from arm strength, so it's important to curl it back like this.
 Unwind, keeping your arm as straight and level as possible relative to the ground to keep the card from wobbling side to side, and snap your wrist forward to throw the card.
 When your fingertips are pointing at the target you want to hit, let go.
 There should be almost no arm movement whatsoever when you first start out, to get the mechanics of the spin right. To practice, grab a hold of your arm and practice launching the cards with wrist movement alone.









After practicing and being able to throw cards without missing, you could try moving your arms for extra speed.
 Set up a potato or a banana and throw cards at it. Experienced card throwers can stick a playing card into a potato from several paces away. Practice tossing until you can get the corner to stick in firmly.








