 Don't tug desperately at the reins; this will just scare him/her even more. Firmly pull back, then release, being careful not to lean backwards yourself. Keep repeating the pull and release. If a horse is leaning on the bit he will find it difficult to keep pulling if there is nothing to pull against. You will feel as if he is dropping his front end when you release the reins. Command him to stop, but don't shout.
 Horses cannot buck or run when being pulled around like that, so small circles are almost always a good thing to do.
 Be careful when doing this, you don't want to encourage the horse to run faster, you just want them alert to your signals.
 Stop, talk to him in a soothing voice and start to walk again, gradually regaining your original speed.
 Horses can sense things like fear, and if you get nervous and scared, your horse will too.
 This will make it harder for you to fall. Do this by putting your legs forward and leaning back slightly. Falling from a gallop can be very dangerous, so you should avoid it at all costs. Keep talking to your horse and asking them to stop while you do this.
, Call out where you're going because if you take off and you're in somebody's blind spot, how are they supposed to know? While you're galloping, call out things like 'coming up behind you!' to alert riders where you are in the arena.
 Horses are herd animals and if they sees all the other horses standing calm, he/she will likely do the same with a bit of convincing.
 Also, if you lean forward your legs go back on his/her side and when that happens, you kick your horse in their soft spot, and end up telling them to go faster.
, Horses can't go fast in a little circle. The faster the gait the larger the circle needs to be to maintain that gate, so pull hard. You may feel a bit off balance, and that is why you MUST sit deeply in the saddle. If you need to, grab the saddle or a bit of mane. But DO NOT let him/her win. Doing so will teach them that taking off is a way out of work, and that's not what you want.
,, Just because the horse is acting up doesn't mean you want them hurt. Jump like you normally would, but as soon as you've landed, steer away from the jump. Next time the horse is running at the jump, end the approach as soon as you can. Letting them run the jump over and over will reinforce what they are doing.
, If the horse continues then repeat until he stops.

