 Kits bite because they do not know any better,but are easier to train than adult ferrets. If you are consistent, you can train a kit to stop biting in a few weeks.Kits usually bite for attention, to play, or to be put down. To break the kit from biting to be put down:Hold the ferret so it is unable to bite you.
Keep holding it even if it squirms.
Put the kit down once it stops squirming.
Praise the kit and tell it how good it has been.
 Adult ferrets bite because they were not trained properly when they were younger and/or they have problems trusting humans. They will need direct skin to fur contact when you handle them. It will take a few months to train them to stop biting, but you need to be consistent, firm, and gentle with them.Adult ferrets bite much harder than kits, but still try to provide as much skin to fur contact as possible.
Adult ferrets may be suspicious and nervous when being handled.
 If a ferret was handled roughly as a kit or lacks confidence, it may be a fear biter. Punishing a fear biter may actually reinforce the idea that they should be afraid of people. You should be more gentle with a ferret that bites out of fear. Acclimate the ferret to being touched by you before you pick it up on a regular basis.Feed your ferret out of your hands and reward calm behavior.
Once your ferret is used to eating out of your hands, you can start picking the ferret up.
Keep your training sessions short at first. Progressively lengthen the time of your sessions as the ferret becomes more comfortable with you.
 Some ferrets bite to let you know that they want to play. If your ferret does this, remove your hand and walk away from the ferret. Your ferret may chase you after you walk away because it wants to play. By ignoring the ferret, you are teaching it that biting is not an appropriate way to initiate play time.Reward calm behavior with treats and kind words.If the ferret begins to bite during play, stop playing.
 Some ferrets bite as a way to communicate with you. By the time the ferret is biting, you may have missed other signals. Nuzzling or coming to you and waiting are signs that your ferret wants your attention. Notice if your ferret does these things, and then respond to your ferret immediately. If you wait too long to respond, your ferret learns that biting is the quickest way to get your attention.If your ferret bites to get your attention, ignore the ferret.
If your ferret bites you when it is ready to put it down, hold the ferret for a few seconds longer before you put it down. Putting down the ferret right after it bites you will reinforce the behavior.Some ferrets do not like being held for long periods of time, pay attention how your ferret responds.

