 A tension band or resistance band is a great prop for opening up your shoulders and releasing any tension in this area. You can find tension bands at sports equipment stores or online.

Alternatively, you can use a cotton exercise strap, a piece of strong rope, or a thin towel as a prop for these exercises. Be sure that whatever you use, you can extend it over your head and grip onto it easily.
 Use the tension band to open your shoulders and chest. Hold the tension band in both hands behind you, near your butt. Shorten or "choke up" the band a little so there is no slack and your arms are spread just a little wider than your hips. Inhale as you drop your shoulders down and back, extending your arms back behind you slightly and stretching the band. Your chest should open out toward the ceiling.You can hold this chest and shoulder opener for 30 seconds. Then, release it the same way you went in. You may repeat this opener two to three more times to really stretch your shoulder muscles.
 A lateral stretch can be a good way to stretch your shoulders and your chest area. To do a lateral stretch, stand straight up and hold the tension band in both hands, pulling the band until your arms are slightly wider than your shoulders. Raise it above your head, keeping your shoulders down and relaxed. Inhale as you move your hands over to the right side. Allow your hips to move towards the left as you stretch your upper body to the right.Hold this pose for five breaths. Then, return to the center and inhale again as you stretch over to the left. Make sure your shoulders stay down and your hips move towards the right. Hold this pose for five breaths and then return to the center.
 You can use something as simple as a door frame to help you stretch your tight shoulders and release any tension in the area. Try this stretch at home, at the office, or anywhere there is an open doorway.Start by standing in the doorway and placing one hand through to grip the doorframe on the other side. Keep your hand slightly below the height of your shoulders. With your palm facing forward, hook your fingers around the frame.
Move your body away from the doorway until you feel a slight stretch in your chest and shoulders. Inhale and exhale as you hold this position for 30 seconds.
 You can use a wall or a closed door as a prop for stretching tight shoulders. This stretch is easy to do and highly effective.Stretch your arms straight out in front of you and place your hands on the wall. Your arms should be perpendicular to your body. Walk your feet back a few steps, hinging at your hips so that you bow forward, until you are looking down at your toes. Keep your spine neutral, don't hang your head, and do not push on the wall.
Make sure your shoulder blades are relaxed and rolled back. Hold this stretch for 30 seconds. You should feel a release in your shoulders and neck.

