 It is recommended that you use at least two of your friends. Choose people you know and trust.;
, Before writing your own songs, try performing songs by other bands. If you can do it, you're ready to make your own.


Learn and feel comfortable with the basics of your instruments.
Start by covering songs. Have a band manager (someone in the band, normally the most responsible person) who plans practices.
If someone doesn't learn the instrument well enough, they have to leave. It's hard but necessary.
 Normally your lead singer will write the songs because they are the ones singing and know how it would sound. It could be something funny, happy, sad or imaginative; whatever takes your group's fancy.
 You successfully wrote your first songs. You need about maybe 5-10 songs, then you have to decide on your album name. Record it on a cassette or CD. Then give it out to people around school.
 Your band wants to get a gig at the school. Ask the principal or dean if you can plan a show in the cafeteria or gym. If they say yes, start preparing and pass out flyers or make posters to advertise the event.


Have your band manager find someone to let you play a gig somewhere where lots of people go. While it can seem hard, this is good management and communication skill building for this person.
 It's the big night, your crowd is excited, you're ready to make history in your school. Don't be nervous; if you practice enough, you'll be fine.


Before you play: it always helps for the singer to take a sip of water to get his/her vocals flowing. And don't practice much on the day of the gig, you don't want to be worn out when it's time for the real deal.
Pass out merchandise. Make CDs of the songs you've covered, and pass them out at your gig. Band t-shirts would be good too.
 For band life afterwards, keep practicing, keep planning gigs. Play a few more gigs. Get a relatively large fan base. A feature in the local newspaper is a really good thing to happen.


Make a kit of your music and stuff, and send your demo to record labels. This is how some school bands manage to get signed.
 If you do, remember that you're still in school, right? Be prepared. After getting a label, you will be playing concerts everywhere. People at school are going to be fawning over you. Don't give out your phone number unless you are really good friends with the person. Be careful if anyone asks you to be their girlfriend/boyfriend, because if they didn't know you before, they probably just want you for the fame.
 For like 10 minutes. You will still have to work, and although it may be fun, keep putting effort into it, and you'll need to start writing songs now. But, if you keep working at both school and the band, you are well on your way to success.

