 Before you start making your lollipops, turn on your oven and set the temperature to 275°F (135°C)., Cover your baking sheet with some aluminum foil, and lay a piece of parchment paper over it. Lightly grease the parchment paper with shortening or cooking spray., In order to make shaped Jolly Rancher lollipops, you will need some cookie cutters. Choose metal ones that can withstand high temperatures, and lightly grease the inside with shortening or cooking spray.Once you have greased your cookie cutters, place them onto the baking sheet. Many cookie cutters will have some sort of ledge or lip—this part should be sticking up, and the sharper side should be touching the tray., Take 2 to 3 Jolly Ranchers and place them into the cookie cutters; you may need to use more or fewer candies depending on the size of the cookie cutter.

You can use all one color, or multiple colors.
 Let the candy bake until it melts. This can take between 6 to 8 minutes. Watch your oven carefully, so that you don't scorch your candy., Once the candy has melted, take the baking sheet out of the oven and set it down onto a stable, heat-resistant surface., Working quickly, but carefully, pop the candy out of the cookie cutters. If the candy is too runny and starts to lose its form, wait a moment or two. You may have to use a knife or spoon to help pop the candy out. When you have popped the candy out of the cookie cutter, place it onto the baking sheet., Start laying the lollipop sticks down onto the candy. You want just the first inch or two of the lollipop stick to be inserted. When laying down the lollipop sticks, give them a slight twist. This helps create a better, more secure bond. Work quickly, before the candy hardens., Leave your tray on a stable, heat-resistant surface, and let the candy cool until it hardens. This will take about 5 minutes., Once the candy cools off, you can take the lollipop off the baking sheet. If there is grease residue on the candy, you can wipe it off with a cloth., Once you have finished making your candy, you will need to store properly so that it doesn't become sticky and gooey. Choose a cool, dry location. You can either keep the lollipops in an air-tight container, or wrap them in cellophane.