 Often people experience nervousness and anxiety because they are put under, or put themselves under, pressure to perform perfectly at everything they do. Not every day will be perfect. You will have setbacks and disappointments. Learning to deal with them will help you to become stronger and more independent.It's important to remember that life is often complicated and difficult, and sometimes you have to be able to roll with the punches.
 Try to figure out the cause of your nervousness. Are you worried about your job? Your love life? Money? Socializing at a work party? Once you’ve located the source of your nervousness, work on shifting your perspective. Rather than thinking “My job is unfulfilling,” think “My job is a way for me to do other more fulfilling things in my life.”If your anxiety is associated with a particular place, go to that place and confront the anxiety head on. If you panic when you get into a lift one day, go back into one the following day., Write down when something makes you feel nervous and why. Then go back through them, and begin to challenge them rationally.Talking to someone can help, as can keeping a journal. Rather than dwelling on nervous thoughts, exorcise them by writing them down in a journal.


Let your journal “remember” your nervous thoughts for you can free your mind up to do other things.Keeping a journal is also a good way of tracking the things that make you nervous. Looking back on something that stressed you out in the past but is over now can offer some much-needed perspective., Perhaps your nervousness stems from a fear of embarrassment. If that’s the case, then try purposefully embarrassing yourself in mild ways so you can get used to the feeling. Try handing out lemons to strangers for no reason.The more you expose yourself to uncomfortable situations the more you will chase the fear and anxiety away., Devise an alter ego, complete with a fake name and back story. Use this alter ego in unfamiliar situations or in situations of little consequence. This allows you to get used to things like small talk and casual flirting. Of course, do not, under any circumstances, use your alter ego in situations—like job interviews or dates—where your duplicity could have serious repercussions!Think of it as a fun way to get used to being in situations that you would normally find stressful and don't take it seriously.

