 Fabric dye works best on natural fabrics such as cotton, linen and silk. Synthetics such as rayon and nylon are also good candidates. There are a couple of fabrics that won’t accept dye well – 100% polyester and spandex. Avoid attempting to dye those.


It’s recommended that you don’t attempt to dye the fabric of any garment labelled “dry clean only”.
The different fabrics absorb dye differently from one another, with results that vary in appearance. If you are concerned about a particular garment, test a swatch first.;
, Cover your entire workspace with plastic or newspaper before you begin. Make sure to have sponges and paper towels within reach in case of spillage. Use plastic buckets, stainless steel buckets or a stainless steel sink to create your dye bath.


Don’t use bath tubs made of porcelain or fiberglass for any part of the dyeing process because they will stain.
You will need to be wearing rubber gloves during the entire dyeing and rinsing process., 140°F/60°C is the maximum temperature you can use and will result in the deepest black color. Make sure you use enough hot water to completely submerge your garment.If you want the deepest black and your tap water doesn’t get hot enough, use a stove, teakettle or microwave to heat the water.
 Be sure to dissolve it thoroughly and use a chopstick or any other handy tool you don’t mind staining to stir the mixture until well mixed. If you’re using liquid dye, all you need to do is shake it well before adding it to the bucket.


Check the dye packaging to make sure you are using enough dye for the amount of clothing you’re dying. The amount needed varies from product to product, so consult the packaging or insert for exact measurements.
 Make sure that the mixture blends well into the hot water. There needs to be enough water in the bucket so that your garment can move around freely and be stirred while in the dye bath. This is so that your garment will get evenly dyed.Add one tablespoon of laundry detergent to the dye bath. This will help promote dye absorption. Make sure that you stir the laundry detergent into the dye bath until it is well dissolved.
When dyeing cotton, rayon, ramie, or linen, add 1 cup of table salt to the dye bath. This will intensify the color.
When dyeing nylon, silk and wool, add 1 cup of white vinegar to the dye bath to intensify the color., The longer your garment is left in the dye bath, the darker the result will be. Garments can be left in the bath for up to 1 hour. You will need to constantly agitate and stir the garment while it’s submerged in the bath.


Try to keep the temperature of the water as consistently hot as possible, so have a stove top, microwave or tea kettle nearby to heat water up to use to refresh the dye bath.
Another option would be to use a large stainless steel pot for the dye bath and go through the process with the pot being heated on the stove to keep a consistent temperature.If you soak your clothing in plain hot water for a few minutes before putting them in the dye bath, it will smooth them out so that they can accept dye even more easily., Warm water removes the dye on the surface of the garment more efficiently. After the warm rinse, then rinse in cold water. Keep rinsing until the water runs clear.


When you remove the items from the dye bath, they will be wet and appear darker than the final result will be.
Turn your items inside out and place them in the washing machine.Wash them alone in warm water with a mild detergent. Use the gentle cycle.
 You can dry your items either way, but hang drying clothing preserves their dark colors, so it’s probably a better idea to get in that habit. Once dry, your clothing is ready to wear.


For the first 3 times you wash your newly dyed clothing after wearing, wash the items alone in cold water using the gentle cycle and mild, non-bleach detergent.
After that you can wash the dyed items with other items of the same color that haven’t been dyed, but make sure it’s always in cold water and using a mild detergent.