 Remember that your skin is only one aspect of yourself. It doesn't define who you are. Remind yourself of the other good qualities that you have.


Consider the other positive parts of your physical appearance. Think about your smile, your eyes, your hair, your teeth, or any other aspect of your body that you love.
Focus on the good aspects of your personality that make you interesting. Remember that people aren't only interested in appearance. Kindness, intelligence, and a sense of humor are all good qualities to have.;
, Avoid suppressing or ignoring what you're feeling. By admitting that you're feeling depressed or upset about your condition, you can begin to find ways to heal and accept yourself.Talk with trusted friends and family about what you're feeling related to your psoriasis. Open up to someone who you trust that can provide a non-judgmental approach. Consider saying, "I've been struggling with my psoriasis. I feel like it's affecting the way I see myself and my self-confidence."
There are many people with psoriasis who are depressed, particularly if those with a severe condition. Don't feel like you're alone in what you're feeling.
 Remember to appreciate the small and big things that make you happy. While you can't control all the things in your life, there is likely something to be proud of. Focus on the positive, rather than the negative.Take five minutes to write down three positive things in your life. It can be as simple as having a good cup of coffee this morning, or just a reminder of the good people in your life, like having a caring best friend.
Each morning and each evening remind yourself of what you're thankful for. Close your eyes. Breathe. And then, visualize what you're thankful for in your life.
 Rather than being hard or judgmental of yourself, focus on accepting you. Love who you are, without having to apologize. Believe that you are strong, beautiful, and confident.Repeat these self-affirmations: "I fully accept myself and know that I am worthy of great things in life," "I live in the present and am confident of the future" or "I send love and healing to every part of my body."
Consider spending time looking at the affected areas on your skin. Look at them regularly and accept them as part of you. If you spend 5 minutes each day looking at your skin without judgment, you can begin accept that this condition isn’t something odd, but just a part of your life. Love yourself no matter what.
 Help others to understand what your condition is, and what you’re going through. Be an advocate for yourself, while educating others.


Some people may look at you strangely due to a lack of knowledge. Help to show them that your condition is manageable, rather than scary. Talk with them about what psoriasis is. The more they know, the easier it will be for them to understand.
For example, try saying to people who may look at you strangely, "There's nothing to fear. I'm doing okay. I just have psoriasis. It's not contagious. It's just a skin condition where I develop red patches of skin sometimes."Consider allowing others to see your skin, rather than covering up regularly. While you may want to start out small, it may help you to feel more accepting of yourself.
 Make sure to set aside time for yourself. Don’t let work, school, family, or friends get in the way of having time to rest and rejuvenate. Do these things to feel better and reduce stress:Listen to music.
Read a good book.
Get creative with drawing, writing, painting, building, or doing other crafty things.
Get a good night’s sleep.
Eat healthy and drink plenty of water.
Do activities that put your mind at ease.
 Exercise can be an excellent stress reliever. Help to soothe your worries about yourself by taking good care of your body. Do activities that are fun and make you feel better.


Go to the gym or join a fitness class.
Walk regularly.
Go for hikes or nature walks.
Play sports.
Go out for a bike ride, or do other outdoor activities.
 Treat yourself, to be happier and prouder of the way you look. While you may not be able to control your psoriasis at all times, you can control other aspects of your appearance. Consider these ways to feel better about your looks:Get a manicure or pedicure.
Get a new hair style.
Get a massage.
Buy new clothes that make you feel good.
Use perfume or cologne.
Try new makeup or accessories with your outfit.
 Letting out your thoughts and feelings can help you to understand what triggers make you feel bad or upset with yourself. Writing can help to focus your thoughts, and make you more self-aware.Use this as a mood journal to help monitor when you’re feeling more anxious, depressed, or worried about yourself and your appearance. Identify if there are recurrent situations that trigger stress. Once you’ve identified these situations, find ways to manage or anticipate those triggers.
Use your thoughts and feelings as guidance towards self-love, and focus on what you think will make you feel happier and healthier.
 Your primary doctor and skincare providers can provide medications and skin treatments that can help to reduce flare-ups or make your symptoms more manageable.Psoriasis treatments are generally divided into one of three categories: topical treatments, light therapy, or oral and injected medications.Be an advocate for your healthcare needs. If there are treatments that aren’t working for you, or making things worse, talk with your healthcare providers about alternative options.
Consider asking questions like, "What are other options besides the medication I'm taking now? And what might be the costs?" or "Are there other treatments available with fewer side effects?" or "Can you make a referral or suggestions about a nutrition specialist or alternative therapies?"

, Instead of feeling isolated or different, make sure to connect with friends and family that have been supportive over the years. Avoid feeling shame or reluctance to talk about what you’re facing.


While not everyone offer comforting words, seek out a trusted friend or family member that makes you feel secure and accepted. Talk with them about what you’re feeling.
While there may be times when your health makes it difficult to participate in activities, avoid excluding yourself when possible. Don’t let the psoriasis get in the way of enjoy life.
 If you’re persistently feeling bad about yourself and your appearance, it may be time to talk with a counselor about what you’re feeling and how to cope more effectively. A counselor can help you to see yourself in a more positive light, and focus on how to feel good about yourself.Counselors and therapists are trained to address concerns regarding depression, anxiety, stress, and body image issues. Consider seeking a therapist who specializes in body image issues, since they may more experience with conditions such as psoriasis.
Consider talking with your doctor about possible referrals for a counselor or therapist that may have expertise in your condition. Many counselors and therapists take health care insurance.
 Sometimes the support you really need is from people who are in the same situation as yourself. Support groups help to gather together people who are facing the same situation or condition as yourself. In this environment, acceptance and support is key.Locate available support groups in your area through the National Psoriasis Foundation: https://www.psoriasis.org/navigationcenter

Find online support groups and message boards. This can help you connect to others, even if there are no support groups in your area.
Talk with your doctor or a counselor about other support groups that may be applicable to your condition, or support groups that focus on building confidence and self-esteem.

