 In addition to saying "congrats" in person, you might want to send a congratulatory note. You could send a simple email or Facebook note, or write a message on a card you pick out from the stationary store. The note you write should include the basics - a mention of the accomplishment, the word "congratulations," and a few happy sentiments.


This note is perfect for a relative: Dear Suzette, we learned that you and George are expecting a new baby this year. Congratulations! We are thrilled that a new member will soon be joining the Comer clan! We can't wait to see you at the Halloween party to hear how things are going. Much love, Betty and Pete

If you're writing a note to a colleague, make it a bit more formal: Joan, I heard the great news that you were promoted to Chief of Staff. Allow me to express my heartfelt congratulations on this accomplishment. I know the company will change in very positive ways under your leadership. All best, Ryan

To congratulate someone on getting married, it's okay to gush a little: Tim and Mary, from the moment I saw the two of you together it was clear you were meant for each other. You're an amazing couple, and everyone who knows you can feel the love you two exude. Congratulations on starting your journey together! I wish you many years of happiness! Love, Brenda


, If the occasion is special enough to merit a gift, something thoughtful and not too expensive is usually the right way to go. Choose a gift that lets the person know you want to celebrate with them and send it with a note of congratulations.


You can't go wrong with flowers, whether you want to mark a professional achievement or a personal landmark.
Food items are also usually welcome. Pick a universal favorite, like chocolates or fresh fruit.
A bottle of wine or good bourbon might be a good choice.
For a high school or college graduate, a small amount of cash will probably be appreciated.
 You can help spread the person's joy by telling other people the good news, so they can congratulate the person as well. Write a congratulatory post on Facebook, or get everyone in the office to sign a card. Before you decide to spread the word, just make sure the news is yours to share! Some people might prefer to keep good news private until they're ready to reveal it to more people.
 If your best friend got into the college of her dreams, or your colleague is moving on to greener pastures, having a party to congratulate the person is a great way to show how much you care. It doesn't have to be a giant bash - you could hold an after-work gathering at a restaurant, or invite people over for pizza to celebrate. The person you're congratulating will never forget your kind gesture!

