 A good persuasive essay tries to make a point, so come up with your main argument. Are you arguing for a particular political position, a controversial viewpoint on history, or a particular interpretation of a piece of art or media? The possibilities are endless!;
, Start with some basic research on your topic, so that you can begin to form your opinion. At this stage, you're likely just to get a rough overview, rather than doing in-depth research.
 Start with a loose set of your own thoughts; build up some basic ideas about why you take the position you do. This is a good time to start brainstorming the counter-arguments, too, so that you can prepare rebuttals.
 Once you have some basic ideas about your position, you need to actually find supporting evidence. Dig into articles, studies, and any other source material to find evidence that can back up your position.
 This should explain a little background information about the topic at large. Depending on the topic, you might provide some legal or historical context, or dive into a captivating anecdote about the topic. Try to capture your reader's attention!


End the introduction with a strong thesis. This should sum up the position that your essay will seek to "prove." Avoid wording it as a question or hypothesis; try to be steadfast and persuasive from the get-go by stating your position as fact.
 Go point by point, ideally devoting a paragraph (or more) to every strong reason. Wherever possible, provide more than one piece of supporting evidence or research for each reason.
 Re-state what you are trying to convince your reader of is true, and remind them briefly of each reason. Bring it all together, and end on a strong note.
 If you want good grades on the essay, then check it for spelling and grammar. Proofread your own work, and have someone else review it, too. They're likely to see mistakes that you missed!

, With a fresh eye, it'll be easier for another person to spot any holes in your argument or point out any counter-arguments that you've missed. Encourage them to be constructively critical!

, You may need to add to and revise your arguments several times before you make the essay as persuasive as possible. Stick with it and keep getting more opinions until you're happy that it's the best it can be!

