 Having a goal to work for beyond "be a better runner" allows you to tailor your workouts for maximum improvement. Whether you want to run your first 5K, make the cross country team, or cut 10 seconds off of your mile time, think about why you really want to improve. You can then plan accordingly.If you want to start racing, or simply want to make running a more regular habit, consider signing up for a local race. This gives you a concrete date and distance to train for.
If you're trying to make a team or be a better runner for sports, look online for common or recommended workouts for your specific activity, adding it to the advice here.
If you're looking to shave precious seconds off your time, know that you'll need to focus a bit more on strength and power training as well as regular running.;
, It is common for runners to push themselves about the same amount each time, running similarly challenging runs and gradually increasing difficulty. Elite runners, however, alternate an easy, resting run with a very challenge one. It is during these difficult runs, when you really push yourself, that your body makes the most significant gains.Don't feel like an easy day is "cheating." Rather, it is helping rebuild and relax the muscles needed for your big runs.
Vary your running routes — even running your normal route backward will provide a new challenge., Every time you run hard, you stretch your quads and hamstrings near their breaking point for a split second. Your body reacts by contracting the muscles quickly to give you power and protection. Plyometrics, which focus on quick, explosive movement, train the body to handle this stress and keep you strong and powerful throughout the run. These exercises are great after a light run, too. Twice a week, do at least 30 minutes of:Try:


Box jumps (use both legs, as well as each leg individually)
Shuttle runs
Single leg hops/leaps
Squat leaps — simply do squat without weight, then jump up and to the side instead of coming straight up
Power skips — how high you can get on each leap?, Sprint workouts aren't just about being a faster sprinter -- the high-energy, powerful steps used at your top speed will help train your muscles to better handle stress at any pace.Some training suggestions include:



Interval Running: Jog lightly for five to 10 minutes. Immediately after, sprint for 30 seconds. Jog for 60 seconds, then sprint for another 30, repeating five to six more times. Jog for five to 10 minutes to cool down.

Ladders: This requires a track or other way to do laps. Jog lightly for five to 10 minutes. When done, sprint a lap at almost 90% top speed. Jog a lap to rest and recover. When done, sprint two laps and jog another lap to recover. Keep escalating the sprint laps until you can no longer push yourself, then jog to cool down for five to 10 minutes., Your core helps transfer energy smoothly from your upper half to lower half. Even more importantly, it helps you stay upright and strong when tired, which helps conserve vital energy. Never neglect your core during training. While not directly felt, strong abs and obliques will lead to more efficient, and thus improved, running.



Crunches and sit-ups, either straight or to the sides.

Planks and other "hold" exercises are excellent for building posture and stamina.
Abs can be done every day, or you can choose two to three days a week to do harder and more focused workouts., One of the biggest myths in exercise is that you can "eat whatever you want" just because you're running a lot. But you can only burn about 30% of the calories you eat through exercise.Furthermore, the types of calories you consume directly impact how successfully you can run. While dieting properly is it's own topic, some things to remember include to:


Prioritize food that comes from seeds, fruits and vegetables, as they come pre-packed with essential nutrients.
Drink water all day, keeping hydrated before you start running. You want to stay ahead of feeling thirsty, not just drinking once you're parched.
Lean towards lean proteins like chicken, fish, and beans instead of fattier red meats and greasier meats like sausage.
Replace "empty" snacks like cookies and candies with vegetables, hummus, yogurt, and low-cal alternatives like pretzels or baked chips.
Recognize that big, heavy, and unhealthy meals can take two to three days to get through your body. Plan before big runs or races accordingly., The better you get, the harder you'll need to push yourself. A good benchmark for any training plan is to ask, "How hard are the last five to 10 minutes?" You make the greatest gains when you push through difficulties, so make sure your workouts are still challenging you in order to keep improving.


Working with a partner is often a good way to keep challenging yourself and find motivation to keep working.
Give yourself bigger and harder benchmarks. If you feel good, add a mile to your toughest run, or start incorporating more hills instead of flats.

