 Tap the App Store on your iPhone to launch it.;
, Type in “GrabTaxi” on the search field then tap the Search button.
 Locate the correct app and tap on it. On it’s overview page, tap the Install button.


This app is free.
 In order for GrabTaxi to know where you are and match you with taxis within your vicinity, you have to enable GPS on your iPhone. Go to Privacy, in the Settings menu, to enable Location Services for GrabTaxi.
 In order to use GrabTaxi, you have to be connected to the Internet. This is how you can communicate with GrabTaxi’s server, track your taxi, and share your journey details on your social networks.
 Locate the app on your iPhone. Its app icon has a green background with a dialog box containing a taxi. Tap on it to launch it.
 On the upper-left corner of the app are three horizontal lines. Tap on this to bring out the left panel menu then tap on the Register menu.


A registration form will be displayed on your screen. Fill up your name, email, and phone number, then tap on the “Sign Up Now” button at the bottom of the form.
You have to register for GrabTaxi to identify you and your phone.
 On the upper-left corner of the app are three horizontal lines. Tap on this to bring out the left panel menu. Tap on the Book Taxi menu. You will be brought to the main screen of the app.
 By enabling Location Services, you can now easily identify your current location. Tap the Location Services icon, the one with the arrowhead pointing northwest, on the map.


A pin on the map will identify your current location. This will allow the app to filter your source location and the drivers near your area.
 In order for the taxi to know where exactly to pick you up, tap the From field and select from the list of nearby locations your desired pickup location.


Be sure this is the right place so the taxi can find you.
 Identify where you want to go. Tap the To field and key in the name of your drop off location. Tap your destination from the resulting list.
 Under the To field is a free text field where you can enter some notes for the driver. You can place some landmarks or further instructions to the driver here.
 Based on your pickup and drop off locations, the app will provide you an estimate of the taxi cost. This will give you an idea how much you have to pay in case you push through with the taxi booking.


You can view this cost range right under the map.
 The number of nearby drivers registered with GrabTaxi will also be posted right under the map. Tap on this number to zoom in on the map with the exact locations of the available taxis.


The taxis will be represented by the GrabTaxi logos on the map.
 To initiate your taxi booking, tap the “Book Now” button at the bottom of the screen. The app will search for the nearest taxis from your source location, and display the results on the following “Locating Drivers” screen.


The taxis will be identified by their plate numbers and approximate distances from your pickup location.
 The system will send out job notifications to the taxi drivers nearby. The drivers will then be given options to accept or decline the job. Once a driver accepts the job, a taxi will be assigned to your booking. This will be reflected on your app with a check mark and an Assigned status.


You will then be given the notification message “Yay! We’ve found you a driver,” together with the taxi’s plate number and distance.
 The app will display the taxi’s route, journey, and estimated arrival time on the map. You will be able to see where the taxi is at all times once it has been assigned to you.


You can also call the driver by tapping the “Call Driver” button.
 Once the taxi arrives, your meter will start. You may have to pay some additional fees on top of the meter fee for the GrabTaxi service.