 Pregnancy tests examine either your blood or your urine to detect the presence of the hormone human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). This hormone is produced by the placenta shortly after an embryo attaches to the uterine lining. While hCG builds up quickly in your body over the first few days of pregnancy, testing too quickly can produce a negative result. If your pregnancy test is negative but you experience a variety of other symptoms, it's a good idea to re-test.
 Home pregnancy kits test urine in one of two ways. Some tests require you to collect urine in a cup and either dip a test stick into the urine, or place some urine into a special container using an eyedropper. Other tests require you to place a test stick into the path of your urine stream and catch the urine midstream -- in short, you urinate on the stick. How long you wait for a result may vary, so follow your kit's instructions carefully. You'll be looking for a chance in color or the appearance of a line or other symbol.Most urine tests have a "control indicator" line or symbol that should appear regardless of your test results as an assurance the test is working. Be sure this control indicator is working -- if not, your test is likely invalid.
Always check the test's expiration date to ensure it will give you accurate results.
It's best to wait until at least the first missed day of your period before taking a urine exam. This will likely be about two weeks following conception. If your test turns out negative but you continue to experience other symptoms, re-take the test in a week.Urine tests are 97 percent accurate when performed correctly., Blood tests come in two forms. Qualitative tests simply assess whether any hCG is present in your blood and give you a yes-or-no answer. These tests are about as accurate as a urine test. Quantitative tests will tell you the exact quantity of hCG in your blood. These tests are extremely accurate and can be useful if your doctor needs to track potential problems in your pregnancy. Blood tests can often detect pregnancy as early as seven to 12 days after conception. They are, however, more expensive, and must be done in a doctor's office.