 Finding a spiritual guru will make the path of spirituality a little less complicated as he can guide you throughout the journey. You could ask any of your religious friends/ family if they recommend anyone or simply read up on the spiritual organisations which will help you take the right decision.;
, Today we are surrounded by various meditation centres and you could join any one of your choice. Learning meditation is the most crucial step to walk the path of spirituality. With the help of various meditation techniques, you could be able to identify one form which works best for you and start practicing it. On the other hand, if you do not want to spend your dollars, you can always learn new methods online.
 Reading leads to knowledge and to develop a keen interest in spirituality, we need to educate ourselves a little before hand. This will not only answer some of your questions but will also motivate you for your spiritual quest of life.
 Meditation is like clearing the clutter of our minds and trying to reach a state of nothingness. Practice makes perfect and specially when we want to quiet the mind. Even if its for 15 minutes, take out time during the day and sit. You may have to force yourself in the beginning, as our monkey mind has a habit of jumping from one place to another. Your mind might wander, but bring it back slowly. This should not demotivate you to meditate because it will be harder to resume again, once you stop it.
 Just as reading books is important, similarly spiritual discourses keeps our interest in this subject stimulated. You even have various videos on spiritual discourses online.
 Walking on the spiritual path not only requires mental discipline but to a great extent physical discipline as well. A healthy mind leads to a healthy body and vice verse. Exercising, eating well and avoiding stimulants like drugs and alcohol is the right approach to a healthy lifestyle. Physical activities release feel good chemicals in our brain, build self confidence and lead to our mental well being. Our body is the temple of our soul so take care of it.
 It has been rightly said that 'Actions speak louder than words'. Philosophizing something and giving expert advice to people is one thing but doing what you believe in is quite another. We all have a few personality issues to address. Try to work on them. If your anger is a cause of concern for you and your loved ones, practice patience. If your ego takes the better of you, Try to empathize with others. Learn to give; offer your help to those who need it- emotional, physical or financial. And remember, you cannot change yourself overnight. It takes a great deal of patience and perseverance to be the person you strive to be.
 Last but not least, you need to be determined to achieve anything and losing focus may take you back to where you started. Be persistent in your pursuit.

