 Regardless of how focused your list already is, you can likely split up prospects using certain criteria to make it even more focused. Segmentation is the process of dividing up your prospects, using demographic information for individuals, business descriptors for companies, or purchase information for either of them. Your segmentation decisions should be aimed at creating a list that conforms to your ideal customer.


You can segment individuals using geographic information or demographic information, such as gender, income, age, profession, marital status, interests, or other qualities.
Businesses can divided into categories based on their size, business type, annual sales/expenditures, or other qualities.
Either group can be divided based on order recency (in the last six months, for example), order frequency, average order size, annual purchase amount, or simply if they have made a purchase from you at all., Set up marketing automation tools like Pardot, Hubspot, and Leadlander to track visitors to your website. These services will allow you to see who is visiting your site and what, specifically, they are viewing. You can then match these visitors to your website to see who among them is most interested in your product or service. Reaching out to prospects who have already visited your site is likely to result in better leads.You can do the same thing with your emails to your list if you are using an email marketing platform. Track views and click-through rates and match interest to your prospect list., If you have identified a list of strong company prospects, you'll need to convert your list into actual human contacts at each company. Use LinkedIn and an internet search engine to identify the relevant decision-makers at each company. If possible, identify between 5 and 20 important possible decision-makers for each prospect. Then, utilize your own LinkedIn network to see if any of your connections can introduce you., To have a complete list, you'll need to go through it and eliminate any gaps, errors, or duplicates. Start by searching through for duplicate entries of the same prospects. These might be mentioned in different ways, so look closely. Then, try to fill in any gaps in your information, including names, phone numbers, and email addresses. Finally, try to ascertain whether or not the information you have is correct. Check your information against other sources to make sure its right and up to date.