 Dust mites, the most common species of mite in American households, can be easily eliminated with the use of a vacuum cleaner. Dust mites burrow and cling to fabrics, mostly in carpet, furniture and, sometimes, clothing. Regular cleaning by vacuuming or washing fabrics will take care of this problem and alleviate this simple headache.;
, The place in your home with the highest concentration of dust mites is likely your bed; those little buggers get trapped in the mattress pad and pillows, creating waste as they go. Protect your bed by encasing your mattress and pillows in dust-proof covers. This will block out mites and prevent buildup of dust mite waste.
 Bedding is the most likely home of dust mites, but they are heavily present in most fabrics. Aim to wash household fabrics (bedding, pillowcases, curtains, blankets, etc.) once every 1-2 weeks. Use the hottest water the fabric can handle to kill any dust mites that might be present.
 It may seem obvious, but dust mites tend to accumulate in dust. Therefore, make sure your house is as dust-free as possible by wiping down stationary objects often. Use a damp duster or cloth to avoid simply stirring up the mite waste and allergens. If you are allergic to dust mites, wear a mask as you dust to avoid inhaling irritants.
 Create an environment in which it makes it difficult for dust mites to thrive. These little bugs typically enjoy high humidity, warm environments. Use a dehumidifier to keep the humidity level in your home at 50% or below. You can additionally use an air conditioner to keep your house cool, another deterrent for dust mites.
 If mites are really a problem in your home and you’re not opposed to spending a bit of money, make changes to create a house uninhabitable by dust mites. Replace carpet flooring with wood or tile floors, and remove as much fabric as possible. Use bedding made out of synthetic rather than down filler and take down any curtains.
 Keep the dust mites that you clean up permanently out of your house by using filters in your vacuum cleaner and vents. HEPA filters will trap the mites and their waste as they pass through, keeping them from re-entering your home., If you have certain items that you can’t wash but may be full of mites or mite waste, place it in the freezer for 24 hours. This will kill the mites and make it easier to clean up afterwards., As a last measure, you can use an insecticide inside your home to kill any dust mites. Look for one that advertises mites as its primary target, or hire someone to come kill the bugs for you. Keep in mind that using a bug-killing spray may give your home an odor or be the source of other limitations.