 This simple trap will drop a box on the bird, containing it until you get to it later. It can also be used to catch small game, like rabbits and squirrels.
 You want the "classic" kind -- a simple wooden board with a spring-loaded trap wire. You can find these traps at almost any hardware store., The box should be about twice as big as the bird you want to catch., Place a nail in the center of the trap and hammer it into the ground. You should use a fairly long nail. It will secure the trap into the dirt so that it doesn't move when the bird lands.Balance the box on one edge by slipping it slightly under the mouse trap., Temporarily loop it around part of the mouse trap. Thread the other end through the hole in the top of the box. Later on, you'll attach this loop to the spring. But, for now, you just need it looped somewhere on the trap to create tension in the line.
 Nail that end into the ground, pulling the nail out enough to tighten the line so that the box balances on one edge. The inside of the box should be facing the ground, with one side raised to allow birds to enter. Adjust the thread so that the highest edge of the box is only a foot or so in the air.The box needs to be high enough the a bird flies into it, but low enough that it can shut quickly.
 Load the spring but not the arm. You want the string to be on the mechanism that spring when a mouse (or, in this case, bird) steps on it. When the bird releases the spring, the box will fall around the bird, trapping it.The tension of the string is holding the box in place. Make sure you tie the string so that it sits correctly.
 Remember, you want the bird to land on the trap, springing it and releasing the string. It will cause the box to fall and allow you to trap the bird., Constant human activity near the trap will scare birds away. If you see that the box has fallen, go check it to see if you caught anything.
 To get the bird out of your trap, lift the box slightly, reach in, and grab the bird firmly around the body. Wear gloves and long sleeves to prevent any pecking or scratching wounds.


There is always the chance that you'll catch a rabbit or squirrel as well with your trap since it is on the ground. Be ready for anything.

