 There is a clear difference between being aggressive in a negative and being assertive. Often, people who are aggressive end up being bullies. Being a bully means you act self-righteous or superior and have no regard for the needs, feelings, and opinions of others. Bullying others will only lead to conflict and negativity in your life, not respect.You should try to keep your aggression in check so it does not turn into bullying. Though you may feel a momentary sense of power as a bully, it will ultimately only lead to resentment and anger from others. This resentment could then cause people to avoid you or oppose you.
 You can also channel aggression into developing healthy habits like positive communication, becoming assertive instead. Positive communication means you practice active listening and always consider the thoughts and opinions of others. You should also try to take your ego out of any discussion or conversation and focus instead on how you can support those around you.Practicing active listening means not interrupting others when they are speaking and maintaining eye contact with the speaker. Once the speaker is done, you should repeat back what she said in your own words to show you were listening and paying attention. Then, you can respond to the speaker in a positive and open way.
 Displaying empathy for others means putting your ego aside and focusing on how others are feeling or what they are experiencing. Doing this will show that you can be assertive and strong willed without walking on the needs of others. Showing empathy for others is often a sign of confidence and maturity.For example, you may have an employee who is struggling with an illness in the family. You may then show empathy for the employee by approving his request for time off and checking in with the employee on a consistent basis to make sure he has everything he needs. Showing the employee compassion and empathy will show that you can be a considerate boss.
 Another way you can channel aggression into something productive and healthy is to focus on mediating conflict. Conflict resolution can be useful at home and in the workplace. You should strive to mediate a conflict rather than try to dominate it so it can be resolved effectively.Make sure you are addressing the problem or issue at hand, not the person involved in the problem. Focusing on how you can problem solve the issue will avoid making anyone feel bad or placing the blame on someone.
You should also work with others to try to mediate an issue so you are not dominating the conversation or being too aggressive towards others. Collaborating and listening to others will ensure the resolution is effective and satisfying for everyone involved.
For example, maybe there is a conflict between two of your co-workers. Rather than punish both co-workers or blame them, you may sit down with them and have a mediation session. You may act confident and assertive but also listen and empathize with both employees to reach a resolution.

