 Wood stove designs have been drastically improved in recent years. New stoves heat more efficiently, producing less smoke and ash and consuming wood more slowly. There are several reasons why you should chiefly consider wood stoves that are less than about 15 years old.


Stoves more than a few decades old will likely not be UL-listed or certified by an environmental regulator, such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in the United States. This can make the stove illegal to install under many building codes. Check for a UL stamp and an EPA certification on the wood stove before buying.
To get an older stove permitted, you may have to perform extensive repair work. This can prove to be quite expensive, and will generally eclipse any savings over buying a new wood stove.;
, The condition of a used wood stove is largely dictated by how it was used and how carefully it was maintained.


Many stove parts fatigue or wear out as the stove ages. Ask the owner if they have ever replaced any parts, or if any parts do not work or fit as well as they used to.
If the stove uses catalytic combustion (whereby smoke is passed through a ceramic honeycomb-shaped assembly), ask the owner the last time they replaced the catalyst. Catalysts should be replaced every 2 to 6 years, depending on how heavily the stove has been used.
Ask the owner if they have ever over-fired the wood stove. Burning a wood stove too hot causes its parts to fatigue and warp. The owner should be able to assure you that they have monitored the temperature carefully.
 Unlike damage to smaller parts, the body of the wood stove cannot be easily or cheaply replaced. If the stove presents a whitish-gray color around its upper half, the metal is likely fatigued beyond proper use. Rust and scale should also be avoided.
 Used fire bricks will commonly display small hairline cracks, but larger cracks or crumbling bricks may indicate that the wood stove was over-fired or used very heavily. These bricks can be replaced quite inexpensively, but should be examined as an indicator of the stove's prior use.
 The door gasket is one of the quickest components of a wood stove to wear out. To check for a tight seal, shut the door over a dollar bill (or other paper currency). If you can easily pull the dollar bill out without opening the door, the gasket likely needs to be replaced.
 You can use a light bulb to test for cracks in the body of the wood stove. Turn the light bulb on (preferably using a portable work lamp) and place it inside the stove, shutting the door. Walk around the stove and check for any light visible through the stove's exterior. The light bulb can highlight faint cracks as well as indicate the integrity of all seams and seals.

