 Sling the handles around the safety bars extending out from the squat rack. The distance from one handle to the other should be about one meter. The ends of the resistance band should sit at two parallel points at about waist height.For a more intense workout, affix the resistance band so the handles are just below waist height. The lower the points at which the band is anchored, the more challenging this exercise will be.
Ensure your band is securely fastened and there is no risk of it snapping back on you or a bystander.
 The medicine ball should be situated directly between the two points where the band is anchored. Use one slightly larger than a basketball; its weight is irrelevant since you won’t be lifting it. The ball is only a marker to let you know how deep you’re squatting. For a more intense workout, use a smaller ball.
 Unlike the standard, basic squat, you will not hold the resistance band in this exercise. The band will remain fastened to the squat rack or other immobile object. The only points of contact you will have with the band will be your neck and arms.


Wrap the band around the back of your neck so that it loops over your shoulders. Hook the inside of your elbows into the band.
With the band still hooked behind your neck and over your shoulders, push yourself off the medicine ball into a standing position. Keep your feet shoulder width apart and bend your knees slightly. Like in all other squats, your core and abs should be tight and your shoulders should be pushed back. Sit your hips back and put your weight on your heels. Focus your eyes on a point about six feet ahead of you.
 Bend slightly forward and drop your butt to the surface of the ball. When you’ve just barely touched the surface of the ball, push yourself back up with your heels using as much force as you can. Try to jump up from the squat. Don’t be afraid to let your feet leave the ground. Return to the upright starting position, keeping your gluteal muscles tight as you do so.








This exercise will help you develop a more powerful lower body and train your muscular endurance.
 After you’ve gotten the basic technique down, test yourself with a speed squat variation. Go up and down from the ball to a standing “ready” position as fast as possible, for 10-20 reps. Don’t bounce off the ball; barely touch it before launching yourself back up. Each time you come up and down, aim to do so at the same speed. This will help you build endurance.








Be careful not to let your knees collapse (angle inward toward each other).

