 Will it be in your current bedroom, or in another room in your house? Make sure that your parents agree with this before making any other plans.;
, Good colours for teen girls are sky blue, pale green, lilac or red. Unless it is your favourite colour, try not to go for pink or yellow. These can come across as quite babyish. If you don't want a room that is completely one colour, try mixing two or three (see suggested list of matching colours in tips.) Bright carpets are not a good idea. This is because if you ever get bored of the colour of your room, the carpet will not match with whatever colour you choose. Find neutral colours e.g oatmeal, cream or maybe just pale wood.
 Any toys or items you don't want can be put in a car boot or jumble sale, or you could give them to a charity shop. Pack all of the things you do want into boxes. This includes books, notepads, CDs, magazines, general clutter and rarely used make up or jewellery. Protect the fragile things in bubble wrap, then take all the boxes out of your room and put them in a safe place that isn't in anyone's way. It is a good idea to do this before moving the furniture out, because it adds to the stress if you are the still sorting toys when the carpet fitters come.
 Take all your clothes out of your wardrobe and chest of drawers and put them in boxes. Take these into the spare room that you're staying in. Make them easy to get at.
 Many people don't consider curtains when they are adding up the price of their new room project, but they can be very expensive, especially if you have more than one window. Home Base, The Range, PB Teen and Laura Ashley sell high quality curtains. Also remember the curtain rail should match as well.
 Places like 'Home Base', 'B&Q' and 'Wickes' sell lots of paint and wallpaper. The colour of your walls is the base of the colour code of the room. If you have a large room, consider painting 2 of the walls your chosen colour, and paint the other two a neutral colour (see suggested list of matching colours)

, Choose what you want to keep and what to get rid of. Anything you don't want that is worth something can be sold on eBay, in newspaper ads or in a yard sale. Any furniture that is not worth anything can be taken to your local dump. You'll need a lot of space to put all of this while you are painting. Make sure that your room is completely empty of anything that blocks the walls and might get in the way.
 Places like Carpet Right or Hardy Carpets sell a range of many different colours. Get your parents to organize someone from your chosen carpet place to come and measure your room so the people know how big to make the carpet.
 Paint while your old carpet is still down, because you don't want paint splats on your new one. If you want to protect your old carpet, lay down sheets of linen or newspaper on the floor. Painting and putting up wallpaper can be fun and you can get your whole family to help (this gets it done a lot quicker!) Wear old clothes while painting or wallpapering. If you have black or wooden beams then paint them a matching colour. (see suggested list of matching colours.) You may need to apply two or even three coats of paint - it depends on the type.
 Get your parents to phone or visit your chosen carpet company to organise a date which they will come over and put your carpet down. Only when this is done can you move on to the next step.
 Once the carpet is down and the walls are done, move all your furniture back into your room. You may want to move it around to create a whole new design.
,