 Omegle allows you to search for other chatters with similar interests. Enter in some interests that appeal to girls in order to increase your chances of being paired with a female.


Examples include popular music groups and singers, female-centric hobbies, and television shows and movies with a primarily-female audience.;
, It can be tough to get a conversation with a stranger going, so be prepared with a few lines you can start off any conversation with. Ask her how her day is going, if she's seen such-and-such movie/band/show, if she's ever traveled, etc.See this guide for more details and tips on breaking the ice in a conversation.
 If you start off the conversation asking if the other person is female, you're bound to drive most people away. Let the conversation happen a bit, and you'll likely be able to figure out the truth after a little while.


If you are doing a video chat, make sure that the other person is real. It is fairly easy to fake a video using a recording, so ensure that the person is actually talking to you live.
 When you first start chatting with someone, keep the topic of conversation light and easy. Ask her about the place she lives, what she’s into, what she’s studying at school, her hobbies, etc.
 You’ll be able to keep her attention a lot longer if you two have something in common. If she brings up something you’re interested in, be sure to let her know!

, It can be tempting to brag and expand the truth when chatting online, but you’ll get a lot farther if you stay humble. Avoid boasting, and try not to talk about yourself too much.
 Humor is a great way to break the ice, but you have to be careful with it. It can be hard to express inflection and subtlety when typing, which can cause a joke to totally lose its meaning. Avoid offensive jokes.


Try telling a funny story about something that happened to you. It not only paints you as someone who's humble and able to laugh at themselves, but it can also do wonders for breaking the ice. She may have a similar story!

, Avoid being rude or crass. Nothing will end a conversation faster than you saying something lewd or inappropriate. Always be a gentleman, and judge the conversation before taking that leap.


Don't get angry is she doesn't want to continue the conversation. Dust yourself off and find a new chat partner. Don't take out your frustrations on her.
 If the two of you are hitting it off, it may be time to exchange contact information for a better chat program. This will ensure that you can chat with each other at leisure. Popular programs include Skype and AIM. Avoid using any service that includes your real name, such as Facebook, until you've gotten to know each other better.

