 The bigger the head, the more power you put on the ball (if everything else -- racket length, swing, etc.-- stays consistent). This is one of the biggest choices you'll make when picking a racquet, as more power frequently leads to less control. Do you typically over hit the ball, or do you want a little more power without altering your swing? Check your current head size and adjust accordingly.


Oversized and large heads are usually 106-118 square inches, but they can get as big as 120-30 square inches for power racquets.
Smaller control racquets usually have a head size around 85-94 square inches.
For beginners, shoot for something closer to 100 square inches or above., Head heavy racquets are best for baseline play and beginners and are usually found on power racquets. They are slightly weighted up near the top, and this makes them slightly less maneuverable. Intermediate and advanced players usually prefer a head-light or balanced racquet.


If you go for a lot of net play, try out a head-light racquet for its increased maneuverability.
If you're unsure what to get, or play a varied style of tennis, get a balanced racquet, which evenly distributes its weight., The racquet itself is not the only thing that affects your play. The way the strings are aligned, in either an open or closed ("dense") stringing, will affect your power, control, and spin:



Open stringing offers more spin, which means you can hit the ball harder with top spin. These strings, however, are more likely to break.

Closed/Dense stringing offers more control for shot placement, and are better for beginners., A racquet flexibility is given by a rating from 0-100, with 100 being the stiffest option available. Most racquets fall between 45-75 on the scale:


Lower numbers indicate more control and spin, less power, and a more comfortable feel.
Higher numbers indicate more power, but also more vibrations in the racquet. Some beginners actually feel like they get more control on them because the lack of bend makes them feel a little more natural., A bigger beam width means you'll have more power on the racquet. This makes sense, since bigger beams are needed for larger racquets, but even control racquets have variable beam widths that affect how hard you can hit the ball.


For beginners, a good starting width would be between 23-27mm.