 Forget the cleaning; either you ought to have done that the night before last night or you'll get onto it tomorrow night. It isn't going anywhere.;
, This is a great cleanser and it doesn't taste too bad either. Give it a go.
 That way, you can lie back and relax and plan the rest of the day's pampering. Add some aromatherapy oils to the bath; good oils to use include a few drops of neroli essential oil, or a few drops of rose absolute essential oil, or a few drops of jasmine essential oil. There are others you can use too; basically whatever smells perfect for right now will be good. And don't forget to exfoliate with that loofah. And when you hop out, get the blood flowing again with a good body brush prior to dressing in soft, billowy and loose clothing.
 What could be more pleasant than adding a delicious facial pack to your face and lying down again in room with gentle light and sweetly playing music in the background? Look for a refreshing citrus or other uplifting scent that will wake your skin up and cure the puffy eyes.
 Have fresh fruit, yogurt, eggs, fruit smoothies, oatmeal and wholegrain toast for breakfast. Use fresh ingredients for everything and avoid anything sugary or processed.
 Exercise? Aw, really? Yes! Get out and invigorate your body with exercise. A fast walk will kick-start your energy again and help your blood flow. And that better flowing blood will flow to your poor liver that is trying to release the toxins you overwhelmed it with the night before.
 Read the paper, a novel, the latest gossip mag and relax in the sun or in a comfortable spot. This should give your body enough time to have started to come back to normal by lunchtime.
 Nothing too stodgy, fatty or sugary. Try a salad, fresh bread, soup or light pasta dish. If you are still feeling nauseous, have a fresh ginger stir-fry; the ginger is very stomach-calming. And drink water.
 By now the self-pampering should be having some good results. You probably feel tireder than normal, so don't push yourself but do try to do something more involved than lying around on the couch. Go shopping with a friend, see a movie, visit the local museum etc. Keep dinner light and.
 Tomorrow is another day and you need your beauty sleep. Your body will thank you for it.

