 Before you attempt the magnetic hands technique, find someone willing to work with you. Seek out a friend or family member who will allow you to practice hypnosis on them. You should always select someone you're close to initially before attempting hypnosis on strangers or acquaintances. It can take quite awhile to get the technique right.;
, Once you've found a participant, get them in the proper position. Instruct them on how to place their hands.


Have them sit upright on a chair or sofa.
Then, instruct them to hold their hands in their lap with the palms facing the ceiling.
 The magnetic hands technique should be something you engage in for lighthearted fun. Hypnotherapy to treat issues like depression and anxiety should only be administered by a licensed mental health professional with experience in hypnosis. You should never attempt to hypnotize someone as a form of therapy if you are not a trained professional with an advanced understanding of mental illness and psychiatry., You should start of by easing the participant into trusting you. Have him or her place his or her hands forward, roughly 12 inches apart, with palms facing one another. If the participant does not understand, demonstrate yourself.


Give a brief pep talk, over-viewing your hypnosis technique. Scripting here varies based on what feels comfortable for you. The essential message you're conveying is that the participant is to follow your leads as you place a powerful magnet in their hand.An example of an opening pep talk would be something like, "I want you to clear your thoughts now and focus on me. I'm going to serve as your guide. Relying on the power of your imagination, in just a moment here I am going to place a very powerful magnet in your hand.", Once the pep talk is over, touch the palm of their left hand with your finger. Then, touch the palm of their right hand with your fingertip. As you do so say something like, "I am placing the magnet here and here." Then, gently push their hands together., As you push the participant's hands together, instruct him or her to close his or her eyes. Tell the participant he or she should find his or herself falling into a deep trance. This should get the participant to begin to fall into a preliminary state of hypnosis., Once the participant has closed his or her eyes, instruct him or her to once again push his or her palms together. Say something like, "You can feel the magnets pulling our palms together." You may have to assist but hopefully the participant should do some of the work this time., Try to lull the participant into a state of calm. Instruct him or her to feel the power of the magnets. Say something like, "There are two powerful magnets that have guided your hands together. Feel the power of the magnets. Feel your palms pulling towards one another.", Once the participant seems entranced by your words, bring him or her into a state of relaxation. Instruct him or her to focus on his or her body, breaths, and heartbeat.


Scripting once again varies. Go with what feels right and natural to you. If you feel comfortable and in control, the participant is more likely to trust you and follow your lead.An example of good scripting would be something like, "Ignore everything but my voice. All other noises are unnecessary distractions. Pay attention to your breathing, your body, your heartbeat. Every breath you take takes you further down into a state of calm and relaxation."You can also try some counting. Try to count backwards from 10 and instruct the participant to pay attention to each breath his or she takes as you count., The magnetic hands technique should take about 20 minutes. Once the participant has been relaxing for this duration, instruct them to awaken from the state of hypnosis. Saying something like, "Now, wake up and everything will have returned to normal."