 People with ADHD benefit from certain types of foods in order to boost serotonin and dopamine levels and to help with concentration.

Experts recommend a diet rich in complex carbohydrates to boost serotonin for improved mood, sleep, and appetite. Skip simple carbs (sugars, honey, jelly, candy, soda, etc.) ) that cause a temporary serotonin spike. Instead, choose complex carbohydrates such as whole grains, green vegetables, starchy vegetables, and beans. These all act as an energy “time-release.” Serve a protein-rich diet that includes several proteins over the course of the day to keep dopamine levels high, which helps improve focus. Proteins include meat, fish, and nuts, as well as several foods that double as complex carbs: legumes and beans. Choose omega-3 fats. ADHD experts recommend improving the brain by avoiding “bad fats” such as those found in trans-fats and fried foods, burgers and pizzas. Instead, choose omega-3 fats from salmon, walnuts, avocados and more. These foods may help lower hyperactivity while improving organizational skills.
 Some studies show that eliminating wheat and dairy, as well as processed foods, sugars, additives and dyes (especially red food coloring), can have a positive impact on behavior in children with ADHD. While not everyone will be willing or able to go to that length, some experimentation may produce improvements that make a difference. , Every kid is affected when he doesn’t get enough sleep. When you throw ADHD in the mix, managing everyday challenges become that much more difficult. A lack of sleep reduces the child’s ability to focus, learn and retain information, and choose appropriate behavior. Help your child practice good sleep habits by establishing a consistent bedtime and wake-up time.

Children need about 10 to 12 hours of sleep every night.Teens need about eight to ten hours of sleep every night., A child with ADHD often has excess energy, and he will benefit from being physically active. Exercise helps improve focus and concentration. It also helps ward off depression and anxiety, and it can boost self-confidence.

Go for bike rides with your child, or take him for hikes.
Sports can be a great option for your child. Enroll your child in a sport that he enjoys playing. Usually, sports with more constant motion are better choices, such as basketball or soccer. Sports with more waiting or “down time” such as softball may not be as good for children with shorter attention spans.

