 The concept: you will put the beers inside a clay pot, insulated by a layer of sand and a larger clay pot. Cover the top of the pot with a cold, wet towel. As the water evaporates, it cools the inside of the container. After an hour or two, you can put the beers inside and let them cool! You can use this method even on very hot days – you may be able to cool the inside of the pot to more than 40 degrees below the outside temperature.In a pinch, you can use smaller-scale evaporative cooling. Soak a towel, newspaper, or toilet paper with cold water, then wrap the beer inside. As the water evaporates, the beer should slowly cool., One should be large enough to hold 2-5 beers at once; the other should be large enough to hold the first pot with at least a half-inch of clearance on each side.Plug the bottom of each pot with clay, putty, cork – anything that will help retain the sand.


If you must use plastic pots (or another material), then you may. Bear in mind that clay is a better insulator, so a "clay pot fridge" will be more effective., You can use any sort of sand, although fine-grit river sand (as opposed to less dense sand with bigger grains) will insulate best. Fill the bottom inch of the largest pot with sand, then place the smaller pot inside. Carefully fill the space between the two pots until it is completely packed with sand. It's okay if you spill a bit of sand in the bottom of the smaller pot.
 Carefully pour icy-cold water into the gap between the two pots, all the way around. Let the water soak into the sand, but do not use so much water that it pools on top. You want the sand to be damp, but not muddy.
 Once the inside of the pot-fridge has sunk below about 50 degrees, you're ready to start cooling your beers. You might need to wait a few hours on a hot day, or a matter of minutes on a cold day. Check the beers every hour or so, but no more frequently.
 Thoroughly soak a towel with cold water, then wring it out so that it isn't sopping. Drape the towel taut across the rims of the two pots, and make sure that it covers the entire opening. Now, your "clay pot fridge" is complete. As the water evaporates from the sand and the towel, it will cool the interior of the pot. Leave the contraption to sit for a few hours before you place the beers inside. Once they're cold, they're ready to drink!









If you need to cool your beers quickly, then it's okay to put the beverages inside immediately. Bear in mind, however, that the interior may cool more quickly without the beverages taking up space – and that the process will still not be immediate.
Re-soak the towel with icy water as needed. As long as it's damp, you should be okay. If you move the towel, don't leave the "fridge" open for long, or else you'll lose all of the cool air.
Consider leaving a thermostat inside the pot. This will help you gauge how well your "fridge" is working, and it will give you a clue about when to insert the beers.

