 You can also receive a General Educational Development (GED) certificate; however, you must be at least 18 years of age to pursue electrical work.;
, Contact them to learn about electrician training programs in your area. Some vocational programs may require you to be on a waiting list before starting.
 In Virginia, there are a number of ways to qualify for the journeyman electrician license. Choose the way that most appeals to you, although your choice may be decided by what is available to you in your area:


Attend a university or college and achieve a bachelor's degree. You should choose to study electrical engineering or a similar field. You must work as an apprentice under a licensed master electrician for 1 year after receiving your degree.
Complete a 2-year electrical educational program at a vocational school or community college. Then, work as a master electrician's apprentice for at least 2 years.
Work as a master electrician's apprentice for at least 4 years. Prove that you have received 240 hours of formal classroom electrical training.
Work as a master electrician's apprentice for 5 years and receive 160 hours of formal training. Also, you can work as an apprentice for 6 years and receive 80 hours of formal training.
Work as a master electrician's apprentice for 10 years. You will need to submit an affidavit from the master electrician(s) you worked under, testifying to your work.
 There are 2 parts to the exam: a statutory/regulatory portion and a trade portion. Apply for exam pre-approval through the Virginia Board for Contractors.


The application is listed as the "Tradesmen Application" rather than "Electrician Application." Submit proof that you qualify through 1 of the educational and on-the-job training methods described above. You will also be required to submit a fee of approximately $130 to apply and $100 to take the examination.
 You are required to prove you have worked for 10 years under a master electrician or that you have been a licensed Virginia journeyman electrician for at least 1 year. Apply to take the 4.5 hour exam to receive your license.


You will need to pay $130 to apply for your license and $125 to take the exam.
 You will need to have 3 credits every 2 years in order to renew your license.

