 Place 2 ½ cups (313 g) of all-purpose flour in a large mixing bowl. Use clean fingers to form a well in the flour that you can pour the liquid ingredients into after you’ve mixed them.If you like, you can add a pinch of salt to the flour to help lightly season the ravioli dough.;
, Add 5 eggs and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil to a separate medium bowl. Use a whisk to beat the two together until they are fully combined.If you prefer, you can use egg substitute in place of the eggs.
 Once the oil and eggs are beaten together, pour the mixture into the well that you created in the flour. Stir the liquid into the flour until a ball forms.If you prefer, you can use clean hands to mix the egg mixture into the flour until a ball forms. When the mixture is no longer sticking to your hands, you’ll know that you’re finished mixing it.
 When the dough forms a ball, turn it out onto a lightly floured surface. Use clean hands to knead the dough until it becomes smooth and elastic, which should take approximately 8 to 10 minutes.If the dough is still very sticky, you can knead some additional flour into it. Keep in mind that you shouldn’t need to add more than another ½ cup (63 g).
 After you’ve finished kneading the dough, cover it with a towel or place it in a plastic bag. Allow it to rest for at least 30 minutes., Place a large saute pan on the stove, and add ⅓ cup (76 g) of butter that’s been cubed. Heat it over medium heat until it melts completely.If you prefer, you can substitute ¼ cup (59 ml) of olive oil for the butter.
 When the butter has melted, add 2 ¼ pounds (1 kg) of fresh pumpkin that’s been peeled and cut into 1-inch (2.5-cm) cubes and 4 teaspoons (13 g) of chopped shallot to the pan. Cook the mixture until the pumpkin is tender, which should take 7 to 10 minutes.Make sure to stir the pumpkin as you saute it to ensure that it cooks evenly.
 Once the pumpkin is tender, add 2 teaspoons (2 g) of minced fresh sage, ¾ teaspoon (½ g) of minced fresh thyme, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of salt, and ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of pepper to the pan. Stir well to ensure that the ingredients are fully mixed.You can adjust the amount of salt and pepper to taste.
 After you’ve mixed in the herbs and seasonings, carefully transfer the mixture to a food processor. Process the mixture until it’s smooth.You can also use a blender to puree the pumpkin mixture.
 When the pumpkin mixture is pureed, pour it back into the saute pan. Add ⅔ cup (158 ml) of heavy whipping cream and a small bay leaf, and stir well until the ingredients are fully incorporated., After you’ve mixed the cream and bay leaf into the pumpkin puree, turn the heat up to medium-high. Allow the mixture to come to a boil, which should take approximately 5 to 10 minutes.Be sure to stir the mixture constantly as you bring it to a boil so it doesn’t stick to the pan.
 Once the mixture has come to a boil, lower the heat to medium low. Allow the mixture to simmer for 15 to 20 minutes, or until it thickens.You don’t need to cover the pan while the mixture simmers.
 When the mixture has thickened, take the pan off the stove. Fish the bay leaf out of the pan and discard. Let the mixture cool for 15 to 20 while you prefer the pasta sheets., When you’re ready to prepare the pasta sheets for the ravioli, separate the dough into four portions. Place one piece on a lightly floured surface, and roll the dough out with a rolling pin until it is approximately ⅛-inch (3-mm) thick.Leave the other pieces of dough covered or in the plastic bag while you roll out the first portion so they won’t dry out.
If you don’t have a rolling pin, you can use a wine bottle, thermos, or other heavy, cylindrical object to roll out the dough.
 Once the dough is rolled out, place rounded teaspoons (6 to 7 g) of the filling on one half of the pasta sheet. Make sure to set them approximately 1-inch (2.5-cm) apart., Dip a pastry brush into an egg that’s been lightly beaten and apply it to the edges of the pasta sheet surrounding the filling mounds. Fold the other half of the sheet over the side with the filling and press along the edges to seal it.If you prefer, you can use water to help seal the raviolis closed.
Press out any air bubbles as you seal the pasta sheet together.
If you don’t have a pastry brush, fold a piece of parchment paper into a strip and use it to apply the egg to the edge of the pasta sheet.
 When the edges of the pasta sheet are sealed together, use a ravioli cutter to cut the pasta into even squares with the mounds of filling in the center. The squares should be about 2.5-inches (6-cm) large.If you don’t have a ravioli cutter, you can use a knife or a square or round cookie cutter to create the raviolis.
 Once you’re finishing cutting out the raviolis from the first sheet of pasta, roll out, fill, and cut another piece of the dough. Continue the process until you’ve used up all of the dough.You can cook the ravioli right away, or refrigerate them until you are ready. Cook them within 1 to 2 days.
You can also place the ravioli in a plastic zipper bag and freeze them. They should keep for up to a month.
 When you’re ready to cook the ravioli, fill a large pot approximately ⅔’s full with water. Place it on the stove on high heat, and allow it to come to a full boil.You may want to add a pinch or two of salt to season the water before you bring to a boil.
 Once the water has come to a boil, place the ravioli in the pot. Allow them to cook for 3 to 5 minutes, or until they begin to float up to the top of the pot., When the ravioli are finished boiling, pour them into a colander or lift them out of the water with a slotted spoon to drain them. Place several ravioli into each bowl, and top with your favorite sauce to serve.You can use whatever sauce you like with the pumpkin ravioli, but butter sage, gorgonzola, and brown butter sauces are all delicious options.

