 Sometimes you can’t reduce your emotions effectively and you may want to just avoid them. However, Avoiding feeling a powerful emotion or thinking a thought can lead to it gaining power and increasing distress over time.When you have already tried to reduce your emotion severity, but the emotion is just too strong, you can use distress tolerance skills. This means learning to deal with distressing and unpleasant emotions such as: anger, sadness, anxiety, and nervousness.


One way to increase your distress tolerance is to radically accept your current feeling and situation. This means not trying to judge it or change it, just accepting it the way it is.You can say to yourself, “I accept how I feel. It’s not pleasant but it is what it is. I can get through it.”
Since you are having difficulty changing the emotion itself, try improving the current situation in some way. You can do this by using any number of coping skills (which will be further explained) such as grounding exercises, relaxation techniques, creating a mood diary and avoiding coping in ways that will make the situation worse in the long-run (i.e using drugs or alcohol).
Allow yourself to express your emotions in a healthy way. Great ways to express your feelings are: writing creatively, talking to a friend, expressing yourself through art or dance, and crying.
 Distraction, or using grounding exercises, is about momentarily doing or thinking about something else in order to take power away from the emotion and to distance yourself from it. Divergent thinking, or a grounding exercise, is a way to distract yourself and increase positive mood.For example, a divergent thinking task would be to name as many uses for a household item, such as a cup, that you can think of for 1 minute.


Try fun distraction techniques such as: watching a movie, playing a game, reading a book, playing an instrument, painting, drawing, writing a story, cooking, or talking to a friend.Try other grounding exercises such as: naming all of the objects in the room, running your hands under cold or warm water, and thinking of all of the colors you can identify, counting backwards from 100 in your head, thinking of the names of state capitals.
Make sure the activity you choose has nothing to do with your current emotion. For example, if you are sad, don’t watch a sad movie in order to distract yourself. This may actually lead you to feeling worse. Try anything logical and unemotional that will take your mind off the situation.
 Relaxation techniques can help you calm down when you are feeling anxious, angry, or extremely sad. One relaxation technique is deep breathing. Place yourself in a comfortable position and practicing breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth. Focus deeply on your breathing and how it feels throughout your body to inhale and exhale. Do this for at least 5 minutes.
 This is a component of Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (DBT), a type of treatment that focuses on emotional regulation and distress tolerance. It focuses on the idea that our minds are made up of a logical and an emotional piece. Individuals who have mood swings may be stuck more on the emotional mind, but need to use a combination of logic and emotions in order achieve a wise mind.


Think logically about the situation. What happened? Who was involved?
Analyze your own emotions rationally. Question your emotional reaction; is it exaggerated or out or proportion to the situation? Is it possible you are reacting to something from the past (past pain or relationship issues)?
Ask yourself, is this situation going to still matter to me in 5 years? How much does it actually affect your life?

, Keeping a mood diary may help you understand your mood swings better so that you can learn to anticipate and cope with changes in emotion. There are different levels of mood swings. A moderate mood swing may include many mood changes throughout the day, can vary from elevated mood to anger to sadness within a few hours, and changes in mood are typically out of proportion to circumstances and cause impairment in functioning. Severe mood swings are rapid mood swings nearly all of the time, with mood intensity greatly out of proportion to the circumstances. Extreme mood swings would be constant, explosive variability in mood, several mood changes occurring within minutes, with difficulty identifying a particular mood, and changes in mood are radically out of proportion to circumstances.Create a mood diary by listing:

Day and time of the mood swing.
Emotion and intensity of mood (from 0% to 100% intense).
What was happening at the time (who were you with and where were you)?
What thoughts you had.
What you were doing right before the mood swing.
What you did after the mood swing (how you dealt with it or coped).Use your mood diary to identify and cope with triggers such as stress and season changes., It is important to learn how to cope healthfully with mood swings and also to avoid bad ways of coping which can cause increased mood swings and other consequences. Some examples of negative coping strategies are: rumination, self-harm, harm against others, destruction of property, and using drugs or alcohol. For example, some people may resort to aggression in order to cope with negative emotional states and to feel better.However, this can cause social and legal ramifications such as loss of friends and arrest.


Avoid using drugs and alcohol. These substances may increase your mood swings because they cause chemical changes in your brain and can de-regulate you. If you have the desire to drink or use drugs, try a positive coping resource first such as taking a walk, talking to a friend, or exercising. If you have a problem with drugs and alcohol, seek professional assistance.

