 If you choose a diamond, the color can vary more than you might think. The GIA's color-grading scale ranges from D to Z. The most valuable diamonds are graded D, which means they are colorless. Diamonds that are graded Z have a light-yellow hue.;
, There are many options, including the following:


Round and square, also called "princess-cut," are the most common. This shape is a real classic for diamond solitaire engagement rings. Diamond of such shape has the most brilliance and sparkle.
Other popular cuts are "emerald," which is rectangular, and "marquis," which is a rhombus or diamond shape. Emerald-cut diamonds have lean, long lines. A diamond solitaire engagement ring with such stone will give you an elegant look which is out of time. The Marquise-shaped diamond visibly make your stone look larger as if it has more carat weight than a round diamond with the same carat weight.
A pear-shaped, heart-shape and oval are other options. A pear-shaped diamond may be an interesting choice for extraordinary personality. Those who like classic but with a little twist may choose oval diamond which also deliver nice brilliance like round ones. Heart shapes are mostly chosen for diamond solitaire engagement rings.
Other shapes include radiant, asscher and cushion, which are variations of a square. When you choose a diamond solitaire engagement ring take into account the style of a person that will wear this ring. The shape of a stone should perfectly match one’s style and look beautiful on her. As you learn from this tip your choice vary from traditional shapes such as Round, Asscher, Emerald or unusual, for example, Pear, Marquise, Heart.
 Diamonds are categorized by their carat, which is the weight. (It has nothing to do with quality, although a karat of gold does measure the purity.) The majority of diamonds are a carat or less.
 In the case of a diamond, the quality is referred to as clarity. The clarity grade is higher on stones that don't have blemishes and inclusions. Flawless diamonds, which are quite rare, are graded FL. Diamonds with inclusions that are visible to the naked eye are given an I3 grade. There are 9 grades in between.
 The stone's cut is what affects its beauty. The cut is dependent on the shape of the stone. Round diamonds, typically have 58 facets.
