 This will vary from person to person, but generally an emergency fund should contain at least enough to cover four months' expenses.If you want to be good with money, you need to have money to cover your unexpected expenses without putting yourself into debt.Also, when you decide how much to include, you should take into account any dependents you might have and potential emergency needs they might have.
However, don't keep too much in your emergency fund. The money in an emergency fund must be liquid and therefore earns less than other investments with longer term. The excess over the emergency funds should be invested at a higher rate.
For example, if you are single and living a pretty low-maintenance lifestyle, one month's salary might be a good goal for your emergency fund. But if you are the sole bread winner in a marriage with three children, there is a lot more potential for "emergency" expenses among your five family members, so having several months' salary is a better idea.
Also keep in mind any special needs you or your dependents may have, or any precarious situations that might suddenly turn into big expenses. For instance, if you have an old car that might break down at any time, you are likely to have a sudden emergency expense. If your health or the health of your family members is poor, you might be more likely to have to fund an unexpected hospital stay.
 If you have extra money at the end of each month, you can put it into the emergency fund as savings.


If you find that you are able to live within your budget and still have some money left over each month, consider putting that money directly into your emergency fund account each month until you meet your savings goal. You can even set up an automatic account transfer to making saving easier; it will feel like you are just paying another monthly bill., If you have no money left over each month, and you don't have a good way to increase your income, you will need to decrease your monthly expenses in order to fill your emergency fund. This can be hard, but a few months of tight living can really add up in the long run.


Look for areas in your budget that are discretionary or not necessary for you or your family to live. For example, you may have a substantial entertainment expense that could be cut down, or you may spend quite a bit on fashion, food, or a hobby.
Try cutting expenses by not eating out as frequently, going to the salon every eight weeks instead of every six, buying less clothing, or not buying new games.
You can also call service providers and try to negotiate for lower payments. For example, your cell phone service provider may offer you a lower rate if you call their customer service line and tell them you're considering switching service providers., If you don't have any money left over at the end of each month to put into savings, you may need to increase your income in order to fill the emergency fund. This can be hard to do, but having an emergency fund is necessary to protect you and your family in an emergency.


If you work as an hourly employee, consider working a couple extra hours every week, and putting that money directly into the emergency fund.
If you are salaried, consider whether now might be a good time to ask for a raise in your salary. If you've been working at the same salary for a year or more and doing well at your job, your boss may be happy to comply.Put the extra income into your emergency fund each month.
If neither of these are options for you, consider whether you might pick up a few side jobs to earn some extra cash. Dedicate your weekends to a part-time job or small business venture, such as lawn mowing or dog sitting. It might seem small, but over time that money will grow to fill your emergency fund.
 It's important for your emergency money to be kept separate from your normal checking account so that you are not tempted to spend it. It also helps you to be able to keep track of exactly how much money is in your emergency account at all times.


You can start the account with any amount of money you have available, although many banking institutions will require a specific minimum amount, such as $100. Some credit unions will allow you to start an account with much less, so check there if you are unable to meet the minimum for a savings account at your typical bank., If you are used to living paycheck-to-paycheck and suddenly have excess money in the bank, it may feel tempting to spend it. But being good with money means knowing when to save and when to spend, and your emergency fund should be saved for true emergencies.


True emergencies include things like natural disasters, job loss, health problems and hospitalizations, unexpected court costs, funeral expenses, and other unpredictable troubles that could put you in a major financial hole.
Remember, too, that "unplanned expenses" are not the same thing as emergency expenses. You might have an unexpected invitation to go on an expensive vacation, but that's not a true emergency. If you can't afford it on your regular budget, you should not dip into your emergency fund for anything that is not a true emergency.

