 Being a grown-up is not just about having responsibilities; it’s about fulfilling your obligations and promises in a timely manner, too.Think about all the things you are responsible for. Do you accomplish tasks quickly and without being reminded? Some common grown-up responsibilities include:


Taking care of children
Caring for elderly parents
Paying a mortgage or rent
Maintaining a working car
Shopping and cooking for a household

, When you were young, your top priorities may have been to take care of yourself and to have fun. As you mature, your priorities start to revolve around taking care of others in addition to yourself. You may be more concerned about health, retirement, or your debt. You will plan to be financially stable instead of rich. You will start to save money for your children's education or for insurance costs. You may even have a plan in the event of your death or the death of your spouse.
 Living independently is often a goal of adulthood. Being able to clean, fix, and manage your own home is a sign that your personal life is in order. Look around your home, and consider the following:


How clean is your home? Tidiness is often a sign of maturity. You may start washing your dishes immediately after dinner, or you may start to dust once a week.
Who do you live with? Living alone may indicate that you are independent. Living with roommates and significant others shows that you can maturely share a space with others. Living with your parents might be a sign that you haven’t quite transitioned into adulthood, or it may mean that you need some time to achieve financial independence.Who fixes your home? If something breaks, taking care of it yourself is a major sign of responsibility. If the problem is outside of your ability, you should be able to call a professional in a timely manner, instead of waiting until the problem worsens.
 Being grown-up isn’t just about taking care of yourself. It also involves taking care of others. You may have many people who rely on you for certain things. Being dependable is a strong sign of maturity. Answering yes to any of the following questions means that you have grown-up responsibilities.


At work, do you lead any teams? Are you responsible for certain clients? Do you manage certain tasks? Do you lead a carpool?
Do you take care of any family members? Do you have children? Do you have pets? Is anyone in your family sick or disabled?
Do you help your friends out when they are in need? Are you in charge of certain group activities?

, Many people use financial stability as the ultimate mark of an independent adult. This can be difficult for some people, and many young adults must rely on some sort of aid from their parents.

Look over your finances. Consider how well you manage them. Ask yourself the following questions. If you say yes to many of these questions, you are probably at least somewhat financially independent.

Do you pay taxes?
Do you pay rent or a mortgage? Do you pay on time?
Do you save money or invest?
Do you pay your bills on time?
Do you worry about things such as your credit score?
Do you have debt? Are you able to pay it off in a timely manner?

