 Plant Mimosa pudica seeds indoors in spring, at any time before the last frost.If you have growing lights and good temperature control, you may plant them indoors at any time of year., Take off the brown outer covering. Then you will have a greenish seed.

Gently expose a small bit of the white flesh inside. Tweezers have worked well for this part, though it may be hard.
 Mimosa pudica can grow in most well-drained soil, even if low in nutrients.For best results, however, try a mix of loam and dry, aerating materials, such as two parts loam, two parts peat moss, and one part sand or perlite.If you don't want to make your own mix, most all-purpose commercial potting mixes have similar ratios, and should work well enough.
 The seeds are more likely to germinate if you weaken the tough outer seed coat first. Soak the seeds in bowl of hot water for 30 minutes — or up to 24 hours if you want to play it safe.(You may let the water cool as the seeds soak.)

, Place each seed just barely below the surface of the soil, about 3mm (⅛ in.) down.It's likely that most of your seeds won't germinate, so these extra seeds will minimize wasted effort.


You can start the seeds in a seed tray or in 7 cm (3 in.) pots., Water until the soil is slightly moist, but not soggy. Water again whenever the soil is about to dry out.If you're worried about getting the right amount of water, place the flowerpot in a shallow dish of water. Let sit ten minutes or until the top of the soil feels damp, then discard the excess water., If sensitive plants do not get enough sun, they may close their leaves. Put them in a location where they receive full sun for most of the day, or partial shade if you live in a very hot region.In ideal conditions with temperatures around 70ºF (21ºC), the seeds may germinate in under a week. In less ideal conditions, or if you didn't soak the seeds, this may take two to four weeks.Some of your seeds may survive colder nighttime temperatures, but they may end up slow-growing or fragile. Never expose the seeds to frost.
If the room is too cool or too dry, cover the pot with plastic wrap to trap heat and moisture. Remove this as soon as the first seedling appears., If more than one seedling sprouts in the same pot, move the smallest ones to another pot once they are a few centimeters (1–2 inches) high. Once your plant reaches maturity, transplant it to a larger pot whenever the roots come out the drainage hole or press against the sides of the container.
 The soil should remain moist at all times, but never soggy.If the sensitive plant is in a dry room, mist it with room temperature occasionally, or place it on a humidity tray., Sensitive plants are an invasive weed in many areas. Unless you are in one of their native habitats in tropical America, you may want to grow sensitive plants indoors. Gardeners worldwide report the plant taking over their lawns.In Australia, you are legally required to minimize the spread of mimosa pudica seeds off your property., Dilute a balanced fertilizer to half the strength recommended on the label. Apply to the soil once a week during the growing season, and once a month during winter.Avoid direct contact with the roots.
 Since it is a tropical plant, Mimosa pudica will grow best if nighttime temperatures are 70ºF (21ºC) or higher.If temperatures fall below 65ºF (18ºC), move the plant to a warmer room or keep the plant warm in other ways.Adult plants can survive temperatures as low as 40ºF (4.5 °C), but are at risk of damage or death. Keep an eye out for yellow leaves and stems, which are signs of possible cold damage., It's normal for the stem to fall over and creep along the ground once the plant matures.Provide a trellis or sturdy plant to support it, or allow enough horizontal space for it to grow. Some sensitive plants grow more than 1 meter (3 ft) high or 2 meters (6.6 ft) horizontally, but in temperate zones they will more likely reach half this size., Mimosa pudica can survive for at least two years in tropical climates, but are usually annual plants in temperate zones.Even if your plant survives after its first bloom (usually in summer), you may have better results letting it die and collecting its seeds for next spring.


To collect seeds, let the pods dry on the plant, then break them open and collect the seeds.