 The blimp will drop you onto Main Street.
, Click on the man to initiate a conversation. The man will inform you that the Twin Palms Mall needs a security guard, and that you should apply for the position., The manager will confirm you’re there to apply for the security job position, and invite you into the security office., The test requires you to spot the differences between two photos., You must click on all five differences between photos to pass the test. Click on the folded shirt on the wall featuring a bunny with pink ears, then click on the bright green belt hanging from the belt wall. Click on the disco ball hanging from the ceiling on the far right, then click on the pair of blue pants lying on the floor.Click on the red shirt hanging from the clothing rack. The manager will inform you that you’ve passed the first test, and provides you with a segway., Click on the robots, then continue driving the segway to the right until you reach the escalator. Click on the boy playing on the escalator, then start driving back to the left. A thief robot will steal an old lady robot’s purse, and start running left., The manager will now provide you with the Security Guard Badge., An alert will display on-screen that says, “Disturbance in MacGuffin’s.”, The blueprint is inside an orange bottle labeled with an “X.” The blueprint will reveal that MacGuffin’s is located on the right side of the mall next to the Atrium., Go up two escalators, then run left until you reach MacGuffin’s. Click on “Enter” to go into MacGuffin’s., Your character will sit in the chair, and a smartphone will fall out of the chair., The previous security guard will call you on the phone, and provide you with instructions on how to use the phone. The phone features a security camera, contacts, notes, an app game called “Planet Slug,” and a power button., The smartphone will ring and inform you about a disturbance at Slugger’s. Select the option to use the security camera on the smartphone. The screen will show surveillance footage of the inside of Slugger’s., Select the option to call the owner of Slugger’s. The owner will tell you to check behind the statue in Slugger’s to verify whether a valuable baseball card was stolen, and provide you with the combination to the safe.
 Click on “Enter” to go into Slugger’s, then head right and click on the baseball statue. The statue will move to reveal a safe., The safe will open to reveal the valuable baseball card. Click on the baseball card. The owner will call you to inform you to put the baseball card back into the safe, and leave the store. Click on the safe two times to replace the baseball card and close the safe., You will receive a smartphone alert that says “Disturbance in Giuseppe’s Toy Store., This will locate the disturbance, and you will be instructed to check out the disturbance., Giuseppe’s Toy Store will be located on the left. Click on “Enter” at the door to the toy store, then click on the toy bird located on the rack labeled “Lil Peepers.The toy bird will be added to your personal inventory.
 This item will also be added to your inventory., Your smartphone will provide you with an alert informing your character of a disturbance at Sizzle Tanning Salon., The camera will reveal that a tanning bed has been left on. Go down the escalators to the first floor, then head right until you reach the Sizzle Tanning Salon. Click on “Enter” to go inside the tanning salon, then run to the far left until you reach the last tanning bed., The tanning bed will open to reveal an old woman with orange skin. Your character will inform the lady it’s time to leave the tanning salon., Your smartphone will ring again to alert you of a disturbance at Good Deals Electronics Shop., Shortly after viewing the surveillance footage, your signal will be lost. The other security guard on duty will inform you someone else is in the mall., Good Deals Electronics is located to the right. Click on “Enter” to go inside the electronics store. The television screens will reveal a burglar walking away from the store, and the security guard will call you once again to alert you about a disturbance at Crawl Mart., Your character will notice that a snake is missing from the shop., Select the option to call the owner of Crawl Mart. The owner will inform you that the snake might be hiding behind his favorite rock.
 Crawl Mart is located on the left. Click on “Enter” at the door to Crawl Mart, then run all the way to the right. The store owner will call you again, and inform you to obtain the snake’s favorite snack in an attempt to lure the snake back to the store., The snake will be waiting just outside the door to the shop. Chase after the snake. The snake will lead you back to the top floor on the right side of the mall just outside MacGuffin’s. Click on “Enter” to go into MacGuffin’s and capture the snake. A port-a-potty inside the store will appear to be shaking on its own., The snake will dash out, and escape to the Sizzle Tanning Salon. Click on “Exit” at the door to leave MacGuffin’s, then follow the snake downstairs to the Sizzle Tanning Salon. Click on “Enter” to go inside the tanning salon, then walk over to the first tanning booth. The snake will escape and exit the store as soon as he sees you., The snake will lead you to the Chinese food both in the Atrium, where he will is hiding behind the food stand.Click on “Items” at the top right corner of your screen, then select the toy bird you picked up earlier from the toy store. The toy bird will lure the snake from behind the food stand, and the snake will eat the bird and run away again. The owner of Crawl Mart will call to inform you that the snake will look for a place to sleep, and that you can look for him again tomorrow. Shortly afterward, your smartphone will ring again, informing you of a disturbance at Carnival Costumes., Your smartphone will once again lose signal. Run to the right, then ride the escalator to the top floor. Run to the far right until you reach Carnival Costumes, then click “Enter” to go into the store., A burglar will jump out and knock your character down to the floor, and the other security guard will call to inform you that burglar has plans to rob MacGuffin’s next. Click on “Exit” to the leave Carnival Costumes, then run left and enter MacGuffin’s., The burglar will leave the store and drop a Back Room Key. Walk over to the Back Room Key, then exit MacGuffin’s. The key will be added to your personal inventory.,,, Click on “Items” and select the Back Room Key. The key will unlock the door, and the door will open.
 The other security guard will call you and tell you to look for clues at PrintFax., The burglar will fly onto the screen and hit your character with the security cart. The other security guard will call you and instruct you to get the segway from the Mall Manager’s Office., The Mall Manager’s Office is located on the right. Click on “Enter” to go into the office, then click on the keypad on the door in the middle of the room., The door will open, but the segway won’t start up until you charge the device using a Quick Charger., Your character will grab a Quick Charger from the store’s supply.,, The charger will now charge the segway., Wait at the escalator until the burglar rides up the escalator, then ride the segway to the left., Click on “Enter” to go inside PrintFax, then click on the printer., Click on “Print.The printer will release a page of the valuable baseball card from Slugger’s, which reveals that the burglar is the owner of the PrintFax store.,, Click on “Enter” at the door to go into Slugger’s, then walk over to the statue. Click on the statue. The statue will move to reveal that the baseball card has been stolen.,, A blowtorch will be revealed behind the picture. Click on the blowtorch, then exit the Mall Manager’s Office. The blowtorch will now be in your possession., Select the blowtorch from your inventory, then use the blowtorch to cut the lock on the door.
 You’ll see the burglar in the store, and the burglar will run away. Chase the burglar into the air ducts, then use the blowtorch to cut through any metal bars that block the way until you reach a ladder., Jump off the metal bar, then run right until you reach another metal bar. Click on “Items,” then select the blowtorch. The blowtorch will cut through the metal bar., The man will run away., You will then see a series of doors. Use the blowtorch to cut through the second metal door on the right, and the door to the far left. Enter the doorway, then drop down into the tunnel on the right. The burglar will knock you from the platform.,, Your character will cut the power to the tunnel, and the burglar will once again run away., Click on the fan. The fan will force your character to float up near the burglar., Use the blowtorch to open the two metal doors on the left, then climb up the two ladders.
 The burglar will fall down and drop the stolen baseball card, then push you out of a window. Both your character and the burglar will fall out of the window and into a fountain, and the snake will hit the burglar with the segway. The police will arrest the burglar, and your character will be awarded with the Island Medallion. You have now beat Night Watch Island.