 Once you have listened to the other person, consider how you can address the situation.If you believe the other person has a valid grievance with you, accept it. Admit your own wrongdoing and ask what you can do to make amends.Don’t make excuses or be defensive. This will often make the other person even angrier, because s/he will feel as though you are dismissing his or her needs., Be reasonable, and communicate calmly and clearly. Try to keep your solution focused on what the other person communicated to you.For example, if the other person is angry because your child threw a ball threw the window, state what you are willing to do. For example: “My daughter threw a ball through your window and broke it. I can have a repairman come out and replace it in two days. Or, you can have your handyman replace it and send me the bill.”

, If the other person is not happy with the solution you suggest, ask him or her to suggest a resolution s/he would be happy with.For example, you could ask something like "What would you like to see happen in this situation?"


Try to present this as a “we”-focused solution to encourage collaboration. For example, “Okay, if my suggestion isn’t acceptable, I’d still like to see if we can find a way to address this problem. What can we do to address this situation?”If the other person suggests something you find unreasonable, don’t start calling names. Instead, present a counter offer. For example: "I heard you say that you want me to fix the broken window and pay for carpet cleaning for your entire house. I think it would be fair for me to replace the broken window and pay to have the living room carpet cleaned. How does that sound?"
Trying to find common ground between you and the angry person can help redirect the interaction towards a solution.For example, you could say something such as "I understand that fairness is important to you. It is to me as well…" This can help communicate that you are working toward the same goal., When people hear “but,” they tend to stop listening. All they hear is ”You’re wrong.”For example, don't say things like "I understand what you are saying BUT you need to ________"
Instead, use "and" statements such as "I can see your point AND I can see the need for _______".
 If you have been able to come to a resolution, wrap up your interaction with a word of thanks for the other person. This shows your respect for the other person and can help him or her feel as though his/her needs have been met.For example, if you have been able to negotiate with an angry customer, you could say: “Thank you for allowing us to make this problem right.”

, In some cases, the person’s anger may not disappear immediately, even if you have done all you can to resolve the situation. This is especially true in situations that carry deeper hurt, such as the other person feeling betrayed or manipulated in some way. Accept that it may take some time for angry feelings to resolve themselves, and don’t push.
 Not all conflicts can be resolved, and not everyone’s anger will dissipate even if you stay cool and respectful all day long. If you have tried the tactics here and have made no progress, it may be time to step away. A third party, such as a therapist, mediator, or HR representative, may be able to help you negotiate the situation., Beyond accessing the services of a mediator, seeing a therapist or psychologist who is trained in conflict resolution or anger management may be helpful. This is especially so if the person who is angry with you is a significant person in your life, such as a spouse, parent, sibling, or child. If the two of you are constantly arguing, or if one person tends to fly off the handle at the slightest provocation, you may need to see a professional who can not only mediate the situation, but also teach you effective problem-solving and communication skills.


A therapist can teach your family member or friend ways to relax and handle stress, methods of overcoming angry feelings, strategies of expressing emotions, and ways to recognize negative thought patterns that cause anger.