 The collie is a medium-sized dog that originated in Scotland, where they were used to herd sheep. Their heritage as working dogs means they have a lot of endurance and a lot of energy. This means that only giving a collie a quick walk around the block will leave a collie feeling bored and frustrated.


The ideal Collie owner is interested in an interactive relationship with their dog, training the pet to a high level of obedience, and participating in activities such as agility or obedience trials.
A collie owner should be active and have the time to give their dog a lot of physical activity every single day. If a collie is not mentally stimulated and given a lot of physical activity it will become bored and neurotic. This could result in bad behavior, such as barking for no reason.;
, Collies do make great family dogs but need to be treated with respect. If you have very small children, you may want to consider a different breed. If a small child is too rough and tumble with a collie, the animal may become fearful and bite out of fear.
 The Collie breed is prone to certain genetic health problems, especially hip dysplasia and eye problems. If getting your dog from a breeder, choose one that screens the parent dogs for these problems. Make sure the breeder breeds from dogs with low hip scores and that passed a screening eye test with a veterinary ophthalmologist.


The breeder should be able to produce certificates which prove both the mother and father were screened and are at low risk of passing on diseases such as CEA (Collie eye anomaly) and GPRA (generalized progressive retinal atrophy) which lead to blindness in young dogs.
Screening an adult dog is not a guarantee the puppies will definitely be free of disease, but it is a good start. The other side of the coin is that parents that are affected by hip dysplasia or CEA are highly likely to breed pups that are also affected.
 Make sure they are socializing all of their dogs regularly. This will help assure that your puppy becomes a confident well-adjusted adult dog. The breeder should expose the dog to many different people and situations beginning around 3 - 4 weeks of age. The young dogs should meet people of different heights, appearances, and tones of voice.


The puppies should not be exclusively reared in a kennel, as this isolates them from the normal sights, sounds, and activities of a regular life. This will make it more difficult for the dog to adjust to family life.
Never, ever buy a puppy from a puppy mill. One sign you have come across a bad breeder is that the breeder will not let you see the mother. This is because the mother has been taken away from the puppy far too early and is no longer interacting with the puppy at all.
 Your puppy will need vaccinating against various canine infectious diseases. Your veterinarian will let you know which are important in your area. These could include distemper, parvovirus, canine adenovirus, leptospirosis, infectious canine hepatitis, parainfluenza virus, Lyme disease, and rabies (which is required in most municipalities).


Rabies vaccine is given the first time after 12 weeks of age and then repeated every 1 to 3 years.
Other vaccines are usually given in three doses 3 - 4 weeks apart, with the final dose given around 16 weeks of age.Veterinarians try to wait until a puppy is a few months old to give vaccinations. When a puppy is born it is given certain immunities from its mother. The puppy should be given the time for these immunities to work before it is given vaccinations.
Remember to get your dog its yearly booster injections as well!

, An active dog like a collie is bound to spend a lot of time outdoors. This makes deworming and parasite treatment very important. These medications come in a wide variety of forms and each product has a slightly different spectrum of activity. Ask your vet which are best for your pet.


A basic worming regime is against roundworms (monthly) with a quarterly broad spectrum wormer against whipworms and tapeworms. If your collie is regularly eating carcasses then a monthly broad spectrum wormer is best.
Treatment against heartworm is also advisable, either as a six-monthly injection, or a monthly spot-on treatment at home.
Fleas are unpleasant and can cause skin allergies and infections. Another common parasite are ticks, which also carry unpleasant diseases such as Lyme's disease or tick borne fever. Prevention is better than cure, so this involves using a product effective against fleas and ticks, such as fipronil (Frontline or Effipro) or the Seresto collar.
 Collies are over sensitive to some drugs, of which ivermectin, an anti-parasitic, is the best known. There are now many excellent drugs available that eliminate parasites just as well as ivermectin. Its use should be avoided entirely.


Your vet will take care to prescribe accurate doses of the anti-parasite treatments that come from the same family of drugs as ivermectin. When used correctly and within the recommended dose range these are safe., You want to avoid accidental breeding. You should discuss spaying and neutering with your veterinarian. Usually females are operated on from 4 - 6 months of age, and males from around 6 -10 months of age, however your veterinary clinic may differ.


Desexing has an additional benefit for female dogs. Rates of mammary cancer in female dogs are much lower in female dogs that have been fixed. To benefit from this lowered risk, the surgery needs to be performed before the bitch's second heat.
 Meat should be the first and second ingredients in any good dog food. Fillers, such as corn, do not give your dog the nutrition it needs to be healthy.An active adult collie that is burning a lot of energy should be fed twice a day. It may be difficult for the dog to consume enough calories in one sitting.
 This is simply a base line to start from. You need to keep an eye on your dog's weight to assess whether the amount of food you are feeding it is enough, or too much.


You should also become familiar with condition scoring your collie. This is a way of assessing your dog's weight by looking at its physique, not a scale. By comparing its body shape to the ideal, you will have a good idea of what a healthy body shape is for your dog. A dog in good body condition should have a waist line when viewed from above or the side. You should be able to feel its ribs easily, but without the ribs standing out through the skin.
 You need to wait at least 90 minutes after a meal for exercise. If you don't, there is a risk of the dog's stomach flipping over and becoming twisted, which is a life-threatening condition called bloat., Collies have a long soft coat, which can become knotted. This is especially important if the dog is outdoors a lot and gets stuff tangled in its fur.


Brushing your dog will also help you decrease the amount of fur released in your home.
 Collies shed seasonally and will release a ton of hair once a year, usually the late summer or during heat in female dogs. During this period you will need to be on top of brushing and cleaning up dog hair or it will become a total mess.Comb the dog through daily, and brush out dead fur at least once a week., It's best check your dog over after each walk. Look for grass awns that may be lodged in fur around the ears or paws. Also look for ticks that may have attached themselves to your dog. Both of these problems, awns and ticks, can be life threatening for your dog.
 Be sure to train your collie dog and work with them everyday. To start with, if your dog can concentrate long enough, do two 10 - 20 minute training sessions per day. Start with the basics of sit and stay and build up to more complex obedience training and tricks. The thing about collies is that they love to learn and will enjoy the one-to-one attention of training throughout their life., Collies respond well to clicker training and also to dog whistles. Learn how to clicker train your dog to unlock the full potential of your collie's abilities. The basic principal of clicker training is that the dog learns to link the sound of the click-clack of the clicker to a reward. You mark the instant a desired behavior happens with a click-clack so the dog understands what action is being rewarded.
 You can use the clicker or a whistle to build up all manner of tricks. To do this, break each trick down into it's constituent parts and teach one step at a time. For example, you might train the dog to fetch a toy and drop it in a bucket. The first step is teaching the dog to hold the desired toy. Then you teach the dog to pick the toy up from the floor and hold the toy. Then you teach the dog to pick up the toy, hold it, and then drop the toy. Then you teach the dog to pick up the toy, hold it, and then drop the toy in a bucket


Another great trick with Collies that has been used by shepherds for generations, is to teach them "Left" and "right", "drop" and "come". This unlocks their potential to herd animals together. This is best taught with a whistle. Decide on your key command signals, for example one short blast means "Left", and one long blast means "right,", two short beeps mean "drop" and two long blasts means "come." Teach each signal by teaching one command at a time, and moving on to the next when the first is firmly established.
For example, use a clicker to teach "Left" by rewarding the dog with a treat every time it turns its head to the left. Once the dog is regularly turning its head deliberately to the left to earn a reward, add in your cue signal of a short blast on the whistle. Continue to reinforce this with numerous repetitions, then start just giving the whistle signal, followed by a reward for the correct action., Fetch is a great game to play with your collie, as it feeds into their instinct to chase after things and bring them back. Key to this play is teaching the dog to give you the toy by exchanging it for a low value treat.

