 Do your best to complete your assignments in order to have more time to play. Ask your babysitter for help if necessary, but make sure that you do most of the work by yourself. By showing that you are mature enough to finish your tasks first, you will earn respect from your babysitter.;
, There are a variety of different games that you could choose from. Take turns making the decisions, as it is not nice to be bossy. Ask your babysitter if she can teach you new ones. You could also entertain her with your favorite game or tricks.
 Give your babysitter hints on the location of the toy as she searches for it, saying "hot" when she grows closer to it and "cold" when she is moving further away from it. To add competition to the game, set up a time limit and a small reward for the winner. If you win, share the prize with her to show your kindness and generosity.
 Get to know her over a snack. Tell her about your day, and listen to her as she talks about hers. Be open to a variety of topics, such as homework, friends, upcoming events, and other subjects similar to those. Learn to to be a good listener and allow her to talk as well. Ask polite questions about her life, but avoid being nosy or inappropriate.
 Play hide and seek, tag, and other games that exercises your bodies. If you are allowed go outside, spend some time with nature and pick flowers for your babysitter. You could also ask your parents for permission to go to the park beforehand.
 Spend time watching television shows together, and make sure that you ask your babysitter what she wants to watch. Use your table manners when sharing meals together to show her that you are well cultured.
 Color pictures, and do fun projects with your babysitter. However, always make sure that she agrees with your choice, and don't force her to participate in activities that she doesn't like. Be sure that she understands that she has a say in the final decision too.
 When your parents arrive home, nicely tell your babysitter goodbye. Be sure to thank her for taking care of you. If you feel like it is appropriate, give her a hug before she leaves.
