 If your child doesn’t immediately listen, it may be tempting to lecture them about what they should be doing and why it’s important. However, your child will simply tune out long lectures. If your child doesn’t listen the first time, give them a short, firm reminder of what you expect.For example, if you asked your child to put something away and they have not, simply remind them “Toys still need to be put in the toy box.”

, Forcing consequences on your child likely only makes them more resilient to what you ask. Instead, allow them to choose the outcome for themselves by presenting them with the choice between positive and negative consequences.If your child refuses to get ready for school, give them an option such as, “You can get get ready for school and enjoy your video games when you get home, or you can stay at home with no games or TV all day.”
Create incentives for your child to make the proper choice, and allow them to choose whether they want to comply or accept the consequences.
 When you give your child a command, you give them something to resist. Change your request from a command to a fact and let your child know what action should be taken to accommodate that fact.If it is your child’s chore to feed the cat, for example, don’t tell them “Go feed the cat now.” Instead, let them know, “The cat needs to be fed. It looks hungry.”

, If your child is resisting certain activities such as cleaning their room or doing their homework, you can try to create a game to motivate them. For example, you might create a beat-the-timer game to get your child to pick up their room.Reward your child for their participation in the game. This may be anything from a special treat to simply clapping and cheering on your child when they finish.
 Help motivate your child to listen by providing them with rewards or incentives for completing certain tasks. Think about those issues your child does not want to budge on, and create a rewards program to get them to participate.


If, for example, your child lags while putting their shoes on in the morning, you can provide an incentive such as letting them pick the music in the car that morning if their shoes are on before you have to ask.
Rewards can be anything that you think your child would enjoy, from a small treat to a special privilege. You can even work out a program where if your child does certain things a certain number of times, they get a special trip like to the zoo or the beach.
 Providing positive reinforcement is important for all kinds of kids, but it may be especially helpful for a stubborn child. Give your child affection such as with a hug, high five, or kiss on the cheek when they do a good job. Even smiling, winking, or nodding in your child’s direction can send some positive reinforcement their way. You can also try saying something like:

“Great Job!! I like the way you threw the ball”
“I see that you finished your homework. You are doing very good at staying on top of your schoolwork.”
“You showed a lot of responsibility when you helped your sister clean up her toys.”
“I see what a hard worker you've been, and I appreciate the way you always help me clear off the table after dinner.”

