 A website establishes your online presence. Your website should clearly state the services you offer, your prices, and your contact information. Spend time on the search engine optimization for your website. This will help you appear at the top of searches for cleaning services in your area.Cater your website to your target audience.Visit other websites that appeal to your audience and see the designs and keywords that they use.
You can build a website using a content management system, writing HTML and CSS codes, or using a website design application. If you are new to this a content management system such as Wordpress is best.The system will guide you through the building process and already has themes and plugins. All you have to do is provide the information about your business.
 Social media is good for local cleaning companies and provides an easy method for your customers to share your business with their friends.Social media also makes your company more relatable and human.Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and LinkedIn are ideal for cleaning services.Use YouTube to talk about your services and distribute video testimonials from happy customers.
You can provide exclusive specials and discount codes to people that follow you on these platforms.
You can also post examples of the work you have done.
Use a platform that your audience uses. Facebook is best for adults of all ages, but Twitter and Instagram offer you less access to the adult population., Facebook allows you to set up a business page. You will need to choose a business category for your page (i.e. Local Business or Place), enter your business information including your logo, a description of your business, and contact information. You will then have to agree to the Facebook terms for business pages.Ask your family and friends to like and share your page.
Try to post at least a few times a week with interesting links, quick tips, deals and promotions, or other content that will get your page more likes and shares.
Use the Reach More People feature to spread the word about your business as well.
 Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn allow you to place ads on their social networks. You can target the ads based on demographics, geography, interests, or past behavior. You can measure the success of your ad by pay-per-clicks to your business website or by linking your ad to some measurable action (e.g. registering for an event, signing up for your newsletter, purchasing services).To set up a paid on Facebook:Go to your Facebook business account and click create ad.
Choose the budget for your ad. You can pay per day or set up a lifetime budget for your ad. The amount of money you spend depends on how often you want your ad to run and the audience you are trying to reach.
Choose your audience based on location, demographics, interests, what they buy, etc.
Choose a picture and language for your ad. Facebook can help you with this.
Monitor your ad using Facebook's conversion tracking system. This will let you know if your ad is causing people to make purchases or visit your website.
 Customers often talk about their experiences online. This can help or hurt your business. A positive recommendation can go a long way and a negative review can deter other people from using your business.Addressing complaints and resolving the issues is a good way to win back a customer.


Interacting with customers online also shows that you are friendly, personable, and care about your customers.
You could also thank customers for positive reviews and for using your services.
Set up a Google Alert so you are notified when anyone discusses your business.
 Set up profiles on different review sites such as Yelp, Angie's List, Google, etc. Ask your customers to leave a review and let them know that you would really appreciate it. Include a link to your review profiles on your website and social media pages.You can also do a monthly giveaway for people who leave reviews. Tell your customers that they will be eligible for a monthly drawing if they leave a review.
Always thank your customers for leaving a review.

