 A lack of orexin is thought to be the cause of narcolepsy for most cases. You may be able to naturally boost production in your body by exercising regularly, eating a healthy diet, and reducing inflammation in your body. Some easy ways to increase this chemical in your body include:

Buying bright lights for your home.
Eating fermented food and drinks such as Kombucha
Identifying food allergies that may be causing inflammation
Going outside, Diet can affect symptoms of narcolepsy. Eating a healthy diet, low in heavy foods, can result in symptoms improving. Keep a food diary to help you track how certain foods affect your symptoms.


Heavy meals should be avoided. Try to eat 5 to 6 small, light meals throughout the day instead of 3 heavier meals.Foods with a low glycemic index, such as white breads and processed foods, can cause a temporary spike in insulin that results in fatigue shortly after meals. These types of foods can make anyone drowsy, but the effect can be more intense if you suffer from narcolepsy. Try to focus on eating vegetables and sources of lean protein, such as eggs or meat.Large meals eaten 3 to 4 hours before bedtime can cause indigestion which can affect your ability to sleep. Try to keep late light meals light and healthy.An autoimmune diet, such as the paleo diet, may benefit people with narcolepsy since autoimmunity is thought to be a cause of narcolepsy.
 These substances can be very disruptive for sleep. Try to minimize use if you suffer from narcolepsy.


Smoking can be particularly dangerous if you suffer from narcolepsy. Not only is nicotine a stimulant, it can be very dangerous to fall asleep with a cigarette in hand. Many people with narcolepsy feel smoking helps them stay alert throughout the day, but cigarettes are best avoided if you have narcolepsy.Alcohol can help you fall asleep faster, but the sleep you get will be less restful. Less restful sleep can result in fatigue during the day. Even moderate alcohol consumption can be discouraged if you have narcolepsy.Caffeine is often used by narcoleptics to manage feelings of fatigue throughout the day. However, caffeine does not replace sleep. It merely alters brain waves to block sleep inducing chemicals from entering the brain. As caffeine stays in the body for about six hours, keep caffeine consumption light and only drink, coffee, soda or energy drinks early in the day., Exercising can help you to stay alert, awake and focused. Exercising 3 or 4 times a week for 30 to 40 minutes can help with your sleep schedule. However, as exercise produces adrenaline avoid working out 3 to 4 hours before bedtime.Try low intensity activities like yoga, Tai Chi, or Qi-gong at night. These can help calm down your central nervous system.
 Stress can exacerbate symptoms of narcolepsy. Trying to keep your stress levels under control can result in a lessening of symptoms. There are a variety of activities you can participate in that result in a reduction of stress.



Practicing breathing exercises. There are certain deep breathing exercises designed to slow heart rate and other physical symptoms of stress.

Meditate. Meditation can help reduce stress by placing your thoughts in the present moment. Meditating each day can help with symptoms of narcolepsy.

Try yoga. Practicing yoga gets all of the parts of your body to work together and can help clear your mind. Yoga has the added benefit of being a form of exercise, which can help regulate your sleep schedule.
 Narcolepsy is a chronic condition that can be difficult to manage. People suffering from narcolepsy often develop psychiatric problems, like depression and anxiety, as a result of their disorder. Seeing a therapist can help you manage the emotional toll of narcolepsy. You should also have a team of doctors to help you manage the physical aspects of your narcolepsy.


You may want to have a team of practitioners that includes a primary care provider, neurologist, nutritionist, and therapist.
Ask your regular doctor for a referral for a therapist if you're experiencing a chronic low or anxious mood as a result of your narcolepsy. If you're a student, you may be entitled to free counseling from your college or university.Look out for support groups, whether online or in person as well. As narcolepsy is not a well understood disorder, many people feel isolated or frustrated. Talking to others who've experienced similar issues can help.

