 Decide what your greatest feature is, then do your best to accentuate it. If you've got it, flaunt it. For example, if it is your eyes, play them up with mascara, eyeliner, and eyeshadow. If it is your lips, wear a pretty pink plumping lipstick and gloss. If it is your face in general, wear natural yet pretty makeup that either makes your eyes, lips, or cheekbones pop. If it is your breasts, wear a push up bra and a shirt that shows some cleavage. If it is your butt, wear form fitting jeans. If it is your small waist, show off your midriff!;
, A great sexy look is full, glossy lips and lined eyes. Your makeup routine should be concealer, powder, pink lip gloss, blush and bronzer, black mascara, brown eyeliner on the top lid, and nude and white eyeshadow. Wear the concealer under your eyes, the powder on your T-zone, lip gloss on your lips with it being in a darker corner near the end and a lighter one in the middle, blush on your apples for an innocent flushed look, bronzer on your cheekbones for a sexy, edgy look, black mascara on your top lashes, brown eyeliner on your top lashline, nude eyeshadow on your lid, white eyeshadow on your inner corner, and white eyeshadow on your cupid's bow.
 Shampoo every other day, condition daily, and brush every single day, two or more times! Use a shampoo made for your hair type. Also use a matching conditioner. Use a deep conditioner once a week. Brush your hair in the morning and at night.
 Pretty self explanatory. Wear a push up bra if you have big enough breasts and a lightly padded bra if you don't have large enough breasts. Try to get them in colors like white, nude, and pink. If you want, you can get funky patterned ones if they don't show through your shirt. Have pretty underwear too. Try to make it match your bra. Clean your bras once a week and your underwear daily.
 It makes you feel better about yourself! Get one pair of Toms, one pair of Sperry's, one pair of Uggs, and any other kind of tennis shoes you like. Get them in colors like pink, brown, and white.
 Wear pastel colors if you want to look innocent, and bright colors if you want to fit in with everybody else. Your shirts can be from anywhere, preferably Forever 21, H&M, Urban Outfitters, or Top Shop. Get some pairs of skinny jeans, a pair or two of jeggings, a few pairs of short shorts, a few pairs of knee length shorts, and a pair or two of skinny khakis.
 Get into a skincare routine for your skin type. Use acne products and you will soon have a beautiful acne free face.
 Do a cardio workout three days a week. Do a strength workout three days a week. You need to workout at least 30 minutes a day to stay fit and healthy.
 Talk to the stranger in front of you in the lunch line. Talk to the girl with the cute backpack. Talk to anybody you feel happy with..

