 Most people associate Easter with eggs, from real eggs to chocolate eggs. The decorative ideas are absolutely endless, and part of the fun is decorating your own eggs and then using them as part of the table display. Here are some suggestions:

Decorate your own eggs through dyeing, marking or gluing on embellishments. Arrange in baskets, egg cups, clear glass bowls, beautiful tall glasses or vases, small dishes,



 


Use open plastic eggs to place a chick inside on a bed of Easter grass. Place on a plate or in decorative items for display.






Arrange eggs on a wreath and place in the center of the table with a floral display placed in the center of the wreath.





;
, This is a decoration theme that has many possible variations and you'll come up with your own as you experiment with placement. The basics are to find a nest (basket, weave your own, buy craft store versions or find unused real ones that are definitely no longer in use, etc.). The eggs can be real or artificial. If they're artificial, choose colors that match your color theme. If real, dye them or rely on a variety of their natural color differences to make contrast in the display.
 Chicks have long been associated with Easter; adding them to the display will automatically suggest Easter. You can purchase fluffy chicks from art and craft stores in various sizes or you can make your own. Ceramic or other figurine chicks can make great instant additions to a table setting. Here are some suggestions for displaying them:

, Bunnies are another animal often associated with Easter. Bunnies can be made from paper, crocheted, knitted, sewn, drawn, sculpted or purchased. There are many ways of introducing a bunny into the display, here are just a few ideas:

, Flowers at Easter time are an absolutely perfect addition to the table setting. They can be fresh or artificial, or a mixture of the two. Commonly used flowers include tulips, daffodils

,

Place mats can be used to help create the Easter setting theme. They could be as simple as pastel colors or place mats with flowers that you might already own, through to specially made or purchased place mats that contain Easter themes.






Use napkins (serviettes) to evoke the Easter theme. Napkins can be as simple as pastel colored ones or ones with Easter designs printed on them, through to cloth napkins that have been shaped into a bunny or a chick. Another neat way to present a napkin is to choose one in a green color (for grass) and fold it flat, then place an origami bunny atop the napkin. Napkins can also be simply tied around the middle with a ribbon in the color theme you're using.






Use clear bowls and pitchers for all sorts of decorative solutions. Inside clear bowls and pitchers can be slipped bunny and chick figurines, pastel candles, lots of eggs, etc. Let your imagination run wild in how to use the contours of the glass. Another nice idea for evening meals is the placement of floating pastel tea lights in a large clear bowl placed on a bed of Easter grass. The grass will show through the base of the bowl, while the glow of the candles on top will reflect light around the display zone.






Use plates, cups, egg cups and other crockery or dinnerware items that are designed especially for Easter. These can be used for each place setting or simply placed at various points of the table for best effect.
 Make an Easter Tree and decorate it with the color theme for your Easter table. Ensure that it is in a topple-proof container such as a large vase in the same color as your Easter theme and place it directly in the center of the table. Everything else should emanate from this centerpiece and link back to its colors and decorations.
 You can make a very simple but incredibly stunning display piece by arranging as many tall glasses as will fit around a cake display stand. Fill with water to the same level in each glass. For each glass, insert one tall stemmed spring flower. This is best done in situ because you won't want to be moving this display once it's made up!

, Place Easter grass on the cake stand and firmly sit a bunny or chick figurine in the center on the grass. Place a few strategically positioned dyed eggs around the grass and put the stand in the center of the table. Go one further and place the stand in the middle of an Easter wreath that has eggs on it; if the egg layers reach up the base of the stand, this can be an incredibly effective display piece.
 Fill a Mason jar with Easter colored candies (jellybeans, M&Ms, etc.), then a row of peeps and finally top it with flowers. Tie a bow around the middle or around the jar mouth. You'll love how it looks!

