 Breastfeeding twins is a big task, but not an impossible one. It is a life transition that, even though it is temporary, is worth gathering support for. Find a local gathering of breastfeeding moms to get encouragement for the days when it is hard to persevere through breastfeeding. Finding other moms who have breastfed twins is also a good idea.


Don’t forget to talk to a lactation consultant if you get discouraged or have a question. You may have met a lactation consultant when you were in the hospital giving birth. You can also talk to other moms in order to find a good one in your area.
Your pediatrician can also provide support and resources for you.
 Setting goals for breastfeeding twins will help you stick to it on days when you feel overwhelmed. For example, you could decide to breastfeed for six months and then switch to formula.


You could also set up a feeding once a week or more where your partner feeds the babies pumped breast milk while you take a break.
 Making the transition to breastfeeding twins can take a few weeks, especially if you have other children. It is wise to get help with your household chores until you have an established breastfeeding routine so that you don’t get overwhelmed.
 In order to continue to produce a good milk supply, and to stay motivated to breastfeed, you must take care of your body. For the first few weeks of your twins’ lives, you are also recovering from giving birth (unless of course you have adopted), so you need to make sure your body heals properly.


Drink a lot of water, eat a balanced diet heavy in lean protein, and rest when your babies sleep.
Eating foods heavy in calcium, vitamin D, iron, and folic acid can help both your milk and your body.
Get as much rest as you can. If necessary, ask loved ones to take care of the babies so that you can get the rest that you need.
 At some point, once breastfeeding is firmly established, you may want to consider something called “combined feeding”—a combination of breastmilk and formula. This can be helpful in giving you more free time or allowing you to go back to work during the day. Babies also tend to start consuming a high volume of milk as their sucking reflexes strengthen, so adding formula can give your body a break.Breastmilk is the best nutrition for a newborn baby, and making the decision to breastfeed twins is commendable because of how much time it takes, especially in the beginning.Some twins, especially if they are born prematurely, may need special formulas or supplements in addition to breast feeding. However, most babies can still have at least some breast milk, even if they do need supplements to their diet.

