 One way to increase the stress-relief you get from cooking is to choose dishes that take a while to cook. For example, if you cook a roast that takes several hours, you can use the hands-off time to do something relaxing like reading a book or catching up on your favorite television show., You can help reduce stress by incorporating certain aromatics, spices, and herbs into your cooking routine. Try making a dish with sage or lavender to relieve stress. Mint and basil can help elevate your mood, and a dish with citrus or rosemary can energize and invigorate., Baking can help ground you, relieving stress and tension. Try creating a cake, pie, or cookies as a stress-relieving activity. Share the dessert with friends and family. Their appreciation for your creation can also help boost your mood., Cooking a whole chicken, beef brisket, or pork shoulder in the oven can help relieve stress. Dress the meat with some aromatic herbs, place it in the oven, and allow the aroma of slow roasting meat or poultry to fill your kitchen. Try cooking extra portions that you can turn into tomorrow’s lunch., For many people, soup or stew is the ultimate comfort food. Try making a roasted butternut squash soup, and topping it off with some aromatic sage leaves. You can also make a chili or stew on the stovetop and serve it with a simple side salad., Preparing meals and ingredients during the weekend is a great way to get in some kitchen-centered stress relief while also preparing for the week ahead. Relieve anxiety and tension by chopping vegetables that can be easily incorporated into a quick weeknight dinner or a grab-and-go lunch. You can also try cooking several different dishes to be reheated during the week., While cooking can help relieve stress, waking up to last night’s dirty dishes can increase tension and anxiety. To keep your cooking sessions stress-free, try cleaning up as you cook. Begin each cooking session with an empty dishwasher and sink, and then clean dishes as you dirty them.