 Especially if the relationship was long-term, this will be a difficult and probably a long process. Expect that, and give yourself as much time as you need to heal/recover.;
, Don't beat yourself up - your feelings or anger/frustration and sadness are natural and normal.


Cry if you need to. Go ahead and cry, use a whole box of tissues and feel miserable for a while. It's okay. You're entitled. But eventually, you do need to pick yourself back up and move on. Life will go on, and believe it or not, so will you!

, Take everything that reminds you of your ex (pictures, letters, keepsakes) and put it all in a box. Then put the box someplace far away like high up in your closet. Don't throw it away - you may regret it later. Just keep it stored someplace safe, but don't keep re-reading and looking at it all right now and make yourself miserable. Just put it away for now and give yourself a break.
 It's going to be hard at first, but you may have to force yourself to eat regular meals and sleep regularly. This too will take time, so be patient with yourself.
 Go out and do something you enjoy, like a hobby you have always loved, whether it's biking or karate or drawing, playing guitar, etc. Make sure you are focusing on the activity and the joy that it brings you, thereby distracting yourself., Spend lots of time with your friends and family during this time. They will be your support system as you deal with the aftermath of the break-up. Did you see some of these people much during the relationship? If the relationship was intense and long-term, chances are you have not seen some of your friends or maybe even family for months. Take time to spend quality time with them and do something fun.


Make sure your friends and family know what happened, and ask them to be a support system for you, to help you through this difficult time.
 Remember that the relationship happened for a reason, and nothing is ever wasted in life. Perhaps you learned a valuable lesson that you will be able to take with you into your next relationship and eventual marriage. Or perhaps you are only broken up for a short time and the relationship will be restored. Either way though, you must move on with your life.

