 Find out what the daughter's interests are and the sorts of things she enjoys most. Knowing this in advance will help you to avoid any awkward silences and can help you to build bridges towards a strong relationship. Another good reason for finding out what your stepdaughter likes is that you can look up anything you're unfamiliar with, so that you can ask well informed questions to encourage her to talk more about it.
 Be aware that an older stepdaughter may perceive you as a threat. If so, it is important to try to explain early on that you have no intentions of replacing their same sex parent in anyway, and that you are simply another bonus person in their lives, a person who cares about them and will look out for them too. This will help to reassure your stepdaughter that it's okay to like someone new and will alleviate any guilt they might be experiencing., Again, focus on something that you know she likes and keep it small. This isn't about bribing for her affections, it's about showing that you cared enough to go out of your way to find something you think she'll like. Giving a gift can open up the channels of communication, making it easier to talk together., Set aside time to spend with your stepdaughter without other people being around. This can be a good chance to bond, doing an activity that she enjoys, such as going to the movies, horse-riding, walking on the beach or window-shopping. Be sure to include a visit to a cafe or have something such as a picnic, so that the two of you have time to sit still and just talk together, away from the rest of the usual family hubbub. This can help both of you get to know each other better., Realize that she may need more time to warm to you; don't worry if it takes a while, she clearly needs the time to work through all the changes and see the real you. Go about your activities as normal, staying polite and upbeat around her, and letting her know that you're open to talk and that you're there for her, as needed. In time, your stepdaughter will learn to trust you and begin to open up. By not pressuring her, she will realize that you're friendly and neither pushy nor bossy.