 If your box is not very stable, now is the time to reinforce it with duct tape or packaging tape.

Your box can be any size, but be aware that the bigger it is, the more glue and rope you will need.;
, Plug in your hot glue gun, insert a hot glue stick, and let the gun heat up. Once it's hot, draw a 1 to 2-inch (2.54 to 5.08-centimeter) line of hot glue along the bottom edge of the box, close to one of the corners., You can use any thickness of cord you'd like. Thinner cord would work better for smaller boxes, while thicker cord will work for larger ones., Keep going around the box in rows until you reach the top of the box. Make sure that there aren't any gaps between the rows.

If you don't have a lot of glue, you can glue the cord down every few inches.Avoid squeezing out too much hot glue at one time; hot glue sets fast.
 If you need to, secure the end with more hot glue. Your basket at this point is essentially complete, or you can read on to learn how to make a lining and give it a nicer finish., Use a ruler or measuring tape to measure the length and width of the bottom of the box. If the sides are different sizes, be sure to take their measurements too., Draw the base of the box in the middle of the fabric, and the walls to each side of the base. You will end up with something that looks like a giant + sign.

You can use any type of fabric you want. Because of how rustic jute cord is, cotton, linen, or canvas would work best.
 Leave behind a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam on every edge. If you don't, your lining will be too small., Fold each of the walls together, so that their edges meet, and pin them in place. You should have something that looks like a box. When you're done pinning, sew the four corners using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. Remove the pins when you are done and don't turn the lining inside out., Fold the hem down all the way around the top edge of the lining, and pin it in place. Make sure that you are folding towards the wrong side of the lining, where the seams are. Topstitch close to the raw edge, then remove the pins., Set the lining into the basket. If the fabric is flimsy, like cotton, clip the hem to the edge of the basket with clothespins or binder clips. Hot glue the hem, inch by inch (2.54 centimeters) to the top edge of the box, removing the clothespins/binder clips as you do so.