 When you bring plants into your home, it is important to make sure they are not toxic to your cat. Before shopping for a new houseplant, research common plants that are not toxic to cats, so that you can focus on bringing safe plants into your home. If you have your eye on a plant that you are unsure of, take the time to research it before bringing it home.


There are extensive lists of toxic and non-toxic plants on the websites of organizations that focus on the humane treatment of animals, such as the ASPCA (American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals).
If you know the name of a plant you are considering buying, simply do an internet search for the name of the plant and the words "toxic cats." This should give you appropriate results to read through.;
, If you take the time to become familiar with some common plants that are not toxic to cats, you can be more comfortable bringing plants into your home. It is especially helpful if you are gifted a plant, so you know immediately that it won't be hazardous to your cat. Some common houseplants that are safe for cats include:African violets
Air plants
Orchids
Ferns
Spider plants
Palms
Christmas cactus

, There are some plants that are very toxic to cats and are commonly found in homes. Do an online search and find lists of plants that are toxic to cats. You should avoid bringing these plants into your home and keep your cats away from them. Some common houseplants that are toxic to cats include, but are not limited to:Amaryllis
Chrysanthemum
Calla lily
English ivy
Oleander
Anthurium
Philodendron
Spathiphyllum

, If you are bringing a cat into a home that has houseplants, you should make sure that none of your existing houseplants are toxic to cats. This can be hard to do if you are not sure what type of plants you have. Spend some time identifying what you have so that your cat is safe in its new home.


If you cannot identify a specific plant, you may want to consider rehoming it. It is better to be safe than sorry when it comes to houseplants and cats.
 There are some plants that can be grown for cats to chew on and enjoy. If you like having houseplants and you want your cat to have one of its very own, choose cat grass. Cat grass, which is a small grass that many cats love chomping on, is usually a mix of rye, barley, oat, or wheat grass which grows very easily indoors.Growing cat grass in your home can help you to keep your cat out of other houseplants, as it will focus its attention on the grass.Buy plants specifically marked as "cat grass" or get seeds marked that way from your local pet store. This will help ensure that the grass you are growing is safe for cats.
You can also grow catnip indoors, however it can cause some cats to get a bit wild. If you want to let your cat have it, grow it for them.

