 Some people own multiple eyedrops and have different prescriptions. Ensure you can tell which eyedroppers is which. You can organize the eyedrops by placing them in different places, adding different shaped tactile marks, wrapping small rubber bands a different number of times, etc. , An auto-drop is a tool that can hold the eye open and direct the drop, making the drop usage accurate. It can be reused after cleaning and the attached cap closes the bottle when you're not using it. If you're visually impaired, having an auto-drop will help make inserting drops a lot easier when trying to get the correct drop amounts. , Chilling the eyedrops before use will help you feel the coldness of them when you insert them. Before using the eyedrops, leave them in the fridge to chill. Most eyedrops are fine to store at temperatures between 40 and 60 degrees Fahrenheit once they are opened., Some eyedrops require you to shake the bottle before use. If that's the case with yours then shake it a few times before using. Ensure you read the instructions before shaking, you may need to shake a bottle a certain number of times according to the directions. , Choose an area in your house that you'll be comfortable inserting the eyedrops. You may want to do it on your bed, on the sofa, or on a chair so you can feel comfortable and relaxed. Find a spot where you can easily insert the eyedrops and a place where you won't get distracted., Before you insert the eyedrops into your eyes, fully wash your hands with warm water and soap. Use a towel or napkin to dry off your hands before you start using the eyedrops. This helps reduce the chances of getting an infection in your eyes. , Carefully screw open the bottle and lay the eyedrop bottle on its side to avoid the tip from touching anything. This is to avoid the chances of an infection. Keep the lid on a place where you won't lose it such as:

In your pocket
In a small plastic cup
On a small towel

, Using your thumb and and pointer finger, grasp the eyedrop bottle and hold it tightly. Avoid touching the tip on any surfaces or on your hand to avoid an infection from your eyes. , Gently put your head back, making your eyes look at the ceiling. If you find this too hard you may prefer lying down while you apply the eyedrops. , Using the hand you use daily with, pull down you lower gently to form a 'pocket'. This will make it easy to insert the drop into your eye. , Place the bottle next to your eye, not being too far to avoid missing, but not being too close to avoid the tip from touching your eye. Squeeze the eyedrop bottle gently to insert an eyedrop., Using your finger, press down gently on the inner corner of your eye which is closest to your nose. Press down for about 30 seconds. This helps reduce the taste of medication in your throat and stops it from entering the body. , Gently blot a dry napkin around your eyes to remove any excess. Repeat with the other eye if needed, or add more drops if needed, according to your medication. 