 Depending on the state of your counter top, you may only need to clean your counter top with warm water and a mild soap to remove any dirt, grime, or buildup from it. This will allow you the clearest view of the scratch so you can decide whether or not this is a DIY fix or something requiring a professional.


You'll want to remove any buildup has occurred inside the scratch. To do so, you may have to allow your counter top to soak in a mild cleaner before wiping the cleaner away.
Stubborn grime that is firmly lodged in your scratch can be scraped out with a small tool or cleaning implement, like a toothpick or a cotton swab. Use cleaner and your tool to completely cleanse the scratch of buildup.
For especially greasy counter tops, you may have to resort to more extreme measures. You can use acetone on your granite to ensure a good degreasing. Make sure there is good ventilation in the room before applying your acetone to prevent the harmful fumes from building up.;
, The color of your granite can have an impact on the visibility of scratches; scratches in light colors will likely be more apparent than those in darker colors. You may want a ruler or a tape measure on hand so you can more precisely evaluate the size and depth of your scratch.


If the scratch you are dealing with appears to be quite small, apply some water to it. If the water makes your scratch disappear, it's highly likely you can remedy this scratch on your own.
Scratches that are larger than ½ inch (1.25 cm) long and 0.08 inch (2 mm) deep are considered to be serious blemishes in your stone. It's unlikely you will be able to remove these yourself., The dealer or contractor who sold and/or installed your granite counter tops may also do restoration and repair work. You might see if he can assist your in your granite repair or recommend someone who is qualified to do the same.


Deep scratches will need to be ground down with diamond pads until the top layer of the granite with the scratch in it is removed. Then the surface must be repolished evenly. Both of these processes, if done incorrectly, can further damage or even ruin your counter top.