 You should always wash your hair before attempting to scrunch it, as scrunching only works properly on wet hair. If you try to scrunch dry hair it will end up looking like a ball of frizz! If possible, use a volumizing shampoo which will help give your scrunched hair body and texture. Use only a small amount of conditioner, and be sure to rinse your hair very well to keep it from being weighed down by product.


While you're still in the shower, use a wide-tooth comb to detangle your hair while you have conditioner in it. The conditioner will make it easier to tease out any tangles and will minimize damage to hair, making it less prone to frizz.
Part your hair wherever you like - down the middle, at the side, or zig-zagged - keeping in mind that the scrunched hair look is made to be messy, and a perfect part is far from necessary.;
, Once you've rinsed out your hair and stepped out of the shower, wrap a large, absorbent towel around your head like a turban for about two minutes. Then unwrap the towel and use it to pat any excess moisture from the hair. You can do this by grabbing small sections of hair and squeezing them against the towel. This will provide some pre-scrunching curl.


Make sure to pat your hair with the towel rather than rubbing it. Rubbing it dry causes a lot of hair damage and breakage, which leads to frizz rather than smooth, sleek curls.
Don't dry your hair too much - you still need it to be wet for scrunching, you just don't want it to be dripping, as the styling products will drip out also.
Avoid using a hair dryer to get rid of excess moisture, as this will dry the hair too quickly and have a straightening effect on the hair, which will not help you to scrunch curls.
 At this point, you can apply whatever curl-enhancing product you choose. Such products come in a variety of forms - mousses, gels, sprays, serums, etc. Mousse is probably the most popular product for hair scrunching. Choose a volumizing or strong-hold mousse, particularly if your hair is not naturally wavy, as this will help to give you long-lasting, voluminous curls.


To use the mousse, squirt a golf ball size amount into your hand, turn your head upside down so your hair is in front of your face, then work the product evenly into your hair with both hands.
Only work the mousse into the ends and mid-lengths of your hair - avoid putting it in the roots as this may weigh your hair down or cause it to look greasy.
Keeping your head upside down, scrunch your hair by grabbing a small section in your hand and crumpling it up towards your scalp, using the same motion as you would use to crumple a piece of paper.
The same technique can be used regardless of what product you use, just adjust the amount of product according to the instructions on the bottle and the length of your hair - more for longer hair, less for shorter hair.
 At this point, it is possible to stop and just let your hair dry naturally, especially if your hair is prone to even a little wave or curl. Just continue to scrunch up your hair (using the paper crumpling technique) every 5 to 10 minutes or so, until your hair is dry. Once dry, you can apply a little hair spray for extra hold or serum for added shine - then you're good to go!


Avoid using a regular hair dryer to speed up the drying process - the strong air flow will pull your hair and cause your curls to straighten or become frizzy.
If your hair is normally very straight, or you just want to add a little extra "oomph", try using one of the additional scrunching methods below.

