


A permit is required for overnight use of the back country in the Grand Canyon in most cases.
A permit application is available at the following URL: http://www.nps.gov/grca/planyourvisit/upload/permit-request.pdf. Directions on how to submit the application are on the top of the first page of the form.
Day hikers do not require a permit.;
,


Wear sturdy hiking boots.
Wear a hat to protect your head from the sun.
Dress according to the weather. Although Arizona has a reputation for being hot, parts of the Grand Canyon also are subject to very cold temperatures.
Wear sunglasses to protect your eyes.



On days that are not extremely hot, carry 1 gallon (3.79 L) of water per day that you intend to hike.
On very hot days, which are frequent in the summer, bring at least 1/2 quart (0.47 L) of water for each hour that you intend to hike.
Bring plenty of food. Foods to eat during the day should be high in carbohydrates and foods to eat before sleeping should be high in fats and proteins.
Bring sunscreen to protect your skin from the sun.
Pack insect repellent to ward off insects.
Pack toilet paper and a bag or portable toilet. Nothing may be left behind in the Grand Canyon.
Pack a sleeping bag and a tent if you plan to stay in the Grand Canyon for more than a day.
Take a trail map and a compass or GPS device. The trail map will guide you during your hike and the compass or GPS device will help you navigate if you become lost.
Pack a bear canister. This is a food-storage device that will help keep any form of wildlife from eating your food.



Most hikers visit the South Rim of the Grand Canyon.
If you are traveling a long distance, fly into Grand Canyon Airport, if possible. Otherwise, fly into Phoenix - Sky Harbor International Airport, Flagstaff Pulliam Airport, or McCarran International Airport (Las Vegas).
Print out driving directions or use a GPS device to get to Grand Canyon National Park from either your home or the airport you arrive in. Alternatively, you can take a bus to get to the Grand Canyon.



There are temperature extremes in the Grand Canyon and the higher elevations receive plenty of snow in the colder months. Temperatures in the summer often exceed 100 degrees Fahrenheit (37.78 degrees Celsius) and winter temperatures occasionally fall below 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-17.78 degrees Celsius).
Check the weather report as close as possible to the time you begin your hike and reconsider taking a long hike if inclement weather is predicted.
If you decide to hike the North Rim, which is not used by most hikers, take into account the colder climate there. The North Rim receives over twice as much snowfall annually as the South Rim.
Use a trail map that you brought with you or obtain one at Grand Canyon National Park before you begin your hike.

