 Let them know in a gentle, non-accusatory manner that there are some things you think could go better in your house or apartment, and you'd like to talk about it and reach a consensus that works for all of you.
 Do be sure to set boundaries, though, and be clear that you are not a doormat and will not tolerate being treated rudely in your own home. Be clear about what you DO want in your home: feelings of peace, comfort, trust, openness, respect etc. Tell them the ways in which you have been attempting to be friendly (perhaps describe habits of yours that display general kindness, which they do not reflect back at you). Tell them that these things are meaningful to you and you would like to receive the same respect.
 Peace, joy, comfort, security, fun, luxury, love? What are their main desires at home, and what do these mean to them? How would they like to be treated? Most likely you are not so different, so you can use this as a way of generating empathy between both of you - "me too. I want peace too. How can we both have that?" Or, maybe your needs are different. If so, you need to find that out as well, and then see if a compromise can be reached.
 Was your action misunderstood? If so, explain your side non-defensively. Or, did you really do something malicious or inconsiderate? Be willing to apologize if necessary.



If they insist on dealing with things in the moment, then tell them in straightforward language how their most recent comment affected you. Tell them that you've been feeling increasingly uncomfortable at home because of their rude comments. You feel you deserve to be at peace in your own home, and need to clear this up. Hopefully they should be willing to talk to you.
If they refuse to communicate at all, then the situation is unworkable. You need to find something better. Consider one of you moving away. See the information above for more on that.
 For example, "It is not okay to mess with the things in my bedroom" or "I expect you to treat me with respect." Be assertive, non-judgmental, and to the point.


Talking about your feelings won't help if they are trying to hurt your feelings. "I" language and nonviolent communication are not effective tools for this type of problem.
 If your flatmate is regularly being mean to you on purpose, this is bullying. Keeping a clear written record can be useful, especially if you need to explain to a college RA or other person why you need to move rooms.


Keep the record out of sight from your flatmate. If they find it, they may get worse, or destroy the record.
Keep your log entries factual, such as "Larissa said my painting looked garish and childish, and that I was an awful painter who would never keep my scholarship. She acted like she would rip it, but I grabbed it. I went to my room and cried." Opinion statements, such as "Larissa is awful and I hate her," are best left for venting to a diary or trusted friend.
 If they are not willing to meet your needs of peace and safety at home, or treat you with basic respect, then the two of you should not live together. This should depend on who has been established in the house or apartment the longest, and basic common sense. For instance, if anyone was planning to move out soon anyway, then there is no point in the other person moving out.

