 They will usually be in the herb section of the store. Valerian seeds can be finicky, so this is the best way to ensure you will have young plants for your garden.;
, If valerian grows naturally in your area, you can usually find a number of young plants sprouting in the spring. Dig up the root system and plant it in your garden after the last frost.
 Purchase fresh seeds that are less than one year old. Unlike other herb seeds, valerian seeds don’t take well to storage.


Plant them in a rich seed starting mix four to eight weeks before you want to plant them in your garden.
Sprinkle the soil with warm water and keep the plants in the sun. Fluorescent lights and grow lights can aid germination rates.
If your home is somewhat cold, you can try creating a mini-greenhouse over your seed trays with plastic wrap.
, Valerian doesn’t generally require a lot of fertilization unless the soil is poor. The soil should be between 5.5 and 7.0 in pH., The plants do well with some afternoon shade.
 They are large plants, so they need plenty of room to grow roots.If your valerian plants don’t tend to grow to a full four feet (1.2 m) tall, you may be able to plant them closer together.
 It can send out runners, so it may be best when offset from a vegetable or flower garden. Harvesting the blooms can keep it from being too invasive.


Valerian leaves and roots are known for a strong, musty odor. The flowers can smell of vanilla, but are too strong for some gardeners. Keep this in mind before planting near a patio.
, Valerian likes well-drained soil and plenty of water. Soak it every few days when you are not receiving regular rain., This keeps the plant from going to seed and spreading too far.It can also make the roots more potent if you are harvesting them for a sleep aid.


Use a sharp pair of shears and cut near the base of the stem.
Valerian starts blooming early in the spring. You may get two or three blooms, depending upon the placement of the plant and its age.
 Harvest mature root systems in the fall for drying. Allow the plant to go a few days without water before you harvest so that the natural compounds are more potent.
 You can also dig up older plants for medicinal use and let younger volunteers grow for next year.
 Rinse the roots off with your garden hose before you take them inside.
 Wash them thoroughly by soaking them in a bowl.
 Let them dry in a cool, dry place for two to three months. They are extremely pungent, so they shouldn’t be dried on a kitchen table.Simmer the roots for use as a sleep aid.
You can also give the dried roots to cats, who love it like catnip., Use clean, fresh leaves as a nighttime relaxation tea or dry them to make a loose-leaf tea blend.

