 Your dad's girlfriend may be an important part of his life. But if she is a new addition to your family unit, it may be necessary to set boundaries. Family holidays, vacations, and events such as weddings are particularly important to manage. Remember that everyone's situation is different. Maybe you don't mind if your dad's long time girlfriend comes along on the family vacation. But if you do, speak up.
Make your feelings clear. Be firm but kind.
Try saying something like, "Dad, our time at the cabin is really special to me. If you want to bring Susan for the last two days, that's fine. But I'd appreciate it if you devote most of the week to just spending time with our family."
Holidays can be especially emotional. If your dad has a new girlfriend, don't feel like you have to include her in every event.
If you have an annual cocktail party that includes friends and extended family, by all means, she should be invited. But that doesn't mean she has to attend gift opening with your kids on Christmas morning.
 Being an adult doesn't always mean that you will feel comfortable dealing with your dad's girlfriend. However, it does mean that you are probably emotionally mature enough to find ways to compromise. Talk to your dad about the situation and try to find solutions that work for everyone.Weddings can be a difficult social occasion to navigate, even under the best of circumstances. If there is a family wedding coming up, talk to your dad about the proper role for his girlfriend.
If it is your wedding, you should be able to decide who you want there. However, unless you have a good reason, it's probably not fair to completely exclude the girlfriend.
Be flexible by inviting her to the wedding. But you don't have to include her in the intimate details of the day, such as helping you get ready.
Family pictures can also be tricky. Try to pick a standard to stick to.
For example, someone who hasn't been part of the family dynamic for at least several months might not need to be in the picture. Talk to your dad about what feels right for everyone.
Consider the duration of the relationship. It's understandable if you don't feel comfortable having your dad's new girlfriend involved in intimate family events.
The longer the relationship lasts, the more flexible you should be. If the couple has been together for a year or more, it's probably time to start allowing her to be more active in the family.
 Once you have figured out your emotions, you can move forward on trying to build a relationship. Hopefully, you have had some time to consider what you want that relationship to be. Are you looking for her to be your friend? Or to take on more of a friendly aunt role?Start spending time together. It is perfectly appropriate for you to initiate a conversation about what role you will play in each others lives.
Schedule a time to talk. Try saying, "Hey, Tracy, I was wondering if you have some time to sit down and have a conversation with me this week."
Let her know what you need from her. It's ok to say, "I already have a mother. But I am open to having a different kind of relationship with you."
Be open and honest. Remember to also be respectful.
 Having a good time can be a great way to bond. Ask your dad's girlfriend to join you in an activity that you enjoy. You can either plan something in advance or offer a spontaneous invitation.Next time you are heading to the gym, ask her to come along. You can say, "Hey, Tracy, I love my kickboxing class. Do you want to come?"
If you need to take things slow, go see a movie together. You'll be hanging out together, but you won't feel pressure to make conversation the entire time.
Do some everyday activities together. It can be fun to have someone to make dinner with or to watch your favorite tv shows with.
 In order to build a relationship with someone, it is important that you get to know them. Try thinking of her as an individual, rather than just your dad's girlfriend. Start by learning more about her.Getting to know someone can be as simple as learning her likes and dislikes. It might turn out that you have something in common.
For example, you could ask her to go out for ice cream. If it turns out you both have the same favorite flavor, that's a really simple thing to bond over.
After you feel a little more certain of your new relationship, you can delve a little deeper. Try asking her about her job or her family.
Maybe your dad has been dating this woman for a long time and you think you already know her. Spend time with her anyway. It's always possible to learn something new about a person.
 Compromise is important in any relationship. Maybe you are upset because when your dad spends time with her, it takes away from time he could spend with you. Propose a compromise by asking if he can take a day off of work to spend with you.If you find yourself arguing with your dad's girlfriend, take a step back and consider the situation. There is likely a situation that could be workable for both of you.
For example, maybe you disagree on where to go for dinner. Try coming up with an alternative restaurant that sounds good to everyone.
If the conflict is more serious, take a time out. Once you have calmed down, ask if you can talk about a way to compromise.

