 If you spend too much time thinking about what just happened, you're going to make yourself crazy. Take a moment to say hello or goodbye to people as you leave the building, for instance. Try to engage people in conversation in the elevator on your way out. These little steps will stop you from thinking so much about what you just did., Once you get to the car or home, take a little bit to calm yourself down. A breathing exercise can help take away some of your anxiety.Try closing your eyes and breathing in through your nose. Count to four in your head as you breathe in, then hold your breath for four counts, too. Finally, breathe out for four counts through your mouth. Repeat until you feel yourself calm down.It may not seem like it, but steps one and two actually work to the same end. They both make you stop overthinking your interview.
 One way to help you de-stress is to tell a friend about it. Make it someone who can help you break apart the interview to see what you did well and what you didn't do as well. Talking about the interview can help calm your anxiety. Plus, no matter whether you did badly or well, knowing how you did can help you have some closure and move on with life.Once you've figured out what you can do better, it's time to stop thinking about the interview. You've thought about it enough to learn from your mistakes, and that's all that matters.
 A self-soothing activity is basically anything you do that makes you happy or calms you down. It can be anything from sipping tea to having a nice dinner to going to see a movie. Treat yourself to an ice cream if that's your thing., Laughing is one of the best ways to de-stress and help yourself move on. Go out with a couple of friends who always make you laugh. Listen to a hilarious audiobook. Go to a funny movie. Anything that will get you guffawing will help you feel better., That is, turn up some loud music you love that has an awesome beat. Dance around your house to it until you start feeling better. It can also help to sing along to your favorite songs., Sometimes, you may find you have so much nervous energy after an interview that the best cure is to use exercise to your advantage. For instance, maybe you could play a pickup game of basketball with some friends, playing hard until you've let go of some of your anxiety.