 If you cannot play well, you may want to avoid doing anything especially dangerous or foolish in the game. Remember, cheating can make certain missions impossible to complete and it can also damage the game irreparably.;
, Instead of cheating to get more health, you can regenerate by eating, drinking soda, or getting in an ambulance. All of the above options offer very little health increases, but they are much better than cheating.
 A normal newbie or cheater will just usually spawn 'em. But where is the fun with that? The only other option that you have is to hunt for them, which can be both tedious and dangerous. Cheating, however, can have the more dangerous effect of lowering your Criminal Rating.
 By gambling, killing drug dealers, or performing a bike stunt off of the Los Santos tower, you can get money. (If the gambling backfires, you can reset the game.)

, Like usual, many players will take the easy and dishonest route to adjust their wanted level. Despite this, there are simple tricks on how to remove wanted level, such as receiving "bribes", taking special missions, or saving the game.
 Unfortunately, many of these are obtainable solely by cheating. To get the cool vehicles, you may have to do some things that resemble cheating. For the Phoenix, you can save it to your garage, and it will stay there. The Monster truck, Hotring racer, and the Bloodring banger can all be attained by normal gameplay means. (The Monster truck and Hotring racer can be attained at the Stadium in Los Santos just a few feet far behind Grove Street. It is very easy, just do the P.I.T. Maneuver which will make them spin out of control and give you advantages. Do not destroy them, under any circumstances.) The Hunter, Hydra and Stuntplane can also be attained without cheats, but the Hunter and Stuntplane will require you to do some tasks at the AC tower Graveyard, while the Hydra is obtained throughout the storyline. To get the Stuntplane, get at least silver on all of the tests at the Tower. For the Hunter, finish all of the tests with the rank "Gold." It may be hard at first, but you will find it easy after a few gaming hours.
 Normally, players will use a Rocket Launcher and fire. It is easier to just get the miniguns which will not be obtained through cheats, but by finding them. The Minigun is extremely powerful because it is capable of destroying a car with just 3 bullets, and it has 500 bullets by default. If you take it from Toreno's ranch (a place where powerful guns spawn for free), you will only have 200 bullets, but with a bit of cheating (repeatedly saving and reacquiring the weapon), you can easily get past 200 rounds.

