 Using shampoo every time you shower can dry out your hair, but you should condition every time. It will soften your hair, hydrate it, and help smooth the cuticle to create shine.Look for conditioners made for your hair type, and make sure you’re applying it properly.If you have fine hair, avoid applying conditioner to your roots. That can weigh down your hair. Instead, start halfway down the hair and coat your hair to the tips.
If your hair is medium or thick, you can coat your hair from root to tip. Let it sit on your hair for a minute or two so that you can absorb maximum moisture.
If your hair feels weighed down or oily, rinse with a clarifying shampoo before conditioning. This will clear off any excess build-up, making your hair feel lighter and letting the shine come through!;
, Don’t worry – you don’t have to stand in an ice cold water. In fact, warm water will open the cuticle of your hair and help your conditioner soak into the shaft. However, before you step out of the shower, give your hair a quick rinse with cold water. The cooler water seals the cuticle of the hair, locking in that moisture you just gave it with your conditioner., A lot of towels can rough up the shaft of the hair, leaving it frizzy and damaged. You can skip any sort of towel and use your hands to gently wring out the excess water in your hair. If you want to speed up the drying process, consider buying a ultra-absorbent, microfiber towel that will reduce friction on your fragile hair.If you don’t have a good towel handy, you can even use a t-shirt to soak up the excess water.
 To get super sleek, shiny hair, you have to be willing to use a bit of product. The key is to look for light products, to keep your hair from looking oily or stringy. Mists and anything with “light” in the product name are a good bet. Make sure to avoid products that are heat activated, because they will be useless without blow-drying.


Light oils, styling creams, and hydrating mists can all help your hair dry shiny and smooth. When it comes to finding the perfect product, it may be a bit of trial and error.
Look for products made specifically for your hair type (fine, coarse, thick, thin, dry, and so on).
 Wet hair is fragile, so you want to be extremely gentle as you comb or brush it. This step is important because it helps to distribute the product over the hair. Brushing your hair down also helps the cuticle lay flat, reducing frizz and increasing shine.There are brushes made specifically for wet hair with microfiber bristles to help dry your hair while also smoothing it.Brushes with flexible rubber bristles are also good for wet hair, because they bend as they move through the hair, reducing snagging and unnecessary damage.
 Depending on your hair, you may or may not need to do this. Some hair starts to frizz as it air dries. If this happens, you can rub a bit of product between your palms and gently smooth out any frizz. Avoid applying product near the roots so your hair isn’t weighed down., As your hair dries, playing with it can cause frizz. As much as you want to rake your fingers through it, avoid the temptation! The less you touch it, the better. The same rule goes once it is dried. The oils from your hands can make your hair look stringy, so hands off!