 Animal tracks are more visible at these times of day, when the slant of the light makes it easier to see the shadows made by tracks. Tracking when the sun is high in the sky is a lot harder. In addition, many animals are more active in the morning and evening than they are in the middle of the day.


Getting close to the ground and looking at the tracks sideways can also help you see the tiny indents and ridges that indicate an animal walked over a certain spot.
Start where you can clearly see tracks. The easiest way to start tracking an animal is to begin in a spot where you see undeniable tracks, like in freshly fallen snow or in a muddy spot. From there, you can follow the tracks to areas where they're not quite as easy to detect.
 A tracking stick helps you visualize where an animal moved. It's a handy tool to have when you've followed tracks for a bit and they seem to have disappeared into thin air. Make a tracking stick by taking a thin walking stick and fastening a row of rubber bands around the bottom. When you see two tracks, you can measure them by sliding the rubber bands to mark the distance between tracks. Find a missing track by laying the second to last rubber band against the last track you see; the next track should be within range of the end of the stick., When you're tracking an animal, ask why an animal went in a certain direction or took a certain path. Try to understand as much as you can about the animal's intentions so that you can predict where it might have gone. It helps to know a lot about the animal species you're tracking, like what the animal likes to eat, when it's most active, and so on.By looking very carefully at an animal's tracks, you can examine the pressure marks within the individual prints. Note where the animal may have paused, climbed a tree, or started running or flying. Try to understand what might have caused the behavior.
Look for patterns in an animal's tracks that clue you in to a typical day in the animal's life. Most animals are creatures of habit and use the same paths every day.
 Experienced trackers use their sense of touch as much as their sense of sight to figure out which way an animal went. Try tracking while blindfolded to get an even deeper understanding of the animal. Feel the animal's prints and search along the ground with your hands until you find more. Follow them until you understand the way the animal moved through the forest or meadow.