 Rihanna's Instagram account is @badgalriri. She uses Instagram frequently and interacts with fans on the site daily.


You can either send her a direct message or comment on her pictures. A direct message is private and fans have reported having conversations with her this way.
Based on her past interactions with fans, Instagram seems to be the best way to contact her over social media if you want a response.
You could say something like this in a direct message, "Hi Rihanna, my name is Amy and I loved your song Umbrella. What was your favorite song on Good Girl Gone Bad to record?

, Rihanna's Twitter account is @rihanna. Her Twitter account is updated usually every day and is most likely run by one of Rihanna’s assistants as well as Rihanna herself.


You can send her a private message through the site or tweet directly to her.
Rihanna retweets a lot of fan posts that contain a photograph of her. You could tweet a picture of Rihanna at a recent award show congratulating her on her awards.
 Rihanna's official Facebook account is @rihanna. You can use Facebook to write on Rihanna’s Facebook wall or to send her a private message over Facebook messenger.


It is unlikely that Rihanna herself runs her Facebook page but there is always the chance that one of her assistants will see your message and pass it along to Rihanna.
In a private message to Rihanna's page, you could write something like, "Hi Rihanna, my name is Amy and I wanted to say hi since I didn't have a chance to during the meet and greet at your concert in Miami. You've been my favorite artist for years now, and I love your work!"

, Rihanna's Myspace account is @rihanna. This is probably the least effective way to contact Rihanna since her Myspace is updated infrequently and is not as popular as her other social media accounts.The message you send on Myspace could be similar to the one that you send on Facebook. It should contain your name and why you're reaching out. You could congratulate her the success of her recent album or an award she won at a music awards show.
 Rihanna’s official website is RihannaNow.com. Her official website lists her tour dates and her appearances. If you can afford to go to one of her concerts or if you live near one of scheduled appearances, this is your best chance to meet Rihanna in person.If you have a philanthropic request, you can contact her charity. Rihanna founded the Clara Lionel Foundation in 2012 to help students in underprivileged areas receive college scholarships and to fight for education rights. You can send an email to the organization at info@claralionelfoundation.org.
When you contact her charity, you should write a formal request that contains information about why you are requesting her presence at your event and the details about the event.

