 Often times these words are used interchangeably in the media or in conversation, but there are differences that are worth understanding. Knowing the difference between these concepts can also help you in conversation, when people often use the wrong term for what they mean.


Racism has to do with a system of oppression of a group of people based on their race, skin color, or ethnicity. In general, racism involves a majority race or ethnic group creating laws, policies, systems, and cultural norms that favors their own race at the expense of minority races or ethnic groups.
Bigotry, on the other hand, is about hatred. Bigotry means hating an entire group of people because of who they are and/or believing that your own group is superior, and it is not limited to race or ethnicity; you can be bigoted towards a group based on religion, gender, sexual orientation, race, disability, etc. For example, the Holocaust was motivated by bigotry, as are all hate crimes in United States law.Prejudice (literally meaning "to pre-judge") means assuming you know something about a person because of a group they are affiliated with. While it usually carries a negative connotation, prejudice isn't always obviously bad. For example, its prejudiced to assume that all Asians are good at math or that all black people are good singers or good athletes. Those are stereotypes based on race. You can also be prejudiced against a person because of their religion, gender, disability, etc., so like bigotry, prejudice is not limited to race.
 Sometimes racist policies or practices are "obvious" (at least when we look back on them historically), for example, the United States' history of slavery (which at the time was legally and religiously justified as natural and acceptable) was based on a racist system. Other times, people disagree about whether or not particular policies or practices are racist; for example, some people argue that Affirmative Action policies (which require companies in the United States to hire a certain quota of people from different demographic groups) are racist, while other people argue that AA policies help prevent racism.


Because racism is about a group in power mistreating a minority group, "reverse racism" (which is often used to describe when a member of a minority group mistreats a member of a majority group because of their race) is a misnomer. It should actually be called "bigotry" or "prejudice" rather than "racism."It is important to keep in mind that you can support racism without being bigoted. In fact, you can support racism without even knowing it, since racism is a larger system of oppression.
 A sad but sobering reality about the nature of human civilizations throughout history is that nearly all major civilizations have struggled with racism. This is because racism is about those in power (the majority) mistreating those without power (the minority), and race is one of the major identity fault lines that people have historically used to designate who has power and who doesn't.


In North America, the history of racism arguably starts with the conquest of indigenous tribes (Native Americans or Indians) by white European settles. Literally, one racial group had more power than another (in the form of weapons and diseases that wiped out entire populations).
During the Victorian period in Europe, racism became cemented into Western thought through supposedly "scientific" findings about the differences between the races. With influences from Darwinian evolutionary theory, scientists believed that white Anglo races had evolved further than others., Even though many major systems of oppression like slavery have been abolished in many places around the world, large and small racist attitudes and policies are still a problem in every country.
 Because racism is systemic, its effects can be seen in the media, government, school system, and even in religion.


Notice stereotypes about different races and ethnicities in television, books and movies. The popularity of video and computer games provides even more avenues for racism. Contact the people behind racist products and explain your objection. Refuse to support any business or organization that permits racism.
 In day-to-day life, "microaggressions" are more common than obvious blatant hostility, but can be just as hurtful. As the term suggests, microaggressions are small acts of discrimination that many people might not recognize at all-- but over time, for people of color, they become obvious and hurtful.A microaggression can be anything from subconsciously moving away from a person of color on the train, asking a black woman if her hair is really "hers", or asking an Asian-American where she is "really" from.
Microaggressions, unlike blatant acts of hate, are often unintentional. This makes it harder to "prove" it happened for the person of color, who risks appearing too touchy or being accused of pulling "the race card" if she objects to these types of acts.

