 Even simply knowing that you know all your lines will help you feel more confident about actually acting the part and not just speaking the lines. You may find it helpful to know lines of the other parts that are your prompts too.;
, Make sure that you know where you are supposed to be on stage and when. Sometimes you may need to pay attention to the lighting so you can be in the right place and the right time for a certain effect to work.
 That way, you can move around them comfortably and confidently.
 Make sure you can perform all your required actions wearing it. Consider using your costume to help you act. An example of this would be having a physically heavy or weighted costume for a character who is lumbering and slow.
 Good stage actors can whisper loudly enough for the entire audience to hear. If you are using microphones and sound equipment, practice with them and get to know what works.
 Stage make up may not look good close up; you might even look false, fake, over made up, tarty, clown-like or a variety of other unflattering looks close up! It's how the make up looks to the audience that counts.
 Be that person on stage, even when you don't have lines or specific directions. Think as your character the whole time you are on stage, but don't overdo it and upstage any one else.
 ( Back of the room where you are performing for example. ) This will take your mind off the people that are watching and make you feel less uncomfortable acting in front of a small crowd or even a massive crowd.
 Remember not too talk too quickly; the people watching might not understand what you are meant to be saying.
 Don't actually tell them of course, but just give them an idea. If you are acting out a play that is on television, watch it over and over again (but remember that stage plays and TV can be very different and the acting techniques used differ considerably). Spot your role and make note of their facial expressions and how they talk throughout the film. You could do this by recording it, taking pictures or writing down and drawing key parts that you could use. Try them out all the time: in the mirror, at school, in the bath, at bedtime and basically whenever you've got the chance. Some people might be deft so remember to make lots of mouth movements and not that simple groan of 'Do I have to do the washing and do my homework, can't I just do it later?'

,,, There are lots of schools to improve your acting.
, This can give you a feedback on your acting and later you can improvise on your mistakes if any.
 Just ask yourself about the difference between you and your role. What is it? Age, gender, personality, etc.? Think on it a while and then try to get these changes on you. Your acting will be more natural.
 You may struggle with this.
 Be more natural. Emotions, speech and gestures play a very important role in this.
 This can fit the lines in your subconscious mind so that you will speak up next line more fluently.
 Don't just cram the dialogues. See what each dialogue means.
 Don't get distracted while learning dialogues and keep your full focus on the script.

