 Sit down and write out a list of everything you lost. If your wallet was stolen, then identify as best you can all of the credit cards that were in the wallet.;
, You also need to give the police basic information about the theft. Gather as much of the following information as possible:where you were
date and time
names of any witnesses or third parties
car registration numbers
pictures of the location where your items were stolen

, You should report your missing items to the police.Ask the hotel to connect you to the local police. If you need someone to translate for you, then ask the people at the hotel desk where you can find a translator.


Don’t expect the police to get your valuables back.They are usually too busy. Nevertheless, you need to report the theft, particularly if you hope to file an insurance claim later.
Remember to get a copy of the police report before you leave.If you find the police unhelpful, visit your nearest embassy or consulate for help.
 Items might have been stolen from your hotel room. Tell the concierge what was stolen and when you think it happened. Write down the name of who you speak to. It’s unlikely that the hotel will reimburse you for the loss, but they might be able to recover the items if an employee stole them.
 Go online and find the phone number for customer service for each credit card issuer. Call them and report that your cards were stolen. They can freeze your accounts and issue new cards. If you have online accounts, you can log in and report the cards as missing that way.


When you get home, you should follow up with a letter, but you can hold off on the letter until you are home.
Avoid delay. The sooner you report the loss, the less likely someone will make charges to your cards., If your debit card or personal checks were stolen, then tell the bank so that they can freeze your accounts. Don’t delay. If you report the card missing before someone uses it, then you aren’t responsible for any charges made on the card., A thief who stole your wallet or purse might use your personal information to take out loans in your name. Prevent this from happening by calling one of the national credit bureaus and ask that your account be frozen. Provide your name, address, date of birth, and Social Security Number. You will be charged a small fee. Call the following:Equifax: 1-800-349-9960
Experian: 1-888-397-3742
TransUnion: 1-888-909-8872

, If someone stole your cell phone, they’re probably going to use it. You should call up the cell phone provider and cancel your service before the thief racks up charges.Search online for the customer service number.

