 While you can wear a ponytail with freshly-washed locks, this style is great for second or third-day hair—even if you're aiming to create a dressy, polished look. You'll have fewer fly-aways, and the natural grease that comes from not shampooing will help hold your style and give you a bit of shine.Don't fear if you decide you want to wear your hair in a ponytail and have just shampooed: you can still style your hair into a polished ponytail, but may you need to use additional product to get the volume and texture you want.
 Spray on a bit of thickening spray or a little dry shampoo, focusing upon the roots of your hair. This will give you more volume and hold.


If you don't have either of these products on hand, baby-powder can work in a pinch. Sprinkle a small amount into your palm and massage into the roots of your hair. The baby-powder will help absorb excess oil and will add texture and lift to your roots.
Be sure to thoroughly brush the powder out, though, so that you won't have white or grey streaks throughout your ponytail.
You can even make your own dry shampoo at home. If you have darker hair, add a bit of cocoa powder to darken the final product—be prepared to develop a sudden craving for brownies, though!

, Use a curling iron to create soft curls or waves (curl your hair in 2-inch sections). Your curls will last longer if you lightly spritz the sections with hair spray before curling, or if you run a small amount of gel or mousse throughout your hair before you curl.


Alternatively, you can set all of your hair in hot rollers. Leave them in until they are fully cooled.
If you have longer hair, you can pile your hair high on the crown of your head, place into a ponytail, and then add rollers. This won't be your final ponytail, but is a way for you to curl your hair more quickly and efficiently.
Once your curls (or rollers) have cooled completely, loosely comb through your hair with your fingers. Don't use a comb or brush, or the curls will relax too much.
You can speed up the cooling process by quickly blasting your hair with cool air from your blowdryer (if yours has that setting) to help your curls set.
 Lift up a three-inch section at the front/top of your head and gently backcomb the underside with a fine-toothed comb. Gently smooth the front of the hair with a brush.
 Then gather your hair into a ponytail using either your hands or a brush. Do this carefully, so as not to brush out your curls and volume. For a classic ponytail look, center the ponytail midway between your crown and the nape of your neck (it should be level with the tops of your ears)., In order to make sure that your style will last and that no fly-aways will escape, give your hair a light misting with hairspray.

