 With the exception of very high-tiered armor, making sure your weapons and armor are in correct order is important. Consider as well whether you want to use crossbows or bows. They are fundamentally the same, however use different ammunition.
 Ava's Attractor is a reward from the quest Animal Magnetism. It can further be upgraded to Ava's Accumulator. This gives the highest ranged bonus in the cape strength in the game, barring the Max and Completionist's cape., Prayers like Eagle Eye give you a 15% accuracy bonus to your hits, which can increase your efficiency by the same amount. Super Ranging potions boost your range levels proportionate to your base level, which increases your damage output and accuracy exponentially., Several options here. You could go the traditional route, training on cows and chickens, picking up the cowhides to give to beefy Bill, or the feathers from chickens. You could also train on goblins or men for the herb drops and the clue scrolls. You could also go to cockroach drones for the gems., Kill chaos druids. They are weak to bolts, and have amazing herb drops for there level. You can easily make back the money you spend here., Kill Green Dragons. Go north and then west of Edgeville until you find the crater full of green dragon. Remember to bring either an Anti-dragon shield or anti-firebreath potion, otherwise the dragons can hit upwards of 2000+ every hit. You can safe spot these behind rocks and trees. Pick up the dragon bones and green dragonhide to help offset the cost of your ammunition., Kill black demons. These can be found in a number of places, notably the Edgeville dungeon being easiest to access. If you have 70 agility, the Taverly dungeon can be a good option as well. They drop infernal ashes, Wines of Zamorak, and grapes, all which can be sold for a tidy profit., Kill Waterfiends. These offer 1 thousand experience per kill, as well as an 80% drop rate for crimson charms. This can boost your account in summoning as well, however they don't have very many other drops, aside from noted water orbs and raw lobsters. You can get here by using a games necklace and teleporting to Barbarian Assault and then diving into the whirlpool., Kill Rorarius. You are going to need 81 slayer for these, but it is well worth the cost. These are found just north of the Oog'log lodestone, and down the chapel stairs. These are agressive for a very long time, so if you have Vampirism aura or Soul Split, you can stay here indefinitely. They also drop the keystones, which vary in price from 250k to 500k depending on the type of key you have.

If you do not have 81 slayer, you can start chinning. You are going to want a ton of red chinchompas, and the best range bonus you can get, preferably full void. Get an inventory with 16 prayer potions, 8 Super/extreme range potions, 2 pieces of food, and an emergency teleport. Go to either the zombie monkey caves in Ape Atoll or the abyss. Simply stand and attack one monster. These items have a splash damage, and can continuously aggro the monster around you, meaning if you keep soul split or protect from melee on, you can stay here forever.

