 Growing a beard is a commitment. It will take time and dedication. There may be days when you feel like giving in and picking up the razor again. For times like these, you may find it helpful to keep an image of a bearded role model in mind. Think of a man with a gloriously full, thick beard who's image will provide you with inspiration and motivation when you need it most. Get a picture of this man and hang it in your bathroom. He'll provide you with the strength you need to persevere and achieve the manly beard you've always dreamed of.


Some good examples of fabulously full-bearded men include: musicians like John Lennon and Jim Morrison, philosophers like Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud, former American presidents Abraham Lincoln and Ulysses S. Grant and mythical Gods such as Zeus and Poseidon.
 You've probably heard the advice that shaving your beard will cause it to grow back twice as thick as before, but there is no real truth to this theory. After shaving your beard, your hair will experience a slight initial growth spurt, but will quickly return to a growth rate that's even slower than it was before, therefore rendering the growth benefits of shaving negligible.


In addition, your beard may appear to be thicker when it starts growing again, but this is only because the hair nearest the root is darker and coarser than the ends. Once the length of the hairs increase, you will no longer notice a difference.As a result, your best bet is just to leave your facial hair be. Lock your razor into a drawer and let nature take its course.
 It will typically take between 4 to 6 weeks for you to grow your facial hair into a proper beard. It will be hardest in the beginning, when your facial hair may be patchy and uneven and you'll have to deal with smirks and snarky comments from friends and family who don't understand your quest for bearded glory.


For this reason, it may be best to start growing your beard while on vacation or a break from work. This will give you a running start at growing your beard, away from the critical eyes of others.
 The major hurdle where most aspiring beard-owners fall is dealing with itchiness. Itchy, irritated skin can be a major problem while your beard is growing in, but don't let it get the best of you - fight back! Wash your face daily with a mild cleanser to keep skin clean. Use a soothing moisturizer to hydrate dry, flaky skin and reduce redness.


If the itching is really getting on your nerves, get your hands on a 1% hydrocortisone cream which should significantly relieve the need to scratch.
Remember that the itchiness is temporary - it will go away as soon as your beard reaches a certain length - so be strong!

, Washing your beard a couple of times a week with an anti-dandruff shampoo can also help to relieve itchiness and get rid of any dry flaking skin, which can make your beard unsightly. If you like, you can also use a small amount of conditioner to keep your new beard feeling soft and healthy., Unfortunately, there is no magical serum that will allow you to grow a wonderfully thick, full beard. The type of beard you will be able to grow will depend largely on genetics (thanks Dad!) and the natural levels of testosterone that your body produces. As a result, you will need to work with the facial hair you've been given, doing whatever you can to maximize its health and encourage growth.