 Curly hair may be fun to play with, but touching it too much disrupts the shape of the curl, leading to frizz.
 Curly hair becomes frizzy when brushed. If your hair becomes tangled, you can untangle it by combing it with a wide-toothed comb instead.


You can also detangle your curls using your fingers instead.
 Improper brushing leads to frizzy hair, and frizzy hair leads to frustration and distress. The direction in which your comb your hair as well as whether or not your hair is wet will make a difference. Here are some tips for combing your curls properly:









Do not comb your hair from the roots down. Instead, start combing your hair in short sections, starting from the ends. Combing your hair from the roots down puts at lot of stress on your curls, creating snags, tears, and tangles.
Avoid combing your hair if it is dry. Instead, work on soaking-wet hair, and use a wide-toothed comb or your fingers. Apply some conditioner or detangler into your curls, and gently detangle them by running your comb or fingers through them. Be sure to start from the roots first.If you must brush your hair when it is dry, do so using a wet, wide-toothed comb or wet fingers.
 When your hair is still wet, you will notice that it may still retain some of its shape. Find those curls and wrap the hair strands around your finger, gently reshaping them.
 It may sound unsanitary, but washing your hair every day strips it of its natural oils. This leaves your hair feeling brittle and dry.
 Part of the reason why your hair appears frizzy, unruly, and untamed might be because it is too dry. When buying your next bottle of shampoo and conditioner, look for something that says "Moisturizing."


Consider buying shampoo and conditioner specifically designed for curly hair. These shampoos and conditioners are not only moisturizing, but also gentle on your hair, preventing it from further damage. Look for labels that say "For Curly Hair," or something similar.
 Curly hair tends to get dry more easily than other types. A deep conditioner, however, will help replenish any lost moisture, leaving your hair feeling soft and luxurious. Most deep conditioners need to be applied right after your shower and left on for about 5 to 20 minutes, but refer to the directions on the container for more specific times. Be sure to tuck your hair under a shower cap while you are waiting for the deep conditioner to do its work. The cap will keep the warmth and moisture in, making the conditioner even more effective.
 Sulfates are cleaning agents that tend to be especially harsh on naturally curly hair. They can strip your hair of its natural oils and moisture, making it dry and brittle. Silicones are plastics that help add shine to your hair, but can only be removed using the damaging sulfates; therefore, you must avoid using both. Parabens on the other hand are preservatives that may cause cancer., This means no hair straighteners, no curling irons, and no hair driers. Instead, allow your hair to dry on its own. If you must use a hair drier, then use a cool setting and a diffuser. This makes the heat less intense and helps distribute it evenly throughout your hair. It also won't disrupt the curls.


If you must use hair straighteners and curling irons, then be sure to protect your hair by misting it with a heat protecting spray.
 Towels may feel soft against your skin, but they are anything but soft when it comes to curly hair. The fibers on your towel tug and pull on your hair and cause friction, which in turn creates frizz. Dry your hair using an old, clean T-shirt instead.

