 People, girls included, like to hear themselves talk. Most importantly, everyone wants to feel like they are being listened to. If you really want to converse with a girl, you need to be willing to listen well to everything she has to say. Some good tips include:


Keeping eye contact as she speaks.
Nodding along to big points or stories.
Asking short, relevant questions every few minutes., If you can make her laugh, the conversation will last until you're out of words. Laughter brings people together, and the minute one or both of you are laughing you've made a connection worth building upon. Don't feel like you need to come prepared with jokes -- gentle ribbing and observations about the surroundings or the things she says are enough.


A little teasing is a great way to flirt. Just keep it innocent, only teasing small things and stories that don't mean much.
You don't have to be a comedian, and cracking jokes every second can be off-putting. Just try and slide some humor in here and there., The more you talk, the deeper your connection will get. Of course you can take it too far -- there is no need to speak when you wake up and before bed every day -- but, in general, the more you talk the closer you'll get. The conversation will only get easier with practice.


Don't feel like you always need to tell her what is up. Treat her like any other friend you want to catch up and talk to., All conversation hits lulls here and there, but that is fine. Good friends and couples sit in silence all of the time. Sometimes, though is seems off, sharing a quiet moment with someone without commenting on how "awkward" it is can bring you much closer to each other., This is a brilliantly subtle move that takes the pressure off of her, and you. If you feel a connection as things are winding down, give her your number. Tell her that you really loved talking and that you'd be happy to do it again if she wanted. If she offers her number back, great. If not, it is in her court to call you again, letting you see how she felt after your conversation.