 In Ohio, you need a bachelor's or master's degree with 100 clock hours in Core of Knowledge subjects, and it's best if your degree is in a healthcare related field. In addition, taking business and management classes can provide you with the foundation necessary to manage the day-to-day affairs of a nursing home in Ohio.;
, You can do courses on the Internet and on a campus, so choose the type of education that works best for you.
 In Ohio, you're required to complete a 9 month internship if you have a bachelor's degree or a 6 month internship if you have a master's before obtaining your certification in health care administration. Being part of the administrative office will allow you to see the workings of a nursing home first-hand and experience all of the different aspects of a nursing home administrator's job.
 Without your state certification, you will not be allowed to work as a nursing home administrator.
 You'll need this in addition to your state certification before you can apply for a job in healthcare administration.



You can respond to classifieds on job boards, in trade magazines, or in the newspaper
In addition, there are headhunting agencies that cater to the healthcare industry that can help you find a position.
You can also submit your resume uninvited to nursing homes. Sometimes positions open up unexpectedly, and if your resume is already there, you might get a call back for an interview.
Make sure your resume and cover letter are professional and clear. Provide references that can vouch for your qualifications and speak highly of your professional achievements. Wait 2 weeks before following up with a call.
 It's a good idea to be fully aware of not only the organizational challenges you'll face upon accepting, but also the financial situation. Furthermore, clearly define your duties in your contract before accepting to avoid committing to too many responsibilities.
 The state of Ohio requires that you earn continuing education credits to maintain your certification, so be sure to take the appropriate courses each year to remain current.

