 Nobody wants to have someone rub it in their face that they weren't invited.;
, Having an every-minute filled party will bore your guests, and when having teens around 12-14, they will become restless and not want to listen.
 Space them out, and if you can, get small prizes for winners. This way, you will give your guests time to mingle and talk, but not enough to get bored. "Fruit Salad," "Charades," and silly dance songs are always good ways of getting people involved.
 Good parties can still throw out couple of snacks, dinner, and some sweets for dessert. Don't set out a table full of chips, candy, pop, etc.
 To branch out on dinner, also try making hot dogs, or putting out hamburgers, and all the toppings. Sandwiches, sausage rolls, a cheese platter, and pasta salad are also good alternatives.
 Most teens do not get enough water, but they'll love flavoured water. Try putting out some bottles of flavoured water and normal spring water, and also try a pitcher of cold water with sliced oranges, limes, and lemons in it. Don't forget some pop, though. You don't need to be everyone's mother and make them all health nuts. To be extra special, make virgin cocktails with fruit juices, pop, and grenadine. Much more civilized.
 Put chips in a bowl, and put paper or plastic cups next to the drinks. Make sure to have food out for when your guests come. Put pop out and iced tea or other snacks first, then after dinner put out water. Also, little bowls of nuts or chocolates are nice nibbles while people are talking.
 Talk to them. If you're too busy organizing things, you a) weren't very prepared and b) your guests will feel pretty ignored and unimportant. Your guests came to your party, not someone else's. They came to see you.
 Say goodbye politely to your guest when the time has come, and walk them to the door or car. Wait until they start to drive before you go back to the party, as just saying "bye" and letting them go to the front and walk out alone is pretty rude. If you want to give your guests a thank you gift, try something small and not too pricey. However, some exclusive homemade party favors can truly be the memories which you would cherish for long. You can make your guests happy with these delightful homemade gifts as a send-off presents and the best part is that it won’t cut your pocket as well. You already spent a bit on the rest.
 If you notice someone has been alone all party, talk to them, and introduce them.
 For adults, some old, nostalgic party music as well as a few "Couples" songs will get people smiling. For teens, get loud, silly party music that everyone can recognize. Rap and hip-hop doesn't work very well unless you've got a very large crowd of die-hard dancers. I know its corny, but the YMCA, Hokey Pokey, Macarena, and Footloose get people on the dance floor.
 Especially some of the quiet ones or look like they need to wake up. Get one of them to open and pour the wine, or help with other food preparations. Ask someone to be the DJ. You don't have to do all the work yourself when others will love to be able to help!

, That's how the party will go on. Make sure you have fun, too, with your guests, and your party will be a memorable one.
 It's okay to set up some guidelines, but your guests won't appreciate it if you limit the tacos they can eat! Set up limits, but don't make them too easy to reach.

