 Use a large sheet of white or tan fabric. You can also use a bed sheet if you don't have a large sheet of fabric. You won't need to sew your toga, you'll just have to tie the corners of the sheet in a knot.


Use a fabric that is not too stiff. A fabric that flows or drapes will help create the draped look of a toga.
If you're worried about modesty or warmth, you can always wear a white top and white bottoms underneath your toga.;
, The longer length of the sheet should be horizontal when you're ready to wrap your sheet around your body. Hold the sheet so that it is against your back. Once your sheet is in place, wrap it length wise around your body with the top end of the sheet just under your armpits.


If the sheet is too long, fold the top over a few inches to make your sheet your desired toga length.
 Reach around your back to pull the sheet corner across your back and over your right shoulder. This will serve as the strap of your toga. (Most togas usually have a strap over just one shoulder). Hold this corner in place while you continue to wrap the other end of your sheet around your body., Wrap the left end of the sheet around your entire body one time. Once the end of the sheet is back in the front of your body, pull the left corner of the sheet toward your right shoulder and tie it in a knot with the right corner of the sheet.


Double knot the sheet corners to make sure your toga strap is secure. Tuck the ends of the corners into the knot or into the fabric so that they are no longer showing.
Look at Make a Toga out of a Bedsheet for detailed instructions on multiple ways to make togas., Many Greek goddesses wore a crown or headpiece of some kind, and adding a crown to your costume will help distinguish it from a generic Greek toga costume. You'll need something to be a thin headband – this can be a piece of string, wire, thin elastic, or thin rope. You'll also need fake leaves and scissors.


Getting gold spray paint is optional but not necessary.
If you don't own these supplies, they can be purchased online or at any local craft store (such as Michael's).
If you find a piece of fake vine while shopping for supplies, the vine itself will work as your Greek goddess headband. Simply cut it to the proper length and tie the ends so that it fits on your head., Make sure to leave enough room at each end of your headband material so that the ends can be tied together. You'll want your headband to be loose enough to easily take on and off, but tight enough so that it won't fall off.
 Take your scissors and cut tiny holes in the center of your plastic leaves. After you've cut the small holes in your leaves, slide them onto your headband one at a time. Some people like to add tons of leaves, and some people like to add just a few – it is completely up to you.


Once you've added all of your leaves to your headband, tie the ends of your headband to finish your crown.
 Set your crown on top of old newspaper or paper towels so as not to get spray paint on any furniture. Continue to spray paint the crown until it is completely gold.


Allow the spray paint to dry 10-15 minutes before you put it on your head. Let the paint dry while you add the finishing touches to your costume., Instead of a modern belt, use a piece of rope, or gold fabric / string as your belt. Wrap the material around your waist a few times before tying it in a knot to add to the layered look. This will give you a more authentic looking costume. Tie your belt in a knot rather than a bow.
 If you want to look like a Greek goddess, then you must wear the proper shoes. Don't wear boots or sneakers. Instead, wear gladiator sandals, or even strappy sandals. Ideally, your sandals should be gold or tan in color.


If you don't own gladiator sandals but want to get the gladiator sandal look, get some extra string or ribbon and wrap it up around your calves, tying it just below your knees.
 Accessories always make the outfit, whether for a costume or real life. Once you've added your accessories, you'll have a beautiful costume good enough to win you first place at any costume party.


These accessories can include gold bracelets, gold rings, gold earrings, gold arm cuffs, and gold broaches to pin onto your toga.Finish your look with wavy hair and natural looking, shimmery makeup.
 For example, carry a small instrument if you want to be a Muse. Or, carry the trademarks of the famous Greek goddesses. Aphrodite could carry a dove (fake birds are usually available at most craft stores), Artemis a hunting bow, and Athena would wear a battle helmet rather than a crown.

