 You cannot simply add saltwater to a tank and expect a clam to survive, as it needs a variety of microorganisms to be well established before it can feed. Clams are best in well-established aquariums that have had several weeks or months to cycle.


Saltwater clams go by the names T. (Tridacna) maxima, T. crocea, T. squamosa and T. derasa.
Tridacna derasa clams are the best beginner options, as they are hearty and can handle a variety of changing conditions.
Once you've successfully put several fish in the tank and let them spend several weeks living healthily, you're likely ready for clams., While it may look good, never place a clam up on a rock or structure. If it becomes detached and falls it can cause major damage and potentially kill the clam. Solid rocky bottoms are fine, as saltwater clams have a foot that they use to attach to the bottom of the tank.When you put the clam in the tank, turn it upside-down briefly to remove any air bubbles from inside the clam.
Make sure that the clams aren't wedged into anything the prevents them from opening up.
 Saltwater clams are photosynthetic, and feed off the products off other photosynthetic creatures, like plants, in your tank. They have symbiotic algae in their mantles (top section) that create energy that the clams then harvest. As such, they love having bright, constant lights to feed under. Metal Halides are your best option, though high level LEDs or Fluorescents may suffice.


Make sure the clams face upwards, and are not blocked from their light source.
Maxima clams, in particular, need 250 - 400 watt Metal Halide lighting or equivalent intensity to survive., Clams do not like rapid or fast-moving water, as it disrupts their ability to filter food out of the water effectively. Indirect, slow moving currents are the best way to keep your clams healthy and happy. Keep your clams out of direct currents and away from pumps or fans.
 Clams survive well in near-natural seawater conditions, which is where you likely keep a saltwater tank already. If you're not already, however, keep the phosphate and nitrate levels at an absolute minimum, potential near zero., A clam, when touched or exposed to a shadow, should close up quickly. If it does not, it likely needs more food and/or light, or your tank could be having chemical issues. If a clam does not close up at all, it may be dead, and should be quickly removed.


Dead clams release a burst of ammonia, which can endanger the rest of the life in your tank.