 Perfume works well to give your skin a delicious scent, but it is just as effective on your hair. When your hair is dry, hold a bottle of your favorite perfume at least 8-inches (20-cm) from your head and lightly mist your locks to scent your hair.Not only does applying perfume to your hair give it a pleasant scent, it creates a lovely sillage, which means you leave a scented trail wherever you go.
Many perfumes contain alcohol, which can be drying on your hair. While the amount you apply isn’t likely to do significant damage, it’s best to choose an alcohol-free formula.
One way to ensure that a perfume is safe for your hair is to use a fragrance designed specifically for your locks. There are a variety of hair perfumes on the market that are alcohol-free so you can apply as much as you like without worrying about drying out your hair.
 Hairspray, gel, mousse, pomade, and other styling products are often necessary to ensure a good hair day. But styling products aren’t just good for taming your hair. Many are scented so they can leave your hair perfumed all day. Choose your favorite type of styling product with a pleasant scent and apply it as you normally would.Even styling products can contain alcohol that will dehydrate your hair. Look for a scented formula that is alcohol-free for the healthiest, shiniest locks.
Keep in mind that some styling products are best applied to wet hair. If you usually use your favorite styling product on wet or damp locks, there’s no need to dry your hair first to perfume.
 Washing your hair everyday can dry it out -- and some days, you might not have time to jump in the shower. Dry shampoo can be a lifesaver on those occasions. Not only does it absorb excess oil from your roots, it usually imparts a pleasant fragrance that leaves your hair smelling fresh all day.Be sure to hold the dry shampoo at least 10-inches (25-cm) from your head when you apply it.
Target the dry shampoo at your roots and hairline where hair tends to be the oiliest. You don’t want to apply it all over because too much can make your hair look stiff and dull.
Allow the dry shampoo to sit for 1 to 2 minutes before massaging it into your roots with your fingertips. You can then comb it through the rest of your hair.
Dry shampoo can sometimes leave behind a whitish cast. If you have extremely dark or bright hair, you may want to try a formula that’s colored for your hair shade.

