 When you promise something, for example, to buy them something, or to take them some place make sure you always keep your word.


Never make empty promises. If you say you are going to do something, do it. If you have a genuine reason breaking a promise, be sure to explain it to your teen-aged child.

They will copy your behavior and will do the same when they become an adult.
If you lie, even once, your child will find it very hard to trust you.

;
, Shared laughter and happiness helps to bond people. Try to have a good sense of humor, and exercise it!


If you did or said something funny, share it and laugh together.
Teens can be appreciative of their parents' good sense of humor. They will call you "cool" and "funny."

, when they come from school.


By asking this question:

You let them know you care.
You may find out what is wrong. For example, that your child was bullied. Be very concerned if your 18 year old is still having trouble with bullies.
 Make sure your child knows that there is an open invitation on the homework front, chores, baby sitting etc.


Encourage them to ask questions, and ask you for help.
 Example: bake her favorite cookies every now and then. This serves two purposes:


Girls get experience baking, not crucial but fun.
Girls often open up, naturally, during one-on-one interaction with a parent without getting distracted.
 Develop a nice open conversation with your child in a car no matter whether your teen drives a car or not.


This activity stimulates an open conversation in confidence. It is considered a fact by some that you get the most information about your child's life talking in a car without being interrupted by other family members or activities.
Eat lunch together when in the mall.
Buy clothes, shoes, accessories etc together so you both go home in a good mood.



Say, "If you want to talk I am here for you."
It's important to set aside everything you do, to completely clear your plate and empty your mind, then sit down with them and listen carefully to what they have to say. Otherwise, you may miss something important going on in their life.
If you are extremely busy -cooking, for example, at the moment when they need to talk say this, "Please give me ten minutes and you will get my undivided attention."

,


When they listen and sympathize, it brings you two closer emotionally.
 They need positive reinforcement. No matter how they've accomplished something tell them, "You did a good job." If they needed your help, let them know you are always there for them and truly enjoy help. Tell them you are proud of them often.
