 Dubai operates on Gulf Standard Time, which is UTC + 4.Its current local time can easily be checked online, so you can be sure to call during business hours, or while residents are awake.


Dubai is is four hours ahead of London, and nine hours ahead of New York. It does not observe daylight savings time, so during summer it is three hours ahead of London and eight hours ahead of New York.;
, This is also known as the international access code, which should be dialed before each overseas call. This exit code differs from country to country.


When dialing from the United States, Canada, or most of the Caribbean, use the exit code 011.
From Russia, or from formerly Soviet Central Asian nations, dial 8, wait for the dial tone to change, then dial 10.
From Brazil, Chile, Colombia, or Indonesia, look up the code for the international phone carrier you are using.
For countries not listed above, try 00 or look up your country's exit code.
 Next, dial the code that directs your phone call to the United Arab Emirates, the nation in which Dubai is located.
 After this point, the process varies slightly depending on whether the number you are calling is a landline or a mobile number. Fortunately, it should be easy to test this just by looking at the number:


If the number is seven digits long (xxx-xxxx), it is probably a landline.
If the number is nine or ten digits long, the area code may be included. If it begins with a 5 or a 05 (05x-xxx-xxxx), it is a mobile number. If it begins with a 4 or a 04 (04x-xxx-xxxx), it is a landline.
If the number is longer, it probably includes the country code, 971, which you have already dialed. Look at the rest of the number after the country code, and follow the instructions above to determine what type of phone it is.
 The number 4 is the area code for landlines in Dubai. After entering it, complete the call by dialing the last seven digits of the number you are trying to reach. You should hear the phone ring soon.


Do not dial more than the last seven digits, even if you see a digit that has not been covered above. There may be a 0 in front of the area code, which is only used when calling from within Dubai.
 Instead of the Dubai area code, a mobile phone will have its own two-digit code preceding its seven digits. Dial all nine digits, then wait for the call to go through.


The two digit code will typically be 50, 55, or 56, depending on the mobile phone operator (55 for Du, 50 or 56 for Etisalat).