 The combination of hot and cold water can help alleviate pain in your muscles, particularly if the pain was caused by a strenuous workout. Take a quick five-minute shower, and alternate between 20 seconds of cold water and 10 seconds of hot water.This may be uncomfortable at first, but try to tough it out as it may ease muscle soreness.
If you really can't stand alternating between hot and cold, try taking a warm bath with Epsom salts to relieve the pain.;
, This stands for rest, ice, compression, and elevation. This is usually helpful for sore limbs versus something like a sore neck or back. If you're sore from, say, a strenuous workout, the R.I.C.E method may help.Rest your sore muscles. Try to take it easy until soreness passes.
Ice the area. Place an ice pack wrapped in a towel over the sore area on your body. Leave it on for about 20 minutes. Leave it off for 20 minutes, then repeat.
Compress the area with a compression bandage, which you can purchase at a drugstore, to ease swelling in the area.
Elevate the sore body part above your heart to alleviate pain. If you have sore legs, for instance, lie down and prop your legs up on pillows so that they are higher than your heart.
 A gentle massage can help alleviate soreness. Gently use your fingers to massage the area that hurts. This can help loosen up the muscles and reduce pain. If the pain gets worse, however, stop massaging.If it's within your budget, a professional massage can be a fun way to treat yourself and reduce soreness.
 You can purchase a foam roller at a sporting goods store, online, or at some drug stores. It's a cylinder-shaped hard object that you roll over sore areas on the body to alleviate pain. It's most effective when used right after a workout., Take something like ibuprofen if you're feeling sore. Over-the-counter pain medication can reduce soreness by reducing inflammation in the muscles.Make sure to follow the directions on the bottle for dosage.
If you're on any existing medications, check with your doctor or pharmacist before taking over-the-counter painkillers.
 You may need to see a doctor under some conditions. Soreness is not usually a major medical concern; however, in the following cases, medical intervention is advised.If you think your soreness was caused by a rash or tick bite, see a doctor.
If you have signs of infection, such as redness or swelling, see a doctor.
Muscle pain that's possibly related to a new medication should be evaluated by a doctor.
If your pain does not improve with self-care, see a doctor.
 Focus on the muscles you worked the hardest, but make sure to include neck and back stretches. This may help alleviate muscle soreness, especially soreness potentially caused by a strenuous workout.Always stretch after a workout, when muscles are warmed up. Do not do static stretches before workouts — this doesn't prevent soreness and can actually hurt your performance. Warm up with dynamic stretches, which should be similar to your workout, just at a lower intensity. (If you are going to be running, warm up with walking, for example.), Doing low-impact exercise the day after hard workouts will help improve circulation and reduce muscle soreness. Lightly working out the sore areas can help alleviate pain, but do not try to do anything extreme if you're feeling sore. For example, say your legs are sore. Try walking or jogging lightly for 30 to 90 minutes the first day of recovery in place of a run. This gives the sore area a chance to move, but does not overexert it.
 Light aerobic activities can actually help alleviate soreness in the neck and shoulders. Activities like swimming, jumping jacks, and other light motions that engage the muscles in your neck and back can help lessen pain in these areas., If you suspect your soreness is caused by an underlying medical condition, or if you experience muscle pain in your legs that comes and goes with walking and is relieved by rest, you should see your primary care doctor. This can be a sign of poor circulation or other conditions. You do not want to risk harming your body when it's in a compromised state. Instead, seek out the advice of a medical doctor to figure out how to best treat your soreness., If you're prone to frequent bouts of soreness, try to figure out why soreness occurs. You may have to alter certain behaviors to prevent soreness in the future. Think about what occurs before you begin feeling sore.The cause may sometimes be obvious. Soreness after a strenuous workout, for example, is likely caused by exercise. In this case, you may be able to prevent soreness by warming up, cooling down, and stretching.
However, it also may be something you're doing. If you work in an office, sitting for too long can cause soreness. This is especially true if you have poor posture. You can try to stand and walk more throughout the day, and make an effort to sit up straighter.
 Being hydrated is beneficial for your overall health and it also can help to prevent injuries. In addition, a lack of water before, during, and after workouts can cause soreness. Make sure to drink water roughly 15 minutes into a workout. If your workouts are particularly strenuous, you should consider a solution that contains electrolytes, such as Gatorade., Waiting too long to eat after a workout can make soreness worse. Try to eat a balanced meal that contains lean protein, carbohydrates, fruits, and vegetables within one to two hours after a workout.