 Maybe you are at home, school, or work and plan to eavesdrop on a family member, schoolmate, or coworker. Maybe you’re even in the same room (or the next cubicle). Your main goal should be to look extremely absorbed in whatever you are doing so that the person you want to eavesdrop on won’t be suspicious. They might even forget you are even there!


If you are at work, look intently at your computer screen while frantically typing. You might be typing gibberish, but the person in the next cubicle will just think you are concentrating on your work (and not his or her conversation).
At home or school, put on your headphones and grab a book or magazine. Look completely disinterested in what is going on in the room; be surprised that other people are even there. The look on your face, if approached or “interrupted” from your magazine and music, should say: “Wow, I didn’t even realize you were in here having this private conversation !”

, If you have a prop, people will be less likely to think you are paying attention to them. Grab a book, your phone, or your MP3 player. You should look like you are doing something other than listening in on people’s conversations, so pretend to read, scroll through your phone, or listen to music.


Be sure your prop is one that helps you blend in, not stand out! You don’t want people to notice you at all

, In shared, public spaces, the busier the place, the better. Sit down on a bench or in the middle of park where people are hanging out or walking by.


Alternately, walk around and listen closely for a good conversation. If you hear a snippet of a conversation that interests you, sit down close (but not too close) to the people you want to eavesdrop on. Pretend to be interested in your book, phone, or music.
 If you enjoy eavesdropping as a leisure activity, taking public transport, eating out alone, browsing a store, and hanging out at a coffee shop will put you in a good position to overhear some interesting conversations.


Instead of driving yourself to work or around town for your weekend errands, take the bus or the subway. You may have better luck on weekends or evenings when people are headed out on the town, since people who commute to work are usually solo travelers and aren’t generally engaged in conversations.
When eating out alone, try to sit near a large party—the more boisterous, the better. If the hostess sits you at a table away from other groups, ask politely if you could have a different table—perhaps a high top near the restaurant’s bar, if a lot of people are hanging out there.
While shopping, don’t just make a bee-line for the items on your list. Instead, wander the aisles of the supermarket, convenience store, or neighborhood shop. Pick up items and look at them; walk slowly and listen for conversations on the aisles close to you.
Grab something to drink on the weekend at a coffee shop and stick around for a while. You could do this during the week, too, but weekends are better because people are out and about with friends (rather than scrambling to get work done on their lunch break during the week).

