 Antique restoration can be a competitive market. If there are too many similar businesses in the vicinity, you could have trouble establishing and keeping clients.If significant competition exists, consider opening your business in an area with fewer businesses.
If this is not practical, consider what makes your business different from the others. Do you have an area of specialization? Do you offer a service that the others don’t?;
, You may want to only focus on restoration and not bother with actually selling the antiques. This can be a great option for people who want to keep overhead low, or for those who don’t consider themselves good salespeople.Go into local antique stores and ask if they have anyone who regularly does restoration work for them.
A partnership may mean that the shop hires you to restore items on an as-needed basis. You’ll be paid hourly, or can set a price per project. This model does not guarantee you a certain amount of work, however.
An antique store may be willing to sell pieces that you find and restore on a consignment basis.
 Having a website for your business is important. It allows you to reach more potential clients regardless of where you’re located. It also requires little to no overhead, because you don’t need to pay for a retail space.Sites such as eBay and Etsy reach huge numbers of people and provide easy to use platforms for selling your items if that's something you're interested in.
You can create your own website for your business, too. You may need to pay for advertising or search engine optimization in order to drive traffic to your site.
 If you plan to sell antiques that you find and restore, you may have enough interest in your business to open up a storefront. You can also pay for space at a flea market or hold a yard sale.Paying to rent an entire retail space can be costly, but may bring in customers who wouldn’t find you online or go looking for you otherwise.
Antique malls rent out booths that you don’t need to manage yourself. This can be an excellent option if you want a retail space without having to deal with all of the administration of it.
Having a retail space is a great way to let people know about your restoration business. They'll see what you have for sale and may approach you to have you restore an item of their own.
Holding a yard sale in your own space is a free and simple way to sell items, though customers may come expecting a bargain.
Renting a space at a flea market is a great way to get a lot of foot traffic without much cost.
 In a competitive market like restoration, networking and reputation are both essential to your success. When you are just getting started, consider doing some very inexpensive restoration jobs to establish this reputation.


Connect with people locally who work with historic buildings or museums. They may be in need of restoration work.
 Depending on where you live, you may need a license or a permit to start a business. Find out what the laws are and determine how you will legally incorporate if you decide to do so.You may need to legally incorporate your business as an LLC, or you may choose to be a sole proprietorship.
 You'll need a business name that you are "doing business as." When you register this way, you can open up a bank account for your business, which means that people can write checks to your business as well.Your DBA can be different than your website name or the name on your storefront.
Choose something easy to remember. That makes it easier for you and your clients.
Register a domain name for your business if you plan to have a website.
 If you want your business to be successful and make money, you need a sound financial plan. Sit down and make a budget. Account for any costs you'll need to pay and how much money you expect to bring in.Consider potential costs such as classes you may need to take, hardware or cleaning supplies you'll need, money you'll need to pay to subcontractors, and space rental.
Be conservative when considering how much money you expect to take in. Even if you charge $50 per hour for your labor, there's no way to guarantee that you'll get offered enough jobs to make ends meet. Ask yourself if you've already got jobs lined up or if you'll need to do a lot of advertising to drum up business.
Look at your budget and consider whether it seems sound. Can you afford to lose money for a few months while you grow your business? Do you need to find other sources of income (such as selling some antiques that you restore)?

, Even if you don't plan on selling antiques as your primary source of income, it can be a great way to get started. There are plenty of places to find antiques. The key is locating antiques at low prices so that you can sell them for a large profit. Most antique dealers find their stock at:Yard sales
Auctions
Estate sales
Thrift stores
Flea markets

, Once you’ve found a source for antiques, make a few purchases. There’s no hard and fast rule about what to purchase, or what will sell. Use your intuition and trust your tastes. If you think something is beautiful or interesting, chances are that someone else will, too.If you don’t feel confident in your own instincts, you can purchase a book or guide that will help you recognize the marks of famous designers and tell what time period something is from.
Purchase things for as little money as possible. This will increase your profit margin and lower any investment risk in case a piece doesn’t sell.
At yard sales, estate sales and flea markets, you can usually haggle for lower prices than what’s marked.
Some people will give discounts for other antique dealers.
 Once you’ve found something to restore, do some research about it. Are there many other things like it available online or locally? Do they seem to sell at a high price? Is it the kind of thing that people are more likely to purchase if it’s been restored a certain way?Some furniture and other antiques are only desirable if they’ve been restored to historic standards. This can be true of metalwork and some wood furniture.
Some antiques may be more desirable if they appear “shabby chic.” This look is generally characterized by weathered wood and paint, so that the item shows its age while still appearing beautiful.
 Go to flea markets and estate sales and let people know that you restore antiques. Many people who collect or sell antiques will be happy to meet someone who they can call for restoration work.


Bring business cards and photos of your work to show people.
 Hopefully, you already have some of the skills needed to do antique restoration. If you don’t, you may ask for help from a professional or teach yourself. Look over each piece closely, to make sure you know what exactly is needed to restore the item.Ceramic pieces may need to have a piece glued back on.
Wood furniture may need to be sanded and either painted or refinished.
Lamps may need to be rewired.
Furniture may need new hardware, such as new hinges or handles.
Leather may need to be oiled or even replaced.
 Some things simply aren’t worth restoring. Some things may be worth putting some time and energy into, but may not benefit from an in depth restoration. Consider how much effort you think a piece is worth, and what you want to build your reputation on.For example, a wooden chair from the 1960s with a cushioned seat may increase in value significantly when you reupholster it; but refinishing the wood wouldn’t increase the value commensurate with how much work that would be.
Many antique dealers and restorers have areas of specialization that they’re known for. You may want to become known as the person who does detailed wood restoration on Victorian furniture, or as the person who rewires old light fixtures. Put your energy toward what you want to be known for.
 You may not have all of the skills necessary to restore one of the items you bought, but do what you can. For example, if a lamp needs to be rewired and it also needs to have the shade replaced, you may be able to replace the shade, but want to ask a professional to do the wiring.If you’re excited to try a new skill but aren’t sure of yourself, practice on another item. For example, practice sanding a simple piece of wood or a piece of junk furniture before sanding the antique you purchased.
 If you’ve purchased an old piece of ironwork or a glass chandelier, you’ll likely need to hire someone to do much of the restoration. A blacksmith or a glassblower will have the knowledge and the tools to refinish a piece or reproduce missing pieces for you.Don’t skimp on paying experts. The higher quality their work is, the better your finished product will be. This will influence your reputation once you begin selling antiques.
You can also ask the people you’re hiring for their professional opinion about the piece. Have they seen many things like this? Do they know anything about this kind of item? Is there anything else that they’d recommend for the restoration?

