 That’s right – as simple as it sounds, the first step is simply to breathe. Clearing the clutter from your home can seem like an insurmountable task, and you may feel a bit overwhelmed at first. The key is to relax and remember that this is a project that will be completed over time – it’s a marathon, not a sprint. If you can just breathe and take one step at a time, you will see massive progress before you know it.;
, Does an artist begin painting without having a clear vision of the end masterpiece in mind? Never. Stephen Covey, author of the bestselling business book, “The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People” famously wrote “Begin with the end in mind,” and he wasn’t just talking about high-profile business projects.
 Before you tackle a single room (or box), it is wise to make a plan. Consider these key questions: what will you do with the items you plan to donate? To sell? To keep? What’s involved in making the donation? Will you have to transport the items, or will an organization come to your home to pick them up? Will you need to borrow a truck? For the items you can sell, do you plan to use an online service like eBay or Craigslist, or will you simply have a garage sale?

, The de-cluttering process requires a bit of physical preparation in order to make the most effective use of your time.
 This is a little-known trick that works absolute miracles (it’s also the reason we recommended having a kitchen timer handy in your de-cluttering supplies). There is an old adage that asks: How does an ant eat an elephant? One bite at a time. You can clear your clutter in the same way: by working in small, manageable chunks of time.
 Human beings can easily become motivated when we see progress from our own efforts. Haven’t you ever noticed that when a person is trying to lose weight, they become even more motivated once they have evidence of their progress? Roomier clothes, a smaller number on the scale, and compliments from others are all motivating factors in continuing a diet and exercise plan, and de-cluttering your home is no different.
 Unfortunately, it’s also human nature not to finish things that we start. So you may feel a strong tendency to want to quit before the entire job is complete. But just think, if you quit before your whole home or office is de-cluttered, you won’t actually achieve that vision you created of living in a comfortable, organized, clutter-free home! Persevere until the whole job is complete and the rewards will far exceed your expectations.

