 Learn about Sensory Integration Disorder and apply your knowledge. Each child is unique, so take this into consideration while helping them. You must understand that your child is not going to grow out of it. Therefore, the first step is to seek out the best treatment possible. Many good Occupational Therapists research techniques that are exclusive to their patient’s behavior patterns.;
, With your Occupational Therapist, develop effective strategies that are distinct to your child that can be performed/practiced at home or at therapy. Suggested Sensory Activities Include:


Activities with textured objects such as play-dough in order to improve tactile processing.
Vestibular movement activities, such as swinging, swimming, and going on walks.
Aromatherapy techniques so that the child’s sensitivity to smell can be reduced.
Language activities such as flash cards to pronounce words.
Heavy work activities so that their bodies will develop an ability to receive regular input to their muscles and joints. Children can carry laundry baskets, help put away groceries, play with bowling balls, and pull their siblings in a wagon or on a blanket.
Sleep programs. Most sensory children have a hard time calming down to go to sleep. Therefore, the child may need help. It is necessary to sometimes comfort the child.
Play tunnels and tents are helpful to work on motor coordination. It is also helpful to include textured items inside the tunnel.
Deep pressure activities to help the child control their excitement/arousal level. This may include a ball pit, a weighted blanket, tight hugs, and more.
Auditory activities.
 Also, because these children are sensitive to many things, they can often become upset. Try using calming down corners and follow general meltdown prevention advice. If you notice that the child seems distressed, address the problem right away, before it turns into a full-blown meltdown. Kindness, patience, and understanding are the best ways to avoid a crisis.Don't push the child to participate in situations that they find overwhelming, as this may lead to a massive meltdown. If the child asks to leave or take a break, respect that, and allow them to do so.
Allow the child to stim. Stimming can help prevent meltdowns and challenging behavior, improve concentration,and aid the child in processing sensory input.Only intervene if the stim is harmful, in which case the child needs to learn a replacement stim.

