 Being bored can cause you to feel listless, or unmotivated. This can make matters worse, especially if you are trying to complete an important task for school or work. To be productive when boredom is affecting your motivation, try to focus on your end goal for completing a project.For example, if you are trying to write a paper for school, but you are feeling unmotivated to do it, then think about why you want to do well on the paper. You might focus on your academic goals, such as improving your GPA. Or, you might focus on professional goals, such as doing well enough in the course to get a letter or recommendation from the teacher.
 Keeping your body active will help keep your mind active. This may help ease up the boredom. You don't have to do a strenuous activity, such as playing basketball, in order to get active. It can be as simple as taking a walk. If you're bored, making the most of the time by getting some exercise in can help.


Go to the park and skateboard, play basketball or soccer/football, jog, or practice tennis.
If you don't like being very active, or haven't been active in awhile, go for a walk around the block, downtown, or to the park. If you are the artistic sort, you can also bring a camera or sketchbook to capture interesting moments.
If it is warm, go for a swim.
If it is rainy, try doing some stretches inside. This can easily be done indoors and will keep your body toned and healthy.
 Yoga can easily build up your strength. It can also help alleviate boredom. The yoga mindset is centered around embracing and tuning into the present. Being more aware of yourself and your surroundings can reduce boredom. You can find many guided yoga routines online.Be careful if you're new to yoga. Be sure to pick a beginner's routine.
You should also listen to your body. If you feel any strain, stop what you're doing right away.
 This is great if you find yourself getting bored on a regular basis. Devoting yourself to a new hobby or craft will give you the promise of many busy hours to come.If you aren't very artistic, consider learning how to paint, draw, or sculpt. You can find many tutorials online. You can also teach yourself a craft, like knitting.
If you aren't musically-talented, consider learning how to sing or play an instrument. When you're bored, you can practice your instrument at home.
If you enjoy cooking, buy a cook book and make a new meal every day. Try cooking from a cuisine that is completely new to you, such as French or Thai.
 If you're feeling bored, try taking up gardening. A garden can be good for your physical and emotional wellbeing, as it will get you outside and moving around on a regular basis.Stop by a local greenhouse and buy a variety of plants and seeds that are currently in season. Ask a worker for pamphlets and information on how to plant and care for your seeds. You can also purchase some books on beginning gardening.
You can try starting a herb garden. You can grow your own herbs, like basil, and use them in cooking.
If you don't have a backyard, many people keep fruit and vegetable plants on a balcony. You can also grow small potted plants indoors.
 If you don't have anything to do, you might as well plan ahead. When you find yourself bored, plan for anything upcoming trips and events. If you, say, have not solidified your Christmas plans yet, look over flights and review your calendar.You can also make small plans. For example, maybe you and your friends have been talking about going bowling. Make a Facebook event inviting everyone out.
 If you're bored, there's almost always something around your house that needs work. Maybe your bookshelf is not alphabetized. Maybe you have a lot of clothing you've yet to hang up in your closet. If you're bored, do a little reorganizing in your home. This will give you a real feeling of accomplishment in addition to lessening your boredom.If you need inspiration on how to best reorganize, trying looking up articles online for fun, creative ways you can reduce clutter in your home.
 Everyone puts off certain tasks. Avoiding something you need to do while feeling bored is a lose-lose scenario. You might as well get those chores done. You'll keep your mind busy, and you'll get something you're dreading over and done with.If you're a student, do your homework. Doing your homework will allow you to occupy your time in a productive way.
Is there is a chore you've been putting off? Maybe you hate doing laundry, but you have piles of it building up. If you're feeling bored, you might as well do your laundry.
Many people put off important things, like paying bills. If you're bored, why not pay your cable, health insurance, or credit card bill early? You'll feel better knowing these bills are taken care of for the month.

