 You can draw on the people you encounter in real life to help you get ideas for your novel, using real life people as the basis for characters. Perhaps you have a friend, a family member, or a colleague that you find interesting, strange, or intriguing. You may then use them as the basis for a character in your novel or combine several of their qualities and traits to create a character.You may also take some time to people watch on a busy city street or in a public park. You may then notice details about the people around you and incorporate them into a character in your novel.
 Some writers find inspiration by focusing on the voice of their narrator or main character. The character may have a certain way of narrating or a certain style and language that they use to express themselves. You may start by writing in the voice of the character and then see where the character takes you in terms of plot and setting.For example, maybe you get inspired to write a paragraph in the voice of a child narrator who is describing the death of a family member. You may then continue to write as this narrator and see where the voice takes you. You may be able to use this voice as a key narrative in your novel and have the death of the family member be the plot of the novel.
 You may find yourself inspired by an interesting time period in history. Do some research on this time period and look for any interesting historical figures or settings that could be the basis of your novel.

You may need to spend time at your local library, research the time period online, and talk to historical experts about the time period. Collecting information on the time period can help you get inspired and ensure the setting feels authentic in your novel.
 You could also get some novel material by spending the day in a particular setting or environment. Take notes while you are in the setting and focus on details of the setting that could serve as the backdrop for a novel.You may have a setting in mind that you think might help to stimulate your thoughts and ideas, such as the city aquarium, the zoo, a local theme park, or even a neighborhood park. Try to choose a unique setting, as they often contain sights and details that can be inspiring.

