 Most higher-level stadiums sell them, either on their own or along with a program of some sort. If you're unsure of the availability at the stadium you'll be going to, with a quick online search you can easily find baseball scorecards to print out and take with you to the game.;
, This may include, but is not limited to, the teams playing, the lineup, the umpires, the field, the start time, and the coaches.
 For help with the position numbers, see the "Player information" table below.


If someone has a designated hitter, write the DH in the first slot and the position player in the second slot.






If needed/desired, write the bench players on the bottom of the scorecard, with one for every slot. This is only if you have trouble remembering who else is on the team in case they come in for a substitution. There is no need to write their position, as they are not yet in the game.
 Balls are kept in the row with three squares and strikes in the row with 2.


You can use checks, slashes, X's, numbers, or whatever you're comfortable with. Some people use different slashes and X's to indicate whether the batter swung or made contact, while others use numbers to indicate in what order the pitches were thrown. This is especially useful as it allows others to see the evolution of the at bat.






If a foul ball is hit with two strikes, simply make a dot (or number, depending on your style) extending from the row of strikes. Continue this as needed.



If the batter is out, feel free to write the outcome in big letters over the diamond and be sure to mark (in the bottom right corner of the box) what number out they are of the inning (i.e., 1, 2, or 3). See the table below on "Ways of Making an Out" for the standard abbreviations.






For double and triple plays be sure to mark the outs in the order that they happened in the small box in the lower right hand corner.
If the batter gets on base first, draw straight lines on the small diamond indicating the path of the batter. On the side of the last line, write one of these abbreviations in small letters next to it.






Put asterisks (*) or exclamation points (!) whenever a fielder makes a spectacular play.






Some people like to draw where the ball is hit for greater accuracy. They usually draw a line originating from home plate to the spot where the ball is hit, with a solid line for a ball in the air or a dashed line for a ball on the ground.






If, during any point after the ball is put in play, a runner scores, then mark down how many RBI's the batsman gets in the space provided. If none is provided, write it under the diamond.






Track the progress of the runners using a similar set of abbreviations and lines indicating the runner's progress and how that progress occurred (i.e., if the runner moves from first to third on a single draw a line from first to second and second to third and write 1B in the upper left hand corner).






Whenever a runner scores, shade in their diamond for easier reference.



If a team hits around the order, simply give multiple columns to that inning and rewrite the numbers accordingly.
You can keep track of writing the number of pitches thrown that inning by writing it to the left of the inning number. You can keep track of the total pitches thrown by writing it to the right of the inning number.
 Also fill in the innings box in the space on the right.

If there is a change in pitching, draw a horizontal line between the last batter of the old pitcher and the first one of the new pitcher. Also write the new pitcher's name in the box on the bottom.
If a player changes position, draw a vertical dotted line between the innings that it occurred.
