 You can't have a kingdom without a king so pick a stuffed toy to rule the kingdom.


Consider using a lion if your kingdom is located in the jungle as lions are known as the "King of the Jungle". However, it is entirely up to you.
 You can give them a name, personal history, and family members if you like. The King can have a queen and there can be princes and princesses. The King can have knights and the Queen, Ladies in Waiting.
 All the stuffed toys can be upper class and "posh" if you like or some can be maids, and knaves and serfs.
 Have jobs for the animals based on their history. Remember, a baker can't bake without a farmer for the ingredients and a smith can't forge without someone mining the ores for them. There are no houses without a builder to build them and a supplier of the materials, for example a lumberjack for a wood house so if you want to, you can have a really detailed, working, Stuffed Animal Kingdom.
 A house can be a cardboard box with a doorway, a blanket draped over a chair, under a chair, even a small area that you claim is the house. The Royal Palace or Castle can be more fancy than where the peasants live.
 Make them carry out jobs, get married, start a family and have the children grow up. Make an enemy Kingdom and have knights that go into battle on behalf of their King if you like. Make bandits to pillage the kingdom. Remember that bandits and knights and what-not don't just appear really, but when you are playing make believe you can do what you like. You can pretend the bandits and knights grow up from your original kingdom members and have their history impact their futures. You can have the kingdom expand or grow smaller.;
, Include neighboring Empires and unknown territory for your animals to explore.
 Tell your friends too and let them run kingdoms alongside your own!

, If you have lots of friends, you could ask each friend to create a 'family' of animals and create a house for them. If you have one or two friends, then tell them to also create cousins, aunts, ect. You could even make a kingdom each, create allies with some, and rivals with others.