 Mood charts allow you to document mood swings and other emotions you feel. It is also important to track the events, behaviors or situations that caused, triggered or accompanied your emotions, so look for charts or apps that have spaces for this information as well. By putting everything on a chart, you are able to see if there is any pattern in the days or times in which you experience your moods. Seeing it drawn out may be helpful in identifying your triggers.


A quick Internet search can put you in touch with links to mood charts. If you want to make your own chart, include the month, day, year, and time of day, along with spaces for your mood, its intensity, and how much you slept the night before.;
, If a paper mood chart isn’t ideal for you, download an app made just for bipolar mood charting. This may be easier for you to track your moods while you’re on-the-go. An app may also work better for you, as it may provide reminders for you to monitor how you feel.


Go to the app-purchasing store on your device and download the program that will work best for you. Make sure you look at reviews to see if the type you’re interested in would work for your lifestyle and needs. Two good ones are the Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance Wellness Tracker or iMoodJournal., This is also a good way to track your emotions., Your chart will work best if you work on it every day. Skipping days will only hinder you, as you won’t be able to get a complete picture of your moods when you look back at the chart. The more you put into the chart, the more beneficial it will be.


If you’re worried you’ll forget to chart your moods, set a reminder on your phone. Or, use an app that will send you alerts. , Charting three times a day is ideal for many. When you wake up, midday, and right before you fall asleep usually give you the best idea of how your day went and the different moods you experienced.


However, you may find out that a different schedule works best for you. Whatever you decide, make sure you are committed and consistent., You can use a journal in conjunction with a mood chart to give more information about what you did each day, who you interacted with, and any elements that may trigger episodes.


Keep track of every detail, such as going to work, visiting the store, and even spending time with your family. Seeing what you did and what possibly triggered something can help you get a better idea of what sets you off.
Also keep note of situations that occurred during the course of your day that were irregular or different. For instance, you could note that you got into a fight with your boss, sat in the bright sun, and watched TV with the sound up loud. Write down as much as you can, as it will be more helpful that way., To keep track of the events that occurred and how they affected your mood, make sure to notate how you felt each day. Write about if you were stressed, calm, happy, or overwhelmed. Keeping your journal with you at all times can help you to keep track of how you feel throughout the day.


Create a scale of how you feel. For instance, “1” could be mellow, “3” could be slightly agitated, and “5” could be extremely upset. Use this scale to notate how you felt each day to keep track of what your triggers could be., Women should write down when they start their monthly cycles, as the hormone change could play a part in their triggers. You should also make note of anything different that occurred, such as abnormal foods you ate or if you got more or less sleep than usual. Even the slightest changes in your routine could make a huge impact on your mood.


Make sure you write down any jet lag you are experiencing, if you are in a different time zone, or any of these types of changes, as disruptions in your sleep pattern can be a trigger., Drugs and alcohol can make a major impact on your moods. Keep note of what you took or drank, and then how you felt during and after the use. Additionally, notate if your medication has been changed and pay close attention to how it makes you feel over the next few days, weeks, and months.


Before you indulge in drug or alcohol use, check with your doctor for possible interactions that can occur with your medication. You could experience dangerous side effects if the drugs or alcohol have an effect on your medication., One of the benefits of keeping a journal and chart is that you can show your doctor how you’ve been feeling. Keeping daily notes allows your doctor to see how you’ve progressed over time. It also helps the doctor to correlate your moods with the events of the day, which could help them figure out your triggers.


Allow your therapist to also take a look at your chart and journal. This can help them decide if the direction of your therapy should change or continue as is., Not everyone has the same triggers; however, many have similar events that cause their condition to change. Knowing what these potential triggers are can help you to avoid them, which could help your mood to stay the same.


Common triggers include over-stimulation, such as light, noise, traffic, and crowds. They can also include too much stimulation from interacting with other people, such as individuals who are excited, talk loud, or have personalities that are far different than yours. Nicotine, caffeine, stress, and sleep disruptions are also common triggers., Identifying your triggers can help you prevent them from occurring. Unfortunately, you aren’t always able to stop them. Knowing what to do when they pop up can prevent you from experiencing a major mood swing.


For example, your doctor may tell you to adjust your medication or take something different when you’re having an episode. The doctor may advise you to come in for a therapy session or seek the help of your loved ones.
Taking swift and appropriate action could make all of the difference between a minor mood swing and a destructive episode.