 Before you fire up the stove, have all of the necessary ingredients portioned and set aside. Measure out the spices carefully to ensure that you achieve just the right balance of flavors. Feel free to adjust the amounts of each seasoning to taste.If you’re using fresh spices that you’d prefer to toast yourself, such as mustard seed or anise, do this in the empty saucepan prior to including the other spices.Pickled raisins only take minutes to stew, and can be prepared in a single piece of cookware.;
, Add 2 cups of white vinegar, 1 cup of apple cider vinegar and 1 cup of red wine vinegar. A combination of vinegars will add complexity to the finished flavor. Stir the mixture of vinegar and spices thoroughly.The addition of sugar will help cut some of the acidity of the vinegar and salt.
You can also use honey, agave nectar or simple syrup in place of regular granulated sugar., Turn on the cooktop and set it to medium-high heat. Keep stirring the mixture as it heats up. Once it begins to churn slightly throughout the center, let it boil for 2-3 minutes. This will give the spices a chance to infuse into the liquid.Since dehydrated raisins are absorbent, they should only be added to pre-simmered liquid in order to take in the most seasoning.
Keep the boil under control. The temperature shouldn’t be hot enough for the liquid to slosh, spatter or bubble over.
 Turn down the cooktop to medium-low heat. The constant boiling should be reduced to a slight bubbling around the edges. This will be the ideal temperature for hot pickling. Allow the liquid to rest for another few minutes before adding the raisins.Due to their high sugar content, cooking the raisins at too intense a heat can cause them to break down.
 Dump in all of the raisins at once and stir them until they’re completely covered with liquid. Partially cover the saucepan, leaving one one edge exposed to ventilate heat.


Depending on their density, some of the raisins may float on the top of the saucepan and some may sink to the bottom. Frequent stirring will help circulate them and the pickling spices.
Don’t add more raisins than can comfortably fit in the liquid-filled saucepan. If you want to make more raisins, do it later in a separate batch.
 Set a timer and allow the raisins to stew. As they cook, they’ll begin to absorb the pickling liquid, blowing up to a fat, round, juicy size. Stir the raisins every couple of minutes. This will ensure that the temperature remains even and keep air moving through the liquid.Keep an eye on the raisins as they cook. They may not need the entire 10 minute interval to get done.
You may notice the pickling liquid disappearing as the raisins cook. This is due to both the liquid absorbing into the raisins and evaporating from the intense heat., Set the saucepan aside on an unlit cooktop. Don’t remove the raisins just yet—they’ll continue to suck in the pickling liquid and grow more plump as they sit. Once the liquid has cooled to just over room temperature, the raisins can be served, canned or thrown in the refrigerator for storage.The raisins may begin bursting and disintegrating when overcooked. Be sure to remove them from the heat source before this happens.
Leave whole spices like bay leaves, cloves and star anise in the pickling liquid so they can continue giving off flavor., Transfer the raisins to a large airtight container before refrigerating. Be sure to include an ample amount of the pickling juices. The raisins should stay fresh for up to two weeks when kept cool, but will be best if enjoyed within a few days.A mason jar or Tupperware container of average size will work best for preventing spoilage.
Prepare pickled raisins in small batches to keep them from going bad.
 After cooking off your pickled raisins, pour them into 8 or 12 ounce mason jars, then submerge the jars in a deep pot full of boiling water. The hot water will help seal the jars, which can then be stored away for months or even years.Use oven mitts, tongs and a jar lifter to protect yourself from intense heat while canning.Be sure to refrigerate canned pickled raisins after opening them.
 Tailor the flavor of your pickled raisins for various dishes and palettes. For sweeter raisins, use one bay leaf, whole cloves, allspice berries, and a dash of dried anise. If you’d prefer your raisins to have more of a piquant kick, try spices like ginger, white peppercorns, mustard seed and red pepper flakes.Sweet and spicy raisins can be used in a wide variety of savory dishes as well as sweeter recipes and confections.
 The complex sweetness and tang of the raisins is perfectly suited for plating alongside hearty entrees like braised pork shoulder or curried lamb. More intensely spiced versions of the preserved treat can be incorporated into a bold bread pudding, or even used as a topper to balance the bitterness of a kale or arugula salad.Substitute ordinary raisins for the pickled variety in dishes that could use a little extra zest.
Blend pickled raisins and cook them into a unique jam, compote or chutney.