 Your clothing should allow for flexibility, but it can't be so baggy or loose that twigs can catch it. Also remove any dangling accessories; a necklace could easily catch onto a branch and choke you. Wearing a helmet is strongly recommended for fast climb attempts.;
, Climbing quickly increases the risk of a serious accident. A secure climbing rope and harness takes a little time to set up, but will allow you to ascend with greater speed and safety. If you're not willing to buy the equipment, consider these homemade safety features instead:


Throw a rope over a sturdy branch. Retrieve the end and secure it to the base of a tree with a high quality knot. This should be a static climbing rope, ideally protected against friction with a branch protector.Tie your own harness out of rope and attach it to the main rope with carabiners.
Once you're higher in the tree, swing a safety lanyard around another strong branch. Clip both sides to your harness., Search the ground for piles of dead branches, mushrooms, or raised areas where unstable roots are being pulled out of the soil. Circle the tree from a distance to inspect the trunk for missing or sunken bark, cracks, strange shapes, or swollen areas.Do not try to climb a tree with one of these symptoms.


A forked trunk can be a bad sign, especially if it's a sharp "V" or if you cracks spread from the joint. It's best to avoid these trees for fast climbing, since they require extra caution.
 Pick the lowest live branch that looks large enough to support your weight. If it's too high to pull yourself up easily, use the following technique:


Hang from the branch with both hands.
Pull yourself up so your biceps and forearms are on the branch.
Swing slightly to get the momentum to pull up the rest of your body.

Note — to get up there faster, get enough momentum to swing from a hanging position to placing your abs on the branch. You'll need good upper body strength.
 This difficult technique lets you rush up the trunk of a tree, jumping off to catch a branch out of reach from the ground. The key is to place the ball of your foot against the trunk and push up into the tree, not down. This will transfer your forward momentum upward, adding height to your jump. Grab the branch with both arms at the peak of your jump.
 Your hands and feet are your four attachment points to the tree. At all times, three of these should be anchored to different parts of the tree. Move one hand or foot at a time, and grip securely before moving the next one.
 Anyone can increase their speed by jumping at high branches or grabbing handholds without testing them. The hard part is to increase your speed while staying relatively safe. If you've only climbed trees for fun in the past, start taking it seriously now. Test each branch before you put your weight on it.


Get a sense for how big a branch needs to be to support your weight. This size varies by species and health of the tree, so practice with one type of tree

, Leaning out from the trunk or far to one side are big mistakes. You are in the most stable position when you are vertical, using the strong attachment points where branches meet the trunk.


Move out from the trunk only on the widest branches. Do not transfer from one end of a branch to another. Return to the trunk when you want to climb higher or lower.
 Many novice climbers use their arms much more than their legs, which is exhausting and slow. Look for footholds that require you to bend your knee up to hip level or above. Push into these footholds for extra leverage.


If the trunk is fairly thin, grip the sides with your thighs, calves, and the soles of your feet. This requires flexible hips, but can let you move faster past areas with few footholds.
 Soft, powdery wood or loose bark are signs of extensive damage, so return to the ground if you see them. Dead branches and broken off branch stumps will not support your weight. Move slowly past areas with moss or lichen, which can make the tree slippery.Stop climbing once the trunk has narrowed to 4 in. (10 cm) in diameter, if the trunk above you is swaying in the wind, or if it shows signs of damage., It's more difficult to test your footholds on the way down, so take it slow. Try to keep a mental map of your route on the way up, so you can use the same footholds on the way down.

