 Find a material in a pattern of your choice that’s large enough to completely cover your chair that reaches all the way to the floor.In general, a piece of fabric that's at least 6 x 9 feet should fit most chairs.A few fabric ideas that should work well for this project:
A canvas drop cloth (preferably not stained with paint, etc.)
An old bed sheet
An old quilt
Fabric purchased from a store (thicker cotton blends work well)

, When draping the fabric, arrange it such that the pattern of the material (if there is one) lays across the chair as you would like it to appear.


Lay your fabric over the top of the chair (with the center of the fabric lined up with the highest point on the chair) so that it covers the entire chair completely on all sides and drapes to the floor.
 Using your fingers, push the fabric into the various folds around the seat until it appears to hug the chair fairly snugly. Smooth out any unsightly folds or creases in the fabric itself as you go and create darts (folds made in the fabric that allow the fabric to lay flat) where needed to allow the fabric to lay smooth.


If desired, use fabric adhesive (available at most craft and fabric stores) to stick your slipcover in place. Doing so will hold your slipcover over the chair snugly and prevent it from falling, bunching, or slipping off.
Use the adhesive to adhere the rear of the new slipcover material to the top of the original chair fabric. You'll need to lift up the slipcover fabric and work underneath it to do this, so it can help to have a friend help you here by pointing out where to put adhesive.
Luckily, fabric adhesive is usually very forgiving before it sets. If you make a mistake, just pull the fabric up and reposition it as needed.
Different adhesive products will have different drying times, but, in general, most fabric glues take about two to four hours to set.Fabric adhesives can usually be washed safely after a few days. Check the product's label for more specific instructions.
 Once the adhesive has dried in place, you may carefully use pair of scissors or a fabric knife to trim the loose bottom portion of your slipcover.


Ideally, you want this "skirt" to hang an inch or two above the floor. Take care to cut in a straight line as you go.
If you make a noticeable mistake, just trim the slipcover back a few inches and glue a long, skinny strip of material around the bottom to make a new skirt.

