 In a bowl, mix 2 tablespoons (approximately 30 g) of matcha green tea powder with 2 tablespoons (25 g) of sugar. Use a spoon to ensure that they’re blended well.You can usually find matcha green tea powder at Asian food markets, as well as in the ethnic or international food aisle of some larger grocery stores.;
, In a separate bowl, combine the yolks from 3 eggs with the remaining ½ cup (approximately 105 g) sugar. Use a whisk to beat them together so the sugar is fully incorporated into the egg yolks.To separate the egg yolk from the white, crack the egg against a hard surface, such as the edge of a bowl or the counter. Hold the egg over a bowl and gently separate the two halves. Some of egg white should drip down into the bowl. To remove the rest of the white, move the contents back and forth in the two halves of the shell so more of the white drips out. When you've separated the yolk from the whites, dump the yolk in a separate bowl, and repeat with two more eggs.
 Take the bowl with the matcha and sugar mixture, and pour it into the egg yolk and sugar mixture. Stir the ingredients together well until a thick paste forms.It’s usually easier to stir the ingredients together if you use a whisk or fork because the mixture can become very thick and difficult to blend.
 Add ¾ cup (180 mL) milk to a small sauce pan, and set it on a stove burner set to medium low heat. Allow the milk to gently heat without coming to a boil, and remove it from the stove.You should ideally heat the milk to a temperature of 176 degrees Fahrenheit (80 degrees Celsius).
Watch your milk closely because it’s extremely easy for it to scorch. If it seems to be getting too warm too quickly, lower the heat on the stove.
 When the milk is heated, mix a small amount of it, such as 2 tablespoons (approximately 30 mL), into the matcha green tea paste mixture. Stir until the paste becomes smooth.Use as little milk as necessary to create the smooth paste. That means it’s best to start with less that you’ll think you need, and only add more when you see that the mixture is still thick and lumpy.
 Once you’ve formed a smooth paste, pour the rest of the milk into the matcha green tea mixture. Add it gradually, though, to ensure that you don’t heat the mixture too quickly. Put it back on the stove at medium-low to heat it, but remove it before it comes to a boil. Allow the mixture to cool completely. It should take approximately 5 minutes to heat the mixture properly, and 10 to 15 minutes for the mixture to cool fully.
After you remove the mixture from the stove, strain it into a clean container with a fine sieve to remove any impurities.
 In a bowl, use a whisk to lightly whip ¾ cup (180 mL) of heavy cream. When the matcha mixture is completely cooled, carefully fold the whipped cream into it with a spatula.It’s best to whip the heavy cream by hand because using a stand mixer or an electric mixer may cause it to develop stiff peaks, which you don’t want for the ice cream.
 Check that your ice maker's freezer bowl is completely frozen, having spent at least 10 hours in the freezer. Next, pour the green tea ice cream mixture into an airtight container and place it in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours to chill.While you can chill your ice cream mixture for as little as 2 hours, you’ll get better results the colder that it is. You may want to leave it in the refrigerator overnight.
 When the green tea ice cream mixture is thoroughly chilled, add to the ice maker’s freezer bowl, and place it in the ice cream maker with the dasher or mixing arm attached. Turn on the machine, and churn the ice cream according to the manufacturer’s instructions., If you like soft serve ice cream, you can serve your green tea ice cream immediately after it’s done churning. However, if you like a harder texture for your ice cream, transfer it to an airtight container and put it in the freezer for 2 to 4 hours to help it firm up.To keep your ice cream from developing freezer burn, wrap your airtight container in plastic wrap to provide additional protection.
Store any ice cream that you want to save for later in the freezer in the airtight container.
 Pour your green tea ice mixture into a large container, and place it in the refrigerator. Allow it to sit for approximately 2 to 3 hours to ensure that it’s thoroughly chilled., Once the ice cream mixture is chilled, move the container to the freezer. As it freezes, ice crystals may start to develop. To prevent them from altering the ice cream’s texture, remove it after approximately half an hour. Stir the ice cream thoroughly to ensure that it remains smooth.You a wooden spoon to mix the ice cream, and stir forcefully so the texture is as smooth as possible.
 As the ice cream continues to freeze, you’ll need to repeat the mixing process several times. Check on it every 30 minutes to stir it so it remains smooth. It should take approximately 4 hours for the ice cream to fully freeze.You’ll know that the ice cream is done when it’s too firm to mix any longer.
