;
,, Enter the museum. When you get inside, you should see a journal at the bottom. Click it. You should read on the right page at the top that the code is "OPEN". These are the letters you use to open the passage in the cave.
 This part is not optional. You can't complete the island without a grass skirt.
 Go back to the Ancient Ruins. Push the stone block under the tree and climb the rope some.Jump onto a branch. Get as close to the edge as possible. Put your mouse on the side of the screen so you will go far. Jump!!! (click and hold) You should be on the roof. Get the piece of paper.


This paper completes the translation key in the journal at the Shark Museum.
 Jump through the cave from platform to platform. Try to avoid the bats, because they will try to knock you down. Stop where there is a closed door and a face. Click the face and click the symbols that correspond with the letters on the journal page. The translation key you got will be at the corner. Use it then press the nose.
 Keep walking. When you get in, run to the left and climb the golden shark statue. Be sure to avoid the caterpillar. Jump onto the swinging platform and onto solid ground. Fall down into the section of gap where the spikes are.(But don't hit the spikes)Collect the large bone out of the skull's mouth.
 This time, once you get to the solid ground, wait for a moving platform. This will take you to another section of the island.
, Run to the right, collecting coconut milk as you pass the guy with a ukulele.
 Put on your grass skirt if you aren't wearing it already. You need to talk to the medicine man (which he won't if you don't out on the skirt). To do that, click him at the top of the tree and he will mix all the ingredients and put them in a coconut. Exit to your right, and enter Booga Bay.
 Click the wheel beside the cannon to feed the shark.
 Swim past the Booga shark to the next island. There will be an old guy and a young guy. Click the old guy. He will say something about getting stranded there. Now they will follow you. Lead them away from that island to the lady by the grass skirts.
 You now have received a medallion and 50 free credits. Congratulations!

