 A subcutaneous (under the skin) pellet inserted once every three months can help reduce symptoms of menopause.Night sweats, hot flashes, and other menopause symptoms can be irritating at best and disruptive at worst. Testosterone treatment is a safe way to prevent or ease these symptoms, and also helps maintain bone density, libido, and energy levels.
 Transitioning in this way can make transgender people feel happier and more at home in their own bodies; however, if you are unhappy with or uncomfortable with feeling out of sync with your gender, you might have a hormonal imbalance that could be adjusted with testosterone. In either case, talk to a doctor to see if testosterone treatment is right for you.
 Trans men have higher-than-average risk of being murdered, bullied, or sexually harassed.If you're transitioning, you might experience hostility in public, in private, or at work. Some people might not accept you when you transition.


If you do not think you will be safe and comfortable after beginning hormone replacement therapy, you may want to consider finding different living arrangements and/or different employment options, or you may want to delay transitioning until you are in a more secure situation.
Although beginning testosterone can be an exciting milestone, many of the initial changes and side effects are highly visible and irreversible, and your immediate mental and physical health are more important.
Think about the consequences of transitioning. If you are taking testosterone to transition, you must consider the effects these changes will have on your family ties and intimate relationships, your employment, your mental health, and your safety.
 Testosterone works to masculinize your body, and it does this through vocal, mental, and physical changes. Testosterone may significantly redistribute your body fat, stop your menstrual cycle, and/or increase the size or sensitivity of your clitoris. Excess testosterone in your body will be converted to estrogen, which may delay the desired changes or cause unwanted or dangerous side effects.You may experience some, all, or none of these changes or side effects, but it is important to keep track of any changes and talk to your doctor about them. It may also:


Thicken your skin
Lower your voice
Thicken your thyroid cartilage or Adam’s apple
Increase your muscle mass and strength
Increase the growth of facial and body hair
Increase your overall energy level
Increase or change your sex drive and/or your attraction to other people
Provide some protection against osteoporosis
Balance your emotions
Cause vaginal dryness, recurring yeast infections, atrophy of sexual organs, cramping, and/or permanently decreased fertility
Worsening of sleep apnea
Lead to development of deep vein thrombosis
Increase cardiovascular risks, such as stroke and heart attack

