 Good seeds have lots of ores. Examples of good seeds are iliketomoveit, cat, and canyon. All of these seeds have wonderful survival opportunities that can be achieved through different survival techniques.


It is okay to quit if you are spawned in an ocean biome (You spawn on an island, and are surrounded by water) since that is the hardest biome to survive in.;
, When you find your 4 trees (it doesn't matter which) punch the wood and collect it. Save the wood in your inventory for later.
 A crafting table will offer a bunch of different combinations to make more complex items. To use your crafting table simply tap it.
 Save one block of wood for later.
 With your stick you can make a wooden pickaxe.
 Your shelter can be simple or elaborate.
 Create a wooden door for your shelter or if you don't have any more wood place a block in one part of the doorway you created.
,, This should make charcoal.
 Torches keep monsters away.
 There are lots of monsters.


Skeletons - Skeletons carry bows and have unlimited arrows. The easiest way to kill a skeleton is to sneak up with a sword or snipe them with your own bow and arrows. They also spawn in the nether, but are called Wither Skeletons.
Creepers - A creeper is green and pixelated. When a creeper comes close it will blow up. The easiest way to kill them is to shoot them with a bow.
Zombies - Zombies are slow and can only kill by punching. The easiest way to kill them is to fight back with a sword. They can turn villagers into zombie villagers.
Spiders - A spider can jump to blocks and stay hidden in their webs and can catch you by surprise. Spiders only attack at night. During the daytime, they will not burn but they will just ignore you and not hurt you just like animal mobs.
Zombie Pigmen - This monster lives in nether; will not attack unless provoked. Immune to fire.
Ghasts - They're huge, floating mobs that shoot fireballs at you. Very hostile.
Blazes - They shoot multiple fireballs at you. You can kill them with snowballs. Also immune to fire.
Magma cubes- They're hostile like the slimes, but in this case, the smaller cubes attack. You can get magma cream from these mobs.
Slimes- They're hostile and will follow you no matter in which direction you are in. You can lead these mobs into a pit of lava or a hole. They spawn underground or in swamp biomes.
Cave spiders- They're smaller and more aggressive than normal spiders, and have venom.
Wither Skeletons- They're found only in nether fortress. They have a wither effect when hit by their stone swords.
 This will help accelerate from night to day. Then after that, repeat the step 1 and so. In that way you can craft more cool and fun objects.


A great way to sleep no matter how close monsters are is to dig down about 30 blocks and put the bed there. This puts enough room between you and any monsters on the surface. Remember to have a route to the surface, you don't want to get stuck underground without a way to go back up.

