 Before waxing a trap, you should make sure that it is free from grease, blood, dirt, rust, and other contaminants.


Scrub away contaminants using soap and hot water. Rinse well before proceeding further.
For rusty or extremely grungy traps, allow them to soak in undiluted vinegar for several hours. Scrub away any remaining rust with a steel wire brush.
Allow the trap to dry outside for approximately one week. A light coating of rust should form on the surface of the trap.;
, Dyeing is another procedure used to protect traps. If you choose to dye and wax the trap, you must dye the trap before coating it with wax.Place a heat-resistant brick inside the dye pot to prevent the trap from touching the bottom of the pot. The springs of the trap may weaken if directly exposed to the heat.
Mix 1 lb (450 g) of logwood dye into 3 to 5 gallons (12 to 20 L) of water. Bring the dye mixture to a rolling boil over a burner, then reduce the heat so that the dye drops to a mild simmer.
Lower the trap into the dye and allow it to stay in the simmer liquid for one hour.
Remove the trap and allow it to dry completely before waxing it.
 Carefully place a nail in between the jaws of the trap to keep them open throughout the waxing process.This step will allow the wax to coat the inside of the trap, thereby protecting it more thoroughly.
Another option is to wax the trap once it is already set so that all parts will be submerged. Doing this can be rather dangerous, however, since triggering the spring can cause the trap to close without warning and injure you.
 Insert a thin, sturdy piece of metal rebar through the chain of the trap. This bar must be able to support the weight of the trap without assistance.


Select a piece of rebar that is longer than the mouth of the pot you plan to use for waxing. The bar will need to rest on top of the pot without slipping in.
You may need to readjust the position of the rebar later, but for now, position it somewhere within the top few links of the chain.
 Odorless trap wax is the best option to use and is specifically manufactured for this purpose.


The next best option is refined trapping beeswax. When using this, you should also add an equal amount of paraffin wax to the melting pot to help regulate the temperature.
Unscented paraffin wax can be used alone, as well, but keep in mind that it has a lower boiling point than most trap waxes.
Do not use straight beeswax without adding paraffin wax. Beeswax is brittle and will likely dry unevenly when used alone.
 Place 5 lbs (2250 g) of wax into a small pot with tall sides. Heat the wax in a deep fryer until it is completely melted.Do not add any water to the wax. The wax will actually stick to the trap more effectively without the addition of water.
If you do not have a deep fryer that can be used for waxing traps, place the wax in a small pot with deep sides and melt it over an open flame. Temperature is easier to control with a deep fryer, but an open flame will still work.
Keep the wax in a liquid state throughout the entire process, but do not allow the wax to get much hotter than that. Wax can burst into flames if it becomes too hot.
 Slowly submerge the prepared trap into the melted wax. Allow it to remain in the wax for several minutes.


The metal of the trap must have ample opportunity to heat up. If it does not get hot enough, the wax may not dry smoothly or evenly.
Hold the rebar as you lower the trap into the wax. If you do not want to hold the trap as it sits in the wax, carefully rest the rebar on the mouth of the pot.
Do not allow the trap to rest on the bottom of the pot. The springs can become damaged if they touch the bottom of the hot melting pot.
 Pick up the rebar attached to the trap chain and carefully lift the trap out of the hot wax. Hold it above the pot for several seconds to allow the excess liquid wax to drip off the wax and back into the melting pot.


If the metal trap reached hot enough temperatures, the excess wax should drop off the trap and look as clear and fluid as water.
 Hang the trap outside for several hours. The wax should cool and dry completely before you handle it any further.


Do not hang the trap in an area polluted by strong odors.
The wax should dry as a light, even coating. If the wax is chunky or thick when it dries, you may have removed the traps too soon.
 Store the traps in plastic containers until you plan to use them.


Surround the traps with several layers of local leaves or branches. Doing so will imbed the wax with a natural odor, making it less noticeable to wildlife once set.
Handle the traps while wearing gloves to prevent your scent from seeping into the wax.

