 This will help with the method for creating it. There is one piece that serves as the "equator" (in this article, it is the red piece), and the remaining pieces can be viewed as the Arctic and Antarctic polar regions, depending on the manner in which they are added.
, Note where the join of the tube meets; this join line will form your reference point for sticking down the tape from start to finish., Carefully stick the red tape around the tube close to one end, to form a complete circle. This red circle will form the "equator" of the polyhedral ornament., Make a fine cut from the edge of the tube along the join line, just to the edge of the red tape circle.,







Instead of taping this circle down, use tape-mount (disposable tape) to insert under the colored tape. Instead of adhering the end of this circle to the plastic tube, it will stick to the tape-mount, moving freely.
 There should be a total of 5 colored rings, plus the red equator ring.







In each case, adhere to the tape-mount and not to the plastic tube. Thus, apart from the red "equator" ring, all the other tape rings should be attached to the tube all the way except for the last part, which will sit on the tape-mount.
 Gently pierce the tube with a pair of scissors and cut around each ring, leaving an even amount of plastic tube on each side of each colored ring.,







This should be the end result of your efforts so far.
 This will be held in place by tacking with tape; use tape that is easy to remove. With each ring, interweave the pieces alternately (under, over, under, over, etc.).







Hold the blue and green rings vertically together, crossed over. Slide the silver ring horizontally around both rings. Weave the silver ring under the green ring and over the blue ring.






Tack in place.






Add the gold ring. Weave in and out so that is is positioned to form another part of the overall circular shape. Tack in place.






Weave the last circle in and out. Tack in place.
 Weave so that it intersects alternately with the rest of the rings.







The finished ball. If you are happy with this shape, glue the tacked ends into place. Or, proceed to the next steps.
 This pentagon is located inside the ornament.







Refer to the image here when placing the rings. Weave around the respective circles and adjust to create the necessary gaps to create the pentagon.
 (Note that the reference to "bottle" in the image refers to the "rings".), You can use the Sepak Takraw decoration for such decorative projects as celebratory ornaments, a display object, or as shown here, it can add artistic flair to an ordinary vase:























