 Because whole grains aren't digestible unless cooked, it makes it difficult for raw food enthusiasts to enjoy them. Sprouting grains, however, makes them easily digestible and nutritious. Without cooking, you can enjoy whole grains like rye, wheat, barley, or corn, without baking and breaking down their micronutrients.


Sprouting grain neutralizes difficult-to-digest phytic acid, releasing vitamins and nutrients not generally present in raw grain. This makes it ideal for porridges, baking, and making into sprouted flour.Hulled oats, like the kind you buy at the store to make oatmeal, won't sprout. To sprout grains, you need to buy whole grains still in their hulls, raw and organic. Other types of grains will just soak. You can ferment oatmeal with miso paste overnight, for a quick live culture option.
 Grain will triple in size over the soaking process, so it's important to start with a jar or bowl large enough to hold three times the amount of flour that you put into it to soak. Soak the grains for about 6 hours, then drain the water thoroughly and sprout them at room temperature for about 2 days. Rinse periodically and drain thoroughly.


Corn needs to undergo a slightly longer presoak, about 12 hours before draining the water and letting it sprout.
Amaranth, quinoa, and millet, commonly-mistaken for varieties of seed or rice, are actually alkaline grains, and are perfectly-sproutable using this method.
Barley won't actually sprout, but you can activate the germination process, as is done when malting barley for making alcohol, by "sprouting" it for about 12 hours. This will activate the process and start breaking down the hull.
 Once the tip of the sprout is about 1/4 inch long, it is ready to be used. Rinse the grains one last time. Lay them on a dry towel, and let them dry. Use immediately, or store in the refrigerator., To turn sprouted grains into flour, you'll need a food dehydrator and a grinder designed for grains. After they've sprouted, dehydrate the grains for about 12 hours and grind them into a fully-integrated and fine flour, sifting if desired. You can store this sprouted flour in the freezer to maintain it's life, and use it as you would any type of baking flour.