 Many people may be interested in using hemp protein outside the athlete or weight loss arena. It's a great supplement to also improve your protein intake.


Most people need about 0.8 to 1 g of protein per kg of body weight.Calculate how many grams of protein you need each day with this formula.
If you're a vegan or vegetarian or just a picky eater, using hemp protein powder can be a nutritious method to help meet your protein needs.
If you're having trouble meeting your protein needs, use hemp protein powder in shakes, smoothies or snacks to help you get in more protein throughout the day.
Add these types of hemp protein-based supplements to your current diet, not in place of meals. This will boost your protein intake throughout the day.
 In addition to helping you meet protein needs everyday, using hemp protein can also help you sneak in extra nutrition throughout the day.


Again, using hemp protein shakes, smoothies or other snacks is an excellent way to hide or add in extra nutrition to your day.
These ideas will be great for picky eaters, those who don't like many fruits or vegetables or those who just have difficulty staying on track with a nutritious diet.
Ideas to add in more nutrition include: making a protein shake blended with fruit, dark greens, nuts, seeds or even avocado. You can also make smoothies and use ice for a thicker and creamier consistency.
There are also recipes using hemp protein powder to make brownies that have avocado or even black beans incorporated.
 If you're not trying to lose weight, but actually trying to gain weight, hemp protein powder can be an easy way to get in some extra calories throughout the day.


If you need to gain weight, you might be tempted to overindulge in unhealthy, high calorie, high fat foods (like candies, fried foods or fast foods). However, this not a nutritious or healthy way to gain weight.Choose nutritious, calorie dense foods in addition to eating more meals or more snacks throughout the day to help add on extra pounds.
It's typically recommended to add 250 to 500 calories daily to help you gain weight.Adding more food and higher calorie food can help you achieve this increase in calories each day.
In addition to your typical three meals a day, use hemp protein powder to make high calorie shakes or smoothies to drink. This is an easy way to increase calories. Plus, smoothies may not fill you up as much as more solid foods or meals.
Mix hemp protein powder with low-fat or whole milk and add in a variety of items like: fruits, avocado, nuts, seeds, nut butters or full fat yogurts. You can even add in a little coconut oil for an extra hit of calories.

