 The most difficult type of hole to sew up is one where there is actually fabric missing – as in a worn-out hole in the knees of trousers, or in the elbow of a jacket. Do not try to sew the hole up without adding any additional fabric. This will only pucker the fabric together, tugging at the shape of the garment and creating a messy lump., If the hole is frayed into the seam line or somewhere in the middle of the garment (other than a seam), then you will need to reinforce the area. Cut to size a small piece of fabric of the same weight and color of the garment. Lay the patching fabric under the hole, right side up. Then, bring the edges of the hole as close together as possible, without puckering the hole. Use a small zig zag stitch on the sewing machine to stitch around the edges of hole, catching as much fabric (patch and garment) as possible to make the patch hold.This isn't going to be a "pretty fix," but it should be serviceable. If the garment is casual, you can buy extra fabric in a contrasting color or pattern and sew patches in several areas to make the hole patch look decorative. Do this patch from the outside of the garment, or use appliqués in the same manner to add a designer touch.
 Start stitching about an inch before the torn area. This is especially important if an existing stitch was loosened or ripped. Stitching a little back from the ends will support the fabric and stop further tearing. Slip the needle through the cloth, and carefully weave the thread in and out of the cloth. For consistency, try to keep the distance between each stitch to about 2 mm.


If the hole is especially frayed, try reinforcing with a liquid seam sealant before you start stitching. This can help make the fix more sustainable.
If the cloth is too tight, a stitch may tear again once you wear the garment. Try adding another layer of a piece of a cloth beneath the hole, and then stitching that cloth for added strength. Try stitching a button to the area, if it goes with the fabric. Consider darning the hole so the space is filled with many interlacing stitches.
 Repeat until there is nothing left to sew.


If the cloth is badly frayed, it may require an "over-locking." Hold the cloth and stitch it so that the frayed end is folded inwards. Fold the cloth one or two times, then stitch it "shut" to prevent the cloth from tearing again.
 Stretch and press the cloth. Take care that the thread does not get tangled midway through the stitch. Press the stitched area between your fingers. Then, run through the stitch to remove air gaps or unevenness of the cloth. To finish the job, make a knot and snip the thread.

