 As soon as possible after the first instance of discriminatory conduct, start and maintain a record of all discriminatory statements or actions against you.]

Write down the details of each incident as soon as you can after it occurs, so the facts remain fresh in your mind.
Include the date, time, and location of the incident, the person who discriminated against you and their relationship to you or role in the company (for example, if they are your immediate supervisor or a co-worker), and whether any other employees were present and may have witnessed the incident.
Add any additional facts or context that is relevant to the incident, and describe in detail the improper statements or conduct against you.;
, Depending on the type of gender discrimination you are experiencing, there may be records or notices from your employer or co-workers that include evidence of discriminatory statements of behavior.For example, if you got an email from your supervisor discussing an available promotion that concluded "You ladies need not apply, we've got enough estrogen up here in the front office," that email could be used as evidence of gender discrimination.
Personnel or payroll records may be used as evidence of a pattern of gender discrimination in hiring, promotion, or pay – however, unless you happen to work in the human resources office, you aren't likely to have access to these records.
 Anything that is posted or used to harass you potentially is evidence of the discrimination that is taking place.You have the right to remove anything that is publicly posted if you find it offensive – however, it is in your best interest to take a photo of it so you have proof of where it was posted before you remove it.
For example, if one of your co-workers frequently tapes photos of scantily-clad bikini models on your computer monitor to harass you, snap a picture of the scene before you remove the offending photo.
From that point, although your instinct may be to tear the picture up or throw it away, it can provide support for your claims to keep the photos intact as proof of the harassment.
 Others who have seen or heard discriminatory or harassing comments or actions can be helpful as witnesses on your behalf.As with your diary, you should make an attempt to speak to any witnesses as soon as possible after an incident occurs.
Tell them that you plan to complain about the behavior to your employer, and find out if they would be willing to testify on record as to what they heard or saw.
Depending on the type of gender discrimination you are experiencing, talking to co-workers may reveal that the same person discriminating against you has also treated other employees similarly.
 Your employee handbook typically will include your employer's policy and procedures for handling gender discrimination in the workplace.If you don't have a written employee handbook, there still may be memos or other documents that lay out your employer's anti-discrimination policy.
Typically these policies include your employer's preferred procedure for handling complaints of discriminatory behavior. There may be a designated manager or supervisor who is in charge of handling complaints.
 Provided you feel comfortable, your first step should be to talk to someone with authority to take action and potentially put a stop to the discrimination.Sometimes a serious word from an immediate supervisor is all it takes to end discriminatory conduct. However, this option may not be available to you if your supervisor is the one engaging in discrimination.
If you do feel comfortable talking to a supervisor, he or she can help guide you through your company's policy and provide you with support through the process.
 To protect your personal rights under state and federal law, write a letter describing the discriminatory conduct and demanding corrective action be taken against the offender.Type your letter in a standard business format, and describe the discriminatory incidents in detail. You can use the entries in your diary as an outline.
State that you consider these statements or actions to be gender discrimination, and that you take them very seriously and are protecting your rights under state and federal law to a workplace free of gender discrimination.
Request that your employer investigate the situation and take punitive or corrective action as appropriate. Give a deadline by which you expect a response.
You should expect some degree of disbelief or denial, especially if you are accusing a manager or supervisor of discriminatory conduct. Most employers don't want to believe that someone they hired and trusted with authority is acting improperly.
However, keep in mind that your employer has the responsibility under federal law to treat your complaint seriously and investigate the incident thoroughly, and you are within your rights to demand that an investigation take place.
 Once you've submitted written notice, your employer is required by law to evaluate and investigate the conduct described in your report.A manager or supervisor may interview you as well as co-workers you named as witnesses to the discriminatory statements or behavior. He or she also will probably talk to the person you've accused of gender discrimination.
Be open with the person investigating the situation about how you would like to see it resolved. For example, if you no longer want to work with the person, you may want to request transfer to a different team, department, or shift.
 After the investigation has concluded, continue to communicate with the supervisor who handled the issue until you're satisfied the problem has been resolved.


If the person continues to discriminate against you, or if you start receiving backlash or retaliation because you filed a complaint, you may have to go higher up the chain of command.
Keep in mind that any retaliation against you for filing a discrimination complaint and asserting your rights violates state and federal anti-discrimination laws., You and your employer must meet the requirements established by federal law before the EEOC will investigate your dispute.Under federal law, you must file a charge with the EEOC before you can file a lawsuit in gender discrimination cases.
Generally, you must file your charge within 180 days from the date of the discriminatory act. If your charge is based on a series of acts, this deadline applies to the most recent in the series.Federal anti-discrimination laws only apply to businesses and private employers who have at least 15 employees who worked at least 20 calendar weeks in a year.The EEOC has an online assessment tool available at https://egov.eeoc.gov/eas/ that you can use to easily determine whether you are eligible to file a charge.
Keep in mind that even if you're not eligible to file a charge with the EEOC, you still may be able to file a charge with your state agency. Call your state's workplace discrimination agency to find out what the eligibility requirements are in your state., Although you can file your charge at any field office, it makes sense to use the one nearest your workplace as that probably will be the office that handles your case.The EEOC has a map on its website that lists the locations of each of the 53 field offices, available at http://www.eeoc.gov/field/index.cfm.
 The EEOC has a three-page questionnaire that you must complete to file a gender discrimination charge with the agency.


You can download a fillable, PDF version of the form online at https://egov.eeoc.gov/eas/uniformintakequestionnaire09.pdf. This gives you the ability to type your answers directly into the form on your computer, although you also have the option of printing the form and filling it out by hand.
 You can't submit the form online, you must mail it to the nearest field office to have your charge evaluated.If the nearest location is too far away, you can mail your completed questionnaire to that office instead of taking it in person. However, if you're getting close to the filing deadline, you should call the office ahead of time so an agent can guide you through the process to ensure it gets there in time.
 After your charge is evaluated, an EEOC agent will ask you questions about your charge and the discrimination you've experienced.If you file in person, an agent will interview you immediately regarding your claim. Otherwise, an agent may call you or you may receive a list of questions or requests for additional information through the mail.
Within 10 days of receiving your charge, the EEOC will send notice and a copy of your charge to your employer.
Depending on the EEOC agent's evaluation of your charge and your interview, the EEOC will either send you and your employer to mediation, or assign your charge to an investigator and request a written response to your charge from your employer.
If the EEOC finds no violation, you'll receive a right-to-sue notice. If the EEOC does find a violation but you are unable to reach a settlement with your employer, your charge will be forwarded to the EEOC's legal team. Either the EEOC will file a lawsuit on your behalf or you'll be sent a right-to-sue letter.
 Depending on what the EEOC agent determines regarding your charge, you may decide you need legal assistance to protect your rights under the law.Particularly if the situation has escalated to the point that you have a right-to-sue letter, you should contact an attorney with experience representing employees in workplace discrimination lawsuits. He or she can advise you of your options and help you plan your next steps.
Keep in mind that many attorneys take these cases on a contingency basis, in which they receive no fees unless you win or settle your case.

