 A wide variety of yoga poses that stretch the lower back exist. Most should be safe for healthy people. However, if you have a back injury such as a herniated disc, some stretches may worsen your condition. Poses that involve bending or twisting at the waist, especially while bearing weight, can be particularly harmful. If you are unsure about a pose, consult a doctor or physical therapist. Below are a few common yoga poses for the back.
 This is a well-known yoga pose that serves as a great all-over stretch and core-strengthening exercise. Also, it stretches the back extensor muscles, which help support the lower back and stabilise the spine.









Begin on all fours, with your hands slightly in front of your shoulders.
Press back on the floor with your hands to lift your body into the air, straightening your knees as you go.
Form an upward-facing V with your body, with your glutes as the highest point. If you can, try to press your heels to the floor for a great calf stretch.
Hold the position for about twenty seconds, repeating several times.
 This relaxing stretch provides great back flexibility. It also serves as a fantastic hip, shoulder, and chest stretch.









Begin on all fours. Stretch your arms out in front of you, allowing your face to lower to a position near the floor.
Gently sit back. Allow your glutes to rest just above your heels. As you ease back, feel the gentle stretch in your lower back.
Hold this position for twenty to thirty seconds, repeating as needed.
 This targeted back stretch allows a great deal of control - you decide how much you want to stretch your back. It's also a good back strength-builder









Begin by lying face down on the floor. Stretch your feet back so that the tops of your feet are touching the floor.
Place your palms on the floor at chest level. Pushing down with your thighs and hips, use your hands to slowly lift your upper body up.
Continue to push your upper body up until you find a comfortable stretching point. Pull your shoulders back and keep your hips narrow through your stretch.
Hold the stretch for fifteen to thirty seconds, repeating as needed.
To add an extra back-strengthening dimension to the exercise, use your back muscles to assist your arms when you raise your lower body.

