 Gel-based candles are best if you want them to glow. This is because the paraffin wax used in wax candles is difficult to combine with "glow in the dark" powder. Because gel candles don't have the same stability as wax ones, it's a good idea to make them in the bowl you'll be burning them in. Get a small, clear glass bowl. Make sure the glass material is clear. That way, you'll be able to see the glowing properties across the body of the candle.


A small goldfish bowl is a recommended choice. It's small, made of clear glass, and has an opening at the top for the wick and flame to go.
If you want to make a bunch of small tea candles, the shells of used-up regular candles work perfectly. With these, you'll have a suitable mould of a candle already in place.;
, Place it in a double boiler pot and heat to 210 degrees. Use a thermometer to get the precise readout. To make a double-boiler, you should put a smaller pot in a larger pot, then proceed to fill the larger pot with water to boil. When you're ready, you can remove the smaller pot and pour the gel into the candle moulds.


The Celsius equivalent is 99 degrees.
If you do not have a thermometer, use a stick or spatula and stir to gauge how soft the gel has become. The gel should be a thick, syrupy consistency when it's ready to pour., With your gel heated, it's time to pour it into the mould. Unlike paraffin wax moulds, the mould for a gel-based candle should be the bowl it will ultimately be used in. A clear, glass bowl is recommended for this instance.
 Because gel is so easy to work with, it's a simple process to work the active powder in the mix. In order to get a really vibrant looking colour for your candles, you should keep your candle at a mix of about 20% powder and 80% gel.Although the specific proportions will depend based on the bowl you're making your candle in, you can roughly estimate proportions based on how much of the bowl the first-added material occupies before filling up the rest with the second.


With about an ounce (approximately 30 grams) of glow powder, you should be able to make at least half a dozen six-inch (15cm) tall candles."Glow in the dark" powder does not dissolve into the gel. Rather, it is suspended in the middle of the gel. This is why it is better for gels and has a worse-off time when used with wax candles."Glow in the dark" powder can be purchased at most arts and crafts stores. Otherwise, it can be ordered specially online.
 Adding a wick should be done while everything else has been completed but the candle is still in a melted form. Grab the tip with a pair of tweezers and lower it slowly into the candle. Take care to ensure that the wick is in the relative centre of your candle, and take care to keep it straight. This will ensure that the wick manages to last throughout the entirety of the candle.


As always, tabbed wicks are the best, as they're specifically designed with the issue of adding them in mind.

