 In a nutshell, the summer solstice is a brief moment during which the Earth's axial tilt is at its greatest inclination toward the Sun (23ยบ 26' - "the obliquity of the ecliptic"). It provides the longest time from sunrise to sunset for the particular hemisphere affected. For the June summer solstice, the North Pole tilts most directly toward the Sun, and the Sun is at it furthest point from the equator.It occurs sometime between June 20 and June 21 (sometimes June 22) in the Northern Hemisphere, and December 21 and December 22 (sometimes December 23) in the Southern Hemisphere. Most years it is on the 21st but due to the leap year in the Gregorian calendar, there is a change every few years to the date, to account for the leap years.;
, Some people choose to travel to celebrate the summer solstice or longest day of the year. And not just anywhere; they choose places that offer great fascination, a spiritual connection, a grand view, or other personal reasons. Basically, here is a good excuse to travel and check out the summer solstice at a special site as part of your itinerary. Just be sure that when planning such a trip, you know the full details about what to expect when, so that you don't miss going at the right time of month and day, and so that you don't expect fireworks when there is often just a slit of light showing on a rock! It is also important to plan other activities because if it's raining and there is cloud on the actual day, you'll be disappointed. If you visit a place or country where there are celebrations being thrown to mark the solstice, you can join in those and soak up the atmosphere as well.


Some places have actual markers or markings that show how ancient peoples used to witness the summer solstice by watching the Sun aligning with an exact spot they'd created in an object such as a rock or a design. These places can be both a source of archaeological and anthropological interest, as well as being a spiritually connecting experience if you're fascinated by such connections. One such example is Puerco Pueblo in the Petrified Forest National Park in the USA, where an ancient petroglyph marking interacts with the sun only during the time of and around the summer solstice.Another place of great spiritual import for the summer solstice is Stonehenge in England, where the Heel Stone aligns itself with the rising Sun during the summer solstice. If you do attend specific places known for solstice rituals, be well informed on the exact timing for the Sun's rays hitting pre-ordained positions, as well as being aware of entrance requirements, fees, the likelihood of a crowd, etc.
Check the local possibilities. Some astronomy clubs and others interested in sky-watching or stargazing will hold their own special events that you can become a part of. Check the newspaper, online, and community noticeboards for information.
 Since it's a little hard for the average person to witness the precise moment of the axial tilt (you'd need to be at the Tropic of Cancer at noon or the sun to be at the highest point above your head possible and there's not a whole lot to see). In some places, though, you may be able to see objects casting no shadow on the ground for a while.Many people decide that the best way to witness the summer solstice is to treat either sunrise or sunset as the point of time for the summer solstice day observation. Sunrise is usually more in line with the "new day" and it's the official moment that summer begins (in the Northern Hemisphere at least) but some people also hold solstice viewing events at sunset too. To find out the exact movements of the sun in your area, check these Sun and Moon data compilers provided by the Naval Oceanography Portal:


USA: http://www.usno.navy.mil/USNO/astronomical-applications/data-services/rs-one-day-us

Worldwide: http://www.usno.navy.mil/USNO/astronomical-applications/data-services/rs-one-day-world

If you'd rather honor the solstice at the time the Sun is at its highest northern point in the sky (actual solstice), you'll need to know the time for that in your local area. Since this varies yearly, check the time by looking at the Seasons Calculator 2000 - 2049 at http://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/seasons.html.
 The chosen place should have an unrestricted view of the horizon in the direction of the sunrise and it should be easy to access. Consider the amenities of the area if you're going to have a breakfast or picnic meal there as well. The more remote the area, the easier it will be to view the sunrise unobstructed by the objects of human habitation and for some, remote places are also an opportunity to get away from it all and reconnect. However, a local park, a hilltop viewing platform, or the top of a building might also be great places to watch the solstice sunrise or sunset from!

, If it's like to be overcast or raining at the time of sunrise, then the pleasure of witnessing the event will be diminished so you'll have to make a judgment about whether or not to get out of bed.
 This is especially important if you're witnessing a marker or ancient petroglyph as the Sun hits it. Capture the moment for the friends who kept sleeping or didn't make it; bear in mind that this is the shortest sunrise and sunset of the year!

, Never look direct at the Sun itself and if you're using a camera, ensure it is fitted with a solar filter. For more information on safe viewing of the Sun, see How to view the Sun. Enjoy the process until the lower rim of the Sun clears the horizon, or the upper rim sinks under if you're viewing in the evening. Enjoy the many hours of sunlight (almost 17 hours in the USA) that this time of year brings.
 It's your observation; if you want to celebrate, tweet or blog about it, provide a photo gallery of the occasion, meditate, throw a party, or anything else, that's entirely up to you.


Organize others to come with you. It's a lot more fun observing the solstice with others. Make an event of it by going together.
One way of celebrating could be to revisit ancient traditions to find ideas for a party. For example, Latvians used to celebrate the event with a feast of beer and cheese and putting work on hold!

