 Have no blemishes. Cleanse, tone, and heavily moisturize your skin, even if it is oily. You may think it will cause acne, but the Koreans nourish their skin this way, and they age well.
 Take a multivitamin. Give yourself a salon style facial weekly. Take baking soda and milk baths weekly to get paler skin. Rub your skin with lemon juice too. They are usually pale, but not always., If it is too hot for that, apply tinted moisturizer and concealer. The dolls come shiny or matte, depending on whether or not they are customized.
 Get it trimmed every 2 months or more. Get one haircut and stick with it for a while. You can make little changes, like adding some long layers, or choppier bangs, or side bangs instead of blunt bangs, but nothing to major until summer vacation or another long time off.

Try to keep it long but it can also be in a chin bob. Their hair is always shiny, silky, and soft, so do hot oil treatments, mayonnaise masks, and wash with a strengthening shampoo and conditioner. It can be pin straight, in ringlets, bouncy curls, a headband, some clips, in a ponytail, pigtails, or twists. Keep the color mainly solid. Try not to get highlights. It can be any color under the rainbow and beyond.
 Any color is great. It would be cool if you had the kind of eyes that change color depending on what you are wearing. To make them look larger and rounder, apply black eyeliner to the top lash, making it thicker in the center and thinner near the ends.

Use white eyeliner under your eyes on your waterline and white eye shadow on your tear duct. Apply black mascara to the upper and lower lashes. You can do any kind of eye shadow design on your lids.
 If you want, just apply a clear coat. Or, paint them bright colors or pastels, depending on your style. Make sure your hands are soft yet firm at all times. Mani / Pedi duos are required.
 They wear a lot of pastels, but a lot of custom clothes are bright or dark.
 The biggest of these dolls have eyes that change color so emulate this if you wish with colored contacts., Keep a poker face besides your eyes, which should express every emotion you have. Be it sweet, bored, sinister, malicious, goody two shoes, cute, innocent, guilty, etc. Don't talk much, and when you do make it meaningful. Have a soft, quiet, slightly high voice. Open your eyes wide and sit cross legged with your hands in your lap and your back straight. Walk gracefully. Get good grades though! Doodle some creepy pictures in class. Nothing like a dead girl, but more a button eyed doll or sad teddy bear. Try to be slightly creepy but in an adorable way. People should be drawn to you, but not know why.
 Apply concealer on the edges and a rosy pink lip gloss. Smile by turning up the corners. Be ever so cute with your mouth.

