 You have probably have some kind of wedding budget. Many experts advise to factor 8-10 percent of your budget for your attire. This should give you some idea of how much you have to work with. If you are not sure what the state of the wedding finances are, try to figure it out or ask your fiancée before shopping. , Getting a wedding dress isn’t just about buying the dress from the store. You also may have to alter or adjust your dress. Make sure to give yourself enough flexibility to be able to afford this. Factoring in dress tailoring can take some of the pressure off of choosing a dress, because it can be hard to find a dress that fits exactly.Many bridal shops have in-house tailors. If you want to estimate the cost of these adjustments, call a range of in-house tailors to get a rough estimate of how much an adjustment would be.
You can also call other tailors in your city and see how much wedding dress alterations usually cost.
Keep in mind that since you don’t know what kind of alterations you may need, you only will be receiving a general estimate.
 Don’t think of your wedding attire as only your dress. You will probably need to buy accessories like a veil, shoes and jewelry. Do some quick research to find out prices for these items, and take them out of the budget. Don’t forget to budget hair and makeup either. They are factors that sometimes slip between the cracks when establishing a budget for your wedding look. , It may not be romantic, but you should run your wedding dress budget by your fiancée before shopping. It would be a shame to buy a dress you love and have to return it because you and your fiancée aren’t on the same page.


If your fiancé is not involved in the cost of your wedding attire, you don’t have to consult him. However, if your parents or anyone else is involved in paying, you should talk with them before buying the dress.
 Sample sales are sales that sell last season’s gowns at huge discounts. These gowns are not less stylish than current styles, they are only on sale because the retailers need to get rid of their old stock. These sales can save you money and get you a stylish dress for your wedding., There are great used wedding dresses on the market that look like new. Since wedding dresses are often sold after the wedding, you can buy a gown that has only been worn once and looks like new. Used dresses can save you a significant amount of money.Be sure to inspect the dress carefully for any stains or discolorations before purchasing.
 Try shopping for a wedding dress during winter and summer. A lot of major designers and retailers have sales these times of year, which could save you money.If you can’t shop during this time, try to find sales going on that you can go to.
 Choose a classic or simple design for your wedding dress. Decorative elements like beading and embroidering raise the price of a gown. The simpler the dress, the less work-intensive it is to make and the cheaper the dress will be.If you purchase a simple dress, you can use accessories to embellish your look.

