 In a damp climate this dangerous duo can sweep in and cause damage to your beautiful miniature home, especially to the wallpaper and upholstery.;
,,, If your dollhouse has already suffered from mold you will be able to see it with the naked eye.


Depending on the type of mold, it may appear white and powdery or even black.
, Another reason to keep your dollhouse away from the windows is because the strong sunshine can cause the paint colors to fade and can discolor the wood.
 You might not notice it at first, but after many years of sitting in the same spot you will see that the UV rays coming through the windows have caused damage to the dollhouse.


If the sunlight gets very hot it can loosen the glue or soften plastic items – causing further damage to the house.
, Cats love to play with things and dogs will chew anything that they can get their teeth on which is why your pets can be another enemy of your dollhouse furniture collection.


If your furry friend gets a reproduction 17th century table in their mouth, it can be dangerous for them – because they can choke on the small pieces.
In addition, other crafting items such as paint and glue can be toxic for your pets.
,, Of course, over time dust will build up on your dollhouse and the furniture within it so It is important to dust on a regular basis.


Dust buildup can actually damage your collection. Read this to find out how to get rid of dust.
Dust is made up of tiny particles of dirt and skin and when it rests on a surface it can cause a number of minuscule scratches that can cause damage over time.



Depending on the type of wood that used to build the dollhouse, you might want to consider using a specific type of cleaner to give it a polish.
 As mentioned in the section on sunshine, heat can be damaging to materials.
 As well as being vulnerable to excessive heat many dollhouse materials also become very brittle when they are subjected to cold temperatures.


This is especially true for plastic dollhouse furniture as it becomes very brittle when it is cold.

