 While credentials are no guarantee of fairness, they do, at a minimum suggest that a commentator is well informed about the issues they are opining about.Do some background research on pundits to determine whether they are experts on these topics.


Consider his or her education. Does the pundit have a degree in political science, journalism, economics, or some other field related to the topics they comment on? If so what kind of degree (i.e. is it a BA, an MA, or a PhD)? If so, is it from a credible institution of higher learning?
Consider his or her experience. Does the commentator have experience in the political world, either working on campaigns or serving in political office (e.g. as a judge or congressperson)?
Neither of these is a guarantee of wisdom or well-rounded knowledge, but either is a good sign that that a commentator may have something valuable to contribute.
 It's also a good idea to check whether a commentator has financial or political interests that could compromise his or her credibility. Commentators don't have to be objective, but they should be independent.


Years of experience in business or politics could be valuable. However, if a pundit comments on an organization or industry that employs (or recently employed) him or her, this could create a conflict of interest.A conflict of interest occurs when a person's personal or financial interests have the possibility to affect his or her professional judgement.This should be viewed with even more skepticism if the commentator has not revealed their ties to some relevant organization publicly.
 There are many sites on the internet that were created to check the accuracy of factual claims by the media and political figures. These sites can be useful in determining whether the commentator you are evaluating has a good record of factual accuracy or not.


Politifact is a popular, non-partisan fact-checking site that evaluates a wide range of political claims. They also have a special section specifically for the evaluation of commentators.Factcheck and Snopes are two other popular sites that evaluate a wide range of claims and rumors on the internet.There are also a number of "media watchdog" organizations like Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR) that do research on media issues and sometimes evaluate factual claims by pundits.There are many other fact-checking and "media watchdog" organizations, many of which seek to be even-handed in their analysis. Be aware however, that some have their own political agendas. This doesn't make their critiques wrong necessarily, but may mean their claims should be viewed with more skepticism.
 You don't need to rely on fact checking websites--you can do your own research. When a commentator makes a claim that seems questionable, you can go online and see whether the claim holds up. Make sure to check multiple sources to make an even handed evaluation.


If the commentator is a conservative, for instance, don't rely solely on conservative news outlets such as Fox News or conservative blogs.If the commentator is a liberal, don't rely solely on liberal news outlets like MSNBC or liberal blogs.Look for evidence as to whether or not the claim was true, not just statements by people supporting or opposing the pundit's claim.
Viewing news from multiple and diverse sources can help make you a better informed news consumer.