 Listening is an important part of a healthy relationship, especially if her mind works a little differently than yours does. Listen to how she feels, what her dreams are, and how she sees the world.
 Too much activity can overwhelm an autistic person, making it difficult for her to focus on your conversation. Try letting her choose the setting, or searching for the most peaceful place around.
 Every woman wants to feel appreciated and wanted. Notice her quirks and compliment her. Even something as simple as "Good morning, beautiful" could make her day.
 Your girlfriend is most likely an introvert, and she'll need alone time to recharge so she can have the energy to spend time with you.


She may need time to rest or stim after a difficult situation, such as a noisy building or family gathering.
There may be certain things she cannot handle, such as hugs from behind or kiss marks on her cheek (which she might wipe off—it's nothing against you personally!).
 Just as autistic people's behavior may be puzzling to you, non-autistic behavior can be puzzling to her! Offer your services as a translator when needed, and answer her questions about what the non-autistic people are trying to say.
 Passions hold a special place in an autistic person's heart, so find ways to support and share hers. See if her special interest overlaps with things you like, and share them together.
 Your girlfriend may not always understand social nuances, so she might do things that are socially inappropriate without realizing it. Talk to her if she came off as rude or cold; she probably didn't know what she was expected to do.


Talk to her gently, under the assumption that she didn't know what she did wrong. Many times autistic people don't realize that they've committed a social offence.
 Your girlfriend has plenty of strengths of her own. It's okay to be vulnerable, and to lean on her when you're struggling. Let her show you how much she cares.


In general, autistic people tend to be fair, logical, nonjudgmental, compassionate, and capable of thinking outside the box. Your girlfriend may be a fantastic problem solver.
 Let her see you at your best, your worst, and your silliest. Relationships work best when communication is open, and each partner feels comfortable sharing their truest self. Embrace your quirks just as you've embraced hers.
 Your girlfriend has a unique perspective, and as you spend more and more time with her, you'll experience her life. Work on listening, understanding, and trying things her way. You might be surprised at what you discover.

