 Many jobs require you to be a certain age, often 16, to work. But, sometimes you can find work like at your local grocery or hardware store.


Ask the manager at your grocery store to let you help bag. Don't ask for too much money, but be smart on how much you are asking for. You can start out by asking for $3-7 an hour. How much you earn depends on how comfortable the manager is with the idea.
Another potential way to make money is to be a lifeguard or park manager. Go to your local pool or park and ask if there are any positions available and what you need to do to get hired.
Lifeguards have to have special training and be certified. Make sure to get the right training, such as through Red Cross.It’s good to find out if your local pool or beach is hiring before getting certified. Ask your trainer for tips on landing a job.You can also contact your local park district to see if there are any summer park jobs that you can work. Sometimes these consist of overseeing weekly events for kids, or managing sporting events. During the winter, you may be able to monitor an ice rink.
If your parents own a business, you can see if your parents will let you work part-time. It may be easier than finding another job if you have less experience, or are still too young.
 If you have friends or neighbors who are going on vacation, ask to house sit.


Offer to water plants. Check that the house is secure and that things are working properly, such as pipes during winter and light bulbs on timers.
Ask older siblings to pay you to do their laundry or clean their room.
 Offer to pet sit for people you know so that the pet doesn’t have to go to a kennel, and your friends or neighbors don’t have to pay for one.


Depending on the pet, try charging around $4 per pet, per day. Make sure you know the pet(s) and the owner(s) well. Do this only if you know how to prevent accidents and what to do in an emergency.
Be confident that you have the skills to take care of a pet before taking on a job. Don’t ever forget to feed, let outside, and walk the pets. Make sure your parents know the duties you are asked to perform before taking the job.
Consider washing or grooming pets as well, or instead of pet-sitting.
 If you have a lot of people in your neighborhood with dogs, offer a dog walking service.


Make sure you know the people first. Charge $2-$5 depending on how far you walk the dogs and how often.
 Mowing lawns, raking leaves, and shoveling snow are great ways to earn some cash.


Since you are under 18 years of age, you’ll need your parent or a guardian to give you permission. Your parent may want to supervise your use of dangerous equipment.
Treat your services like a business and come up with advertising and a name for your yard services. Post flyers around the neighborhood advertising your services and a way to contact you. Ask your next door neighbors directly as well. you can also put flyers in mailboxes.
Providing your own equipment is best. But, you may find certain clients who already have equipment you can use.
Offer a fair price that’s related to the size of the lawn or driveway. Factor in how long it takes you to mow or shovel too.
For mowing lawns, set up a consistent day and time every week when you will come and mow the lawn. For shoveling, be able to get the job done in a timely manner after it snows.
 Hold a car wash in your neighborhood with other kids. Get together in a group and decide on a day to host the car wash. Then advertise by posting flyers around the neighborhood. You can also put flyers in your neighbor’s mailboxes. Only wash cars for people you know. And have an adult present to supervise.


Make sure you have the correct materials like sponges and soap suitable for car washing. Charge between $5-10, taking into account how dirty it is.
Be careful to not rub or spread any mud or dirt, or it may scratch the paint like liquid sandpaper. Hose mud and dirt and soak it off carefully.
Consider charging for washes according to car size. For example, $5 a small car, $7 a medium car and $10 a large car.
Ask for specific instructions on any special requirements that may need to be used for particular cars.
Rinse thoroughly. Don't allow soap or detergent to dry on the paint.

