 If you want to lighten your brown hair without bleach, you will need to purchase a high lift dye. This is the only kind of product that will actually lighten the pigment in your hair, rather than simply covering it up with another color. You can lift it four to five shades with this product, without the damage and irritation that can be caused by bleach. When you had head to the beauty supply store, look for boxes labeled “ash blonde.” These colors have toning agents in them to minimize orange pigments that can result from lightening brown hair. Unless you’re going for orange hair, the “ash” keyword is very important!It’s important to manage your expectations with this kind of product. If you are starting with dark brown hair, it will only lighten your hair to a lighter brown. If you are starting with very light brown hair, it can bring your hair to blonde.
High lift dyes only work on untouched, uncolored hair. If you already have dyed your hair, these won’t work until the previous dye has fully grown out.
Choose a reputable, salon-quality hair dye brand. The less expensive brands will not have the high lifting effects.
Check the box for any other products you will need to use in conjunction with your high lift dye, like peroxide, a mixing bowl, and a brush.;
, All high lift dyes will come with their own set of instructions, and it’s important to read the one for your specific product. Typically, high lift dyes need to be mixed with a 40 volume peroxide, which you can also find at your beauty supply store. Mix your dye and peroxide into your mixing bowl according to instructions., Depending on how thick your hair is and the look you want to achieve, your sectioning may differ. An easy method to ensure you dye all of your hair is to section it off into four sections. Divide your hair into a middle part, and then gather your hair into two pigtails on either side of your head. Then, split each pigtail into a top half and a bottom half so that you’re left with four sections.Using section is important to make sure you can efficiently apply your hair dye. By applying it quickly, you can make sure that it doesn’t sit for significantly longer on certain sections, which can create uneven tones in your hair.
 Go through each section, brushing your mixed hair dye onto your hair. It’s easiest to do the top of each section first, then move downwards through the section. After you’ve gone through each section and applied your dye, use a mirror to ensure that you’ve covered all of your hair. Check your instructions to see how long you should let the hair dye sit on your hair for.The waiting time can differ from person to person, depending on your starting color and the color you want to achieve. It’s helpful to check your color every five to ten minutes, making sure the color is processing to your liking.
 Once your waiting time is up, or you’ve arrived at a shade you are pleased with, it’s time to rinse out the dye. You can certainly use your favorite every day shampoo or conditioner, however it may be helpful to use a purple shampoo. Purple shampoos can be bought at most pharmacies and beauty supply stores, and they help to neutralize the brassy tones in lightened hair.If you notice orange tones, which are common when lightening brown hair, you can let the purple shampoo sit in your hair for a while to tone these pieces, softening the brassy shades.
To understand purple shampoos, look no further than the color wheel. Purple sits opposite yellow on the wheel. When your hair has brassy, yellow tones in it, the purple shampoo helps to tone and balance them out.
 While you avoided using a bleaching kit on your hair to achieve your lighter color, it’s important to recognize that lifting your hair color can still damage it. Try to minimize additional damage by being gentle on your hair. Always use heat protectants when you style it with hot tools. Treat your hair to a weekly deep conditioning treatment to give it a boost of hydration. After showers, spritz your hair with a leave-in strengthening product.