


Ideal aquarium size is a minimum 20 gallons for one and an additional 10 gallons for each additional Axolotl. Floor space is more important that height.
Lids are a must-have, as axolotl are known to jump out of their tanks.
A light is not needed, as axolotls are nocturnal. Bright lights or heat lamps can stress them out.;
,


Technically, a filter is not required in an axolotl tank. However, as axolotls produce large amounts of waste and ammonia, the water needs to be changed quite frequently (which can be stressful to sensitive axolotls).
As for filter options, owners can choose between under-the-gravel, internal power, external power, and canister types. Canister types are the best, but most expensive. The best option for a new owner is probably the exterior power, or "fish-tank filter.
Axolotls are sensitive to water flow, and are stressed by excess water-flow. If you can't get a spray bar, block the water flow with plants or other decorations.



Though some owners leave the bottom of their axolotl tanks bare to make cleaning easier, axolotls find it difficult to grip the glass bottom. This can stress out the axolotls.
Axolotls have a nasty habit of swallowing gravel. This causes them to choke and die. If you must go with gravel, select rocks larger than their heads.
Another popular option is fine sand. The sand can pass through their digestive tracks safely, and still allows them to grip.



Be sure to provide axolotls with hiding spots, such as flower pots or caves. Axolotls can be extremely shy, and stress easily., especially in new environments.
Provide a few soft and smooth plants for the axolotls to rest on.
 Be prepared to spend the time to prepare the ecosystem for your axolotls). It can take one to six weeks (depending on your method), but properly cycling the aquarium is vital in order to ensure your axolotls' health.
For small, one to two axolotl aquariums, simply fill the tank with de-chlorinated water and let it sit for one to two weeks. It's best to acquire ammonia, pH, nitrite, and nitrate test kits to test the levels as you go. This ensure the healthiest environment possible for your axolotl.
For large aquarium with many axolotls and/or other animals, be sure to slowly add in the animals, (a few every 2 or 3 weeks) to allow the tank build up the proper levels for the increasing number of residents.
 As for the arrangement of the decorations, most of it is up to you.


Placing plants under the filter can help to diminish the water-current. However, they will gather algae quicker.
Keep in mind that axolotls spend most of their time resting on the bottom of their tank.
Be sure the set-up provides plenty of easily accessible places for your axolotl to hide from you and any unwanted light.
,, Take your time with this step, as it gives your axolotl time to adjust to the new temperature and bacteria levels.
,


Leave the lights off.
Don't try to interact with your axolotl for a bit, however tempting.
Keep an eye on your new pet to make sure they stay healthy.
