 If you find that they are camera shy or don't like to pose, opt for natural shots. Someone washing dishes, folding laundry or reading a book are all scenes that can be captured in various formats and using different techniques.;
, This is always a good forum if your objective is to get into wedding photography. Family events allow you to capture action shots with people dancing or playing a sport.
 Incorporate as many angles as possible, from the individual player to a team, from the bleachers and from the side line. You can also take pictures of spectators cheering or booing, the coach in the middle of prepping the team or team members looking defeated on the bench. Sporting events offer a culmination of actions and emotions to take advantage of.
 Whether you take pictures of trees turning color or the outside of a convenience store, every shot is an opportunity to learn. Color, distance, lighting, mood and movement are just a few elements that require good technique; and good technique is often developed with experience.
 Contact a nightclub and suggest that you take some pictures. Offer your best shots to them for promotional use, but let them know that you will be using them yourself in a portfolio. Club shots are great for action photography, including dancing. Additionally, you will be given a great opportunity to play with lighting. Clubs are usually dark with colorful disco lighting, creating a forum that will challenge your photography skills.
 Sometimes, they prefer news reporters to provide their own photos, but you can take pictures of local events and see if the editor is interested in them. Attend local newsworthy events and activities, and get some press photography experience there.
 Don't offer your services as the main photographer unless you are comfortable doing so. Instead, offer yourself as a second photographer and ask for the same access to her and the groom as the main photographer. Another option is to assist a professional wedding photographer. Not only will this opportunity allow you to gain photography practice in wedding photography, but it allows you to watch a wedding photographer at work.

