 The key to managing the anxiety that occurs with panic disorder and leading a normal life is seeking professional treatment. The good news is that this disorder is highly treatable; the unfortunate news is that it can often be misdiagnosed.Talk to your doctor about what is going on so she can rule out another physical issue that may be causing your attacks, then ask for a referral to a mental health professional who deals specifically with anxiety and panic disorders.Types of therapy that may help include:Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). This is particularly helpful in treating panic disorder and is the preferred method of treatment. CBT is directed at identifying deeply rooted thought and behavioral patterns that affect your anxiety and teaching you more adaptive ways of viewing the world and coping with stress.
Exposure therapy. Your therapist will guide you in identifying the source of your fears and developing a gradual plan to gain exposure to the source.
Acceptance and commitment therapy. This form of therapy uses methods of acceptance and mindfulness to overcome anxiety and cope with stress.
Dialectical behavior therapy. This treatment approach is derived from principles in Eastern medicine. Through a combination of mindfulness, emotional regulation and distress tolerance strategies as well as interpersonal skills training, patients become better equipped to handle anxiety.
 In some cases, medication may be appropriate, especially if you are experiencing a side effect like depression.Antidepressants and anti-anxiety medications are the most commonly prescribed for panic disorder.Side effects of antidepressants may include headache, nausea, or difficulty sleeping.Talk to your doctor if you experience any side effects.
The first line of treatment for most people lies with selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), or venlafaxine.
Antidepressants can sometimes cause suicidal thoughts or even suicide attempts, especially in children and teenagers. It is important to closely monitor anyone taking antidepressants, especially when they first begin treatment.Though uncommon, your doctor may also prescribe beta-blockers, which may help control physical symptoms.Regardless of the drug prescribed, psychiatrists still suggest dual treatment with cognitive-behavioral interventions.
 Panic attacks often arrive suddenly, and seemingly from out of nowhere — they can even occur while you are asleep.Experiencing panic attacks may eventually lead to the development of panic disorder, where you fear the attack itself rather than whatever may have initially caused your panic attacks. These are known as triggers, and the simple act of identifying them and realizing they are independent of the panic attack can cause them to lose their power.Your therapist can help you identify your triggers.Things that may trigger your initial anxiety attacks include:

Financial problems
Work
Health concerns
Tumultuous relationships
Big decisions
Bad news
Anxious thoughts or memories
Loneliness
Places or people that represent traumatic events


Things that may trigger an anxiety attack related to panic disorder include:Chronic stress
Separation or loss
Places where you have had a previous attack
Increased heartbeat or other symptoms that are physically reminiscent of what happens to your body during an attack



, With the help of your therapist, you can begin to challenge your triggers, including physical triggers. There are different types of exposure therapy your therapist may wish to try.


With interoceptive exposure, your therapist can guide you through the symptoms of an attack in a safe, controlled setting. You will learn that these symptoms (like increased heart rate, sweating, etc.) do not mean an attack is imminent or unavoidable.For instance, you may be instructed to run in place to elevate your heart rate to demonstrate that this is a harmless physical sensation that occurs independent of a panic attack.In vivo exposure breaks fearful situations down into small, manageable steps and, beginning with the least-threatening scenario, you face those situations one at a time., Your thinking may be at the root of your anxiety. Your therapist will help you identify cognitive distortions at play in your everyday thinking. Then, examine what evidence there is for or against this way of thinking. When you learn to pinpoint these thoughts, try to replace them with healthier, more realistic ways of thinking. Cognitive distortions associated with anxiety are:Black and white thinking (also known as all-or-nothing thinking): "If I my child does not make good grades and excel in school, I am a failure as a mother."
Over-generalization: "Peter is upset with me because I didn't return his call. He'll never talk to me again."
Catastrophizing: "My anxiety is flaring up. Oh, no! The whole room is going to stare at me! I'm going to be so embarrassed! I'll never be able to show my face here again!"
Jumping to conclusions: "Jessica didn't speak to me in the restaurant. She must hate me."
Emotional reasoning: "I feel like a loser because I don't have a job, so I must be one."

, Mantras are sounds or phrases that create positive reverberations in your spirit, according to Sanskrit. This phrase is spoken aloud onto the universe and, when you say it, the goal is to focus on fully becoming what the words imply.To successfully replace negative thoughts with positive thinking, you must first do the work of challenging negative thinking and discovering your triggers, as described above. Disproving your negative thoughts can chip away at those negative beliefs, giving you space to start believing positive messages about yourself.


You can wake up each morning and repeat this phrase as you prepare for the day or as you look at yourself in the mirror. Whenever you feel stress mounting, count on your mantra to calm and center you.
Try something like: Anxiety is not dangerous. It is only uncomfortable.


