 Having your own version of a popular TV game shows or quiz shows can be great way to make testing fun for you and your class. You will have to think of your favourite shows, and which ones you could translate into your classroom. There are a number of templates that have been created and uploaded onto the internet as teaching aids. You can download and use these templates, and adapt them to suit your needs.Popular shows like “Jeopardy”, “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire” and “The Weakest Link” are just a few of the options you could go for.
You can search online for a model for a specific game show, or visit a site that has a few different examples for you to try out.These games will typically run on PowerPoint, so they are easy to introduce to the classroom.
You could also use these games as a study aid when you are working at home.;
, If you are more into sports than game shows, you can use a variety of sports-based games to make your testing and studying more fun and engaging. There are games you can access online related to basketball, football, and baseball amongst others.Sports games generally work by quizzing each team, with points being scored for correct answers.


For example, one PowerPoint basketball game works by allowing a shot for each correct answer.
The game will keep track of the scores for each team., There are all sorts of new games to play in class that involve computers, but sometimes the traditional games can be the best. If you are trying to learn vocabulary for a foreign language, try playing Hangman or Pictionary. These are easy games that the whole class can participate in.You could introduce a rule in Hangman whereby you have a get a question right before you can guess a letter.
You could play these games as a whole class, or split up into smaller groups.
Working in smaller groups might make it easier to ensure that everyone gets involved and participates.
 You can use classic board games to make testing more fun. Pick straightforward games, such as snakes and ladders, rather than a more complicated game. To turn the game into a test or study aid, have a series of questions or tasks that must be completed in order to move forward.


For example, if you were playing snakes and ladders you would be asked a question by the teacher before you could roll the dice.
You could split the class into a few teams and have a prize for the team that gets to the end of the board first.
The smaller the groups, the more questions each person will have to answer.
 Sometimes a quiz or test can be more fun and engaging if the students themselves are coming up with and asking the questions. One way to do this is to split the class into two groups, and give them a short time to think of a certain number of questions on a set topic.


Each group then takes it in turns to ask the other group of a question.
For every incorrect answer, the team loses one of their members.
The team with the last remaining member wins.