 Although you already know that you want to learn on an acoustic guitar, there are still other things to take into consideration. Look for the best size and price for your lifestyle. Avoid buying budget acoustic guitars, as they are typically made poorly and are very difficult to play. Typically, look for guitars that cost, at least, $300. These are better quality and have a better sound than cheap guitars.









Find a guitar with a low action. The action is the distance from the strings to the neck of the guitar. A high action means you have to press down harder on the strings which can be painful and difficult for beginners. Finding a guitar with a low action will make it easier and more comfortable to play.
Always buy wooden acoustic guitars. Although you can sometimes find acoustic guitars that are made of a composite material, their sound isn’t as good as classic wood acoustics.
Avoid a ¾ size guitar, even if you or your hands seem very small. The sound this size of guitar creates is not as good as a full size, and with practice even a very small person or child can play a full sized guitar.
If you are left-handed, be sure to purchase a special left-handed guitar. Otherwise, the strings will all be in reverse order for you.
Don’t be afraid to use an old or used guitar instead of buying new. As long as the guitar is in good condition and makes a good sound, there is no problem playing a used instrument. Many people think they sound better, even.;
, Before you start playing, it is important that you understand all the basic parts of a guitar. While the "body," the big rounded base of the guitar, is obvious, knowing the other parts makes playing much easier.









The neck of the guitar is the long narrow part of the guitar where you can find the strings. It is on the bottom, with the fingerboard (or sometimes called the fretboard) on top. The flat place you hold the strings to is the fingerboard.
The headstock is the wooden piece at the end of the neck where the tuners are located. This is where the strings end.
The fret wires are thin metal strips that go across the fingerboard. A fret is the space between two fret-wires. The first fret is the one closest to the headstock, and they count up as you move towards the body of the guitar.
The bridge is the small metal or plastic bit on the body of the guitar that the strings attach to. Right next to the sound hole. This is where you begin if you need to put new strings on your guitar.
 The thickest, lowest-sounding string is low-E. This is the 6th string. Then, moving away from low-E, the strings go A, D, G, B, and high-E. You can remember these strings with the mnemonic, "Eddie Ate Dynamite, Good Bye Eddie."









Note how the highest string, the thick E, is the 6th string. The strings on the guitar count upwards, meaning the bottom string (the thinnest one) is the 1st string.
 Before you start to play, you need to make sure your guitar is in tune. If it is not, then your music won’t sound good. Even if you buy a brand new guitar, you should always make sure it is in tune.









To tune the guitar, twist the tuner knobs on the headboard of the guitar. These work to make a string tighter or looser which changes the sound.
Always start tuning your guitar from the lowest note and work your way to the highest. Because the thicker a string is, the less likely it will go out of tune, you should always start with low-E. Buy an electric tuner to help you find the right notes. These work by listening to the sound a string makes and telling you if the note is flat or sharp.
Without a tuner, you can tune your guitar using a piano or keyboard. These instruments stay in tune for many years and are a reliable way to match tone. Play the same key on the piano as the string you are trying to tune, and twist the tuner until the plucked string makes the same sound as the piano key. Humming along may help. , Once you’ve gotten your guitar all settled, put your body in the right position for playing. If you are just beginning, you will probably find it easier to sit rather than stand and play.









Rest the guitar on your strumming knee. If you are right-handed, this will be your right knee. You may find it helpful to raise your toes off the ground a bit to get the guitar at the right height.
Hold the neck of the guitar so that it rests on your thumb and your fingers wrap around to the top of the fingerboard.
Keep your shoulders, elbows, and wrists relaxed. Your elbow should be in towards your body.

