 If you weight 150lbs, you should be able to squat 225lbs for 1 repetition).
You should not be grossly overweight. If you are, it is recommended you lose a bit of weight to put less pressure on your joints.;
,, It is important to be well rested before performing them.
 One high impact/intensity exercise is more than enough per workout. Here's a list of some of the most effective exercises with their impact levels:


Depth Jumps: This is a jump performed upon reaching the ground after the athlete steps off a platform or a box. Impact Level: High.






Altitude Drops: Use a high box (~20% higher than your standing vertical jump) and step off of it. Attempt to absorb the impact when you land while making sure you bend the knees as little as possible and staying mostly on your toes. Impact Level: High.






Box Jumps: stand in front of a box then jump on it, then step off. This can also be done unilaterally. Low impact but high intensity.






Reactive Squats: Start similarly to squats w/ 20-50% of your max squat weight. From the standing position, drop quickly down into a deep squat position and then quickly reverse direction. Impact Level: Medium.






Jump Squats: Use 30-60% of your squat weight. Do a quarter squat then jump up. Impact Level: Medium.
 For medium impact, limit each set to 8-10 repetitions. Make sure to rest well between each set.
 High impact exercises should be limited to 1 during a training phase, you should be mentally and physically prepared, you should have at least 1-day of rest between workouts that include plyometric exercises. An example program would be the following:


Warm up: Some light cardio and dynamic stretching to prepare your body.






Power Skipping: 3 Sets, each for ~25 meters or ~25 yards. 90 seconds rest between sets.






Depth Jumps: 4 Sets of 5 Repetitions. 3 minutes of rest between sets.
Box Jumps: 3 Sets of 6 repetitions. 2 minutes of rest between sets.
Leapfrog Jumps: 3 Sets, each for ~25 meters of ~25 years. 60 seconds rest between sets.







