 It may also be accompanied by dryness or a scratchy feeling, and a hoarse or muffled voice. Some people experience sore, swollen glands in the neck or jaw. If you still have your tonsils, they may appear swollen or red, or have white patches or pus on them.
 You should also look for the symptoms of infection that may accompany your sore throat. These can include:


Fever
Chills
Coughing
Runny nose
Sneezing
Body aches
Headache
Nausea or vomiting

, If the pain is excessive or lingers, though, you should consider seeing a physician for a physical exam. The doctor will look at your throat, listen to your breathing, and take a throat swab for a rapid strep test. While the swab is painless, it can be slightly uncomfortable if it causes a gag reflex.The sample taken from your throat swab will be sent to a lab to figure out the cause of the infection. Once the virus or bacteria causing your throat pain is determined, the doctor can advise you on treatment.


Medications that are used to treat a sore throat caused by bacteria include penicillin, amoxicillin, and ampicillin.
The doctor may also order a CBC (complete blood count) or test your for allergies.
 Children, though, should always be checked out by a doctor if a sore throat doesn't go away with a drink of water in the morning. You should call your doctor immediately if your child has trouble breathing or swallowing. Unusual drooling accompanied by a sore throat should also be examined as soon as possible. Adults are better at gauging whether they need medical attention. You can wait it out at home for a few days, but see a doctor if you experience:A sore throat that lasts longer than a week or seems severe
Any difficulty swallowing
Any difficulty breathing
Any difficulty in opening your mouth or pain in the jaw joint
Joint pain, especially new pains
Earache
Any rash
A fever higher than 101 F (38.3 C)
Any blood in your saliva or phlegm
Frequently recurring sore throats
A lump or mass in your neck
Hoarseness that lasts more than two weeks

