 A friend, family member, or close acquaintance should suffice.;
, When talking, you don't want to be interrupted by surrounding noise. Because of this, choose proper times for sitting outside so the noises of cars and birds will not overwhelm you. If you choose to stay inside, remember to have a private setting for the conversation and have a chair/seat that is comfortable so you won't be interrupted by awkward pain.
 As long as you don't focus on yourself and brag, any topic could be good. If you have any difficulties expressing feelings, you should inform the other person. A conversation like this one is a great opportunity to confess anything wrong that you have done or any secrets that you hold.
 A lying tongue is one of the most reviled characteristics that anyone can have in almost all cultures, and it is condemned by most philosophers as a vice. Many an argument will end with one person exaggerating, being hostile/defensive, or showing unnecessary anger only for that person to be proved wrong. Don't let this be you; avoid letting your emotions take you over.
 True confessions of deeply-held feelings can be painful, but no matter how staggering, keep your cool.
 Unless your culture condemns it in certain situations, try to look directly into the other person's eyes, because this builds trust.The eyes are truly the window to the soul, and your sincerity can be confirmed by your trustworthy expression. Avoid sending mixed messages by speaking seriously while having a playful or non-caring expression.
 Mumbling is a sign of covert anger, resentment, disrespect, or sadness. If you feel awkward in the discussion, say so without resorting to mumbling; it is better to avoid any confusion.
 If there is a television playing in the background, turn it off if you know that you can't focus with it on. Put away your cell phone, and for goodness sakes, do not wear earphones of any kind while the other person is talking. Eliminating these distractions should help you focus.
 The general tendency of most people is to keep thinking of what they have to say when the other person is talking. Try to genuinely understand what the other person is trying to communicate. That will make the conversation a "conversation" and prevent you from interrupting too much and boring the other person.

