 Before shopping for a Moroccan carpet, measure the room or area where the rug will be displayed. The measurements typically should allow for a border of flooring to show along the outside perimeter of the rug.


Consider several different sizes for each room. Areas like entryways, hallways and dining rooms may not allow flexibility with sizing. However, bedrooms and living rooms usually allow you to consider several Moroccan carpet sizes based on various furniture arrangements in the rooms. The greater the range of possible rug sizes, the more choices you will have when purchasing a hand-woven carpet.;
, Moroccan carpets typically are classified as either urban rugs or rural rugs.


Consider urban rugs for sophisticated weaving patterns influenced by trade exchange with Mediterranean vendors. Urban rugs, like those from Rabat, have a stiff backing and are usually woven with wool and cotton yarn. Urban rugs often contain animal or floral designs, and feature large central areas with decorative woven medallions. Urban rugs can be custom-ordered in specific designs, colors and sizes.
Consider rural rugs for carpets woven as expressions of Moroccan tribal tradition. Rural rugs are usually made in the Marrakech and Atlas Mountain regions. Because these areas had little exposure to Mediterranean influences, the weaving designs represent authentic Moroccan traditions. Rural rugs have no backing, and the back of the rug displays the intricate knotting and weaving of the carpet. Possessing a tribal look, the design, colors and motifs of rural rugs are chosen by each artisan. The textures and weaving materials of the rugs vary by region; and can feature high pile, loosely knotted wool weaves in colder climates, or low pile, tightly knotted cotton weaves in warmer climates. Typically, rural rugs can not be custom ordered because they are woven according to family or regional tradition.
 Moroccan rugs are available in a wide range of prices, from a few hundred dollars to several thousand dollars. Factors like the rug size and weaving materials affect the price. Urban rugs usually are more expensive than rural rugs.

