 Perhaps the most important part of training any dog, but especially pit bulls, is socialization. Start when your dog is a puppy for the best results, but a dog of any age can be socialized. Take your pit bull out so it can interact with other dogs and people. This will keep your dog friendly, as it will be used to other animals.


Many people recommend that you enroll your puppy pit bull in a puppy training class after he reaches six months. The right class can help him get accustomed to other dogs and to learn how to behave.
 Some pit bulls will simply not ever get along with other dogs, while others may be very friendly. It's important to know your dog's personality and to avoid forcing him to socialize with other dogs. But if you do think he's ready and willing to meet other dogs, try the following:


Introduce the dogs by walking them in a parallel direction with their leashes on, choosing a neutral territory so neither of them gets territorial.
Continue to walk the dogs a few feet apart, alternating between which dog is in the lead.
Don't let your dog run up to other dogs if he gets excited -- you're in control of his socializing.
If both dogs still have their leashes, make sure not to tangle them, or this can cause a fight.
 If the initial introduction worked well and the dogs seemed to get along, let them briefly sniff each other while standing perpendicularly to each other so that they still don't see each other head on. If either dog stiffens or stands up on his toes, pull the dogs apart before anything goes wrong.


You may have to take many walks before you can go past the introduction stage.
 If sniffing goes well, let your dog hang out in a fenced area with another dog. Let the dogs play with one dog on a leash and the other off the leash. The newer dog should be leashed and the fenced area shouldn't have too many items that can cause a fight, like bones or exciting toys. If the dogs are comfortable in this environment, take off their leashes and make sure that each owner stays near the dog to keep him in line.


Make sure to keep the dogs in an enclosed area throughout the encounter.
Keep around a squirt bottle to use on your dog in case things get out of line.
Don't let two pit bulls play together without full supervision. You never know what can happen.
 If your dog gets too excited around other dogs in off-leash situations, you should be able to pull him away before the excitement starts. Let's say you notice that it takes about 20 minutes for your dog to get too excited around other dogs. If that's the case, then pull him away after 10 or 15 minutes to avoid a conflict.


And if your dog is always excited around other dogs in an off-leash situation, or just has proven not to enjoy the company of other dogs, it's better to let him have his space than to force him to spend time with other dogs when he doesn't enjoy it.
 Your pit bull should trust you and should be trained and comfortable with following directions before you introduce him a child. If you introduce him to a child too early, he may indeed attack him. Therefore, wait to introduce him to children until you're confident that he knows right from wrong.


Pit bulls are actually known for loving children -- don't think that all pit bulls are mean to little kids.
Unfortunately, if you spend a lot of time with children and can't get your pit bull ready to get along with them, then you will have to find a new owner.
 If you want your pit bull to be able to get along with strangers, he has to earn your trust first. After that, if you invite strangers into your home, you need to tell them how to act to avoid upsetting your dog. The strangers should not approach the dog, touch the dog, or make eye contact with the dog. Instead, they should walk in slowly, and, in a sense, "ignore" the dog, which will give him time to smell them, to touch them, and to get used to their presence.


Once the dog is comfortable with the stranger, then they can slowly try to get closer to him.

