 Bootable antiviruses are anti-malware applications that can be installed and run on an external storage like a flash drive or a CD.


Links for common bootable antivirus applications used can be found on the “Sources and Citations” section at the end of this guide. All you need to do is to click the “Download” button from your chosen link to get the installer.
Assuming that the ransomware has already blocked your access to your own computer, you may need to download and install the bootable antivirus on a different PC.;
, Connect the external media where you want to install the antivirus and click the downloaded file, the antivirus will start installing itself on your preferred external media.


Depending on the application you downloaded, you can install the bootable antivirus on a CD or a flash drive, but it’s advisable that you use the latter for easier access because not all PCs have disc drive (like netbooks).
 Once the antivirus has been successfully installed, safely unplug the flash drive from the USB port or remove the CD from the disc drive.
 Since you can’t shut off your computer normally, press and hold the power button up until the CPU shuts down.
 Press the Power button once again to turn on your computer and as soon as the CPU lights up, press the F8 button on your keyboard and keep doing so until the “Advance Boot Option” appears on your screen.
 Use the arrow keys on your keyboard to scroll down and select “Safe Mode with Networking” from the list of boot options. Press the Enter key on the keyboard and your computer will restart.


What Safe mode does is that it allows your computer to run using only the most basic and necessary program without using third-party applications, including the viruses. This way, any malware that may exist in your PC will stay inactive and can be easily removed.
 Plug in the flash drive into the USB port or place the CD in the disc drive that contains the bootable antivirus application.
 Once the external storage has been detected, open My Computer and run the antivirus inside the bootable media. The application should begin scanning for any viruses or ransomware that may be in your computer system.
 Once the antivirus application finishes scanning, click the “Delete” button of the antivirus to permanently remove the malware from your computer.
 Click the “Start/Orb” button on the bottom left corner of the screen and select the “Restart” button to reboot the computer.


If you can now access your computer again normally (without going into safe mode), it means that the ransomware has been successfully deleted.

