 Lie down on a comfortable surface such as your bed or your couch. If there is no comfortable surface to lie upon, then try sitting in a relaxed position.









Make sure that the room is quiet and comfortable. If your view from your window is chaotic, then close your curtains or your blinds.
Relax your muscles. Stay in this position and allow your heart rate to slow at its own pace.
 Calm your mind and body by using guided visualization and imagining places that make you happy. For instance, you can think about a beautiful mural, a scene from nature, or a daydream that you would find relaxing.









Find a print or a photo of something that makes you feel relaxed. You can sit on your bed in a meditative posture and gaze at the picture to try to calm your mind and body.
Write in a journal about a place you love to visit or a place in which you feel very at peace. Then, close your journal and picture the place in your mind, allowing the calm to wash over you.
 Place your internal focus on the beating of your heart. Try to use the power of your concentration to slow down your heart rate.
 Try some of these techniques to use breathing to calm your heart rate:










Abdominal breathing: While you're sitting down, place your hand over your stomach just below your ribcage. Inhale through your nose, allowing your belly to move your hand out while your chest stays still. Then, exhale through pursed lips as though you were whistling, using your hand to push the air out of your belly. Repeat as often as needed.Alternate nostril breathing: Start inhaling through your left nostril, pushing your right nostril closed with your thumb, over a count of 4. Close both nostrils and hold your breath for 16 counts. Exhale out of the right nostril for 8 counts, and then inhale through the right nostril for 4 counts. Hold your breath for another 16 seconds, and exhale through your left nostril for 8 counts. Yoga practitioners believe this brings both sides of your brain into balance and calms your mind and body., Getting a regular massage or reflexology treatment may lower your heart rate by as much as 8 bpm. Pay to have a professional massage, or have a loved one perform a massage on you.








