 Instead of leaving early the first day you have off from work and returning late the night before you have to go back to work, consider leaving and returning a day earlier. You will have less time at your destination, but you will not have to rush, and will be able to enjoy your vacation more.


You do not have to leave a full day later or a full day sooner. Even considering the time of day you will leave or return can make a big difference. , Our laptops, smartphones and other devices are often associated with work. When on vacation, leave them behind whenever possible. Try not to check your work e-mail, and check your personal e-mail only rarely.


At night, keep screens off and phones away from the bedside. The light from devices can throw off your sleep cycles. , Your vacation should not be a checklist, but rather an experience. It is easy to let your vacation become like work. Try to deliberately schedule fewer things than you have time for, and then spend more time on them.


Take the time to do one thing per day and enjoy it, instead of rushing around to several attractions just to have seen them. , That experience begins with the planning and continues after the vacation is over when you remember it. Studies show that a lot of happiness comes from planning vacations, so let yourself enjoy the anticipation.


Studies also show that experiences tend to lead to more happiness than material things. Focus less time on getting the photos and souvenirs. Instead, focus on being in the moment an experiencing things., While it can be tempting to tweet, share photos on facebook, and otherwise keep in touch with your friends, it can quickly turn into an exhausting task. Put down your devices and avoid social media until you return. There will be plenty of time to show off those photos later.


This will also help you avoid instances where social media overlaps with work, and therefore brings you back into the work world.
Consider destinations that do not have good cellular service, data connectivity, and internet access. Although it can feel odd to be disconnected, it also helps you relax. , Vacations are a great chance to try something new. Try something you can’t normally do where you live, like water skiing. Doing something entirely new can help you break out of your normal routine and embrace the moment.


You do not need to try things well outside your comfort zone. Instead, choose something that sounds enjoyable and fun. You don’t need to push yourself. Just do something new. 