 When you're used to either running indoors or during colder weather, the shock of a super hot and humid day can be tough on your body. Avoid this stress and get yourself acclimated to the summer heat.


When it gets closer to summer, you'll have a few really hot days pop up all of a sudden. Instead of going for a long run or doing speed work on these days, do an easier workout.
When you start noticing it's getting hot on a regular basis, start planning to get yourself acclimated to the new temperatures. This means you'll need to plan some shorter or easier workouts.It usually takes just two to three weeks for your body to get acclimated to this warmer weather. During those weeks, take time off from overly long runs, speed work or interval training.
Instead, focus on doing shorter runs, slower runs and even tempo runs. That way you're not pushing your maximum effort.;
, Plan your runs during cooler parts of the day. This will help you enjoy your daily run outdoors but keep you a little safer by avoiding the hottest parts of the day.


In general, the hottest part of the day is from about 10 am to 3 pm. During the summer months, avoid running during this time frame.The cooler parts of the day are generally early in the morning or after the sun sets in the evening. The heat of the sun's rays aren't as strong during this time.
If you normally run in the middle of the day, consider switching your routine so you can run either earlier in the morning or later in the evening. Try getting up earlier or saving your run for after dinner.
Also try to find a path that's shaded and out of the sun. Even if you do run in the mornings or evenings, shade keeps the air around you a little cooler.
 Another option to keep you safe during the summer is running inside. Although it might not be as enjoyable stuck on a treadmill or indoor track, its a bit safer on summer's hottest days.


If you run indoors, you can be almost guaranteed that the temperature will be cooler and much safer for you.
If you are training for a race or cannot miss your run for another reason, consider exercising indoors. You'll be able to keep up with you training schedule without running the risk of heat related illnesses.
Try to find a local gym with treadmills or a school or sports facility that has an indoor track. You can use either option to train and run indoors on days that are just too hot.
 Another item to keep in mind when running in the summer months is your pace. Don't be surprised if you find your normal runs are taking you a little longer than normal.


It's normal that as the temperature rises, your pace naturally slows down. When the temperature is above 55°F (13°C), your pace slows about 1-3% for every 10 degrees it rises.On a day when the temperature is in the 80s or higher (or high 20s or 30s if you go by Celsius), you might notice a significant difference in your time and pace.
Don't sweat that your runs are taking longer. And don't try to push yourself to go faster or farther. This is a natural compensation by your body and you should abide by its needs to take it a little slower.
 Hydration is of course imperative when you're running outdoors in the summer heat; however, it's not only about drinking water during your run. Keep hydrated all day for safe runs.


Before you even go out on your run during the summer months, you need to check your hydration status. It's not recommended to go out on a hot day for a run if you're already dehydrated.
If your urine is light to pale yellow, that means you're well hydrated. If it's dark yellow or tea colored, you're dehydrated.During your run, even short runs, you should carry a water bottle with you. The extra heat will require you to drink even during shorter runs.
On longer runs or runs where you're doing speed work, you may need to bring a sports drink or electrolyte beverage to stay hydrated.
After your run, you also need to refuel with liquids. Most health professionals say to let thirst guide you at this point. Drink until you feel satisfied.
 Even if you're a great athlete, you should still talk to your doctor about running during the summer months if you experience trouble breathing or other health conditions. Your doctor can can advise you as to what you should and shouldn't be doing.If you have a trainer or physical therapist, he will be well-versed in how to stay safe and hydrated during the summer months.


Talk to your doctor or trainer about your normal running schedule and routine. Ask how the heat might affect your personal health and ability to run.
Talk to your trainer about any advice she may have regarding how you should properly hydrate before, during and after your runs.
If you have a medical condition, your doctor may advise running indoors until the air quality or temperature are more appropriate for your health and body.
 Although many of summer's days can be pretty hot and/or humid, there is some variability to the weather. Keep an eye out for cooler and hotter days and plan your exercise accordingly.If you enjoy running outside, it's imperative that you pay attention to the weather forecast during the summer months (and even in very cold temperatures).
Some days it's extremely hot and there are advisories to stay indoors and not exercise outside. Other days are unusually cool and are great days to run outside.
Watch the news regularly, download a weather app, or check online to see what the next few days will be like. Plan rest days or indoor activities on days that will be overly hot and try to plan longer or harder runs on cooler days during the week.
Keep an eye on smog as well. In some cities, there are days in which smog can be an issue when it comes to the breathability of the air.
 Whether you're running, walking or biking outside, wearing the appropriate clothing can help keep you comfortable and safe.


Most health professionals will recommend that you wear light-colored clothing. White, pastels and neon colors reflect the sunlight that hits your body. Darker colors like black, brown or navy blue absorb the sun's rays and may make you feel hotter.Also, wear lightweight clothing. Heavy clothing like sweat pants, sweat shirts (even cut offs) may be too heavy and cause your body to overheat at the core.
Many athletic brands sell clothes that are specifically designed for hot weather. They're lightweight, light-colored and wick sweat away from your body.
 Regardless of how careful you are, there's always a risk for heat injury if you're exercising out in the summer heat. To make sure you address any issues quickly, listen and pay attention to your body.


There are a variety of side effects that can crop up when you overdo it on exercise in the heat. You can experience heat cramps, heat exhaustion, heat stroke and heat related fainting.
Signs and symptoms that you need to slow down and cool off include: cramps, nausea, vomiting, weakness, increased fatigue, headache, dizziness, confusion, irritability, low blood pressure, vision problems and elevated heart rate.Signs of heat stroke: feeling cool, clammy, or chilled; plus any or all of the symptoms above; and a higher-than-normal body temperature.
If you notice any of these symptoms, stop exercising immediately and seek medical attention. Drink cold fluids and get out of the heat. You may need to have someone with you to monitor your symptoms.
 Although running is a great cardiovascular exercise, incorporating some other exercises can help keep you in shape and keep you cool. Swimming is a great exercise to try during the summer as many pools are open.


You can either use an outdoor pool or go to a fitness center to use an indoor pool.
The water in the pool will help keep your body at a cooler temperature, while still allowing you to get in a good workout.You can try a variety of exercises in the pool. These include: water aerobics, swimming laps, water walking and even aqua Zumba.
 Just like the pool, the beach also offers a huge variety of exercises you can do. You'll be able to enjoy a cool beach breeze, great scenery and keep yourself in shape.


The beach offers you both the water and the sand as options for exercise. However, regardless of what choice you make, the breeze or water can keep your body a little cooler.
If you want to jump in the water, you can do laps, go surfing, or even use a skim board to work up a sweat.
If you want to skip the water, go for a walk, a slow jog or a bike ride on the sand.
 Another option for a cooler outdoor workout is going for a bike ride. Even in hotter temperatures, you can ride your bike and get a little breeze, keeping your body cooler.


Bike riding is a great aerobic exercise. It's easy on your joints and muscles, but still allows you to work up a sweat.Plus, as you bike and move, air rushes past your body and feels like a breeze. This can keep you a little cooler and more comfortable as you exercise.
Stick to a shady path without hills if you can. This will make biking a little easier and prevent you from overheating.

