 You want to make sure any grass-fed meat you buy was pasture-raised. Labels can be deceiving because organic and grass-fed meat does not always mean the animals were raised on a pasture. In general, raising animals on a pasture is more ethical, as animals were allowed to roam freely. Also, pasture-raised animals may have a healthier diet.Grass-fed beef is higher in omega-3s than conventionally raised beef, so it is healthier for your heart.However, you should always look for multiple labels. Pasture-raised does not mean the farm grew crops without pesticides or that the animals were never fed artificial grains or given antibiotics. Pasture-raised is only one of many labels you should look for when choosing meats.;
, Grass-fed animals were probably not fed artificial products, or these products were at least not their primary food source. However, not all grass-fed animals were fed grass year round. Some labels are more authentic than others.Try to find a grass-fed label from the American Grassfed Association. In addition to assuring animals were grass-fed year-round, this also indicates the animals were raised humanely prior to slaughter.
When possible, select grass-fed labels from local farmers. You can ask specific questions that may not be answered by a label.
 An organic label does not give a lot of information about your meat, but it's good for meat labeled organic that also contains labels like pasture-raised and grass-fed. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) requires certain standards be met for meat to be labeled as organic.Organic meat must be raised using organic food sources that minimize use of antibiotics and chemicals. Animals are also generally hormone free.
However, like all labels, you should not rely on an organic label alone. Native fish may be less regulated than other meats, and the USDA does not have specific requirements regarding controlling methane emissions from cattle. Opt for meat that comes with the organic label alongside other labels, like grass-fed and pasture-raised.
 Animals are often fed antibiotics to promote growth. Products labeled "antibiotic-free" are not necessarily 100% free of antibiotics. However, the use of antibiotics was likely minimized in such products.The label "USDA Process Verified" can be particularly deceiving, as such animals likely spent some time on a factory farm when being raised. Similarly, the label "antibiotic free" does not mean the animals were never fed antibiotics.
In general, smaller independent farms are less likely to use antibiotics. When possible, seek out meat locally from a farmer you can talk to face-to-face.
 Labels can only tell you so much about how animals were fed and raised before slaughter. If you want to make sure your meat really was grass-fed and organic, consult a local farmer. You can reach out to a local farmer you find through the yellow pages or online. You can also find farmers at a local farmer's market. Buying meat directly from a farmer will allow you to have any questions you have about the quality of the meat answered directly.