 Use a toothpaste that is designed for dogs and a soft toothbrush to brush their teeth. You should brush your dog’s teeth two or three times a week to help prevent periodontal diseases, though daily brushing is the best.Make sure you are thorough and brush each tooth.


You should also schedule an annual dental cleaning visit with your veterinarian.
 While you’re brushing their teeth, take a look at their teeth, gums, and mouth. Look for any signs of disease or irritation, like browning teeth, bloody or red gums, irritation or ulcers.Most dogs will develop some dental or oral problems in their lifetime, but early detection can help to slow this process or prevent it altogether.


By incorporating brushing and inspections into your grooming routine, you’ll be able to identify problems early on and take your dog in for veterinary care., Greater Swiss Mountain Dogs are predisposed to certain eye diseases and conditions, including cataracts, distichiasis, and entropion. Each of these conditions are treatable, and early detection is very important. As a part of your grooming routine, look at your dog’s eyes for any signs of irritation or infection, like redness, swelling, discharge, or abrasions. If you see any of these, talk to your veterinarian.Cataracts tend to happen during their senior years and will make their eyes look cloudy. Distichiasis is a condition where the dog grows extra eyelashes on the upper or lower eyelids. These extra lashes can cause irritation or corneal abrasions. Entropion occurs when the eyelid rolls inward, and usually happens before the dog is a year old.
 Every week, take a look at your dog’s ears. Look for any redness, irritation or wax buildup. Greater Swiss Mountain Dogs have long ear canals that can become blocked with wax buildup., Take a pH-balanced ear cleaner and pour the manufacturer recommended amount into their ear canal. Massage the base of the ear so the ear cleaner works into the ear canal for about 20 seconds. After massaging the ear, let your dog shake their head. Then take a soft cotton cloth and wipe the inside of the ear folds and the entrance of the ear canal., If your dog does not wear down their nails naturally, usually by exercising and walking on concrete or pavement, you’ll need to trim them every month.Clip the tip of each of their nails and be sure to avoid hitting the quick. The quick is the vein that runs through the nail and will bleed if it is cut while you trim their nails. Greater Swiss Mountain Dog’s nails grow fairly quickly and are strong so use a guillotine or scissor style nail cutter rather than a regular nail cutter.


Many Swissys have black nails, which make it more difficult to identify the quick. Only clip a very small part of the nail at a time to avoid hitting the quick. Keep some styptic powder and cotton balls handy just incase you hit the quick and need to stop the bleeding.

