 In their natural habitat, bettas live in murky, stagnant water. Although they can survive in very small, cramped tanks, it’s healthier for the fish to give it a larger environment. Look for a tank that is holds around five gallons of water, as this will give the fish plenty of space. Do not keep your betta in a tank smaller than one gallon.Since betta fish breathe air directly from the top of the water, your tank does not need a filtration system. In fact, it’s better if the tank doesn’t have one—the current created by the filtration is stressful to bettas.;
, Wash the fish tank thoroughly and then rinse the gravel carefully in hot tap water. Do not use soap or detergent on the gravel. Then layer the gravel carefully at the bottom of the tank. Rinse any decorations and put them into the tank.


The tank does not necessarily have to be a traditional fish tank; any gallon-sized container will do.It’s important that you include gravel in the fish tank. Opt for a neutral color, and for relatively small-grained gravel. The neutral color will calm your betta, and bacteria that build up on the gravel will digest your fish’s waste and keep the water relatively clean., Do not use mineral water in the tank, since it lacks important minerals that your betta fish will need.It’s important that, when filled with tap water, your fish tank will have plenty of surface area at the top. Betta fish do not breathe air dissolved in the water, but must come to the surface to breathe.


For this reason, a narrow-topped container like a wine bottle does not make a suitable tank for a betta., A conditioner will remove chlorine (which is unhealthy for fish) from your tap water, and also filter out other impurities and heavy metals.Follow the instructions on the conditioner bottle, and remember to add this as you fill the tank with water. You’ll also need to add conditioner every time you change the water in the fish tank (roughly once a week).If you bought your betta at a pet store, you should have received a water conditioner specifically made for bettas. If you were not given one, you’ll need to purchase a conditioner on your own.Conditioners should be available at any pet store, and can also be easily purchased online.
The amount of conditioner that you use will vary based on the size of your fish tank. Follow the directions on the bottle regarding the amount of conditioner to use, and the amount of time to let it mix in the water before it’s safe for your fish.If you live in a rural area where the tap water is not chlorinated, you may not need to use a conditioner.

