 Request pamphlets or sample eating plans.


Your doctor may recommend a calorie restriction diet, if you have weight-loss goals. However, your doctor may only recommend that you eat healthier foods and remove refined sugars and carbs, or medical nutrition therapy (MNT).;
,


If you have allergies, a busy schedule or you do a limited amount of cooking, a nutritionist can give you nutrition counseling over several sessions. Implementing a plan may be easier if you can ask advice regularly.
 The process of tracking what you have eaten will make you more aware of the foods that exacerbate your Type 2 diabetes.
 Look up cook books made for people with diabetes.
 These magazines give seasonal additions to enhance your meal plan.
 The lower the glycemic index, the lower the effect the food will have on your blood sugar.


Go to health.harvard.edu/newsweek/Glycemic_index_and_glycemic_load_for_100_foods.htm to look at the glycemic index for popular foods. For example, a baked russet potato has a glycemic index of 111 but a serving of carrots has a glycemic index of 35.
Go to the University of Sydney's website to research the glycemic index of your favorite foods. It is available at glycemicindex.com/foodSearch.php.
 These have the highest effect on your blood glucose level.


Consider downloading an application, like MyNetDiary Diabetes Tracker. It has a carb counter that can help you manage meals.



For example, choose whole grain pasta and bread over white bread and regular pasta. Try to find healthier versions of cereals, sandwich breads, tortillas and more.
Compare the packaging and choose based on the amount of sugar and the amount of fiber per serving. High fiber foods help to control blood glucose levels, so aim for carbohydrates with at least 5g or more of fiber per serving.
 Reduce your serving amount to 1/3 cup.
 Salmon, mackerel, tuna, sardines and cod are healthy, lean proteins. Replace your meat with fish at least 2 times per week.
 Instead of using animal fats and whole dairy, eat olive, almond, canola, walnut, pecan or avocado oil, as well as the whole food version of each.
 They have high caloric content, so they should be used sparingly.
 Studies have shown that it can improve bone mass and help with weight loss if it is part of a healthy diet.
, Find a non-toxic pen and start to draw serving lines.


Draw a line down the center of the plate first, dividing it in 2.
Draw a line on 1 side of the plate that divides half of the plate into 2 sections. You should have 1 large section and 2 smaller sections.
 Choose non-starchy vegetables, such as carrots, cauliflower, mushrooms, turnips, broccoli, green beans, beets, onion, cucumber, tomatoes, lettuce, other greens or peppers.
 This could include a serving of bread, pasta, potatoes, sweet potatoes, peas, cereal or crackers.
 This can include a 4 to 6 oz. piece of turkey, chicken, lean pork or beef, fish or tofu. Do not include skin or high amounts of oil.
 You may also include a small piece of fruit or 1/2 cup of fruit salad after a meal.
 Then, cook a recipe that contains these ingredients and place it back on your plate in a mixed form for mealtime.


Adjust recipes that do not contain enough produce or contain too much oil or protein according to the "Create your Plate" plan.
Use the plate for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Stick to meal times with a few snacks in between. Healthy, low carbohydrate mid-morning or mid-afternoon snacks can curb spikes in blood glucose levels.

