 Sometimes the entire Hulu service will crash or undergo maintenance in your area. You can diagnose this problem by using a tool like DownDetector (http://downdetector.com/status/hulu) to see if others are experiencing technical difficulties.

You can also check Hulu's social media accounts to see if they have released any official statements.
If Hulu's problems are affecting people outside of your own home network, chances are you'll have to wait out the issues until they're solved on Hulu's end.;
, If Hulu opens incorrectly, it may not load all of the information needed to properly run. Restarting the Hulu app, stream, or browser may solve this issue.

If you're viewing Hulu in a browser, instead refresh your browser by clicking the circular arrow located at the top of the browser window.
 If your browser or device has any programs running while you're attempting to use Hulu, your connection will likely be affected. Closing these items will speed up your videos' load times and potentially improve quality., If you're running into performance issues or your Hulu videos refuse to play, your browser may be due for an update.

Most browsers will alert you to an update's availability when you connect to the Internet.
If you're using a mobile device, you can check your phone's or tablet's app store for an update.
 This is doable by opening the Hulu app from within your device's settings and then selecting the "Clear Cache" option. Clearing the cache may remove out-of-date files that interfere with Hulu working.

If you can't clear Hulu's cache, delete and then reinstall the Hulu app.
If you're using Hulu in a browser, instead clear your browser's data cache.
 Similarly to Hulu not properly loading all elements on start-up, sometimes your device improperly configures its connection settings on start-up. Restarting your device may fix this problem., If an Ethernet connection is out of the question due to router placement, moving closer to the router may help.

Ensuring that there aren't any walls, floors, or other items between you and the router will also improve connection settings.
 You can do so by selecting the gear icon in the video's player and then choosing a lower quality than is currently playing.

You can also select Auto to let Hulu determine playback quality based on minute-to-minute connection speed.
 Your Internet speed will drop with each device you connect to your Wi-Fi. For optimal streaming, make sure other devices (e.g., phones or other computers) aren't using Wi-Fi while you're watching Hulu.

This is especially important if another person in your home is downloading large files or gaming, since both are high-bandwidth activities that will impact your streaming experience.
 Depending on the error number or message, your response will vary:


3343, 3322, 3307, 2203, 3321 - Clear your browser's cache. If you're using the Hulu app, try uninstalling and then reinstalling it.

3370 (Chrome) - Click ⋮, click Settings, click Show advanced settings, open the Content settings below "Privacy", and check the "Allow sites to play protected content" box.

500 - Restart your browser or Hulu app. This is an error with the webpage itself, so you may have to wait for the error to be resolved on Hulu's end.

Restarting or looping content - This is a common issue with Blu-Ray players. You may have to switch to a different device on which to view Hulu content.
 If your Internet's maximum download speed (which is named on your Internet plan) isn't high enough to support playing videos, you'll encounter slow playback speed. You'll need the following speeds for the following resolutions:720p - 3 MB/s

1080p - 6 MB/s

4K - 13 MB/s

, By attaching the computer or console on which you're viewing Hulu to your router via Ethernet cable, you'll stabilize the Internet connection.

You can't do this on a mobile device.
If you still encounter streaming issues while your device is directly connected to the router, your router is most likely the problem.

