 Although obvious, the best way to win a street fight is to refrain from fighting in the first place. In the majority of street fights, there will be a warning before actual physical aggression occurs. Try to resolve the fight before it breaks down into fighting. In verbal disputes, stay calm and take a firm but take an apologetic approach. Remain neutral and non-confrontational. You can try to apologize to the person and explain that you didn't mean to do whatever angered them in the first place.


Signs that someone wants to fight you include clenched fists, an aggressive posture, and yelling or cursing.You can say something like, "Hey, I'm sorry that you took it that way, but I didn't really mean anything by it. Sorry for the misunderstanding."
If they keep approaching you, remember to keep your hands up or arms crossed just in case they attack. You can say something like "Hey man back up!" or "I'm not trying to have a fight right now, please give me some space."

, If you are outmatched, outnumbered, or just not willing to fight, then you should run at the first opportunity towards a public, well-lit area with other people. When escaping in the middle of a confrontation, try to impede your opponents as much as possible by blocking them with obstacles.


If you can put a trashcan, car, bus, or another barrier between you and the attacker, all the better.
Run between narrow paths, such as between cars, a narrow stairwell or a narrow hallway. This will prevent the opponents from ganging up on you.
If you know you won't outrun them, don't try. If you are caught (especially with multiple attackers), you are more likely lose the fight due to a simple lack of energy. If you find yourself in this situation, turn around and get ready to defend yourself.
 Don't be afraid to scream or yell out for help. Look for any authority figures like the police or security guards. Being loud and shouting brings unwanted attention that your attacker would rather not have. It also distracts them and could make them panic, making them less conscientious fighters. If other people see the potential fight, your attackers may be less inclined to use physical violence.


You can yell something like, "Help, this guy is attacking me and trying to hurt me!" or "I need help, someone call the police!"
When you ask for help, identify a person and look them in the eyes before you begin to yell at them.
If you make a scene your aggressor may just walk away.
 Phone the police or alert some other authority as soon as you can. Let them know where you are, where the attack occurred, and describe your attackers. Don't try to stand your ground and beat up everyone if you have to fight multiple people. Find your first opportunity to leave and take it.
 If you've done something to anger someone to the point where they want to physically assault you, there's a chance you may have done something to provoke them. Think about your actions and apologize and walk away from the person. Try to understand things from their perspective, and make sure that your apology is genuine. Even if you don't understand why they got mad, try to feel empathy towards their anger and diffuse the situation instead of escalating it.


For instance, if someone is yelling in your face and getting aggressive, you can say something like, "Hey, I'm sorry I spilled your drink man. It was really crowded, and I got bumped into you. I really didn't mean to mess up your shirt. Are we cool?"
If you said something to offend someone you can apologize by saying, "I didn't mean to offend you with my comment. I thought about it and I realized I was being ignorant. I really am sorry. Can we drop it and move on?"

, Assault charges can range from a misdemeanor to a felony. If you provoke a fight and seriously injure the other person, you can be charged by your state and serve prison time. The penalties for a serious assault charge can range from a year of probation up to life in prison in some states.Fighting also risks your own health, well-being, and life. You should really avoid fighting at all costs when on the streets.


If you want to get out your aggression or you enjoy fighting, consider joining a gym that trains in mixed martial arts.
Other types of gyms that you can join to get fighting practice include Muay Thai and American boxing gyms.

