 The order Plecoptera is divided into 7 families, with the families Perlidae and Perlodidae being the 2 most common across North America. The stonefly species of these families, such as the golden stonefly, medium brown stonefly, and yellow stonefly, as well as those of the family Chloroperlidae measure as large as 1 1/2 inches (40 mm). In contrast, the stoneflies of the families Capniidae (the snowfly), Leuctridae (the needlefly), Nemouridae (the forestfly), and Taeniopterygidae (the black stonefly) measure from 0.15 to 1/2 inch (4 to 12 mm). Stoneflies of the smaller families tend to hatch in early spring, while the larger species hatch later in the year.


You can find out which species of stonefly are found in the area you're going to fish from its state or provincial game or fish division, the entomology department of a university in the area, or their respective websites.;
, Many flies tied for fly fishing for trout are designed to "match the hatch" of whatever insect the fish happen to be feeding on. Dry and wet flies designed to mimic stoneflies include the Black King Stone Nymph, the Brown Montana Stone, the Golden Ugly Bug, and the Little King Stone Nymph. In most, but not all, cases, the wet fly nymph will be smaller than the dry fly representing the adult, with sizes ranging from as small as #16 and #18 for little green stoneflies to as large as #2 for American salmonflies.
 Stonefly nymphs are equipped with gills to extract oxygen from water and remain underwater until the time they mature into adults, when the nymphs crawl out of the water onto shoreline objects they cling to them using the double claws on their feet. Just as most adult stoneflies are awkward fliers, stonefly nymphs are generally poor swimmers. While most stoneflies hatch in the spring, some of the larger species have 2- or even 3-year life cycles, allowing you to fish stonefly nymphs almost year-round with success.


In most cases, artificial stonefly nymphs should be fished close to the bottom, with 4 inches (10 cm), ideally on the edge of where the current changes. Have several weights of stonefly nymphs with you to allow for variations in current strength. If you add weight to the line, add it 4 to 5 inches (10 to 12.5 cm) ahead of the fly so that it tumbles more naturally in the current.
You can fish some artificial nymphs on droppers behind egg patterns; the eggs attract the fish's attention, but once it sees the fly, it attacks that instead of the "egg."
You can detect when stoneflies have molted by the presence of "shucks" (shed skins) on rocks, weeds, bushes, and tree trunks on the shore near the water. During molting is another good time to fish artificial stonefly nymphs, particularly around sundown.
When fishing a stonefly nymph, cast upstream, let the fly sink, and then retrieve it slowly by hand, allowing the current to push it around.
 Female stoneflies, which are larger than the males, typically lay their small, black eggs by hovering over the water in a near-vertical position and dropping (ovipositing) them into the nesting site, although some species land on or dive into the water to lay their eggs. Ovipositing is a strenuous activity, often leaving the females drained and drifting on the surface.


Two places to fish dry flies are in faster water during the commotion created by the act of many female stoneflies laying their eggs and in the slack water that females spent from laying their eggs drift into, particularly during early summer months.

