 Muffins are the go-to baked good for extra pancake batter. Mini muffins are especially fun to eat, as they can be dipped in syrup or other sauces. Regardless of the size you’re going for, add milk, sugar, and oil to your batter until it resembles a runny cake mix. Try adding a cup of sugar, a cup of oil, and three cups of milk. Thinner pancake batter may need some flour too.Feel free to add blueberries, chocolate chips, or another favorite treat to the muffins.
Grease a muffin tray or line with cupcake paper before pouring batter into each cup.
Bake on medium heat. Smaller muffins will be done in 15 minutes.;
, Yorkshire "puddings" are a type of biscuit that can be topped with sweet or savory ingredients or eaten on their own. Add an egg to the pancake batter and then add flour until it has the consistency of thick cream. If the batter is thicker than cream after adding an egg, add milk to thin it. Place your batter in a receptacle you can pour from.Add about a teaspoon of oil to each cup of a muffin tin. Bake the tin at about 220 degrees F (105 degrees C), or until the oil is smoking.
Carefully fill each of the cups with the batter. Wear hand, eye, and arm protection, as the oil will pop as you do so.
Put the tin back in the oven and bake for 20 minutes. Do not open the oven during this period. The biscuits will puff up and turn golden brown.
 If you have enough pancake batter to make a few extra pancakes, you can use them to make to a multilayered cake. Choose ingredients to layer in between the pancakes, as well as a frosting or another topping. For instance, you could layer pancakes with crumbled pretzels and caramel sauce, and cover it all with chocolate frosting.Start by laying a room temperature pancake in a pie pan. Layer with caramel sauce or whatever else you’ve chosen before stacking another pancake on top. Continue alternating pancakes and non-pancake layers.
Once done layering, cover the stack in tin foil and bake on the center rack at low heat. The cake will be warm throughout after 15-20 minutes.
Remove the foil and frost the cake or top with another topping, such as cut-up strawberries and whipped cream.

