 It is easy to be envious when scrolling through Facebook and Instagram because people typically post about positive experiences in their lives. They will share pictures from a recent trip to the Caribbean or an amazing music festival, like Coachella. When you see these photos you need to keep in mind that this is not a depiction of regular life.Remember that these people also experience difficulties in their lives, just like you do, but they are not sharing these difficulties on social media.
Additionally, the posts and photos that you see do not tell the true story of how the individuals are able to have these experiences. They may have their expenses paid by others, or they could be going into massive debt to maintain the lifestyle - things you might not want for yourself.
Also a lot of photographs posted to social media are cropped or edited using special filters to make them look even more pleasing than the original photo.
For example, photos can be brightened to make a day that was actually overcast appear sunny.;
, Most feelings of envy and jealousy that are associated with social media use are caused by comparing your actual life to the constructed lives of those you follow online. By constantly comparing your life to your friends, you may lose sight of the amazing things about your own life. Focus on what you have, not what your friends have.For example, someone you knew in grade school may have just gotten engaged to a successful, attractive lawyer, and you feel jealous because you are still single.
Instead, you should focus on the great parts of your life, such as your friends, career, home, health, and family. Appreciate what you have and be grateful for your own achievements.
When you feel yourself start to make comparisons, remind yourself that others are likely comparing themselves to you as well. While you may feel insecure that you didn't go on a great vacation this year or that you haven't found a partner, someone else might be thinking that your life is more carefree and exciting than theirs is or that your family appears to have a better relationship.
 Try and provide a more well-rounded and realistic portrayal of your own life by sharing both positive and negative experiences on social media. This will allow your followers to view you as a more authentic person. Do not reinforce the cycle of jealousy on social media by making your life appear perfect. If more people begin to share negative experiences it may change the culture of social media. Social media jealousy will decrease if people share both positive and negative experiences.For example, you could post photographs that didn’t turn out well and use self deprecating hashtags such as #selfiefail or #vacationfail etc.
You could post a social media rant about a negative experience you had that day, to demonstrate that your life is not always perfect and that you face stressful situations daily.
Consider sharing hard times that you're experiencing rather than just a mistake or a bad day. You may find that your friends can provide you with great support and advice during your time of need. Examples of things to share include a recent job loss, an illness, or the end of a relationship. Just remember to be tactful when sharing information that involves others.

