 Sit on a secure seat. Place the baby on your knees. Hold them under their arms, and gently rock your legs up and down to bounce the baby. Do not let go of the baby. Avoid vigorously shaking the baby., Instead of tossing the baby in the air, you should try lifting them above your head instead. Hold them under both arms with two hands, and raise them above your head, so that they are looking down at you. Glide them through the air. Do not release the baby, and keep both hands on the baby at all times.Tossing the baby increases the risk that the baby will be dropped, and a fall from that height could injure the baby. Furthermore, the sensation of being tossed might cause shaking-related injuries., You can start tickling the baby at around two months of age. Tickle the baby softly around their ribs, or gently stroke their foot. Only tickle the baby for a minute or two. Stop if the baby starts squirming, crying, or trying to roll away., When swinging a baby, hold the baby under their arms, not by their hands. Lift them an inch or two above a surface, and rock them gently from side to side. Do not swing roughly. You can also rest one hand under the baby’s neck and the other beneath their bum. Making a wide sweeping movement, rock the baby slowly.When swinging the baby, make sure that the area is clear. Keep a safe distance from furniture, walls, and other people to avoid accidentally swinging the baby into something.
If you hold the baby’s hands or elbows while swinging, you run the risk of injuring their joints or arms. It is always best to handle a baby under the arms instead.
 If the baby is crawling or walking, you can start chasing them.In a contained area, move towards the baby. You make play noises, such as monstrous roaring or say something playful such as “I’m going to get you.” If the baby, laughs and moves away, walk or crawl towards them. When you catch them, grab them with both hands and swing them into the air.


If the baby starts to crawl or hide, they may not enjoy this type of play. They might be scared. Stop immediately.
Watch that the baby does not crawl off the edge of a surface, run into a wall, or hit their face on a sharp corner. If it seems as though the play is getting too rough, stop chasing. Start playing a different game instead.
If the baby trips or falls, wait for a reaction. If they are uninjured, they may giggle and continue to play.
 Shaking a baby can cause severe brain damage. While moving the baby, instead of vigorously shaking or jostling the baby, use slow and controlled movements with wide movements.Symptoms of Shaken Baby Syndrome include vomiting, weakness, and irritability.Too much shaking can also increase the risk that you will accidentally strike the baby's head on an object.

