 You might play this game with your best friend during a sleepover, or you could play with a group of friends when you're hanging out together. The goal of this game is to ask and be asked awkward questions, so you should be comfortable telling the people you play with personal things.


You should try to find a private place to play this game. You don't want someone you don't trust overhearing the answers to your awkward questions!
You might want to keep the ages of the people you play with close to your own. Older kids may ask questions that younger kids are less comfortable with.;
, There are many variations of the Awkward Question Game, and you and your friends can modify it so you have the most fun possible. You might make rules about who you can ask a question to, what kind of questions you are allowed to ask, the order in which you ask questions, and so on.


You could ask your questions directly to an individual, or you could ask a question and then have everyone answer it. Asking a question to the group is a good idea to prevent any one person from being picked on.
You could make a question limit to prevent someone from being targeted by others. For example, you and your friends might agree that you can't ask the same person a question two times in a row.
If you are younger, are concerned about bullying, or if your parents wouldn't like you playing the Awkward Question Game and asking inappropriate questions, you might make a rule to keep all questions rated PG. This means no one should ask questions or talk about things you wouldn't see in a PG rated movie., Some of your friends might not have played the Awkward Question Game before, and won't know what to expect. Take a moment before you start playing to make sure everyone is on the same page. Some appropriate expectations you might use could include:


You must answer every question honestly, unless you pass.
You can only pass on a question three times during the game.
You can't talk about answers you learn playing the game after the game is done.
Don't pry or pick on people after their initial answer. Any answer is OK.
Repeated questions are automatically skipped and the turn goes to the person on the left., Starting off with a super awkward question might make people feel uncomfortable and unwilling to play the game. By starting small, you can get everyone into the game, so that when it's time to ask a real awkward question, people are ready for it. Some questions you could use to start off the Awkward Question Game include:


What color underwear are you wearing?
What was the color of your last poo and how big was it?
What's the most embarrassing question your parents asked you in front of a friend?
What's the worst place you've ever had to go to the bathroom?

, While you're waiting for others to ask and be asked questions, think of new questions you can ask your friends. You might even get an idea from a question that one of your friends asks, so don't forget to listen up! Remember, the point of this game isn't to ask the most awkward question, but to bond with your friends and learn more about them. Some more example questions are:


What was your last kiss like?
Are you a virgin?
When was the last time you were caught farting and what happened?
Have your parents ever walked in on you doing something inappropriate?
Where is your most ticklish spot?, There's a different between laughing at someone and laughing with someone. Remember that some things embarrass others more than they might embarrass you, so try to be sensitive if one of your friends seems uncomfortable.

