 Since sleeping increases your health and sanity at the huge cost of hunger, make sure you have plenty of food on hand. Even just having a stock of Berries and Carrots in your inventory would be enough to keep you from dying of starvation.

Cooking your food over a campfire is an effective way to increase the hunger points gained by most food types. Select your food, walk up to the campfire, and left-click or press X to cook it.
 Seeing as you want to sleep, looking for a relaxing spot to camp out is always a good idea. Ideally, the area must be free from any Spider Dens, Beefalo herds, and Frog ponds. This is because Spider Dens and Frog ponds tend to spawn hostile creatures, while Beefalo tend to become hostile and attack you during mating season, a time when their rears turn red.

Note that you can’t sleep if you’re in a dangerous area or if your hunger is too low, so only sleep if you need to regain Health quick and are either willing to suffer the penalty, or if you have enough food on stock.
 Most characters, excluding Wickerbottom, can sleep off their troubles by crafting Fur Rolls, Straw Rolls, Tents, or in the Reign of Giants DLC, a Siesta Lean-To. You can craft a Straw Roll, which you can use once early enough in the game as long as you have a Science Machine, but it won’t heal you. Fur Rolls and Tents can heal you and require an Alchemy Engine to create, which is the second available crafting station in the game.

If you plan on making a Tent, seeing as it’s semi-permanent (cannot be picked up without destroying it with a hammer, and wears out after 6 uses), you’re better off using the space as your main campsite. Tents themselves need a fairly wide space, and combined with a campfire, it might require a lot of space.
Both Tents and Fur Rolls are available with your Alchemy Engine, and Fur Rolls can be brought anywhere to sleep with. Tents are more economic, however, since Fur Rolls not only need 1 Straw Roll but also require 2 pieces of a late-game item called Bunny Puffs. A Tent only requires 6 Silk, 4 Twigs, and 3 Ropes, which are readily and available on the surface, and heals much more than the Fur Roll.
 Now that you’ve got all the preparations done for sleep, select your bedding or tent, and your character will automatically go to sleep. When your character wakes up, his or her Sanity and Health will be healed, but Hunger will be very low, so make sure to feed your character immediately after sleeping.