 Pretty much all puppies that you see in a pet store come from puppy mills, which are essentially puppy factories with deplorable conditions. Not buying your Doberman Pinscher puppy from a pet store is a way to take away from a business that exploits for profit. Puppies raised in pet mills (as well as their parents) are also likely to carry parasites and suffer from health problems., It is a good plan to buy your puppy from a responsible, local Doberman Pinscher breeder. Browse through local classified listings, talk to area vets, ask other local Doberman Pinscher owners for referrals to reputable breeders. If necessary, visit several local breeders to find one that you feel comfortable with, and trust to sell you your new pet. Opt for local breeders so that you can meet the puppy first, visit the environment in which it’s been raised, and establish a relationship with the breeder.Visit the American Kennel Club’s website for listings of reputable Doberman Pinscher breeders in your area: http://marketplace.akc.org/puppies/doberman-pinscher


, If you contact a breeder to buy a puppy, insist on visiting the premises before going through with your purchase. Breeders who decline are likely trying to hide the true conditions of their breeding operation; you should be wary if they avoid your visit and offer to deliver the puppy to you instead. Seeing the condition of your puppy’s first home, as well as the state of its mother, is important in determining whether your breeder is trustworthy or not.Observe how the puppies react to the breeder. If they are not friendly, and recoil or shy away, take it as a sign that the breeder might not be caring for them properly.
 Responsible breeders invest a significant amount of time and consideration into caring for their puppies. A good breeder will ask a lot of questions about a potential owner, and will not be evasive when asked questions. Good breeders care about the health and well-being of their dogs, as well as the betterment of the breed as a whole. 