 Educate yourself so you can teach your dog properly and avoid common training mistakes. The basic process of dog training is to reward behavior that you like and to make sure that behavior you don't like isn't rewarded.Each dog is unique, however, so learning the basics of dog behavior and basic dog training will provide you with the proper foundation for understanding the process of training your pet. No one method is “perfect,” so your research will help you decide which approach to use.


There are methods of dog training based on only positive training techniques, versus techniques that balance positive and negative reinforcement. You may try a method and find that you are not getting the results and decide want and decide to try another. An experienced dog trainer will be able to help you troubleshoot roadblocks.
Read dog training books and watch videos of training techniques. There are a lot of dog training videos on the internet and lots of dog training books in print, so make sure that the videos and books you choose are from experts in dog training.;
, Boxers are descended from hunting companion dogs, so they are active dogs that like a lot of time to jump, leap, and bound about.These dogs need exercise and stimulation every day or they might get bored, so stimulation is key to keeping them happy and obedient.


You will need to keep your dog's temperament in mind when training them. You can't expect the same kind of behavior from every dog. When training a Boxer, you need to keep their high energy level and intelligence in mind.
 Go to dog shows and watch how owners and trainers interact with their dogs. In addition, pay attention to how Boxers respond to stimuli and commands.


Visit dog trainers and ask if you can watch a few classes. You will learn a lot watching other people when you don’t have a dog of your own.
See if you like the way the trainer works with the people and the dogs. You and your dog will learn better if you have a good learning relationship with your trainer. The Association of Professional Dog Trainers website is an excellent reference and place to start looking for a dog trainer to coach you and your pup.

