 There are some conditions and other symptoms that signal the need to visit a dentist. Some of these signs include:


Your teeth are sensitive to hot or cold.
Your gums are puffy and/or they bleed when you brush or floss.
You have gum recession or loose teeth.
You have fillings, crowns, dental implants, dentures, etc.
You have persistent bad breath or bad taste in your mouth.
You have pain or swelling in your mouth, face or neck.
You have difficulty chewing or swallowing.
You have a family history of gum disease or tooth decay.
Your mouth is often dry, even if you regularly drink water.
Your jaw sometimes pops or is painful when opening and closing, chewing or when you first wake up; you have an uneven bite.
You have a spot or sore that doesn’t look or feel right in your mouth and it isn’t going away.
You don’t like the way your smile or teeth look.
 Visit your dentist for a professional cleaning and checkup.At your checkup, the dentist or hygienist will ask about your recent medical history, examine your mouth and decide whether or not you need x-rays.


Let your dentist know about any tooth or gum sensitivity such as cracked teeth or swelling, redness or bleeding in the gums. It is important to let your dentist know about changes in your overall health since many medical conditions can affect your oral health too.
Depending on your treatment plan, the hygienist may use a special dental instruments to check your gums for gum disease.
 Your dentist can help you find the right whitening product or procedure to help you get a brighter smile.Whiteners may not correct all types of discoloration, especially if you have brown or gray hued teeth. If you have had bonding or tooth-colored fillings placed in your front teeth, the whitener will not affect the color of these materials, and they will stand out in your newly whitened smile. You may want to investigate other options, like porcelain veneers or dental bonding. Some other ways to get a whiter smile are:


In-office bleaching is a dental procedure in which dentist applies either a protective gel to your gums or a rubber shield to protect the oral soft tissues, which is followed by a bleaching agent. This procedure can be done in one visit to the dentist’s office.
At-home bleaching with products containing hydrogen peroxide is useful for some people. There may be potential side effects, such as increased sensitivity or gum irritation, so speak with your dentist before using any whitening products.
Whitening toothpastes help remove surface stains and reduce discoloration over the long term with a proper oral care routine.
 A dental x-ray can help your dentist detect any signs of damage or disease in your teeth that may not be visible during a regular check-up, which may be the cause of teeth discoloration.If you frequently experience toothaches or bleeding gums, an x-ray can help your dentist understand the cause better.


If you are a new patient, your dentist may recommend getting an x-ray to determine the current status of your oral health. A new set of x-rays may be needed to help your dentist detect any cavities, analyze your gum health or evaluate the growth and development of your teeth.
Tell your dentist if you are pregnant to use a special apron that protects you and your child from any radiation exposure.

