 If you suspect that you have valley fever, you should make an appointment with a medical professional. Make sure that you are prepared to discuss your symptoms and medical history. You will also be asked about possible ways you were exposed to the fungus since one way to diagnose valley fever is your exposure to the fungus. The medical professional may ask you questions about your job, recreational activities, and location.Since the symptoms are nonspecific, your medical provider will probably ask you other questions to try and figure out if it is another condition instead of valley fever.
You should also bring any questions for your medical provider.
 The first thing your medical provider may do if they suspect that you have valley fever is to give you a chest x-ray. This will determine if there are any problems with the lining of the lungs, which may happen due to valley fever.Valley fever can lead to more severe respiratory issues like pneumonia. A chest x-ray will check for any pneumonia symptoms or other lung issues.
Residual nodules may be present on future chest x-rays. However, these are not cancerous. , Since valley fever is difficult to diagnose, chest x-rays or a physical exam aren’t enough for a positive diagnosis. To get a diagnosis, the lab will need to positively identify the fungus in your body. This can be done through a culture,


A smear or culture is taken when you cough. The lab will test the substance you cough up for evidence of the fungus.
 An antibody test is another way your health care provider can diagnose valley fever. An antibody test looks at the immune systems for antibodies for the fungus. If you have valley fever, your body will have produced the antibodies to fight it off, so they will be present in your body.An antibody test can be done via a blood test or a spinal tap.
Be aware that a blood test can give a false negative. If you have a negative test, consider getting another one done to confirm it.
 If you have a positive diagnosis for valley fever, your medical provider will discuss treatment options with you. You may not need any treatment except rest and fluids if your symptoms are mild. If you have more severe symptoms, the medical professional will give you antifungal medications.Antifungal medications don’t always kill the fungus. This means you may have a relapse if your immune system is weakened.
Often, having valley fever once gives you an immunity to it for life.

