 Regularly checking your blood sugar is essential to making sure that your levels are appropriate and not causing any long-term harm to your body. Follow your doctor’s instructions regarding when and how often to test.If you do not already have an established testing schedule, call your doctor or make an appointment and ask, “When throughout the day should I be checking my blood sugar?” Most people with type 1 test at least four to eight times per day — more for increased activity levels, during illness, or during changes in medication.;
, Note, however, that this is a general guideline and you should refer to the parameters set by your doctor.

If you are above this range, contact your doctor to ask about testing for kidney damage or disease.
Log your levels after each reading to keep track and check for patterns or long-term complications, such as nerve damage (neuropathy), skin infections, eye damage, heart disease, and more., Protein has been shown to help regulate blood glucose levels, while carbohydrates have been shown to raise it.Try making yourself balanced meals with 20 to 30% of calories coming from lean protein and no more than about 40% carbohydrates.Integrate fiber, such as whole grains, into your carb intake at every meal.
Take the time to weigh out food to help ensure you are getting the correct portion. Check on food labels to see the recommended serving size and accompanying nutritional information.
Consult with your doctor, diabetes educator, or a registered dietitian about customizing a healthy meal plan if a standard plan isn’t helping you keep your glucose levels under control.
Take advantage of the resources available online to find healthy, diabetes-friendly recipes. Try this guide from the American Diabetes Association: http://ajcn.nutrition.org/content/78/4/734.full


, If you have been prescribed insulin or other medication by your doctor, take it exactly as recommended. These medications often have a significant impact on your body’s ability to regulate blood sugar and avoid long-term health damage.If you have not been prescribed any prescription medication by your doctor, understand that there may be a reason. Ask your doctor, “Is there any medication I should be taking to help me control my diabetes?”
Follow your doctor’s guidelines for both the amount of insulin you should use and your injection schedule.
 Exercise helps control your blood pressure level as well as your overall bodily health, both of which greatly impact your kidney function. Aim for 30 to 45 minutes of moderate cardiovascular exercise four to five times a week to help keep your kidneys healthy.Exercise can be anything from walking to swimming or anything else that raises your heartrate. The exercise should feel challenging, but not so much so that it inhibits proper movement or function later on.
Integrate exercise into your daily routine by making choices such as walking or biking to school or work and taking the stairs instead of the elevator.
 High LDL cholesterol can cause plaque buildup in your kidneys and blood vessels and impede their function. Get your cholesterol under control to avoid compounding any kidney damage caused by diabetes.Make heart-healthy food choices such as opting for monounsaturated fats like olive oil, eliminating trans fats, and increasing your soluble fiber intake.
Create and follow action plans to quit habits such as smoking and excessive drinking. Seek help from professionals or support groups if necessary.
 If a balanced diet and regular exercise are not helping you control a high blood pressure problem, seek attention from a medical professional. Your doctor may be able to recommend an ACE inhibitor, which may not only help regulate high blood pressure, but may also slow the progression of diabetic kidney disease.Do not take any blood pressure regulating medication or supplements without first consulting your doctor. Let them know, “I want to find something that can help me regulate my blood pressure and prevent future kidney problems. What do you recommend?”
Not all Type I diabetes patients will have high blood pressure. Check regularly or have your doctor’s office check to see if your blood pressure is under control.
 If you are worried about kidney damage, request regular kidney function tests from your doctor. In addition, have them monitor indicators of kidney damage such as blood pressure.Aim to have a urine or blood test every year to check kidney function.
Talk to your doctor about an HbA1c test, which will indicate whether or not your blood sugar has stayed within a healthy rage over the last two to three months. A high result increases your risk of complications, such as kidney damage. The results of this test can help your doctor make any necessary changes to your treatment plan.Let your doctors know if you are taking ACE inhibitors, which can impact the urine test used to check for kidney function.
 After testing, regularly review your diet, exercise, and medication routines with your doctor. Be honest with them about what you have and have not been doing so that they can get a better understanding of what is working and what may need to be modified.If you can, meet with a team of specialists to help you review your routine. Talk to dietitians and trainers that specialize in helping individuals with diabetes, along with your doctor.
Cross-communicate with your team. Let your doctor know what your dietitian recommends and vice versa.
 You may benefit from using an insulin pump or a continuous glucose monitor if you are looking to take better control of your Type I diabetes. Ask your doctor about proper blood glucose monitoring and insulin injecting equipments.These machines may or may not benefit your particular situation. Ask your doctor about the advantages and disadvantages of each before either are added to your treatment plan.

