 Train virtues through the development of qualities such as truthfulness, openness, honesty, compassion to all living beings. The Soul becomes intoxicated with good qualities, and you start fully and deeply loving and trusting yourself and world around you. Aristotle and Plato, named Temperance, Wisdom, Justice, and Courage as the four most desirable virtues. Faith, Hope, and Love were later adopted by the Church to form the Seven Heavenly Virtues. Virtues are developed through practice. Just as a marathon runner trains his body through lots of training, so too we train our capacity to be fair, courageous, or loving and compassionate.;
, Do not harm yourself or others physically, mentally or emotionally. Do not kill. Do not lie. Do not harm other beings on Earth. This also includes control over thoughts and feelings that are driven by fear, attachment and instincts. Ahimsa (Sanskrit term) is based on an assumption that all living beings are divine and to hurt another is to hurt oneself. Ahimsa includes one's deeds, words, and thoughts. The Hindu understand this to apply to animals and all life forms., Chose to love, chose to be open, chose to be happy during every single day. Give love unconditionally, without expecting something in return. Giving unconditionally brings great pleasure. Buddhist train loving kindness through:

Friendliness expressed as warmth that embraces others






Compassion expressed as empathy with other people's difficulties






Appreciative Joy, shown as appreciation of other people's good qualities






Equanimity, feeling love and kindness towards everybody, in all situations and relationships







, The art of meditation is the art of stillness, the art of motion within no-motion, action within no-action. Sit still with no movements for at least 30 minutes.
 Concentrating our mind on love we allow the mind to keep ‘busy’ while we connect with our inner source of love, peace and knowledge using powerful imagery of positive imagination. Use this type of meditation:

Breath in and breath out the energy of love. Concentrate onto this flow for 5-10 minutes






Feel the warmth of love within your heart. You can use any of the following image to inspire you: lotus flower opening within the heart and spreading the warmth of love, an image of your Guru, Buddha or Christ, whoever inspires you most, that inspires the energy of love within your heart. Stay with this image around 10 minutes.






Send the love energy to someone you really care about, your lover, your family member, your friend






Send the love energy to a stranger
Send the love energy to someone that annoys you
Send the energy of love to Earth and all the being on Earth






Send the energy of love to Universe







, Stay within the meditation, within the stillness, with an open heart, feeling the energy of love. Since love is light, you might experience the pure light becoming a part of your being.
 Practice will make your experience perfect.