 Cats with flea allergies will suffer an outbreak of small, fluid-filled lumps on the skin. They will be pale in color. You should be able to detect these lumps when running your hand across your cat’s skin, and when parting your cat’s fur to check its skin., In addition to, or instead of, small pale lumps, your cat might have a series of red, crusty bumps on its skin. These are most likely to be found near the base of the tail, the thighs, abdomen, head, neck, and on the lower back. If you notice your cat scratching or biting itself aggressively, part its fur to check for reddish, crusty bumps., When cats have flea allergies, they are very itchy. To relieve their itchiness and irritation, they will aggressively chew, bite, or scratch at areas that are especially irritated. If you see your cat engaging in this behavior, it could be experiencing a flea allergy., As a result of your cat’s constant scratching or biting due to irritated, itchy skin, large portions of its fur might begin to lose fur altogether. If your cat takes on a patchy appearance with whole sections of its fur missing, it could be a result of flea allergies., A flea comb is a fine-tooth comb specially designed to trap fleas and their feces. Have your cat stand on a piece of white paper or a white sheet when using the flea comb. Run the comb through your cat’s fur, looking for small brownish bugs (fleas) or their feces. When you comb a bug or bit of flea feces out, the white background onto which it falls will render it more visible.Flea feces looks like small, black, comma-shaped flecks of dirt.
If you’re unsure whether or not you’ve located a bit of flea feces, place it on a piece of white paper, then drop a single drop of water on it. If it runs red, it is flea feces.
The presence of fleas increases the likelihood that your cat’s symptoms are a product of flea allergies. If you don’t find fleas when combing your cat, it doesn’t mean your cat isn’t suffering from flea allergies. It could just mean that you were unable to find fleas.
 Only your vet can identify whether or not your cat has flea allergies. Your vet will draw on your cat’s medical history and the information you provide regarding your cat’s behavioral symptoms to make a diagnosis. They might also physically examine your cat for evidence of an allergic reaction, or test your cat’s skin for evidence of an allergy.In certain rare cases, if a diagnosis continues to be elusive, your vet might draw blood from your cat to test it for the presence of certain compounds that could prove the presence of flea allergies., Unless you remove the fleas themselves, your cat’s allergies will never really get better. There are a number of options for ridding your residence of fleas. You should start by thoroughly vacuuming your house and washing your blankets and bedding (and your cat’s blankets and bedding) where fleas might be hiding. After that, you’ll probably need to enlist the help of a professional flea exterminator, or place flea-specific insecticides around your home.Your vet will provide advice regarding what sort of flea treatment is best for you and your cat.
 While removing fleas from your home, you should concurrently remove fleas from your pet. There are many ways to do this. For instance, you might administer medicine (nitenpyram, afoxolaner, fluralaner, or spinosad, for instance) that causes fleas that might be hitching a ride to die. Alternately, you might spray your cat’s coat with an insecticide.Ask your vet what treatment method is best for your cat.
 Sometimes, despite your best efforts, some small population of fleas survives your home cleaning and/or the anti-flea treatment you administer to your cat. In this case, you might see another flea outbreak in the not-too-distant future. Keep an eye on your cat, checking its coat and behavior regularly for the next two months.Prevent future flea infestations by keeping your cat indoors.
 Antibiotics are useful for preventing or curing infection in your cat’s scabs and self-inflicted wounds. Common cat antibiotics include cephalexin, cefpodoxime, and cefovecin. These might be given intravenously (in the form of a shot) or administered as an oral pill.Your vet will determine if your cat requires an antibiotic, and will explain how to administer it if necessary.
 Corticosteroids are a common class of steroids that prevent the allergic reaction your cat experiences when bitten by fleas. Corticosteroids might be administered intravenously (as a shot) or as an oral medication. Your vet will decide which type is best for your cat, and will provide you with directions to administer the medicine.Common corticosteroids for your cat’s flea allergies include

, Antihistamines are a type of drug that blocks the body’s histamine receptors, the chemical agent that causes inflammation and itching.Common antihistamines administered to cats include fexofenadine, cetirizine, chlorpheniramine maleate, clemastine fumarate, and cyproheptadine.Feline antihistamines are available over-the-counter, but seek your vet’s advice regarding which is best for your cat.
Some antihistamines are available as oral pills, while others are available as injections. Follow manufacturer directions for more information regarding how to give your cat antihistamines.
 To soothe itchy skin, your vet might recommend anti-inflammatory shampoos or conditioners. You can generally use these products just as you would use regular shampoos and conditioners.Fill your tub with water to a level that reaches your cat’s chest.
Place your cat in the tub, then lather the shampoo or conditioner into its fur.
Rinse your cat off using a detachable shower head or a small bowl filled with water.
Consult manufacturer directions before using anti-inflammatory shampoo or conditioner.

