 Many arrhythmias are harmless or require minimal treatment plans. Your doctor will always prefer medication to a surgical procedure if medication is enough to treat your arrhythmia on its own. Your doctor will consider a variety of factors, including your age, medical history, and type of arrhythmia based on diagnostic testing.


For example, medications cannot reliably speed up your heart to treat a slow heartbeat (bradycardia), but they can help with arrhythmias stemming from a heart that beats erratically or too fast (tachycardia).;
, A medication can (when taken according to your prescription) help to slow a fast heartbeat or even reduce the potential for complications stemming from your arrhythmia. Some of the most serious—and potentially life-threatening—complications of arrhythmia include stroke, heart failure, and sudden cardiac arrest., An arrhythmia is often a symptom itself of another underlying condition. Your doctor’s diagnostic testing may undercover that your condition has resulted from a thyroid problem or even heart disease.In this instance, your doctor may prescribe a medication (such as one to treat hyperthyroidism) as well as a medication to combat your arrhythmia during the process.


As with any medications, take exactly as directed by your doctor.
 One of the most common forms of arrhythmia is known as atrial fibrillation (AFib). This arrhythmia allows your blood to pool, increasing the risk of clotting — and therefore stroke — as one of the chambers in your heart pumps ineffectively.Your doctor will likely prescribe a blood-thinning medication to reduce the potential for your blood to clot in these instances.Common drugs used for this purpose include aspirin and warfarin (Coumadin), which you should always take according to your doctor’s recommended schedule.Blood-thinning medications often come with the risk of excess bleeding, and you must inform your doctor of all other drugs you take before beginning this treatment plan.You may also have to submit to regular blood testing to assure the medication is at the correct dosage, especially for warfarin., These options can help with converting the heart rhythm to normal (cardioversion).Your doctor will have a large assortment of these drugs to choose from, and you may have to try several before finding one that manages your arrhythmia without adverse side effects. During the trial-and-error process, you may experience a worsened arrhythmia from some of these drugs, so your doctor will likely prescribe a blood-thinning medication in association to reduce the risk of stroke. Common options include:Amiodarone (Cordarone, Pacerone)
Bepridil hydrochloride (Vascor)
Flecainide (Tambocor)
Ibutilide (Corvert)

, Calcium channel blockers (calcium antagonists) prevent the movement of calcium into cardiac tissue, resulting in a slowed heart rate.This makes these a common choice for slowing a fast heart rate (tachycardia), especially in situations where antiarrhythmic drugs haven’t worked or are not recommended by your doctor. Options include felodipine (Plendil), isradipine (Dynacirc), and nicardipine (Cardene).They are usually taken daily.
Don’t take these drugs if you are pregnant.
Don’t drink grapefruit juice when taking calcium channel blockers because it may increase drug concentration and have a toxic effect.
 Beta blockers reduce the effects of adrenaline, which can also treat arrhythmia caused by a fast heartbeat.Your doctor is more likely to prescribe these drugs if heart disease is the underlying cause of your arrhythmia because they can also treat angina pains associated with heart disease.Common options include acebutolol (Sectral), atenolol (Tenormin), and betaxolol (Kerlone).This drug is usually taken daily.
You shouldn't use this drug if you are lactating or pregnant.
Side effects can include hypotension, bradycardia, and difficulty breathing.
There is increased risk of hypoglycemia if you combine this drug with insulin.

