 For the best fit, use a flexible tape measure like one you would find in a sewing kit. Measure the head of the person who will be wearing the headband from the nape of the neck, up over their head where the headband will be and completing the loop back at the nape. If the person is unavailable to be measured, you can use these general guidelines:Preemie: 11”-12”
Newborn: 13”
Up to 1: 14”
1-6: 15”
7-Teen: 16.5”
Adult: 17.5”
Especially with babies, be sure to get a good fit that is not too tight. Constricting an infant's head could have a problematic effect on its growth and development.;
, Choose a fold-over elastic. This is the preferred elastic for headbands. It is available in a variety of colors and patterns at your local fabric store or hobby shop. Fold-over elastic has a finished, shiny side and a matte underside, and a seam running longways down the middle.This elastic comes in 1/8”, 3/8” and 5/8” widths. The one most commonly use for headbands is 3/8", but some like a thin 1/8" headband, especially for babies.
Some elastic is made with silicone strips in the back. This is useful if you are concerned about the headband slipping.
 Measure the piece of elastic according to the measurements you took or the average length for the age of person you are creating the headband for. If you are using actual head measurements, keep in mind that you want the headband to stretch. Subtract one inch from the head size to make sure the headband will be snug., If the person who you are making the headband for is there, wrap the elastic around their head and make sure that the elastic stretches just enough to hold the headband in place once it is complete.


Beware of making the headband so tight that it would be uncomfortable.
 There are a couple of ways you could go about sealing the ends of the elastic. You can apply a product which was created to seal fabric, or you may choose to heat the ends. Either way, you want to be sure to seal the ends so that they won’t fray.Look for a fray-stop spray at your local fabric store and spray both ends of your elastic.
To seal the ends with heat, quickly pass the ends through a flame to singe them.
 Keeping the shiny, finished side on top, curve the elastic into a circle until the ends overlap about a quarter of an inch. Be sure not to accidentally twist the elastic when you are creating your circle. The headband should lay flat on your head., Heat a hot glue gun to a high temperature. Press the button on the glue gun to release glue and drag it across the width of the top of one end of your elastic band. Carefully place the other end on top of the glue and press the ends together. Hold this in place for a few seconds.Be careful not to burn yourself. The glue will be very hot.
Wait 30 minutes for the glue to dry completely before wearing the headband.
You can also sew the ends together. Thread a needle with a thread that matches your elastic and put a few stitches through the overlapped ends. Tie a knot to secure the stitches.
 You can find headband sliders at craft and fabric stores. These decorative pieces have metal or plastic backs which slide onto the elastic strap. Thread the strap up through the first hole in the slider, over the center piece, and back down through the second hole, then slide it onto the elastic strap.Once you secure the ends, you can put the headband on and slide the decoration into the proper place.
 Add a little glitz and glitter with pins and broaches. Once you have completed the headband, decide where you want the decoration and stick the pin through the headband and secure it in place.


Be sure to line up the pin so that it is not lopsided on the headband.
 Choose a fabric flower which is larger than the width of your headband. Cut a felt circle slightly larger than the width of your headband and smaller than the size of the flower. Cover one side of the felt with hot glue and do the same with the bottom of the flower. Place the felt piece on the underside of the headband and the flower on top of that part of the headband. Press and hold the two pieces together.It is a good idea to place this flower over the seam to cover it and give your headband a nice, clean look.
Allow 30 minutes for the glue to dry.
 Cut another small piece of elastic. The length should equal to 3 times the width of the headband. Line it up along the top of the seam and wrap one end around the bottom of the headband. Hot glue this end in place, then wrap the other end of the small piece of elastic around the headband and glue it to the first end of the small piece of elastic to finish off the loop.Now you have a hairband which can hold any decoration you have on a clip by sliding it through the loop and clipping it in place.
You can also glue flowers or other decorations to a clip if they are not already fixed to one.

