 Notice how cool guys always have fashionable hairstyles. Type into your search engine 'latest hair fashion for men' and see what suits you best. Remember that you must not ever try too hard or you'll look like a wannabe... so always go for a look that actually has to do with your personality.

A very handsome and manly haircut that's quite popular is the one that is short, but a bit shorter on sides than on top.
You can use a little 'styling product' to make it even better looking, like hair mousse or hair pomade. But the trick is to NEVER use way too much of it, or your hair might look greasy and weird.



 

;
, Make sure your eyebrows aren't too bushy, and if you've got a unibrow, wax or tweeze it in the middle, so you can have two brows. Also make sure your beard and mustache is always perfectly shaved, and do it carefully so you don't get hurt. Also, make sure you clean your skin well with proper face wash and use face toner. This way, your skin will look always great, which will make your face appear more attractive.
 Always eat well and exercise everyday. You don't have to go too harsh on exercising, and you can do it home. Just make sure you eat at least five meals a day in moderate portions, and everyday make sure you do at least 60 push-ups (two sets of 30 or three sets of 20) and 30 crunches (two sets of 15 or three sets of 10) every day, week, or month; whichever suits you the most.
 Part of being good-looking is how you dress. And no, you do not have to dress like a million dollars. You just have to dress stylish and cool.


Don't go overboard. Don't go for styles that simply aren't you. If you do, you'll just look like a wannabe. People respect much more a man who looks good and stylish in an effortless and natural way.
 See popular male celebrities and see what they're wearing. And no, you do not need to spend a lot of money on designers. You just need to know what type of clothes are in style and get them in less expensive places. Most popular guys go for classic or graphic tees, long sleeve button ups (and they roll up the long sleeve, which looks very cool), cargo shorts and jeans. They also go for Nike sneakers and male flip flops. Besides, a good thing about being a guy is that you don't have to have many clothes... other guys and even girls won't care that you're wearing the same shirt twice a week, as long as you're looking good in it.


Accessorize just a little. You can wear a ring or a male necklace if you like, but the main accessory is probably the watch. It must be cool and manly.
 Confidence is key in order to look "attractive", as it helps to attract even more attention to your new looks and style. And if you don't have confidence, just fake it... many popular kids do and people believe them.


Walk like a boss. Stand up straight, head up, then stride manly and at same time comfortably. Like you own the place. Also, face people a little as you walk, it shows them you aren't afraid of them.
 Just don't exaggerate.
 Don't be too nice, though. But do communicate with people. Ask a question or two about something interesting to strike up a conversation, then ask their name and introduce yourself.

