 You don't want to carry around a lot for each class if you have eight periods instead of four blocks.
 Once you go high school, the teachers might give you some information and you'll have to write them all. However, if your school doesn't allow you to carry backpacks around during the day, you might want to hang on to a binder to carry them. They can get heavy.


College-made notebooks have more lines on them than wide ruled notebooks. If it's a notebook for taking notes, you'll want college ruled so you get more space. If you're doing a paper that has to be a certain number of pages long (there are a few of these in high school English) and you don't want it to stretch forever, you'll want wide ruled notebooks. If it makes a difference, consider that.
 They might seem more expensive, but they're really worth it. If you get the extra lead sticks to put in them, they'll last you all year.
 Pink erasers dry out and end up being useless, but latex erasers don't. They also leave your paper looking cleaner and don't rip holes in it.
 You can write down assignments on these and erase them later.
 When you go shopping for supplies, bring along a sheet of printer paper and see if it fits in the folder first.
 It is really important, especially if you carry your backpack around in school. You want something stylish that won't wear out and won't wear out your back. Try a messenger bag. Pick one that's made out of a material that won't get dirty too easily, as your bag will spend plenty of time on dirty classroom floors this year.


If your bag is silly, it might be funny now, but when you're looking back on your high school photos years later, you may regret it.
 Avoid bringing any other electronics you don't absolutely need. They get stolen. If you take out electronics during class, it tells everyone else that you have one, which is an incentive to go through your bag. Don't give anybody that incentive. (You'll also earn brownie points with your teachers for keeping this stuff hidden.)

