 When possible, turn your phone off. Phones can take up a lot of time throughout the day that you could be using more productively. When it's easy to log on to Facebook or take a peak at your email, you're more likely to do it. Do yourself a favor and turn your phone off while you're trying to do other things. If you find yourself impulsively reaching for the phone to procrastinate, you'll be met with a blank screen instead.If it's necessary for you to have your phone on for work, place it across the room. If it's not as easy to access your phone, you're less likely to do it. You can also turn off any notifications on your phone that are not necessary to work.
 These days, many people rely on their computers or the internet to get work done. Working with Facebook, Twitter, or other distracting sites in the background will adversely affect your time management skills. You also may become distracted if tabs are opened from old projects or irrelevant internet searches. Make a habit of closing tabs as soon as you're done on the site. Place all your focus on the sites that are necessary for your work.Challenge yourself to only have one or two tabs opened at a time.
 Sometimes, the temptation to log onto Facebook or Twitter is too great to avoid. If you have a problem with social media, there are many applications and websites you can use to temporarily block distracting sites.SelfControl is an app for Mac users that blocks access to any sites you choose for a set period of time. It is free to download.
If you need to get offline altogether, the app Freedom allows you to block your access to the internet for up to eight hours at a time.
The Firefox add-on Leechblock allows you to limit your use of certain sites to a set period per day.
 Interruptions disrupt your workflow. If you're in the middle of a task and stop to do something else, it can be hard to get back into work mode. When you're working on a task, try to complete it before getting up to do something else. Other things can wait while you strive to complete something.For example, if you realize you need to return an e-mail while you're in the middle of something else, do not stop to return the e-mail. Instead, jot down somewhere that you need to send the e-mail and get to it after you finish the task at hand.
Keep in mind, sometimes disruptions are inevitable. If you receive an urgent phone call during a task, for example, you should definitely take the call. Do your best to avoid interruptions, but do not beat yourself up over the occasional distraction during your work.

