 Why do you dream of going to New York City? You probably have a few things in mind already that you’re curious about. List them, then take some time and research other places, landmarks, museums, or shows that interest you.


If you’re overwhelmed by all of the options, you can always start with a pre-planned itinerary as a jumping-off point. The city has special ones based on TV shows, classic movies, and beloved children’s literature.Look around for other resources on interesting attractions. Guide books are a good start, but the blogs of travelers (and NYC locals) are useful, too.;
, There’s something for everyone in New York City. Conversely, there’s something not for everyone in New York City. You may have seen the Empire State Building in movies and TV shows, but that doesn’t mean it’s essential to your trip. You don’t have to do anything you find boring.


Make sure to take the interests of the others you travel with into account, too.
If you’re used to the structure of a group tour, consider planning a day tour instead of one that encompasses your whole visit., Your friends know you better than any guidebook, or even travel agent, does. If you have a friend who has traveled to New York recently, grill them. What was their favorite activity? What do they wish they’d known? If you have a friend who lives or has lived in NYC, they may be able to offer even more advice.
 Manhattan is central, busy, and full of historic excitement, from the Metropolitan Museum of Art to Alexander Hamilton’s house in Harlem. However, it’s only one of the five boroughs of New York City, and if you don’t leave it, you’ll miss out on a lot of culture and fun. Make it a point to get off the island and explore places that may seem a little out of the ordinary.


Brooklyn has become notorious for its hipsters in the past ten years, but there’s much more to it than that. Visit for experimental theatre, the gorgeous botanic garden, and international food from Bajan flying fish to Polish pastries.The Bronx is best known for its amazing Bronx Zoo, which focuses on wildlife conservation and protection, and Yankee Stadium. You can also explore Wave Hill, which has gorgeous old houses that will appeal to Edith Wharton and Downton Abbey fans.Queens offers incredible restaurants and a range of museums, too. Stop by the Queens Museum of Art or the New York Hall of Science.Staten Island is the most suburban-feeling of the boroughs, which makes it a nice stop for a relaxed afternoon. Take the free ferry from Manhattan, and visit Franklin D. Roosevelt Boardwalk and Beach, the Children’s Museum, or any number of tranquil gardens and parks.
 This will help you prioritize. If you’re going to be in the city for a week, you can plan to hit the spots you’re most excited about and throw some wild cards into your itinerary, too. If you’re only stopping by for a weekend, your options will be more limited (but you can still pack in a lot of fun).Make sure you know how much time you can take off work, and if you’ll need to apply flex time, vacation days, or personal days to your trip.Consider how far you are traveling when reflecting on your timing, as well. You may need to allow for travel time, as well as jet lag or exhaustion.

