 Before you make assumptions about what this woman wants based on her sign, try to figure out if she has the common traits of a Virgo. You can do this by asking her questions about her interests, her likes and dislikes, and so on. You can also do a little investigating and talk to mutual friends or check her out on social media to get a better sense of her interests and personality.


Virgos are thought to be hard workers, straightforward, loyal, critical, analytical, practical, and kind.Ask yourself if this woman has these qualities.;
, A typical Virgo is less likely to be easily charmed or swayed by passion. Anticipate a woman who is far more practical about whom she dates.If she is a true Virgo, expect her to apply a critical eye toward you right from the get-go. Don’t be offended by this, since she is considering you as a potential partner. This means she might still think highly of you as a person even if she doesn’t initially believe you to be right for her romantically.
 Notice if appearance seems to be important to this woman. Is her clothing immaculately tailored? Are her friends similarly well-dressed? If so, you may want to put extra effort into dressing yourself. Choose them with precision to make a clear statement about who you are, right from the start. Take her own fashion sense as a cue. Match her level of casual versus elegant wear, within your own tastes, to meet her own personal expectations.Bear in mind that Virgos are more often interested in long-term relationships than one-time hookups. Consequently, this may be a long courtship.Be sure to dress to please while staying true to who you are to avoid wasting either of your time.
 Further ensure that you make a positive visual impression by taking care of your body’s appearance. Shower beforehand, comb your hair, and apply deodorant. Brush your teeth, floss, and rinse with mouthwash. Cut and clean your nails. Clip any nose or ear hairs that are poking out. Exfoliate and moisturize your skin to get rid of any dry flakes., If you are held up for whatever reason, make every effort to contact her and let her know. Replace the negative impression of being late with the positive one of being communicative.
 Expect her to apply the same critical eye to herself.Obviously, ask about her life (work, school, friends, family, dreams, etc.) when appropriate to indicate your interest in her. Pay attention, however, to how comfortable she seems in answering. Back off when she becomes awkward, nervous, or edgy about certain topics.


Because of their self-critical nature, Virgos may often feel uncomfortable when they are the center of attention.
If she is reluctant to share too much information about herself right away, stick to more general topics, such as world news or movies or music.
Keep the conversation light and organic to prevent it from resembling a formal interrogation., Resist the urge to appear flawless in her eyes. It can be hard to resist the urge to present yourself as the perfect person, or to try and change yourself to appeal to what you think she wants, but this rarely works out. Be yourself and see if you match up. Although Virgos hope to find a perfect fit romantically, remember that they expect the fit to be perfect, not you personally. Keep in mind that she may be looking for a partner whose strengths make up for her weaknesses, and so she may not be too concerned if your strengths don’t match all of hers.Focus on creating a strong honest first impression, rather than an idealized one that would be impossible to live up to. Aim to show her exactly who you are instead of what you think she wants you to be.
 Remember that Virgos are very pragmatic in their assessment of potential partners. Expect her to not only wonder how well the two of you will get along, but how well you could integrate into her larger life. Unless she seems bored or irritated, don’t be shy of steering the conversation toward interests that she doesn’t share. Even if she personally dislikes, say, punk rock, trust that she will view your passion for it as a plus., Although Virgos may harbor inner passions, expect them to act reserved around new people. Don’t be discouraged by a lack of immediate sparks.For now, simply aim to win a second date with her. Accept that as a victory in and of itself while allowing her plenty of time to grow more comfortable with you.

