 Not all states provide for emancipation by court order. Those that do often have strict requirements and may require the minor to find a “next friend” to file the petition for emancipation on their behalf. You can locate the requirements for your state by locating and reading the statutes listed in the chart at https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/table_emancipation. After meeting age requirements, the court will likely consider a variety of factors to determine whether to grant or deny the petition. Common factors include:


The likelihood the minor can financially support him or herself upon emancipation
Whether the minor will be able to make adequate arrangements for housing upon emancipation
Whether the minor is likely to make sound decisions upon emancipation
Whether the minor has reached a sufficient maturity level to function as an adult
Any abuse or maltreatment by the minor’s parents.
 Aside from the fact that the court may not rule in your favor, there are few drawbacks to obtaining adulthood by court order. The process is not simple, however, and some things you may want to consider include:


The cost of filing and presenting your case. The court imposes filing fees, and legal expenses can be significant.
The impact of parental notice. Most states require that you serve notice of your intent to emancipate on your parents. In cases of abuse or other significant issues, a judge can waive this notice, but this period between the time your parents are notified and the time of the order can be an uncomfortable or hostile time period.
The stress of legal proceedings. Contested legal proceedings are stressful in most cases. Those involving family are even more stressful.
 To obtain emancipation by court order, you must follow the legal procedure in your state. See How to Get Emancipated as a Teen. If you can afford one or one will represent you pro bono, an attorney would be very beneficial. Though the process will vary between states, some common components of the process include:The petition. The petition is your request to the court. It says why you meet the requirements of the law to become emancipated and asks the court to grant you an order declaring you emancipated.
Service on the parents. In most states, you must notify your parents of this petition. This is done by getting a summons or citation from the clerk and having it served by the sheriff or other designated office according to state law. If serving the parents is likely to cause a dangerous situation for the child, a judge can frequently waive this requirement.
Hearing. The court will schedule a hearing to gather facts and evidence, hearing from the child, the parents, and any witnesses. The court will then make its decision and issue the appropriate order.
 If you need to conduct business as an adult, you may need to prove you are an adult. Because of this, it is wise to carry a copy of your signed emancipation order with you to prove you have been emancipated by court order. Some activities that may require a copy of your order include:


Renting or buying a home or apartment
Contracting for utilities
Registering a vehicle
Seeing a doctor
Registering for school

