 Your husband has the same qualities that you fell in love with, and his bisexuality is another quality that you may have recently learned about. It also defines who he is. As your partner, he needs your love and support, and your relationship will remain strong if you can accept him for who he is., Knowing more about bisexuality will help you understand your partner. There is no single model for bisexuality, since each individual is different in his emotions and feelings. A bisexual person is sexually attracted to two genders. This individual likely also loves individuals first, often with less attention to specific gender.There are a lot of myths about bisexuality, which can be harmful to your relationship if you don’t learn how these myths are just that – myths. Your relationship will strengthen if you understand the true nature of your partner’s feelings. Some of these myths are:Myth: A person is either gay or straight, not both.

Humans are complex and can have very different sexual orientations, including heterosexual (attracted to the opposite gender), homosexual (attracted to the same gender), bisexual (attracted to two or more genders), asexual (not attracted to any gender), pansexual (not limited in sexual choice), or skoliosexual (attraction to non-binary identified individuals).Myth: Bisexuals can’t be faithful.

A person can choose to be monogamous. A person’s sexual orientation does not determine his ability or desire to be in a monogamous, faithful relationship. The couple decides what it means to be monogamous.


Myth: Bisexuals have more sexually transmitted diseases.

The rate of STDs does not correlate to a person’s sexual orientation. Rather, it has to do with the individual’s care in protecting himself from STDs.
 Recognize that your relationship has entered into a new phase. If you want the marriage to succeed and continue, you need to be willing to make changes. Your husband is still the same person that you married, but now you know even more about his desires and feelings. Understand that you may need to start fresh, with new boundaries and new expectations about what marriage means for both of you., Your husband may have been struggling with his bisexuality for a long time. If he is just now telling you, he may have been trying to suppress his true feelings. He knows that you two trust and respect each other. He has taken a big step in being honest with you. Now you can take a big step by talking to him about what he wants. What does he want your marriage to be like? Does he want to have other partners? Does he want to remain monogamous? 