 If you have been admitted to the hospital for a broken ankle, then you can ask to have a consult with a physical therapist. A physical therapist can show you how to properly use your crutches and offer other important information about moving safely while you have a broken ankle., If you want to walk around while wearing a cast or splint – and you should – you’re going to need to use crutches. Crutches will help with both balance and stability, and will allow you to walk without putting pressure on your injured leg. In order to walk safely on crutches, be sure to wear a rubber-soled, non-slip shoe on your strong, uninjured leg.Place your weight on your uninjured leg, and grip your crutches comfortably. Move each crutch forward simultaneously. Take care not to hit your injured ankle. Place the crutch about a foot in front of you, a bit wider apart than your shoulders.
Lean your weight into the support of the crutches and step forward with your uninjured leg. The crutches will hold you during the step, until you land on the same leg you stepped forward with. Only your uninjured leg should ever touch the ground.
Turn by pivoting on your good foot, and never let your injured ankle touch anything. Go slow!
Repeat the process until you’ve arrived wherever you want to be.
 Having one operable foot and two crutches makes sitting down more difficult. You can handle it. Back up towards whatever you want to sit on until it is touching your legs. Move your injured leg in front of you and out of the way while balancing on your strong, uninjured leg. Your crutches could help here – they can act as a second foot to help stability., (If you are unable to hold both crutches in one hand, set your strong-side crutch down within reach.)
Reach back with your free hand and grab something firmly attached to whatever you’re going to sit down on.
Sit down slowly.
 Standing will require additional effort with only one operable leg. Position yourself on the front edge of your seat. Set your injured leg gently in front of you. To stand up:


Hold both crutches in your hand that corresponds with the side of your body with the injured leg. (If unable to do so, set the crutch up in such a way that you will be able to easily reach it while maintaining stability once standing.)
Use your free hand to help push yourself from your seat as you stand up with your uninjured leg.
Carefully balance on your strong, uninjured leg as you position a crutch in each hand.
 Do not attempt to walk up or down stairs on crutches until you are comfortable using them. Until then, sit down and move yourself up and down stairs one at a time. It may feel silly, but it will feel less silly, and less painful, than re-injuring your leg or busting your other ankle! Once you’re ready to use your crutches on stairs:Up: Step up with your strong leg first, then bring the crutches up at the same time, one in each arm, placing them on either side of your body.
Down: Place your crutch ends on the next step down, one in each arm, a bit wider apart than your shoulders. Move your weak leg forward and down, without resting weight on it. Move your strong leg down last.
With handrail: Hold the handrail with one hand if you feel more stable. Hold both crutches on your other side in your other hand.
Go especially slow when you are on stairs, ramps, or uneven ground.
 Check the tips of your crutches frequently and replace them when they are visibly worn down. Decrease obstructions in your home. Remove loose rugs, rugs with corners that stick up, and cords that could trip or tangle you or your crutches. Keep floors free of clutter, clean, and dry.

