 Remove all furniture and other items from the area to be cleaned. Sweep or vacuum the floor thoroughly and be sure to get any loose debris, dirt, hair, etc. out of the corners and away from baseboard edges.It is important to remove grit, rocks, sand, and other rough particles from the floor before steam cleaning, as these can leave scratches.
If vacuuming, us the 'hard floor' setting to remove as much dirt as possible. You may need to use handheld attachments to get into the corners or right up against baseboards.
If the floor you are cleaning is right next to an outside door, put a note on the outside of the door that lets people know not to walk on the floor while you're cleaning it.
 Steam cleaners made specifically for hard surfaces will provide the best results, so choose one made for this purpose when buying or renting a machine. Most are the upright style, resembling a standard vacuum. Hard floor steam cleaners are usually lighter weight and less bulky than those made for carpets and do not spray water directly onto the floor.Not all hard floor steam cleaners are safe to use on wood floors. If you intend to steam clean a wood floor, make sure your steamer is approved for this.
Hard floor steam cleaning is usually done using only hot water (no cleaning solution). However, if you need to remove stubborn stains or sanitize your floor, you can mix in a neutral-pH floor cleaner. Only do this if the steam cleaner specifies that cleaning solutions can be used with it.
If you decide to use a cleaner for steam cleaning, make sure it will not discolor or strip the finish off of laminate or wood flooring.
Make sure wood floors are properly sealed before steam cleaning. If you have a worn spot where no finish is left on the wood, moisture could soak into the wood and cause warping or water staining.
 Once you're ready to begin steam cleaning, remove the machine's water canister and fill it with hot tap water. Check the machine's filter to make sure it's clean; rinse it off in a sink or bathtub if it's dirty. Reattach the canister and turn the machine on, heating the water until it begins to form mist.Unlike most carpet steamers, hard floor machines will begin emitting steam once they've been heated sufficiently, indicating they are ready for use.
If you mixed a cleaning product into the steamer, try not to breathe in the steam, as it may contain particles from the cleaner.
 If you are cleaning a tile floor with stained or dirty grouting, you may want to pre-clean the grout before steaming it. Use a specially made grout cleaner and scrub it on with a stiff-bristled brush (made of nylon or brass, for example). Wipe off the surface with a damp rag or cloth once you've sufficiently scrubbed it.


This can be a very time-consuming and tedious task. In many cases, steam cleaning will be enough to get the grout clean, so only do this if you have extremely dirty or unsanitary tile grout.
You do not need to get the surface totally spotless before steaming, as this process will clean away any residue left from your grout pre-treatment.
Some tile floor steamers have attachments specifically for cleaning grout.These often include hand-held attachments with stiff bristles on the end of a narrow wand that you can use to scrub the grout as the machine emits steam. This is a good way to pre-treat grout before steaming the rest of the floor.
 Once the machine is heated up, slowly push it along the floor like you would a push broom. Steam is given off at the base of the machine and moistens the floor (but does not soak it) as you push it forward. Pull the mop back across the steamed area to allow the cleaning pad to mop up any excess residue.


Start on one side of the room and work your way across to the other, moving backward as you go so you don't step on the freshly-cleaned surface.
Let the floor dry by itself before you walk on it or put furniture or rugs back into place. It is not necessary to towel-dry it.
Open doors and windows (weather permitting) to speed drying. You can also place a fan near the clean floor to improve airflow through the room.

