 You can prevent employees from distributing union literature at work. However, you must have a general policy against solicitation in place before you hear the first rumblings of union organizing activity. If you wait, then your attempt to limit solicitation and distribution might look like an unfair labor practice.
 The best way to prevent union solicitation is to have a general policy in place early. Don’t specify that only union solicitation is prohibited—that would be discriminatory against unions and illegal. Instead, limit all distribution of materials and solicitation.


For example, you should adopt a policy like the following: “Distribution of advertising material, handbills or other literature in working areas of this facility is prohibited at any time. Solicitation by one employee of another is likewise prohibited if either employee is on working time.”This prohibition is sufficiently general. It applies to a variety of distribution and solicitation.
By contrast, stating “No union material or information may be distributed in working areas” directly singles out unions. You can’t use a prohibition like this.
 It’s one thing to draft a prohibition and tell employees. You also need to consistently enforce it.If you start enforcing the prohibition only after a union drive starts, then it looks like you are targeting unions.


Put the prohibition in your employee manuals and handbooks. Make sure that employees see it.
Punish any employee who violates the rule. Also document the punishment. For example, you should reprimand an employee who tries to sell her daughter’s Girl Scout cookies to her coworkers.
 If there is a union drive in your workplace, then you can prevent the employees from posting notices about upcoming meetings on your bulletin board. You are not discriminating against the union if you have restricted postings on your bulletin board in the past to certain topics (like advertisements to sell goods).Don’t allow the bulletin board to serve as a general forum for your employees. If you do, then you might have to allow the union to post meeting notices on the board., You do not have to give the union information about your employees, such as their names or addresses. The union has to rely on its own efforts to contact employees.However, if the union gets enough votes to qualify for a government-supervised election, then the law requires that you disclose the information at that time.
 Although you do not have to allow solicitation during work hours, employees are free to engage in union activity during non-work hours, such as a lunch break.You don’t want to overstep and have employees accuse you of engaging in unfair labor practices. For this reason, you should understand that employees can talk about the union during their breaks.

