 You can try to space out your music files in your presentation so that the songs flow from one to next, but any changes in your presentation can create jarring transitions or too much silence. If you want a constant background soundtrack for a long presentation, it will be much easier to stitch each audio file into one continuous track and then set it to play from the beginning.
 This is a free, open-source audio editor that will allow you to quickly combine your music files. You can download Audacity from sourceforge.net/projects/audacity/.
 Click the File menu and select "Open...". If your files are all in the same folder, you can hold Ctrl and select each one so that you can open them all at once.
 You will be adding each track to the end of the first song, so open the window showing the second song on your playlist.
,,,,, You can look at the graph to see when the song is playing audio and when there is silence. You may have some extra silence between your added songs that you can remove before adding it to PowerPoint.


Click and drag to select the portion of the track that is silent. Make sure you don't delete pauses during a song, as it can make the song sound off. It's also good to leave a second or two of silence in between each song.
Click the "Cut" button at the top of the window to delete the selection.
 Now that you're finished adding tracks, you'll need to save your new file as an MP3 so that it can be loaded into PowerPoint


Click the File menu and select "Export Audio...".
Ensure that the "Save as type" field is set to "MP3 Files".
Name the file so that you know it is the combined soundtrack and save it in an easy to find location.
Click Save and then click OK, unless you want to change any of the MP3 tag information.
Wait for the export to complete. It may take a few minutes for Audacity to put together and save your new MP3 file.
 Follow the steps in the first section of this article to insert your combined song file into PowerPoint and have it play automatically in the background.

