 If you are reading the book for school or college, you can look ahead on your syllabus to see when you will need to have finished the book. Divide the page count with the number of days that you have left. That is the minimum number of pages you should read each day.


Alternatively, you could choose to read a certain number of chapters a day. Divide the number of chapters by the number of days, keeping in mind that some chapters are longer than others.;
, Every day read at least your minimum page count for the novel. You should try to read uninterrupted in a single session. Do not end in the middle of a page or chapter. Try to end your session at a conclusive point so that it will be easier for you to pick up the novel the next day.
 You may have an annotated text that has footnotes or endnotes. These will appear as small numbers above the text. These numbers refer to an explanatory note on the bottom of the page or in the back of the book. Reading these notes as you work your way through the text can help you understand the historical, social, and linguistic meaning of the book. They can also point out literary allusions, symbolism, metaphors, and double-meanings in the text. Often, they will translate difficult or old words into simple modern English.
 You do not want to interrupt your reading by constantly checking the dictionary. Keep a list of words you do not recognize, and after you have finished reading for the day, look them up and write down their definitions. You may encounter these words again while reading the book.


If the word prevents you from understanding what is going on, then you should probably look it up right away.
 Use a pencil to circle, underline, and box any key phrases, quotes, or symbols. Record your reactions to certain parts of the text by using smiley faces. If you have an opinion or you notice something interesting, jot a quick note in the margins. This kind of active reading helps you process and remember the novel with greater ease. It can help you recall important moments in class or on a quiz, and it prepares you for discussing the book at a critical level.


Be sure to erase your notes if you are giving or selling your book to someone else.
 After you finish for the day, write a brief summary of what happened. This will help you recall at a later date what the novel was about. It can also help you process what you read for that day. Keep these summaries in a notebook together. When you are finished with the novel, you can look back over your notes.