 Many people believe that essential oils have healing properties. Oils are frequently used to help increase physical wellness. If you are having pains or other ailments, it is possible that there is an oil that can help you.

For example, many people use essential oils to help treat acne. To use this method, apply a few drops of lavender or tea tree oil to a fragrance free moisturizer. Rub gently into skin.
Ginger and peppermint can be used to treat nausea. Add a few drops of either oil to a carrier oil, such as grapeseed. A carrier oil will dilute the essential oil, making it safe to apply to skin. Rub mixture onto abdomen.
You can use essential oils to treat a toothache. Apply 2-3 drops of clove or peppermint oil to a cotton ball and place the ball on the sore tooth.;
, Aromatic application means that you will be breathing the oil in. There are several ways that you can safely use aromatic application. Try direct inhalation.To use direct inhalation, you can hold the bottle of oil a few inches from your face. Breathe the scent in and out through the nose.
You can also place a few drops of oil into your palms and inhale. Remember that some oils, such as cinnamon, should be diluted before you inhale them.
Make a steam tent. Place a few drops of oil, such as eucalyptus, into a pot of boiling water. With a towel draped over your head, lean carefully over the pot and inhale the steam.
 A hot bath can be very helpful in treating physical ailments. If you add essential oils to your bath, it can become even more soothing. Choose an oil that will help your particular ache or pain.If you have sore muscles, or are just in need of relaxation try adding lavender essential oil to your bath. Add 6 drops of oil just before stepping into the hot bath.
Remember that oils are not water soluble. This means that the oil will float on the surface of the water.
Try adding bath salts to help the oil disperse. Try mixing one part baking soda with two parts Epsom salts, and three parts sea salt. Add two tablespoons of this mixture to the six drops of oil and add to your bath.
 You can add essential oils to a massage to make the results even more effective. If you are making your own massage oil, you can add the essential oil of your choice. Just remember to use the proper ratio.

You have to be careful when applying essential oils directly to the skin. Make sure that your mixture does not contain more than 1% essential oil. That is only one drop per teaspoon.
Make sure to use a carrier oil, such as coconut or almond, to mix with your essential oils. The essential oil you choose depends on the desired effect.
To nourish dry or irritated skin, try grapefruit essential oil. For sore muscles, try wintergreen or peppermint.

