 Place the rope over the edge of your open left hand. The short tail should be over the front of your hand. The rest of the rope should be behind your hand.


Give yourself enough length of paracord with the short tail so that its doesn’t slip out of your monkey fist.
Pull the short end down far enough so the it goes just passed your bottom finger.
 Grab the long tail and wrap it five times around your fingers.


Each successive wrap should be closer to the tips of your fingers.
On the final wrap you will loop around your finger before wrapping the paracord around the back of your fist, then drawing it around toward you.
 Be sure that you maintain the orientation. Keep this same hand positioned so the loops hold.


Alternatively, if you find it easier you can keep the paracord on your fingers. You’ll just have to loop the horizontal turns between your finger and palm.
 Grab the long tail and wrap it perpendicularly around the five loops just created. Do this five times.


Each subsequent horizontal strand should be above the last. When done, you should have five strands of rope looped vertically and cinched loosely by five horizontal wraps.Finish this portion of the fist by wrapping the last loop around the vertical strand.
 Again grab the long tail and tuck it above the five newest horizontal strands facing you, and follow through underneath. Continue with this motion five times. Weave through the top and out the bottom.


You want to wrap your paracord in between your first vertical loops but over and under your horizontal ones.
Finish this portion of the monkey's fist by wrapping the last loop around the original vertical strand.
Insert a large marble. To add an extra weight to your monkey's fist, add a large marble to its center. For the five strand monkey knots, you’ll need something in the core to add to the bulk of the fist.
 Spend a few minutes gently tugging each loop to tighten your knot. Start with the first loop you cast and end with the last.


You have to slowly tighten each part of the paracord in succession.

