 Canned food will last a while as long as they are stored in a cool, dry place. The best place to store canned dog food is in a cupboard or pantry inside of your home.Do not store them where they will get wet or in a humid or moist environment as the cans may tarnish and the inner seal may degrade and cause the food to spoil.
 Once you’ve opened a can of dog food, it can be stored in the refrigerator for up to two days. Just make sure to use a plastic can lid (many veterinary clinics give these out) or a tight-fitting aluminum foil temporary lid to keep the food from drying out.Try writing the date that you opened the can on the label so that you can be sure that you are using the food within the appropriate time range.
 Homemade foods can consist of a wide variety of food: different types of meat, eggs, vegetables, grains, and fruits are often used. As a general guideline, follow the recommended storage times for meats, which are the most perishable foods in homemade diets. According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) meats should be stored at refrigerator temperatures (40 °F or 4 °C or less) for the following days:Raw ground meats, all poultry, and seafood may be refrigerated for one to two days.
Raw roasts, steaks, and chops may be refrigerated for three to five days.
Cooked meat, poultry, and seafood may be refrigerated for three to four days.
 Homemade dog food and canned dog food can also be stored in the freezer. Just make sure to put the food into freezer bags or storage containers first. Canned food and homemade food will keep in the freezer for up to four to six months.Try portioning your dog's food so that you only need to defrost one baggie or container of food at a time for his meals.
 Canned and homemade dog food can spoil if left out of the refrigerator for too long. If an open can of dog food or some homemade dog food has been sitting in a dog bowl or on a counter, be sure to throw it away after four hours.Do not give your dog food that has been sitting out for long periods of time. Doing so may cause your dog to get sick, which could result in some expensive veterinary bills.

