 Some computers have been manufactured and tested specifically to ensure that they consume less energy.


Verify that your computers have an Energy Star logo or other government-supported logo, which indicates that the computers save costs on energy bills and are designed to help reduce pollutants that are harmful to the environment.;
, The majority of laptops only burn between 15 and 60 watts when in use; whereas desktop computers burn between 70 and 200 watts when in use.


If possible, use tablets or smartphones such as Android devices and iPhones instead of laptops and desktops. Tablets and smartphones consume the least amount of energy in terms of wattage.
 When you enable settings that allow your computers to become idle after you have not used them for several minutes, you may consume up to 50 percent less energy per year.


On Windows computers, modify your power management settings in the Power Options menu within your Control Panel.
On Macintosh computers, modify the power management settings in the Energy Saver menu within your System Preferences.
Set your computers' monitors and hard disks to turn off after 5 minutes of idle use.
Enable the hibernation and standby modes on every computer to go into effect after 15 minutes of idle use.
If you have computer monitors that contain buttons or switches that turn off the displays immediately, perform this procedure in place of screen savers, which do not save energy.
 An LCD monitor only uses approximately 28 watts whereas a CRT monitor uses approximately 100 watts.
 This process will save the amount of energy output it takes to keep your computer screens brightly lit.


Consult with the manuals or manufacturers of your computer monitors for guidance with modifying the brightness of the screen. In most cases, you will either have buttons on your keyboard that control the screen's brightness or a dial attached to the monitor that controls the brightness.
 The combined watt usage that is consumed each time you power a computer on and off is still lower than the watt usage a computer consumes when it is left on 24 hours per day.


Turn your computers off when you are done working for the day and when you go to sleep.
 If you have hardware such as scanners or printers that are connected to your computers and turned on indefinitely, your computers will consume a higher amount of energy.

