 Begin by brushing and flossing your teeth twice daily. Don't forget the tongue because 90% of bad breath is the result of a dirty tongue. Throughout the day use breath mints, breath strips, or gum. If you use mouthwash, use one that is clear and alcohol free--colored formulas stain teeth over time, and alcohol deteriorates gum tissue. If you choose gum, make sure you have an easy way to get rid of it before kissing.;
, You should apply lip balm frequently (carry one in your pocket or purse). This will help keep your lips soft. The best choices are Carmex, Nivea, Burt's Bees, Vaseline (in moderation because you don't want the other person to worry about getting gooey Vaseline or Carmex all over them), SoftLips, or EOS (Evolution of Smooth).
 The saliva dries out your lips, causing them to crack, split, or become chapped. And no one wants to kiss rough lips.
 Always wash your face with a mild, unscented soap DESIGNED for the face. And don't forget moisturizer! This protects your pores from dirt that can cause acne and prevents build up of oils. (Who would want to kiss you if your skin shines like sweat?).
 This provides the intimate connection that is an invitation to kissing. If you have large glasses try taking them off, or getting contacts for the future. Some people absolutely hate it when your glasses start to interfere with the contact. Try taking them off before kissing though, since a hand gesture toward your glasses might be found unromantic. Just keep light, welcoming eye contact. Do not stare, as this may be a bit frightening and/or make the other person uncomfortable.
 Make sure you are wearing comfortable clothes. And if you're a guy, most people like smooth hairless faces so don't forget to shave if you need to.
 Some people think this connotes the idea of kissing and hopefully he/she will pick up the hint. But, more often than not, it just ends up making people think that's all you want to do, and you aren't listening to them. Relax and let nature take it's course, and try not to be obsessed with it too much.
 Just before kissing - swallow discretely. As you move your tongue around your mouth (French) and use a very light sucking action (standard kiss), the glands on your tongue and in your mouth will produce more saliva. You don't want your lips dry but you certainly don't want to dribble in your partner's mouth either.
 When you are tense, your whole body will respond including your tongue and lips. Don't worry - they are probably JUST as nervous as you are in either a first kiss or the first kiss of a new relationship. You can now be an expert first time round.

