 Dawnguard was the first expansion released for Skyrim. It can be purchased separately if you own the base version of Skyrim, and is included in the Legendary Edition of the game. The Dawnguard content is not available without this expansion.

If you have the base version of Skyrim, you can purchase the expansion from your platform's online store. This will automatically install it for your game.;
, Being Level 10 or above is the easiest way to start the Dawnguard quest. Your level can be raised by increasing your skill levels. Each time you raise your skill level, you'll gain some experience points towards your character level.

See Level Up Fast in Skyrim for tips on gaining levels quickly.
You don't need to be Level 10 to start the Dawnguard quest, but it makes it much easier.
 Town guards may relay a rumor about the Dawnguard, revealing the location on your map. This is not guaranteed to happen, but you can increase your chances by talking to as many guards as possible.

If you manage to hear the rumor, the location of Fort Dawnguard will appear on your map, and the Dawnguard quest will appear in your journal.
 After you reach Level 10, the orc Durak will seek you out as you enter or exit any building in a town. This is the most surefire way to start the quest.

Durak will approach you even if you've already heard about Fort Dawnguard from a town guard.
 Durak will mark the location of the fort on your map if you haven't heard it from a guard yet, and the quest will be added to your journal.If you decline his request to seek out Dawnguard, you can talk to him again and tell him your interested. He'll stay in his current location until you agree.
 If all else fails, you'll be able to force the quest to start by finding Dayspring Canyon and talking to Agmaer there. See the next section for details., Riften is the nearest landmark to Dayspring Canyon, the entrance to Fort Dawnguard. You most likely already have Riften on your map, but if you don't it can be found in the southeast corner of the map, on the east side of the lake.If you've previously been to Riften, you can fast travel to it from your map to make the journey quick and easy.
 The entrance to Dayspring Canyon is a short distance from Riften's east entrance., You'll cross a small bridge soon after you take the path to the southeast. There may be some wolves nearby that will try to attack., A few steps after crossing the bridge, start looking at the cliff wall to your left. The entrance to Dayspring Canyon appears as a crack in this wall between a hollow log and a birch tree that's been broken., This will load a new area, where you'll be able to find Fort Dawnguard., The path will wind through a rocky area for a few minutes before you reach the fort., If you see Durak along the path, he'll give you a new crossbow after talking to him. Agmaer is another new recruit, and will provide you with the Dawnguard quest if you somehow managed to make it here without starting it., You'll find the fort at the end of the path. Continue around the fort and up the incline to find the entrance., You'll find Isran in the center of the main room as soon as you enter the fort., He'll appreciate your enthusiasm, but he'll need you to complete some tasks before the order is ready to be joined., You're tasked with finding what the vampires were after in the cave, and to kill any that may still be there. Tolan tells you that he'll meet you there to help.

Dimhollow Crypt is in the mountains of the Dawnstar to the north. You'll find it near Frostmere Crypt if you had previously visited that location.
 You'll encounter multiple vampires, hounds, and skeletons, as well as a frostbite spider., At the end of the crypt, you'll free Serana, who will ask you to take her to her ancestral home. This will start the next quest in the series., After freeing Serana, you'll have to fight some gargoyles, draugr, skeletons, and undead as you make your way out of the crypt.

Make sure to use the Word Wall and grab any loot that you want on your way out.
 This is the closest location to Castle Volkihar, where Serana wants you to take her. Icewater Jetty is in the far northwest corner, near Northwatch Keep., You can take a boat from Icewater Jetty that will transport you to Castle Volkihar, which is on an island in the northern ocean., Lord Harkon will offer to turn you into a Vampire Lord, which will activate the Vampire Lord portion of the DLC quests and lock your out of joining the Dawnguard. Decline his offer and you'll be shown out of Castle Volkihar, and told never to return.

You can still become a Vampire Lord later on in the Dawnguard questline.
 Once you've declined Lord Harkon's offer, make your way back to Fort Dawnguard. You'll find it under attack by vampires, which you'll need to help repel., After fighting off the attacking vampires, you can speak with Isran and you'll be officially entered into the Dawnguard. Your next few quests will get teh Dawnguard Fort restocked and filled with recruits.