 Take turns choosing the activities you do together. Compromising between quiet, downtime and exciting, social time will help you maintain your relationship with a quiet person.Make plans to do quiet activities together like watching a marathon of your favorite web series or just sitting and talking.
Spend time hanging out with other couples or in group settings. For example, go to a party together with some of your mutual friends.
You can even spend a few hours together in the morning volunteering in the community and then spend the afternoon quietly relaxing.
Keep in mind that your partner may be easily drained after a few hours of activity, especially if they are an introvert. Make sure to give them a chance to recharge after social activities and be willing to do some non-social activities as well.
 It can be really stressful for quiet people to be thrown into social situations without preparation.This can cause problems in your relationship and make your partner feel uncomfortable. You can spend quality time with your quiet partner and maintain a good relationship if you give your partner advance notice about social events.


For example, inviting your mutual friends over for a game day and not telling your partner until the doorbell rings isn’t a good idea.
Give your partner enough time to mentally prepare to be social. You might say, “Later in the week I’d like to get together with our friends and play some board games.”

, Spending quiet, one-on-one time together is a good thing for any relationship. It gives you the opportunity to connect with each other on a different level. When you are in a relationship with a quiet person, you can maintain the relationship by taking advantage of your quiet time together.


Spend some time just sitting with each other or cuddling. You don’t have to say or do anything other than be together.
Try meditating together or practicing other relaxation techniques like deep breathing.
Spend time in nature together, such as by taking a walk outside. This is a healthy, relaxing activity that you can do together.

