 Most countries have local and/or national archivist organizations. These organizations can be important sources of information and career advice for people like you who are trying to get their foot in the door. They also host conferences where you can network with other archivists and learn about current trends in archival practice.Finally, some professional organizations offer mentor programs that pair you with an experienced archivist to help you achieve your career goals., Local history museums and historical institutions often need volunteers. As an archival volunteer, you might gain hands-on experience in processing, arrangement, description, and digitization. This volunteer experience looks great on a resume when you go out to look for a job as an archivist.Many archival science programs require students to conduct a practicum as part of their degree requirements.This volunteer experience is also useful for professional development.
If possible, volunteer or do your practicum at an institution similar to one where you wish to obtain work as an archivist.
For instance, if you want to specialize in labor archives, volunteer at a museum that deals with labor or labor issues, or request to work on a collection pertaining primarily to labor issues.
 Once you’ve met the relevant educational requirements for work as an archivist, start checking job boards for archival work. Take advantage of your network in order to find work opportunities, too. Former classmates, professors, and mentors can be of great help in the job hunt. Apply to as many jobs as you can.If you’re finding that you’re having a hard time finding jobs that are relevant to your skill set, consider getting an additional degree.
For instance, if your history degree alone seems to be insufficient in helping you get a job as an archivist, consider going back to school for an MLIS degree or a certificate in archival administration.
 The process of writing a cover letter and resume will vary depending on the archive you're applying to. Tailor a general resume and cover letter to the specific job you're applying to.For instance, if the archive is looking for someone skilled with born-digital documents, highlight any experience you've had working with such materials.
Emphasize how your education, volunteer experiences, and relevant personality traits (such as being detail-oriented, creative, and capable of working both alone and on a team) would make you a strong asset to the archive.
 With your customized resume and cover letter in hand, you're ready to send it in. Most archives will ask you to send an email including your cover letter and resume. In this case, you can usually just copy and paste the cover letter into your email. Other archives might want you to apply through an online portal, in which case you'll have to upload your resume and cover letter.Unless otherwise directed, call the archive after a few days to follow up on your application. This will show you are interested in the job.
For example, ask the archivist "Have you gotten a chance to look over my resume yet? I'd love to talk more about how my skill set could contribute to the successful operation of your archive."

