 Rather than acting defensive or upset by their suggestions, be kind to the intentions of your friends. Friends want to help other friends, but not all friends know the right way to do that.If your know-it-all friends are truly your friends, they are likely trying to be genuine in their advice. They just may not know the right approach, or lack the social understanding to see that it's unwanted.
For example, let's say you have a treatable but chronic digestive disorder. Maybe you have flare-ups and difficulty with your health from time to time. Your friend says, "Just drink plenty of water and you'll be fine." Try to avoid getting upset, and think about how they are just likely just trying to be helpful.
Avoid throwing out their advice on the spot. Avoid saying things like, "I really don't think that will work." or "That's really not helpful at all."

, Focus on how to say "thank you" as a way to acknowledge what the person has said. If you don't want the conversation to continue, then focus on a smooth way to transition to a different topic.


For example, a know-it-all friend gives you some unwanted tips on a chronic condition you have. Say, "Thanks for your suggestions. I'll take that under consideration. (pause) What were you doing this last weekend? I just saw this new movie, and wondered if you saw it."
If you are knowledgeable about your friend's interests, work, or family, consider redirecting the conversation to something about them. They are more likely to move on to the new topic if it allows them to talk about themselves.
 Be open to the idea that other people have different opinions on a subject, whether you agree with them or not. Don't waste your energy on trying to shut down their viewpoint on the situation and save your strength. If you're going through a difficult time with your own medical condition, or a family member's, it may be a challenge to listen to what others say when you disagree or don't want to hear. Stay strong. Showing that you are open-minded may lead to less stress along the way.
Consider saying things like, "Thank you. I'm going to assess the options in front of me and see what works best."

, If someone is a know-it-all, they may have difficulty with social cues and effective communication. Try to be polite yet direct when trying to get someone to stop talking.Be assertive by engaging in difficult conversation with delicacy and authority. Show that you are confident in what you're saying.
Consider saying, "I appreciate your advice and understand your concerns. I am talking with my healthcare providers about the situation, and am continuing to advocate for my needs. If I am in need of any further advice, I'll be sure to ask."

