 The assignments that fall under this section, which are assessed internally by your IB-approved teacher (hence the name), are worth 30% of your final grade. It includes an Individual Oral Commentary and Discussion and Individual Oral Presentation. Focus your energies appropriately, then. This does not, however, mean that you should brush off these assignments as insignificant. If you really want to score a seven, that thirty percent will be critical.
Because your teacher is involved in the assessment, pay increased intention to his/her points of emphasis regarding the works themselves and the themes/topics/details worth extra consideration.
 For this assignment, you present a formal oral commentary on a extract of poetry from Part 2 of the class, followed by questions from the teacher, for ten minutes total, followed by an additional ten minutes of discussion about another extracted work from Part 2.You are not made aware of the extracts to be considered until twenty minutes beforehand, so you may feel that you cannot do much preparation. Nothing could be further from the truth, however. By thoroughly analyzing each work in Part 2, thereby preparing yourself to discuss key components like poetic conventions, authorial intent, themes, contexts, and the like, you will be more capable of providing cogent, reasoned analysis quickly and clearly.
Conduct “practice runs” by selecting extracts yourself and preparing oral commentaries within the given time constraints. Even if the likelihood of your choosing the exact extract is small, the process of preparing, organizing, and presenting your thoughts within a given time limit will serve you well for the actual assessment.
For the questions and discussion session, prepare by thinking about questions and issues you would raise regarding these works. Practice either alone or — even better — with a partner by raising and discussing these questions / issues.
As you prepare, practice speaking within the prescribed time limit, neither too long (which can cause you to rush or be cut off) nor too short (which opens you up to even more questions from the teacher.)

, This assignment provides you a bit more flexibility, giving you 10-15 minutes to present a cogent analysis of one or more works from Part 4 (freely-chosen works).Work in consultation with your instructor to determine which works to cover and what themes/issues/topics to emphasize.
Essentially, for the oral presentation, you want to achieve the same thing as in an essay, just in another format. You need to provide a clear argument (thesis), provide specific supporting evidence from the texts under consideration, and use clear, effective, proper language in doing so.
Your grade is determined by your demonstrated knowledge of the work(s), appreciation of thematic aspects, audience engagement, and manner of delivery, so what you say and how you say it are both of importance.
Practice, practice, practice. Practice your presentation as many times as possible beforehand. Practice in the mirror or in front of others. Sufficient preparation is the best way to battle nerves about public speaking and to ensure that your presentation comes in on time (10-15 minutes).
Instead of being wary of failure, think of this as your chance to shine — to determine what you want to discuss and present it in an engaging, effective manner.

