 Omegle bans typically don't last longer than a week, so if you can wait your ban will likely go away on its own. If you can't wait, you can try getting a new public IP address.;
, This is the address that Omegle sees when you connect, and is the address that they used to ban you.


Make note of this address so that you can check if it was changed later.
 This method will work best if you use a cable or DSL modem and a separate router. If you have a modem-router combo, or connect your modem directly to your computer, this may not work. Your computer will also need an Ethernet port.
 Most home internet services use a "dynamic IP address." This means that the internet service provider (ISP) assigns you a random IP within a certain range when your modem is detected by their network. Resetting your modem can help get your connection a new IP address.


Not everyone will have a dynamic IP address, though most home users will. If this doesn't work for you, see the next section.
 Dynamic IP addresses are usually reassigned when the modem detects a new MAC address. You'll be connecting your modem directly to your computer instead of your router, providing a new MAC address (your computer's) to the modem., Sometimes you can get a new IP within 30 seconds, sometimes it will take an hour or two. The time it takes is dependent on your ISP's policies.
 Use an Ethernet cable and connect your modem directly to your computer's Ethernet port.


Make sure to disconnect from any wireless networks on your computer.
 Plug your modem back in and wait a few minutes for it to power up and connect. Your computer will get an internet connection directly from the modem.
 If your IP address is different than it was, you've successfully changed your public IP. If the address is the same, you can try a VPN.
 If the method above worked, you'll be able to get a new dynamic IP address by performing the same steps but connecting the modem to your router again. This will provide the router's MAC address to the modem, getting you a new IP. You can go back and forth whenever you need to change your IP address.

