 Offsets, also known as "pups" are part of the main plant. They are usually smaller and brighter in color. They will also have their own set of roots. Search for them along the base. Here are some things you should look for when selecting an offset to cut:









The offset should be one-fifth the size of the main plant.
Choose an offset that has at least four leaves, and is several inches tall.
 This will make it easier to find where the offshoot joins the main plant. You may have to brush the soil away from the roots to see the offshoot better. It may be attached to the main plant, but it should have its own set of roots.
 The offshoot may come away easily. If it doesn't, you will need to cut it using a sharp, clean knife. Let the wound scab over for a few days before you move on. This will prevent any infections.








The offshoot must have some roots attached to it.Once you have pried the offshoot away from the main plant, you can put the larger plant back into its pot.
 This is very important. Like most plants, Aloe Vera likes water, but it hates sitting in it. If your pot does not have a drain hole, the soil will become waterlogged. This can lead to root rot, which can kill your Aloe Vera.
 If you don't have any cactus soil, mix one part sand with one part soil.









Consider filling the bottom of your pot with gravel first. This will help the pot drain even more.
The pH level should be 6.0 to 8.0. If the pH is not high enough, add some gardening lime. You can buy it from a gardening shop.
 The hole should be deep enough to fit the roots as well as one-fourth of the plant (from where the roots end, and upwards). Many expert gardeners recommend that you dip the roots in root growth hormone first, to help the roots grow faster.
 Water the plant enough so that the soil is damp, but not soaking. Aloe Vera is a desert plant, so it really does not need much water.
 After this, you can water your Aloe Vera like your normally would.To learn how to further care for your Aloe Vera, click here.








