 The Indiana Department of Revenue requires that anyone wishing to grant a power of attorney for tax purposes must use the DOR’s own form. You can access the form at the website of the Indiana Department of Revenue, at www.in.gov/dor. From that page, select “Forms” from the list at the left, and then “Miscellaneous Forms” under the “Individual” heading. You will be redirected to a list of forms. The form you need is the POA-1, “Power of Attorney.”If you prefer to have a copy of the form mailed to you, contact the DOR by telephone (317) 232-2240., From the list of Miscellaneous Forms, select the POA-1, Power of Attorney. This is designated state form number 49357. When you click on that form, the form will download to your computer in a PDF format., The POA-1 must be filled in completely, either neatly printed in ink or typed. The completed form will need the following information in order to be accepted and valid:The taxpayer’s name and address. If the taxpayer is doing business under a company name, that name should be provided as well.
The taxpayer’s Indiana taxpayer ID number, employer identification number, or social security number. If one or more of these are available, provide as much information as you have.
Identification of the appointed representative. You will need the name, address and telephone number of the representative. If you wish to appoint more than one person, you may do so by providing this information for each representative. If you are giving power of attorney to a tax professional, attorney or other professional representative, and you wish to allow the DOR to speak with more than one person at the firm, you will need to name each individual. Naming the firm itself is not sufficient.
Provide the name and address of the company or firm, if applicable.
 In items 5 and 6 of the POA-1 form, you have the option of granting a general authorization to have your representative(s) handle all tax-related matters for you (Box 5). Alternatively, you can use Box 6 to name specific tax matters and years for your representative to handle for you.Do not check both Box 5 and Box 6. If you do, Box 5 will control and you will be granting full authorization to your representative to handle all tax-related matters for you.
 A power of attorney is not valid if you do not sign it. By signing the form, you are affirming that the information on the form is correct and that you are granting the power of attorney freely. Your signature also indicates your affirmation of the following statements:”I acknowledge that the designated representative has the authority to receive confidential information and full power to perform on behalf of the taxpayer in tax matters related to this Power of Attorney. This authority does not include the power to receive refund checks.”
”I acknowledge that actions taken by the designated representative are binding, even if the representative is not an attorney. Proceedings cannot later be declared legally defective because the representative was not an attorney.”
”If I am a corporate officer, partner, or fiduciary acting on behalf of the taxpayer, I certify that I have authority to execute this Power of Attorney on behalf of the taxpayer.”

, The DOR will accept the original POA-1 by mail or a copy of the POA-1 by fax. The DOR will not accept power of attorney forms by email, as email is not considered a secure enough form of transmitting the information.Submit the POA-1 by fax to (317) 615-2605.
Send the original POA-1 by mail to Indiana Department of Revenue, PO Box 7230, Indianapolis, IN 46207-7230.
 The POA-1 will remain valid for five years from the date that it is signed. It will need to be renewed by executing a new form when the five years expires. A completely new form is required, even if none of the information changes., If, before the five year period expires, you wish to give power of attorney to someone different, or you wish to terminate the power of attorney, you must do so in writing. There is no specific form that must be used to cancel a power of attorney. You just need a letter that says, “As of this date, I revoke the power of attorney granted to _______ on a POA-1 that I signed on ____.” Then sign that letter and deliver it to the Department of Revenue in the same manner that you delivered the original POA-1.


You cannot rescind a power of attorney by merely completing a new POA-1 form. For example, if you complete one POA-1 in January 2015, giving authorization to Attorney John Smith, and then you complete a second POA-1 in July 2015, giving authorization to accountant Bob Jones, then BOTH John Smith and Bob Jones will be authorized to act on your behalf. This can cause confusion if it is not what you intended.

