 Becoming sober is the first step. You can’t handle all this if you can't get sober to begin with.;
, Or everyone that is close to you or cares about you immensely. Get them to do the little details that help you, like throw away all the temptations of alcohol like beer, whiskey , margaritas, etc. Throw away all the things that represent alcohol, posters, t-shirts, pictures with you drinking alcohol. That will help you distract yourself from the fact that alcohol exists in the world, even though you will still feel the effects of withdrawal. Every little bit helps, though.
 If you continue to drink or those little things are not helping with the temptations, have your family or close friends intervene. Allow them to take you to a safe place where they can tell you that they are worried about you to the point that they are willing to do anything to help you, even if that means putting you in rehab. You can feel free to disagree, but it will help you overcome the temptations if you know that your loved ones are worried about you, that they care about you and that they want the best for you.
 Daily activities will keep your mind focused on the treatment and not on drinking. Take part in family therapy and get them to tell you how they feel when you drink and how much it worries them. If you have no family, get your friends involved in your case, too. You need support, you can’t do this alone, and there is always someone willing to give it, even if you don't expect that.
 If you are a strong alcoholic, or maybe even a weak one, meaning that you don’t drink a lot but you experience physical discomfort whenever you don't drink, you will go through withdrawal. They are not the funnest thing to go through, but it is worth it in the long run. Drink other fluids, exercise, talk to your therapist, family or friend to keep your mind busy. The more you have to do then the less you have the chance to drink.
 You can do this. Your life will be a better one. During the withdrawal process, you may think that it's not worth it or you don't have much to look forward to. Understand that these thoughts are inspired by the chemical imbalance in your brain caused by the withdrawal. They are not true. Find spiritual guidance if you are a religious person. If you are not, speak to others who are further down the same path. They know what you are going through and will show you honestly how valuable the outcome is.
 You are not a bad person. You are being responsible and changing your life and the lives of those you love for the better. Take pride in that, even if you are still standing at the beginning of your path.

