 Standing up for yourself or simply speaking up when you have something to add to a conversation shows that you are confident. If you lack confidence, you might find it hard to be assertive. By building up your assertiveness, you will also feel more confident and others will be more likely to perceive you as a confident person., Part of being assertive is believing that you have a voice that deserves to be heard. Think about the reasons why people should hear, believe, and respect what you have to say. Try keeping a diary to record your thoughts and feelings about failing to assert yourself. Consider the ways that not asserting yourself might be holding you back in your social, academic, and professional life., If you have a hard time asserting yourself, there may be situations that make asserting yourself even harder. Think about what those situations are and why they make it so hard to speak up or stand up for yourself. Write about the situation and what you would like to change in the future.Describe the situation and people involved. Where and with whom do you have trouble asserting yourself?
Describe how it makes you feel. How does it make you feel when you cannot or do not assert yourself?
Describe what you would like to change. What would you like to change about the way that you react in these situations?

, Before you begin asserting yourself in situations that are challenging for you, take some time to practice asserting yourself. You can practice by yourself or with a supportive friend. Start by role-playing some simple situations where you must assert yourself and then move on to more difficult situations. One way that you can assert yourself is to repeat a statement over and over again in a calm, even tone.For example, imagine you have a friend who keep demanding that you to go to a party with her on a weeknight and you do not want to go because you are tired and not feeling well. You could simply say to her, “I do not want to go to the party. I want to stay home and rest.”
Remember to speak in a calm voice. Don’t yell or get angry. Just repeat the statement each time she tries to get you to agree to go to the party.
Keep in mind that role playing will not be the same as real life situations. Try to incorporate all kinds of reactions into your role-playing to make sure that you are prepared for almost any reaction.
 After you have practiced asserting yourself and you feel more confident in your abilities to speak up and stand up for yourself, you can try asserting yourself in real life. Just like in role-play, you may want to start small to build up your confidence for more difficult social situations.Try asserting yourself in little ways at first, such as by contributing your opinion to a conversation or speaking up during a meeting.
As you become more confident, you can try asserting yourself in more difficult situations, such as to contradict someone or to say no to a pushy friend or coworker.

