 You can use the internet, the yellow pages, or a list provided by your general practitioner. If you do not know where to start, both the American Board of Plastic Surgery and the American Society for Plastic Surgery have directories on their website., You probably wouldn't let a surgeon who specializes in knee surgery operate on your shoulder. The same goes for cosmetic surgery. Dr. X may be the greatest at performing a tummy tuck, but if they are inexperienced with face lifts, choose someone else.
 Any licensed doctor can call themselves plastic surgeons. To be certain that your surgeon is qualified, choose one who is certified by the American Board of Plastic Surgery (ABPS) or the equivalent organization in your country. Some plastic surgeons also belong to professional associations, which ensure that they are qualified plastic surgeons and follow the highest standards. These organizations allow you to search for certified doctors on their websites. You can also check through the American Board of Medical Specialties’ website.Reputable boards and societies include:


The American Board of Plastic Surgery. ABPS certifications issued after 1995 must be renewed every 10 years so make sure you’re your doctor’s certification isn’t out of date.The American Society of Plastic SurgeonsThe American Society for Dermatologic Surgery
The American Osteopathic Association Bureau of Osteopathic Specialists
American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery

, Don't just assume that the doctor has a clean record because they are currently practicing. The licensing board in your state should list any malpractice judgments against the doctor, plus any disciplinary actions taken against them.Find a link to your state's medical board here.
 Your general physician has plenty of contacts in the medical field and will likely be able to steer you towards qualified physicians while cautioning you away from those with shady credentials.
 This is a non-committal meeting that allows you to talk to a surgeon. You can address any concerns you have about the surgery, ask questions about the procedure, and receive personalized recommendations. It will also let you understand if a particular surgeon is better suited for you.


The doctor may charge you for the consultation. Some doctors charge a fee but waive it once you choose to have surgery with them. Ask when making the initial appointment.
 You want to make sure that you understand what kind of procedure you’re about to have so that you understand what to look for in a surgeon. You should search for:


How the procedure is performed
What you will need to do to prepare for the surgery
Risks and side effects of the surgery
Postoperative treatment and medication
Recovery time
Different variations of the procedure

, Once you have met with your potential surgeon, be sure to ask many questions. Do not take their word at face value. Hesitance or inability to answer your questions is a sign that they are not qualified. Some questions you can ask include:


Are you board certified? Which board? When were you certified?
How often do you do this particular procedure?
What type of anesthesia will I receive?
What is recovery like? How long does it take to recover?
What are the risks and complications? How do I handle these complications?What are your facilities like? Do you have hospital admitting privileges? Do you operate in a licensed facility?

Only have surgery done in a licensed facility or hospital. Hospital admitting privileges will ensure that you will get proper care if something goes wrong during surgery. Make sure the doctor has hospital privileges for the desired procedure. Even if the procedure is going to be performed in-office, verify they have operating privileges in an accredited hospital for that same procedure., If possible, ask them if you can see where they will be doing surgery. They may be able to show you the room or suite where you will have it done. You can see the equipment they are using as well as the state of cleanliness. Ask to see the accreditation for the facility.


If the operation room looks dirty, poorly lit, or disorganized, it may be a sign that your doctor is not legitimate.
 The best way to get to know a surgeon’s work is to see it in action. Most surgeons will keep a book of photographs taken before and after surgery. Take your time to flip through the whole book to see if the work is close to what you want for yourself., Meet with several qualified plastic surgeons. You want to be sure you're comfortable with the surgeon who performs your cosmetic surgery. Furthermore, you want to receive multiple consultations to make sure that the medical advice you are receiving is valid.
 If you are still uncertain which doctors to choose, you should make a list for each doctor. Record what you liked, what you didn’t like, and what you are uncertain about for each doctor. It is fine to call the doctor’s office to ask additional questions if there is something you are confused about.
 You want to be relaxed with your choice of doctor. Do not choose a doctor that scares you or makes you feel uncomfortable. While you should not make this decision based solely on your emotions, don’t discount your intuition.
 There are various websites that allow people to rate and post comments about their experiences with certain doctors. Check out the ratings for the doctors you are considering. Look for overall satisfaction, and don’t trust only a single review. Instead, see what people are consistently saying about the doctor.Try to use a site that verifies its ratings to make sure that the reviews are real., Make sure that you know where your money is going. Plastic surgery can be expensive. Track your expenses carefully to make sure that you are not getting swindled. There are many different costs associated with plastic surgery, so be sure to get an accurate breakdown of what you will have to pay. Costs vary widely based on the type of procedure, your risk level, the facility, and your location.



The surgeon’s fee: This is the cost of the surgery. More experienced surgeons may charge more.

The hospital or facility fee: This covers the cost of the operating suite. This may also include any overnight stays in a facility.

The anesthesia fee: Often, anesthesia is charged separately from the rest of the procedure. You may have to pay the anesthesia fee separately.Medication: You may have to take special medication after the surgery. Be sure to ask about the costs beforehand.
If your surgeon asks for cash only, especially up front, it is a big red flag. Your doctor may not be legitimate., There are certain aggressive tactics a surgeon can use to try to coerce you into a bad decision. Don't let anyone — including your surgeon, friends, family, and significant others — decide if you should have the plastic surgery procedure.


Be wary if doctors are hesitant to show qualifications. You should see your doctor’s degrees and certifications on the wall of their office. If you don’t see them, ask the doctor to show you.
Most doctors have a specific specialty or type of operation that they excel at. If a doctor tries to convince you that they specialize in all types of plastic surgery, be suspicious. They may be trying to scam you.
Don't be swayed by coupons or discounts. Plastic surgery is expensive. Surgeons who offer frequent specials may be cutting costs in ways that can hurt you.
You should speak to a doctor at the consultation, not a nurse or an assistant. If your doctor doesn’t appear, politely ask if you can wait to see them. If they don’t show up at all, it’s a red flag., While you may be open to the idea of more plastic surgery, your appointments should be about the specific procedure you want now. If a plastic surgeon tries to convince you that you need more surgery or that you should have multiple procedures at once, they may just be trying to squeeze money out of you.

