 If you’d like to snack on an item that typically would have gluten—for example, crackers, snack bars, or cereal—you should readily be able to find a gluten-free version. The packaging for these items should clearly state “gluten free.”Due to the recent prevalence of gluten-free diets, nearly all popular snack foods that conventionally contain gluten are now manufactured in a gluten-free version.

Food products labeled “gluten-free,” “free of gluten,” “no gluten,” or “without gluten” are regulated by the FDA and must comply with governmental specifications.
Keep in mind that although gluten-free snacks lack wheat products, they may have little other nutritional value in general. Look through the ingredient list for items with plenty of protein and fiber if you’re concerned about healthy snacking in general.
 If you can narrow your search for gluten-free versions of popular snacks down to just a few brands (rather than shopping through every snack brand in the grocery store), you’ll save yourself time.Speak to the sales staff at your local supermarket, and they can help you identify brands which provide many gluten-free snack options.


Many potato chip brands are gluten-free, as are many “all-natural” snacks such as sweet potato chips, some corn tortilla chips, or chips made of different vegetables (such as carrots, spinach, or tomatoes)., If your local supermarket has a specific gluten-free section, this will dramatically decrease your shopping time. If no gluten-free section exists, speak to a manager or inventory staff member and ask if there is a natural or organic foods section. This section will likely contain a number of gluten-free options.

Within a gluten-free section, you may be able to find gluten-free versions of certain name brand rice and tapioca puddings. Even certain candies, chocolates, and energy bars come naturally gluten-free.
 Gluten-free dieters have already cataloged “commonly available” food brands that are gluten-free snack options, such as Post Cocoa Pebbles cereal, that are available at most grocery stores. You may also be able to use an online search feature on the websites for specific grocery store chains (e.g. Kroger or Safeway) to search for “gluten free snacks.”You can also search online forums compiled by gluten-free food advocates. Such forum sites will provide information relating to popular and common gluten-free snack brands at grocery stores.

