 Small business that are incorporated as C Corporations can report lower income, and therefore pay lower taxes, by inflating salaries to executives and shareholder-employees. Doing this, to an excessive degree, is likely to draw an audit from the IRS. To avoid this problem, keep the salaries of executives and shareholders at a reasonable level when compared to the rest of your industry.If necessary, you should research other companies that are in a similar business and of a similar size as yours. Read their financial statements and find out what they pay their executives. Keep your company’s salaries within a similar range.;
, The IRS realizes that a high ratio of independent contractors to full-time employees may be a technique that companies use to avoid payroll taxes. You should be sure to stay within IRS guidelines regarding the use and classification of independent contractors.The IRS generally defines an independent contractor as someone who has the autonomy to decide the specific work that needs to be done and the way in which it should be done.For more information about independent contractors, you can review the IRS website at https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/independent-contractor-self-employed-or-employee?_ga=1.189839147.1259482483.1474490452.
If you still are unclear as to whether someone is an employee or an independent contractor, you can file Form SS-8, Determination of Worker Status. The IRS will review the information you submit and will send you a formal decision about the classification. Form SS-8 is available online at www.irs.gov.
 If your business has employees, you must withhold certain amounts, keep accurate records, and make periodic payments to the IRS. Failure on your part to do all this accurately can subject your business to an audit. Make sure that you keep current on all IRS requirements and that you comply with them. In general, you are responsible for withholding taxes to cover federal income tax, social security and medicare taxes.For additional help regarding employee withholding requirements, you can read IRS Publication 15, “Employer’s Tax Guide,” and Publication 15-A, “Employer’s Supplemental Tax Guide.” Both publications can be found at the “Forms & Pubs” tab at www.irs.gov.
 When you operate a business, particularly if it is not separately incorporated, you must be very careful to keep your personal financial records separate from your business records. You will need to provide separate and thorough documentation for any expenses that you claim, either personally or for your business.You are certainly entitled to claim both personal deductions as well as business expenses. You simply must realize that the small business owner is generally going to be scrutinized more closely, particularly for expenses and deductions.
 If you are operating a business, the business should have its own, separate bank account. Use this account exclusively for the operation of your business. At the end of the year, it should then be easy to obtain a statement of the account to demonstrate all the income and expenses of the business.As a corollary to this point, you should keep a separate account for your personal funds. When you take a salary from the business, any such payment should be clearly defined and identifiable.
 Claiming a deduction for use of a home office is likely to trigger an audit. Unless you need the home office space, you can limit your chance of an audit by keeping your office at work. If you do use a home office and intend to claim a deduction for it, you must make sure that the home office is used exclusively for business purposes and not for other activities., This sounds self-evident, that if you are operating a business, you will want to avoid losses. However, claiming business losses as deductions after about two years can trigger an audit. Try to keep your business operations profitable to avoid an audit.If, despite your best efforts, the business does continue to lose money, you are entitled to claim a deduction for the loss. If you must do so, be sure that you have meticulous records to file with your return. Better records will help you steer clear of an audit.
 In the accounting field, two primary methods exist for bookkeeping -- the cash method or the accrual method. Both are valid, and neither one is more likely than the other to draw an audit. However, if you confuse the two and use some of each in your record keeping, your records can appear confused or possibly deceitful, and draw an audit. Select one method and stick to it.For advice on selecting between the cash method or accrual method, you should consult with a tax attorney or professional accountant.
 If your business makes charitable donations that appear excessively large, you are going to catch the attention of the IRS and perhaps draw an audit. If the donations are genuine, you may certainly claim the deductions. However, in this case, make sure that you get all the required supporting documentation to file with your tax return.For donations that exceed $250, you will need receipts from the recipient. For donations that exceed $500, you must file IRS Form 8283. If you submit the receipts and/or tax form along with your tax return, you can avoid a subsequent audit.
 You need to establish a system within your business for receiving and retaining copies of all expense receipts. By saving receipts, you will be in a better position to prepare your tax returns accurately at the end of the year. You may not need to submit all the receipts with your return, but you will have them in case you need them.Only claim deductions for expenses that you will be able to prove. By retaining receipts for all expenses, your tax return will be fully supportable.
 When you are preparing your tax return, you must make sure that the figures you report match all the documentation that is being submitted to the IRS. This will include any W-2s, 1099s, or any other reports that may go from a third party (suppliers, banks, etc.) to the IRS to report your income. Mistakes or discrepancies in reporting are likely to trigger an audit., The IRS advises that you may round the numbers in your tax return to the nearest dollar. However, do not round more than that. If you submit numbers that are rounded to the nearest ten dollars or even hundred dollars, the IRS is likely to question whether your numbers are accurate. This is likely to draw an audit., Late returns are likely to draw more attention and raise the possibility of an audit. To avoid this, made sure that you file your return on time. If necessary, at least file the appropriate paperwork for an extension, and submit a partial payment for an estimated amount., If your business is likely to owe more than $500 in taxes for the year, you are required to pay estimated quarterly taxes. If you fail to pay quarterly taxes, you may be subject to additional tax penalties and could be audited for the entire year. Making your estimated quarterly payments can help you keep away from this level of heightened scrutiny., Schedule C is the attachment to the tax return that you will use to claim business-related deductions. Some people report that simply using Schedule C is more likely to draw an audit. However, if you operate a small business and you have legitimate deductions, then Schedule C is the way to go. Just make sure that you can document everything that you claim, and provide the documentation in such a way that leaves no room for questions., Even if you believe you are competent to prepare the tax return for your business, hiring a professional can be a smart business expense. An accountant will scrutinize your receipts and other records carefully and make sure that everything is documented appropriately. Using a tax professional will help you avoid an audit for your business., Something as simple as forgetting to sign your tax return or any of the attached schedules can trigger an audit. When any one thing like this is missing, the IRS is required to review the full return more closely. Be very careful and double-check the accuracy of all your calculations and completion of your return before submitting it.