 Read the organization's mission statement and spend some time learning about them through their website. If the client is an individual, learn more about them from whomever or wherever you discovered they might be a potential client.
 Once you know more about the potential client, you should come up with a plan for attracting their business. Mention problems you can fix or services you provide, specifically choosing subjects that are most relevant to the client's work or problem.


If someone is hiring a freelancer, read the description of the job thoroughly. Alter your resume or statement to appeal precisely to what the client is looking for. If they are looking for a specific skill you have, even if it seems minor or included in other resume items, mention that qualification.
 Your potential client might receive requests like yours regularly, or they might never have considered hiring someone for your service. Here are several ideas for how to attract someone's attention:Describe a specialized skill rare among your competitors. Knowledge of an obscure programming language, art form, or other niche qualification related to your work could grab a client's attention and impress them even if they don't end up using that skill.
Mention a famous client of yours, or briefly describe one or two of your most impressive accomplishments.
If you can't compete using fame or specialization, hook a client by offering cheap or even free work on a temporary basis. This is a good strategy when you are starting out and need clients to recommend you.
 Your statement or sales pitch should only take 2 or 3 minutes to read or listen to, at most. Cut it down to 30 seconds if possible. Extra information such as a curriculum vitae or sample work can go in separate documents to be presented after the pitch.


Stay focused on specific skills you have and specific proposals you have for working with the company. Avoid vague or rambling wording.
 If you are responding to an advertisement, you should follow the contact instructions included. If you are contacting an organization, ask the receptionist or the general purpose phone line who best to contact for your type of proposal, and how he or she prefers to be contacted.


If you live nearby and are good with in-person statements, try to schedule a personal meeting. If you can't, arrange to drop off a proposal in person, and include a shorthand written note to demonstrate personal effort.
 Simple details such as promptness, listening to the other party, appropriate language, and staying positive can go a long way towards signing your next deal. Dress nicely and be on your best behavior during every interaction. Unprofessional interactions with a secretary or a stranger in the company lobby have the potential to destroy your chances just as they do in an executive office.
 Make sure to include all contact information and any additional information the client needs to make their decision. Provide a business card and/or a brochure if you see the potential client in person or mail them a package.


Describing yourself with the wrong title may hurt your business. Only call yourself the CEO or president of your company if you are in a roomful of people with similar titles. Otherwise, call yourself a representative, a manager (if you have employees), or a specific title that describes the work you do.