 If you need a cover letter for a job or internship, for college, or for some other application opportunity, there will sometimes be a description or prompt of what's expected in the letter. Depending on the nature of the application, you may need to describe your readiness to complete the job, your qualifications, or other specific criteria. Possible prompts may include:


Outline your qualifications and highlight your talents in a cover letter.
Tell us about yourself.
In a cover letter, describe how your education and experience qualifies you for this position.
Explain how this opportunity will benefit your career goals.
 Different employers and situations will call for different styles and tones in a cover letter. If you're applying to a university, it's always best to use a professional and academic tone throughout the letter. When you're applying to blog for a tech start-up that tells you to "Explain three things you rock at!" it's probably better to use a looser and more informal style of writing.When in doubt, keep it brief and keep it serious. If you're unsure whether or not telling an amusing anecdote about your friend's bachelor party would go over well in a cover letter, it's probably best to leave it out.
 The first two sentences should explain the purpose of your cover letter and your application clearly. If someone reading your cover letter is unclear about what it is you want, your application will quickly get chucked in the trash.


"I'm writing to apply for the entry-level position with Company Inc. advertised on your website. I think my experience and training makes me an ideal candidate for this position."
Contrary to popular belief, it's not necessary to include your name in the body of the letter: "My name is John Smith and I'm applying...." Your name will be included in the signature, as well as the header of a cover letter, so there's no need to put it in the text itself.
 A cover letter should explain to the potential employer or admissions board why you are the best candidate for the position, or why you should be admitted to the university or program to which you're applying. To do this, you need to make sure every cover letter describes what you bring to the table and how that will help satisfy the ambitions of both parties. Make sure all cover letters describe the following details clearly:


Who you are and where you come from.
Where you want to go.
How this opportunity would potentially help you get there.
 What makes you the ideal type of candidate for the job or position you're applying for? What experiences, skills, training, and talent do you bring to the table?


Be as specific as possible. It's ok to write that you're "A passionate leader in all walks of life" but it would be much better to write about an example of a time you lead in a surprising way.
Stay focused on skills and talents that connect specifically to the thing you're applying for. Extracurricular involvement, leadership roles, and other types of outstanding achievement may be important to you personally and may tell the readers about you, or it may be totally extraneous. If you include something, make sure you connect it specifically to the goal of the cover letter.
 Where do you want to go from here? Both admission boards and employers are more interested in people with ambitions for themselves, self-starters who will be motivated to achieve at a high level. Describe what you want and how this position will help you achieve that goal.


Be as specific as possible. If you're writing a university cover letter, it's obvious that you have to have a degree to get a job as a doctor. But why this degree? Why this school? What, specifically, do you need to learn?

, What do you bring to the table that other candidates don't? How would the university benefit from having you as a member of the student body? How would you benefit from getting that new job? Your readers will be interested in knowing what's at stake for both.


Be careful about using a cover letter to critique a business. It's not the time to describe the suffering of a particular brand over the previous fiscal quarter, then promising that you'll be able to turn it around with your ideas. That might not go over well at the office, and you might not be able to, if you do get the job.
 While it's important to list your best skills, as they apply to the job you are interested in, a cover letter isn't a good place to list the minute details of your education, or other information that belongs on the resume. Since most places will ask for both, make sure the resume and the cover letter contain different information.


Even if it's impressive, a high GPA or class ranking doesn't belong in a cover letter. Highlight it on your resume, but don't include it in two different places on the application.
 Ideal cover letters should be no more than one or two pages, single-spaced, or somewhere between 300-500 words. Certain places may call for longer letters, in the neighborhood of 700-1000 words, but it's rare that cover letters should ever be longer than that.
 Cover letters are usually single-spaced and word-processed in a normal, legible font like Times or Garamond. Generally, cover letters should include a salutation addressed to the admission board or a specific contact listed on the application, a closing with your signature, and the following contact information included in the header of the document:


Your name
Mailing address
E-mail
Telephone and/or fax number

