 Though you may never know exactly who is the perfect fit for you until you lock eyes with that person and your world stops, you can definitely think about the qualities that you are most looking for in your future spouse. These qualities may be so important to you that you would have a hard time even considering a person who doesn't possess some of them. Here are some things to think about as you choose your future spouse:


Religion. If you're Jewish and want to marry Jewish, "stick with your own kind" since not everyone who wants to marry a Jew will convert to Judaism.
Family values. Are you dying to have five kids, or do you refuse to have children under any circumstances? Though people may change their minds more than you think, this is something to consider as you look for someone who shares your ideas (though you shouldn't talk about this right when you meet someone, obviously.)
Personality. Though you can't predict someone's personality in advance, there may be a few things that are a must for you. Do you have a killer sense of humor and absolutely need a person who shares your love for laughter? Are you naturally a bit nervous and need someone who is more laid-back to center you? Keep this in mind as you look for the perfect person for you.
Attitude toward relationships. Are you looking for someone who wants to spend every waking second with you, or do you want someone who really understands the meaning of "alone time"? This is more important than you think.
Social bearing. Do you want someone who is fun and has a ton of friends around, or a person who is more reserved with just a few close and loyal friends? If you're a social butterfly and your special someone is more of a wallflower, you can bring out his social side -- or it can be a problem.
Similar interests. Though the person you love probably shouldn't share all of your interests, or maybe not even many of them, you should still have a few interests that you both can share so you can keep your relationship going. If you're a novelist and your loved one refuses to read, or if you're a fitness instructor and he has never seen a gym, you may run out of things to talk about. But maybe not! This one is fluid.
 The qualities you don't want in a future spouse can be just as important and decisive as the qualities you are looking for. As you start looking for your soul mate, you can think about the things that are absolute deal breakers that will make it impossible for you to get hitched no matter what. Here are some things to consider:


Lack of attraction. Physical attraction can grow, but it is not overrated. Though you may not want to rip off your husband's shirt fifty years -- or hey, a few years -- down the line, you should have a baseline of attraction that keeps things going. Even if the person fits the mold in all other aspects, sadly, you just can't force yourself to be attracted to someone.
Lack of agreement on something that really matters to you. If you're a die-hard tree-hugging liberal and he's obsessed with Mitt Romney, then you may have a problem. But you never know -- you can have fun disagreeing about some things. But if there's something that defines who you are that your future spouse absolutely doesn't understand, then you may have a problem.
Geographical incompatibility. You may have found the love of your life, but he may live in Hawaii. If you literally live a world apart and neither of you will move under any circumstances, it won't work.
 Though making a list of all the things you want and don't want can help you have a better sense of what will truly make you happy, the truth is that you won't ever be able to find the person who satisfies all of your needs -- and that's OK. The right person for you will be the one that makes you the most happy, and that person may even fulfill some needs that you didn't know you had.


Don't turn a person down because he doesn't meet all of your needs. This is unrealistic and being too picky won't get you very far.
Don't stay with a person if you know he doesn't meet the needs that really matter to you. Though you should be flexible, don't stay with a person if you know he won't give you what you want in the end.
Find a balance between finding a person that really makes you happy without sacrificing the things that really matter to you.

