 What you eat can have an effect on breakouts. Certain foods, when consumed in high volume, can affect hormone levels and lead to breakouts. Switching to a healthier diet can help eliminate chin acne.


High glycemic are foods that tend to raise insulin levels in the body quickly. This affects our hormones, which can cause breakouts. Empty carbs, like white bread and white rice, sugary snacks, and starchy vegetables like potatoes are considered to be high glycemic foods and may have an affect on your skin.You might not be getting enough fat. While fat gets a bad rap from dieters, not all fats are bad for us. Essential fats, like those found in olive oil, nuts, seeds, and fish, can reduce the likelihood of breakouts.Dairy products have also been linked to the development of skin acne, particularly the over consumption of milk. Try soy milk, almond milk, and other milk alternatives., You might be causing your skin undue stress without realizing it. In fact, we sometimes worsen skin problems in attempt to eliminate skin acne.


Do not scrub too hard when washing your face or when applying moisturizers and skin creams. While you might be tempted to scrub extra when experiencing outbreaks, this is actually counterproductive. The bacteria that caused the acne gets spread around when you put too much pressure on your face. Be gentle when washing and moisturizing.Clean your face regularly. Many people neglect washing their face, causing bacteria to build up and encourage outbreaks. In the morning, as your face has had a chance to sweat and absorb debris, give your face a quick wash before hopping in the shower. Wash your face before bed as well, regardless of whether you wear make-up. Your skin is exposed to a lot throughout the day.Be careful of oil-heavy lotions, moisturizers, and shampoos. Such products can clog pores, causing breakouts and increasing the duration of existing acne. Look for products labeled "noncomedogenic" or "nonacnegenic"to used instead.Wear sunscreen if you're outdoors a lot. The sun can cause skin to dry out, triggering acne. Make sure to shave your face carefully. Shave gently and only when you need to. It helps to soften your beard with soap and water before applying shaving cream. Try both electric and safety razors to see which works best for you.If your hair is oily, wash it every day and try to keep it off of your face when you can.
 Stress's effect on acne is twofold. First, the major stress hormone in our body is cortisol which can manipulate testosterone levels and lead to break-outs. Second, when we are stressed we tend not to eat and sleep right and don't always engage in as rigorous personal hygiene routines, resulting in breakouts.Exercise can have a dramatic effect on stress levels. It releases endorphins, which are neurotransmitters in the brain responsible for positive feelings. Regular exercise also increases self confidence and has been known to reduce symptoms of depression and anxiety.Meditation has been practiced for thousands of years as a means to find balance and eliminate stressful thoughts. There are a variety of types of meditations, such as guided meditation, mindfulness meditation, and mantra meditation. Research meditation techniques online or ask friends and family members who meditate for advice. Find a type that's right for you. Even 20 minutes a day can greatly reduce stress levels.If your stress is related to pre-existing mental health issues, seek psychiatric care. You can find a psychiatrist through your doctor, your insurance provider, or if you're a student, through your university. Sometimes, psychiatric medications are prescribed to combat stress-inducing emotions and thoughts.

