 Fill the basin of a slow cooker with 2 inches (5 cm) of water.


If you want to speed the process up a bit, heat the water in a kettle before pouring it into the slow cooker.A slow cooker is even safer than the double boiler method since the temperature of the heat is so low.
Technically, you can melt the beeswax directly in the basin of the slow cooker without creating a water bath since the temperatures remain so low. If you choose to do this, make sure that the slow cooker basin made from a nonstick material.
Using the water bath is generally preferred, however, since it further protects the wax from direct heat. The water bath also makes it easier to pour and use the wax after it melts.
 Sit a small metal bowl inside the water-filled basin of your slow cooker. Make sure that the water in your slow cooker cannot get into this metal bowl.


Use a metal bowl. Do not use plastic or glass dishes.
For this method, it works best if the metal bowl sits directly on the bottom of the slow cooker basin instead of resting above the surface of the water.
Make sure that the lid of the slow cooker can still fit on top of the device once you place the bowl inside. If the lid cannot fit on the slow cooker, use a different bowl.
 Place the block of beeswax in the metal bowl resting inside the slow cooker.


Consider breaking the beeswax into smaller chunks instead of placing the entire block inside. Beeswax melts slowly, especially when prepared in a slow cooker water bath. Using smaller pieces will help speed the melting process up in a safe way.
 Cover the slow cooker and switch the heat on to high. Allow the beeswax to sit in the hot slow cooker for several hours until it melts.


You can also melt the beeswax using the low setting of your slow cooker, but doing so will take more time.
Make sure that you keep the slow cooker covered during this time.
Monitor the temperature the beeswax using a cooking thermometer. Beeswax melts around 145 to 147 degrees Fahrenheit (63 to 64 degrees Celsius). Do not allow the temperature to exceed 160 to 170 degrees Fahrenheit (71 to 77 degrees Celsius), since beeswax can begin to discolor past this point.
 Once the wax has finished melting, you can use it in molds and other projects.


If you cannot use all of the melted wax immediately, you can keep it warm and melted by removing the lid and switching the slow cooker to its "warm" setting.

