 One way to protect wildlife is to transfer ownership (or possession) of private property to the government. In certain situations these transfers can be made for the purpose of wildlife conservation. One example of this is the Natural Resources Conservation Service's (NRCS) easement programs. If you utilize these programs, the NRCS will provide financial assistance as well as easement oversight when you enter into a conservation easement with them. While you will maintain possession of your land, NRCS will hold certain property rights.Some states also offer programs to help transfer private lands into public hands. For example, in Massachusetts, there is a Land Protection Program meant to protect biologically diverse lands in the state. If your land is eligible (i.e, biologically diverse and accessible), the government will pay you to transfer certain property rights to the government. At a minimum, you will usually need to allow for wildlife protection and public access for certain activities., The federal executive branch (i.e., the President and executive agencies) is responsible for executing the laws of the United States. A number of these agencies are responsible for enforcing conservation laws. For example, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) is responsible for implementing the ESA. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers are responsible for implementing the Clean Water Act (CWA). These agencies can enforce federal laws on public lands, which include Bureau of Land Management (BLM) lands, national parks, and federal wildlife preserves.


If you want to advocate for wildlife protection on public lands, contact one or more federal agencies and let them know you would like to see better enforcement. If you see a potential violation, contact the agency and ask them to look into it.
In addition to contacting the agencies, you may also want to write a letter the President of the United States. The President is ultimately responsible for executing the laws of the U.S. and if they want to be reelected, they will listen carefully to your concerns.
 National parks are created by acts of Congress. When a national park is created, that land is protected by the National Park Service. Employees work to recover and protect all the species located on national park land.Because Congress is responsible for creating national parks, you should talk to your representatives about public lands you believe would be good candidates for national parks. You can write them a letter and explain your stance. Members of Congress will usually respond to your letter and discuss your stance with you. Your representatives depend on you to get elected so every one of them is likely to take your concerns seriously.
 Hunting and fishing on some public lands are permitted so long as you obtain the correct permits. Permits to hunt on public lands allow you to hunt at certain times and at certain locations. In addition, permits regulate what animals you can hunt and how many you can take. So long as everyone in your group follows the rules, hunting on public lands can actually be positive for the ecosystem.However, if the rules are broken, the person or people hunting or fishing can be punished. For example, if a game warden sees suspicious activity and they catch you doing something you shouldn't be doing, you can be fined or even charged with a misdemeanor.If you see someone breaking fishing or hunting rules on public lands, you should call your state fish and wildlife service or other law enforcement agency responsible for patrolling the area you saw the activity.

