 Salmon is a fatty fish that contains essential omega-3 fatty acids such as DHA and EPA. These fatty acids can help your body fight off allergy symptoms.You can grill the salmon steak on your barbeque by cooking it for four minutes on each side on a medium to high heat.


Try grilling your salmon steak in lime butter. Combine a half cup of melted butter with a quarter cup of lime juice and a tablespoon of pepper. Then, add your salmon steak to the mixture and let it marinate for an hour while you prepare the barbeque. Finally, cook your salmon steak on a medium to high heat setting for four minutes per side.Try adding some garlic to your salmon steaks. You can chop or grate some garlic and sprinkle it over the steaks while they are cooking or add it to your marinade. Garlic helps block the production of chemicals that cause allergic reactions., A waldorf salad is rich in walnuts, which contain omega-3 fatty acids. These fatty acids help your body deal with allergy symptoms. In addition, waldorf salad contains apples, which have quercetin and antioxidants that also help your body deal with allergy symptoms.Mix three tablespoons of yogurt with one tablespoon of lemon juice in a bowl. Then, add a quarter teaspoon of pepper and a half teaspoon of salt. Finally, add a half cup of chopped walnuts alongside a chopped apple, a half cup of grapes, and a half cup of celery. You can plate the salad on a bed of fresh lettuce., Cauliflower has quercetin, which helps the body reduce inflammation from allergies.To preserve nutrients, it is better to cook cauliflower rather than boil it.Cut up a large head of cauliflower into one-inch thick florets. Toss the cauliflower in two tablespoons of olive oil, a teaspoon of marjoram and a quarter teaspoon of salt. Roast the cauliflower for fifteen or twenty minutes until it is nice and brown. Then, toss the cauliflower with two tablespoons of balsamic vinegar and a half cup of shredded parmesan. Put the cauliflower back in the oven for five minutes to melt the cheese and then serve.Try adding some turmeric to your roasted cauliflower. Turmeric is an Indian spice that really helps reduce inflammation and allergy symptoms.