 Though the methods above should work well for most cases of mildew, there are a wide range of alternative home remedies that may also work well. For instance, lemon juice, which is sometimes used as a natural fabric cleaner, can be paired with ordinary salt to make an effective yet gentle abrasive cleaner. Follow the simple steps below:


Mix 1/3 cup (80 milliliters) of undiluted lemon juice with enough salt to form a loose paste.
Pour or scoop your lemon/salt paste onto the affected fabric.
Scrub gently with a soft-bristled brush.
Wash and dry your fabric in the laundry machine or use a vacuum to remove excess paste and air-dry.
 With dealing with white fabrics, you have more cleaning options available to you than with colored fabrics because you don't have to worry about causing your fabric's dye to bleed or fade. For a natural bleach solution that's great for removing old mildew stains from white fabrics, try using hydrogen peroxide (which should be very cheap at most grocery and department stores) with the following steps:Use a cotton swab or a clean rag to dab hydrogen peroxide directly onto the stain.
Allow the hydrogen peroxide to set for 15 minutes.
Wash as normal. For extra stain-fighting power, add about 1/3 to 2/3 cup (80 to 160 milliliters) of hydrogen peroxide to your laundry in addition to your normal detergents.
 As noted above, vinegar can be a potent natural cleaning agent and odor-fighter. However, if you use this method, it's important to remember only to use white vinegar, apple cider vinegar, balsamic vinegar, and so on are colored liquids that can cause stains. Use the steps below to treat your fabric with vinegar:


Make a half-and-half mixture of vinegar and warm water in a small bowl.
Dab this mixture into the affected fabric with a clean rag or add it to a spray bottle and spray it onto the fabric.
Let the vinegar set for 10 minutes, then generously apply baking soda to the wet spot to neutralize the vinegar.
For clothing, wash and dry as normal. For upholstery and carpet, vacuum and allow to dry.
 If you're lucky enough to enjoy clear, sunny days where you live, you have an opportunity to remove pesky mildew stains from your fabric with minimal effort. The simple act of drying your fabrics in the sun (rather than in a mechanical dryer) after washing has been proven to have a noticeable lightening effect on stains.Use a drying rack or a hanging wire for best results.


Use caution with colored fabrics, however; leaving them in the sun for long periods of time can cause their dye to fade.

