 The first thing you should do when you notice your horse is colicking is call your veterinarian. This is because there are many potential reasons your horse could be colicking, some of which are very serious. You might have years of experience with horses, but a colicking horse is something that needs to be examined by a trained veterinarian.Your veterinarian may give you instructions on what to do, they may come to your horse’s location, or they may ask you to bring the horse to the vet's stable to be looked at.;
, One of the potential causes of colic is called impaction. This is when some food gets stuck somewhere in the large intestine, which halts the normal digestive process causing pain. The logic behind walking a colicking horse assumes that walking them will help get the digestive process flowing again. However, since “colic” simply refers to abdominal pain, walking a colicking horse may not be the best solution.Understand that many veterinarians have said that walking a horse to help with colic is a myth, and while it may not hurt them to walk, it is definitely not a solution all on its own. If you want to walk your horse while you wait for the veterinarian to arrive, then go ahead and do so.
On the other hand, if your horse seems to be lying rather comfortably, some veterinarians will say that it is best to leave them be. Use your best judgment, if walking seems to distract the horse from their pain, then it may be helpful., In order to walk your horse, you’ll need to put a lead on. If your horse is laying down, put the lead on and then use it to help the horse understand that you want it to get up. In some cases, a horse that is in pain may be aggressive or thrash around. Don’t try to approach the horse if this is the case.


If your horse is in a lot of pain, they may ignore your attempts to get them up. Don’t force the matter, and let the horse be.
 You can walk the horse around the pasture or open space that you have for ten to twenty minutes.You don’t need to do anything more than simply keep the horse moving. Limit the walking to twenty minutes, as walking the horse for a long time will only exhaust an already stressed horse.Some people recommend trying to get the horse into a trot. You can try this if you want to, but this may be even more painful for the horse because of all the jostling that occurs when a horse trots.
If it makes you feel better, you can talk to your horse while you are walking. Keep your voice low and use gentle tones. This may help both you and the horse relax a bit.
 One way to get an idea of what is going on inside your horse’s stomach is to listen with a stethoscope, if you have one. If your horse’s stomach is functioning normally, you should hear gurgling noises that indicate that food is being digested and passing through the digestive system normally.If your horse is giving you a reason to think they are colicking, then you should contact your veterinarian whether or not you hear stomach sounds. If you hear stomach sounds and your horse is in pain anyways, then there may be something else going on.
If you don’t have a stethoscope, you may be able to press your ear against the horse’s belly and see what you can hear.
 Another common belief of many horse owners is that you should never allow a colicking horse to roll. The reasoning behind this belief is that if a colicking horse rolls, their intestines might get twisted, which is very dangerous for the horse. However, this is actually false. A horse that is rolling because of colic is simply trying to make itself more comfortable. If they have a twisted intestine, then this has happened before they rolled, not as a result of it.A twisted intestine may occur in horses because of their anatomy and is a very serious matter. A horse with a twisted intestine will require immediate surgical intervention., Though it is unlikely that a colicking horse will eat anything anyway, you should remove the feed until well after the horse’s colic has passed and the cause of the colic has been determined.You should, however, make sure that your horse has access to clean water. If your horse drinks, that is fine, but try to make sure they aren’t drinking a lot of water all at once.
 In horses, the term colic doesn’t necessarily refer to a specific ailment; instead, it refers to pain in the abdomen.This is why it is important to contact a veterinarian. Unless you know the cause of the pain, you won’t be able to help the horse.


Some reasons a horse may colic are not particularly serious in that they are typically not life-threatening, but some causes can be very dangerous for your horse.
 There are many reasons that a horse might colic. Sometimes the cause for colic will not be a big deal, but other times the cause may be very serious, and the horse may require surgery. This is why it is very important to treat all cases of colic as serious until you can have the cause determined by a veterinarian.Impaction colic occurs when food gets stuck somewhere in the intestinal track, usually in the large intestine. The food builds up behind that causing pain and discomfort. This is one of the most common causes for colic, and typically be treated fairly easily. However, be aware that this type of colic can also indicate more serious problems.
Gas colic occurs when gas builds up inside the intestinal tract causing the intestine to stretch, which then causes pain. Though it is not clear exactly why this occurs in some horses, it can usually be treated easily.
Displacement, volvulus, torsion (also sometimes simply called a twisted gut) all refer to a case of colic in which some part of the digestive system has moved abnormally. In most cases, this cause requires surgery as soon as possible. If this treatment is not received the horse will often have to be put down. The early symptoms of this cause look similar to a less severe case of colic and demonstrate why it is extremely important to have a veterinarian take a look regardless of what you think the cause might be.
When the small or large intestines become inflamed it is referred to enteritis or colitis, respectively. The inflammation may be caused by an infection. This is another serious case of colic and should be treated by a veterinarian.
Gastric distension occurs when a horse eats more than they should. It is important to understand that horses have relatively small stomachs. This is because, in their natural habitat, they would eat slowly throughout the day, rather than eat big meals. If a horse gets into something such as grain or pellets and gorges on it, this can cause their stomach to swell, which causes pain. Horses are not able to vomit, so this is a very serious problem. In some cases, the stomach may rupture (and is called gastric rupture). If this occurs the horse will die.
Sometimes the reason a horse colics cannot be determined. In these cases, you and your veterinarian will likely monitor the situation carefully to treat the horse based on the symptoms that occur.
 Because colic can occur seemingly out of nowhere, it is important to always be looking for signs that your horse may have colic. Learn the symptoms to check for, and keep an eye out for them every time you go out to care for your horse.The symptoms to look for include:


Lying down. It is, of course, not unusual for a horse to lay down, but some horses lay down less than others. If you notice your horse lying down more than usual, there may be a problem.
Relatedly, if your horse is lying down and then getting back up often, there may be a problem. They may be trying to make themselves more comfortable.
Standing in a stretched out position. If your horse is having stomach pain, they may stand with their front and back legs stretched out to try and make their stomach feel better.
Rolling. As with most of the symptoms, your horse may roll around on the ground to try and make themselves feel more comfortable. However, horses also roll simply because it feels good so rolling in and of itself does not necessarily indicate a problem.
If your horse is in pain they may kick at their abdomen or try to bite their abdomen.
A horse that is in pain may also paw the ground in frustration, or they may repeatedly curl the lips.
 Horses who don’t have continual access to water are more likely to colic.Thus, you should keep a bucket of fresh water available to them at all times. Horses cannot digest large quantities of water all at once, so they will likely take small drinks of water throughout the day.


During the colder months, add hot water once or twice a day to help keep the water from freezing. Horses are also more likely to drink the water if it is a bit warm when it is cold outside.
 Horses that have daily access to a pasture are less likely to colic. This could be because horses in a pasture have access to fresh sources of food.Additionally, when horses are in a pasture they are more likely to graze slowly, which makes it easier for their digestive system to handle.


In addition to that, you should limit the amount of grain and pellets your horse eats. Be conscientious about how much grain/pellets you are feeding as these tend to increase the risk of colic.
 Animals are very sensitive when it comes to changes. Thus, you should observe your horse carefully in the weeks that follow a change in their feed, their housing, any other animals that are around them, weather, etc. Your horse may be more likely to colic during these times.When changing a horse’s feed do not change it all at once. It is best to slowly introduce the new feed in with the old feed. For example, start out by mixing 1/4 of the new feed in with 3/4 of the old feed for the first seven days of feeding. After that, continue to increase the amount of new feed gradually to help prevent colic.
 One of the reasons a horse might colic is if they manage to eat more grain than they should. Something like this might occur if, for example, a horse finds a way into the grain barrel without the owner noticing. If a horse eats too much grain, they are likely to colic, and they will also be at greater risk for a painful disease called laminitis. Thus, it if you suspect your horse has overeaten, you should contact your vet as they may want to take action that could prevent colic.If your horse has eaten a large amount of grain your horse could potentially die so you should not take this situation lightly.
To prevent this possibility, it is best to make sure there is no possibility that your horse could get into a grain barrel. One way to do this is to use barrels with sealable lids or to keep the grain in a locked room that the horse couldn’t possibly access.
 As a horse owner, it is important to be very observant of your horse’s behavior. Besides colic, there is a host of potential illnesses and diseases that could affect your horse, so it is important to be vigilant in your horse’s care. Keep an eye on all of your horse’s habits so that you will be more likely to notice when something is not right with them.For example, take a look at how much water they drink on a daily basis, how often they defecate and how much, how quickly they eat, how active they are, how they behave with other horses, etc. Horses are complex animals so any change in their normal behavior might be an indication that something is wrong.
 Another common cause of colic is intestinal worms that can severely disrupt your horse’s digestive process. If you aren’t sure how to worm your horse, ask your veterinarian to show you how to do it so that you can do it on your own at home.The dosage will be based on your horse’s weight, so have your horse’s weight checked to make sure you are giving the right amount.
Typically, a horse should be wormed every six to eight weeks; however, your veterinarian may suggest a different schedule.
 Horse’s teeth are different from human teeth because they “erupt,” which basically just means that in a sense, they grow, albeit very slowly. As they erupt, they also tend to get worn down as the horse eats, which is good. The problem is that the teeth can wear unevenly, which can make it difficult for a horse to chew their food properly. Food that is not chewed well is more likely to get caught up in their stomach, resulting in colic; thus, it is important to make sure that your horse’s teeth are floated when they start to get uneven.Floating a horse’s teeth means that they are ground down so that they sit evenly on top of each other.
There are differing ideas about how often a horse’s teeth should be floated. Some say every 6 months, some say once per year, while others say that a horse’s teeth should only be floated when necessary. Talk to your veterinarian about the subject, and they will be able to give you their own opinions on the topic.

