 A true way to live life is to completely accept the form of present the way it is, or in other words, offer no resistance to the flow of life. There is a saying in Zen, "All that arises, passes away." So completely accept your present circumstances as if it was your choice.For example: people around you, your habits (bad or good), your thoughts, your physical appearance, life situation, etc. Fundamentally, accept any form this moment takes without any judgments or mental labeling. Then you will clearly see what action to take. This action is in alignment with the totality of universe.


Inner acceptance. This means to say an 'inner yes' to present, doesn't matter what you say or do externally but there should be an 'inner yes' or an inner alignment to what is. What does it mean to say 'inner yes'?
It means say 'yes' to the thoughts and emotions that arise in response to the situation by allowing, accepting, watching, being aware or giving them full attention, etc. However, you don't have to follow them. Thoughts create a lot of problems too.When there is true inner acceptance then you have a choice to follow a thought or refuse to follow it. In the same way, you would have a choice to follow circumstances or people or refuse to follow them. There will be times when you would have to say 'No,' externally, but that would be a deeper 'no,' not a reactive one. Do experiments to learn; like refuse to follow some thoughts (including pre-verbalized thoughts) and then see the result. However there should always be an inner acceptance.
 The timeless present moment is your greatest friend. However, when you treat it as a 'means to an end,' that's when you get problems. Deeply realize that you cannot escape and have not escaped from present moment.So why not become friendly towards it? As then you will see how life works with you. Past and future are no more than thought forms you are thinking in the 'now.'


What is now? The timeless space of consciousness where things and events come and go.Read How to Surrender to the Present Moment to learn more about it.
"Stay at the center of the circle and let everything fall into place" (Tao Te Ching). What is the center of the circle? The space of present moment.
 Forgive yourself and others for being unconscious. As when you don't, you are offering futile internal resistance to life. If you could realize that human unconsciousness is greatest perpetrator of evil in this world, then it would be much more easier to forgive. How can you resent someone's illness? Jesus's saying "Forgive them. They know not what they do" also applies to yourself.Forgiveness comes naturally when you deeply realize that nothing you did or anyone did to you has anything to do with essence of 'You.' Be aware that forgiveness doesn't become a mental concept.Read How to Surrender to the Present Moment for more depth.
When you truly forgive yourself and others, you reclaim your power from the mind. Mind is very unforgiving; only you can forgive.
 "Surrender is the simple but profound wisdom of yielding to rather than opposing the flow of life" (Eckhart Tolle in "The Power of Now"). In other words, surrender is inner acceptance of what is, without any reservations.. It is highly recommended that you read How to Surrender to the Present Moment for more.

Don't misinterpret the meaning of surrender. For example: If you have a disease and you say "Ok I surrender," just for the sake of saying it, that's not surrender. Resignation is not surrender. Surrender happens naturally when you truly accept what you are feeling now, surrender to it, internally. Then you see clearly what action to take. This action is aligned with the totality of universe. Hence, there's a great strength in surrender, and its perfectly compatible with action.Only a surrendered person has spiritual power.
When you truly realize that 'resistance is futile,' a peace emerges out of you. This is the peace that bypasses all understanding.Don't put mental labels on things. Even if you are suffering from a disease like cancer, that's not you. Ego loves to identify with labels or problems to get a false sense of self, to complain, react etc. Infact, ego never wants end to its problems. Ask yourself, 'What's the problem at this moment?'

