 The best gravy is made from pan drippings -- the juices and fats that come off the meat as it finishes roasting. This could be a beef roast, a chicken, or a turkey. When the meat has a few minutes to go, get your other ingredients out and ready to mix into your gravy:


2 tablespoons flour or cornstarch
2 cups pre-warmed liquid (chicken/beef/vegetable stock, water, milk)
Salt and pepper to taste

, All roasts need to "stand" for 5-10 minutes before being cut up, so you have a little time to make your gravy. Tent the meat by placing foil loosely over the top and set it aside on a cutting board while you attend to the pan drippings.
 Using a fine mesh sieve, separate the fat from the liquid. Save both. The fat will function just like the butter used for a basic gravy, mixing with the flour to form a roux.


For quicker gravy, you can skip this step and simply heat up 2 tablespoons of drippings. However, the chunks of fat will lead to a lumpier, potentially less flavorful, gravy., They should still be warm, but this is especially important if you've moved the drippings to another pan. However, you can also just make the gravy in your roasting pan as well. Simply put the metal pan over two burners on the stove, add the fat back in, and heat up both burners.
 Use a splash of red wine, water, or stock and then scrape up any brown bits of meat and juice from the bottom of the pan. As soon as you add the liquid you'll likely get a loud sizzle, and you need to work quickly with a whisk or spatula to scrape up all the stuff on the bottom of the pan.


Deglazing is when you use a cool liquid to clean a hot pan, removing the flavorful, caramelized bits and adding them to your sauce or gravy., Using a wire whisk, add the flour slowly with one hand while whisking with the other. You want to make a smooth, consistent sauce. Keep whisking until you've removed all the lumps.
 Lower the heat to medium-low and pour in your liquid 1/4 cup at a time. Whisk it in, removing lumps, then add the next 1/4 cup. Start by using the strained pan juices, then move on to other liquids if you don't have 2 cups worth. Traditionally you use stock or broth, either chicken, beef, of vegetable, but creamy gravies can use milk or heavy cream for a richer sauce. You can also combine them, using a cup of each. Whatever you use as a liquid, be sure to warm it in a separate pan or in the microwave first.


If your gravy seems a little watery, add 1 tablespoon butter or fat and another pinch of flour and whisk well.
 Stir occasionally, and let the gravy simmer as it thickens. Remember, however, that all gravies will thicken as they cool, so remove it 1-2 minutes before your desired consistency.
 Because it is made from pan juices, the gravy will likely have a similar flavor profile as the meat that provided the base. You can add a light mixture of these same spices to help your gravy compliment the rest of the meal, or you can customize it with a variety of spices, such as:


1 teaspoon of green herbs, like thyme, sage, tarragon, rosemary, parsley, or chives.
1 teaspoon cayenne, paprika, crushed red pepper, dried mustard powder, onion and/or garlic powder.
1/2 teaspoon Kitchen Bouquet or Worcestershire sauce for brown coloring.
Salt and pepper, to taste., Though not strictly necessary, you can run the gravy through a sieve before serving to remove lumps and chunks of meat. Simply pour the gravy into a sieve placed over a metal bowl, then use your wooden spoon to push it through the mesh and into the serving bowl. This leads to a restaurant quality, smoother sauce.
 Lower the heat to low and cover if you need to prepare the rest of the meal, then serve in a dish or poured directly on top of meat. Cool gravy will thicken and congeal, and is generally unappetizing.

