 Before you can begin calculating and comparing the overall costs of each, you will need to gather cost information such as:


The target monthly rent you are comfortable paying
How much you could afford to pay for a home
The down payment you could afford to make when purchasing a home
Potential monthly mortgage costs
Tax benefits associated with renting and buyingMaintenance costs of owning a home versus those of renting one (if any)
Utilities costs in your area (heat, electricity, internet, etc.)The typical price of renter’s and homeowner’s insurance in your area;
, Renting entails shorter-term commitments, and so the income and credit requirements, if any, are usually more lenient.


If you expect your income to grow, you may want to wait until it does to purchase a home. That way, you may be able to get a better deal, and/or afford a home that better meets your size or location requirements.
If you do not know your credit history or score, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) allows each person one free credit report per year.By paying a small extra fee, you can choose to see your credit score as well.
 The amount you can afford to pay for rent or a mortgage depends not only on your income but also on a number of other factors, including bills and expenses.


Creating a budget can help you determine your expenses, and the amount you can set aside for housing costs.
 There are a number of things to consider when deciding whether to rent or to buy a home that are not related to the direct, upfront costs of each.Gather information about:


Location: Is it very important to you that you live in a specific area? Or are you willing to look for a home in a number of different places? Home prices and rent costs can vary substantially in different areas, even if they are relatively close to each other.
How long will you live in your home? Buying a home is a long-term commitment, while renting offers more flexibility.
Do you need or want home equity?As you pay off a mortgage, you develop increasing home equity (the difference between the home’s value and the amount you still owe on the mortgage). You may want to borrow against this equity for current or future expenses, such as paying for a child’s education.
 A number of banks and realty organizations have developed easy to use calculators to help you decide whether it is financially better for you to rent or to buy. Many of these are readily available online.They will help you to determine the average rental and home purchase costs in your area, the amount of rent you could pay, how much you could afford to pay for a home, and what the long-term costs would be for each option.


While these calculators aren’t a replacement for careful consideration, they can provide you with a quick initial sense of the cost difference between renting and buying.
 Don’t forget to account for rent increases. For instance:


Imagine you want to live in a home for at least 7 years. Your initial rent is $800 a month, with a yearly increase of 5%.
At the end of 7 years, you will have paid $78155 in total rent costs.
 To evaluate these costs against rental costs, compare using the same number of years. For instance, using the previous example:


You will live in the home for at least 7 years. The home costs $110,000, and you make a monthly mortgage payment of $1000.
At the end of 7 years, you will have paid $84000 in mortgage costs.
 Depending on your situation, there may be insurance payments, maintenance costs, and miscellaneous expenses. In addition, you may be able to get tax benefits or other perks that offset your overall costs. To determine the true costs of owning or renting, you will have to calculate net costs. Using the previous examples:


If over 7 years, you pay $78155 in rent payments, but also $20 a month in rental insurance, your overall costs will be $79835.
If over 7 years you pay $84000 in mortgage costs, but receive a tax break for the interest portion of mortgage costs, and that portion is $200 per month, then your overall costs will actually be $67200.
Don’t forget to include whatever projected maintenance costs are applicable to your situation (such as $250 a month for snow removal during the winter months, or $75 dollars a month to mow the lawn during the summer months).
Don’t forget to consider the equity you gain from owning a home. While it does not strictly lower the cost of owning a home, it may provide you financial benefits (you can borrow against it, and equity debt may be tax deductible).
To determine whether renting or buying a home is more advantageous for strictly financial reasons, simply look at which overall cost is lower.
You may also want to consider comparing costs on a monthly basis. Monthly rental payments may initially be cheaper than monthly mortgage payments. However, rent costs typically rise, while mortgage payments are typically stable. This means that over time, your monthly mortgage payment may become lower than a monthly rental payment.
 One of the primary advantages of renting is that it is much easier to move out of a rented home than one which you purchased.If you own your home and want to move, you will have to find a buyer and continue paying costs (such as upkeep, insurance, security, and mortgage, if applicable) while you wait for one. On the other hand, if you rent, you can moves as soon as your lease ends—possibly sooner, if there is an early termination provision in your lease. For this reason, if you think it is likely that you will move soon or frequently, renting may be the better option.
 Normally, if you rent a home then the landlord will pay all or the majority of repair and maintenance costs. However, if you own a home, the responsibility for these costs falls on you.Homeowners will either have to do the maintenance and repairs themselves, or pay someone else to. When deciding whether to rent or to buy, consider how comfortable you are with paying for and overseeing the upkeep of your home. Typical costs can include:


Yard care (lawn mowing, tree trimming, etc.)
Snow removal
Regular maintenance of furnaces, air conditioning, gutters, and other home components
Irregular repairs (broken windows, leaks, etc.)
Cosmetic maintenance (new paint, carpet or flooring replacement, etc.)

, For some people, the primary motivation for buying a home is the sense of security, permanence, community, and other emotional factors that come along with it.On the other hand, some people enjoy the freedom and flexibility that comes from renting. Each individual or family has a unique set of circumstances and goals, and so there is no hard and fast rule to say whether you should buy or rent. When you are considering this matter, however, you should talk about it with your family, friends, and others that you trust, using the information that you have gathered.
 Making a simple pro and con list may help.


In one column, write all of the advantages (pros) of renting a home. In another column, write all of the disadvantages (cons) of renting.
Create another list of the advantages and disadvantages of purchasing a home.
Review your lists, thinking carefully about each aspect, until you are ready to make a decision.

