 Lay it on a flat surface.;
, Use a standard screwdriver to pry the spline, or black rubber seal, up from the frame. The spline holds the screen inside the window frame.


Scan each corner of the frame for a spline end. Once you find the end, slip the screwdriver underneath and pry it up. Once you have an end up, you can slowly pull the entire spline out from around the window frame.
The spline may be cut in sections. If this is the case, just repeat the process until the entire spline is out of the window frame grove.
Check for cracks or holes in the rubber spline. If it is damaged, purchase a new spline the same width as the one you removed.
 Cut out a section of screen that is large enough to cover the entire screen frame, with about 4-6 inches of excess. You do not want to cut the screen to the exact size because putting in the spline actually uses about a half inch of screen.
 This not only holds the screen to the frame, but it insures that when you are rolling in the spline on the other side of the screen, the screen will remain taut. Starting on the long side of the screen is possible; however, you will need more clips to ensure that the screen does not overlap when rolling in the spline.
 Start on the opposite side from where you placed the clamps. Using your screen roller, roll the screen into the frame. This is done so that when the spline is rolled in, the spline has a channel to fall into. After you roll the screen in, look down the screen. Make sure that there are no bubbles in the screen. If bubbles are present, remove the screen and roll it back in, this time, ensuring that you do not have any bubbles.


When pre-rolling the screen, it may be helpful to place a hand on the inside of the frame. This will help in keeping the screen taut, and preventing bubbles. This step is not necessary but will help later.
 Starting at one corner of the screen, hold the spline with one hand and roll the spline into the track with the roller. This may take several passes but make sure at the end that the screen is all the same depth in the track. Take your time with this step. If you go to fast or push too hard, the screen may rip on the inside of the frame and then you have to start all over. Screening is a slow patient process, take your time and do it right the first time.
 Starting at the opposite side from where you just rolled, remove the clamps and repeat the rolling process. By screening opposite of the side you previously screened, the screen will remain taut.
 If your screen has lift tabs, small plastic handles to help in the removal of the screen, place them in the track before you pre-roll the screen. You want these tabs to be on the opposite side of the spline, so that when the screen is put back into the window, the pull tabs will be on the inside of the house.
 Repeat the previous process on the long sides of the screen. Remember to ensure that no bubbles are forming during the screening process.
 After all the sides have spline in them, cut the excess spline from the screen. Using a flat blade screwdriver, push the remaining spline into the screen corner.
 If you are satisfied with your work, and there are minimal or no bubbles in the screen, cut the excess screen from the frame. Be very careful in doing this so that you do not cut the new screen. Then you'll be ready to put the screen back in your window.

