 Never wear anything with hard or high heels--clomping around and falling down on the ground is the last thing you would want to do! If poking around in your house, dry socks work great. Be sure not to step in a wet puddle or anything, if you do, your feet will squeak loudly! If outside of your home, comfortable, well-fitting shoes with soft soles and shoelaces work well. Flip-flops aren't that great, they are extremely loud when going down the stairs!;
, If you are sick and/or your nose is congested, open your mouth and take deep but controlled breaths.
 When slinking around at night, never wear pure black because moonlight or a street lamp can cast your shadow against the ground and you want to blend in completely with your surroundings. The night is never completely dark! Generally, don't wear bright colors with glitter, sequins or anything reflective as decorations, they can betray you!

, Walking on the very edge works just as well.
 If for any reason you must wear baggy clothes, make sure that the fabric is fairly soft, like cotton. Snow pants, for example, make far too much sound.
 Earrings are fine because they just swing against your head and neck, but not that cute belt you got the other day! If you prefer to pull your shoelaces a little tighter than you usually would, weave the bow through your shoelaces or push them into your shoe next to your feet (this might feel a little uncomfortable at first, but your feet will quickly get used to it).
 If you have to walk on gravel, do the same thing, except crouch down and put your other foot down just as you get to the balls of your first foot. You shouldn't be able to hear any individual steps. Walking on the sides of your feet is better for staying quiet.
 This can get uncomfortable after a while, though, so use this technique carefully.
 This demands flexibility, muscle coordination, and more balance in different parts of your feet than regular running, so if you tire easily from this kind of running, running from--like before--your heel to the balls of your feet helps. However, running with only the balls of the feet is the faster and quieter way to travel or follow somebody.
 You're in camouflage, remember, and you want to minimize movement so it would be harder to spot something when someone is looking at you.

