 Before getting started, ensure that you have all the appropriate tools. including beads, headpins, pliers, and wire cutters.By having all your tools together, you can prevent the need to run to the craft store in the middle of your work.


Headpins are a tool vital to charm-making. They are skinny pin-like pieces of metal that have one smooth head end. They can be compared to a very tiny nail, or a thinner version of a sewing pin, but with a flat end opposite the head.All your beaded charm supplies will be available at a local craft or dollar store.;
, Once you’ve developed a desired theme for you charms, lay the beads out in the desired pattern.If you’ll be doing more than one charm, position each charm separately from one another. Take time to experiment with the order and positioning of the beads.
 Taking the pre-decided lines of beads, thread them through the headpin.If you are creating a color coordinated pattern with other charms, ensure the correct order is followed.


If doing several charms, thread the beads onto the headpins all at once. This will prevent you from making any mistakes in size, color, style or order of beads., Thread the headpin through your jewellery. Experiment with your desired length from the jewellery to the charm. Using pliers, curve the pin in a circle back towards you, and continue bending away from you. Stop when the headpin has met one single loop.Twist the end of the loop till it is aligned with the beaded-side of the loop.Trim the excess pin if you will be keeping a single loop. If you wish to have a wrapped loop, keep the excess for the time being. If you trim and you find the end of the pin to be poking you, simply mold it towards the inside of the loop.
 If you’re tough on your jewelry, consider adding the wrapped loop. A wrapped loop is added to a single loop by taking the excess wire from the end of the loop and wrapping it neatly down the charm’s side of the pin.Three wraps should be sufficient before trimming off any excess wire. Always tuck the end of the wire in. Wrapped loops will prevent charms from slipping off and give an antique look to your jewelry piece.

