 Describe yourself and your experience in the field. Include an overview of your recent job history, as well as any relevant education and volunteering opportunities. Don’t assume that the person in charge of hiring will recognize the value of your skills immediately—make them see how they will prove useful.Don’t just recite what’s on your resume. Explain to the employer how those qualifications can be applied and adapted: "as you can see, my four years as a teacher have provided valuable experience in working closely with groups of all different ages."
If you don’t have any experience to speak of, focus on the aspects of your personality that you think would make you a good fit for the position.
 Don’t wait until you’ve been hired to start being an asset for the company. Be proactive and tell your contact or interviewer exactly what sort of things you would bring to the table. Doing this shows resourcefulness and makes it clear that you’ve put serious thought into filling the position you’re seeking.Entice the employer with an idea on how to boost productivity, a writing sample or an example of a program you helped develop.
This is often as simple as mentioning past accomplishments like "at my last job I helped overhaul the new employee training program," or hinting at future ones like "I look forward to seeing how working in a more organized kitchen will help me improve my skills as a cook."
Providing a preview of the kind of work you do can help you showcase your practical abilities, allowing the company to feel confident in their decision to hire you.
 Read up on the company’s history, goals and product or service to familiarize yourself with what they’re all about. Then, tailor your pitch to highlight the qualities of yours that are consistent with their business model. Many employers will be more willing to give you a chance if they think you have the best interest of the company at heart.Make it evident to the person you’re meeting with that you want a job with their company, not just any company.
Avoid saying things like “I need a job” or “I heard you were hiring.” You’ll make a much better impression if you appear to be actively pursuing the job you’re asking for., Point out the things that you have in common with your contact, such as a close friend or associate. If somebody you know referred you to the job, be sure to mention them by name as someone that can vouch for your character. Networking is an important part of the job search because it suggests that you can be trusted.Bring up your relationship with your connection in a way that sounds organic. For instance, you could say “my friend Christina told me that she loved working with you” or “my uncle has always been a satisfied client of yours.”
Don’t rely on namedropping to get you hired. You should be able to secure the job on your own merits—having a friend or two in common just helps., Instead of referring to yourself in the first person, use words like “us,” “we” and “our.” When you talk like you’re already a part of the team, the person you’re speaking to will begin to see you that way. This may make them more likely to seal the deal and bring you onboard.Listen for the other person to start using plural language as well. This is a good sign that you’re winning them over.
 If you’re uncomfortable with the thought of boldly asking for the job, you can try moving things along in another way. Before you leave or hang up the phone, see if you can get more information about the next phase of the hiring process. Ask questions like "when would be a good time for me to call you back and go over some of this information in more detail?"Request feedback to get an idea of how you did, or what you could do differently next time.For most employers, the fact that you’re already looking forward to what you can do next will be taken as a promising sign.

