 A suit jacket can cover a wide variety of occasions, particularly if it's in a nice fabric. Pick one that's slim-fitting, as that's more the modern style. If you aren't sure where to begin, consider getting fitted at an upscale suit shop where they can measure you and find the right jacket for you.A jacket should be form-fitting at the shoulders, though it shouldn't be so snug that it makes the jacket ride up or down.If you don't have the funds for a brand-new jacket, you can pick up some really nice ones at thrift shops. The only problem is you'll need to spend some time hunting around to find one that fits you and that is made from a decent fabric.
 Traditionally, English gentlemen wore high-waisted pants. While the high-waisted part is optional, when wearing a suit jacket, pick an appropriate pair of trousers. They can be made from the same material as the jacket, or they can be made from a complementary neutral color for a more casual look. You can even get away with a nice pair of jeans, depending on the occasion., Nothing says old English style like a pair of suspenders. However, it's not just about looking good. Suspenders don't cut into your waist like a belt can do. You can find suspenders at almost any shop that sells suits, though you may also hunt around at your local thrift stores for a lucky find., "Waistcoat" is just a fancy word for a suit vest, which goes under the suit jacket but over the suspenders. Like the suit jacket, it should be slim-fitting, hugging your shoulders and chest. You shouldn't have gaps at the shoulders. Of course, you still need room to breathe. Also, the buttons of a waistcoat should be buttoned, with the exception of the bottom button, which can be left undone.Usually, the waistcoat will match your jacket. Sometimes, they will be made out of the same material, though other times they will just match in color.
 A tie or bow-tie makes any jacket a little fancier, so pick one in a complimentary color, preferably of the hand-tied variety. You should also add a handkerchief that matches the tie in you jacket packet. Cuff links also make a nice addition, adding a bit of subtle glamor.Shoes are also important. Pick a dressy shoe in a complementary color. Brogues are traditional English shoes and make a good choice if you can't decide., While finding a good style is important, a gentleman is able to make his own style. In other words, it's not necessarily about finding the latest trend. Rather, it's about finding what works for you and then wearing it well. Part of wearing something well is to make sure everything you wear is in good condition (no holes or stains) and to wear it with confidence., While it can be fun to dress the part of a well-dressed English gentleman, always keep the occasion in mind. Wearing a suit, tie, vest, and suspenders to an informal barbecue is going to look a little strange. In other words, keep it classy, but don't overdo it.On the other hand, if you're invited to an event that calls for black or white tie, make sure to dress that part, too. That is, dress up by wearing a tuxedo and the required white or black tie.

