 You can make a one-time or recurring donation online at http://www.thetaskforce.org/donate.html. The Task Force allows you to give in your own name or in honor of someone else.


You can choose to give without becoming a member. However, if you want to become a member, then click the purple “Become a Member” button.
You can pay by credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover).;
, Write out a check or money order to make your donation. You can send your donation to National LGBTQ Task Force, 116 Nassau Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10038., Some employers match a certain dollar amount, or they might double or triple the amount of your contribution. You should call your Human Resources Office and ask if they match. You can also pick up a matching gift form from them.Mail the donation and completed form to Colin Lovell, National LGBTQ Task Force, 116 Nassau Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10038.
 You can give the Task Force appreciated stock or mutual funds and obtain tax advantages. For example, you can avoid paying capital gains taxes on the amount the stock or mutual fund increased. You also will receive a deduction for your federal income taxes for the market value of the stock or mutual fund.You can give stock by contacting Saurabh Bajaj at 415-378-2971 or by email at sbajaj@thetaskforce.org.
 If you want to make a large donation, then you can join the leadership council, which comes with added benefits depending on how much you contribute. For example, you might receive invitations to the Task Force Gala in Miami or to briefings held by staff.


You can join by using a credit card or by sending in a check, electronic fund transfer, or stock transfer. See http://www.thetaskforce.org/leadership-council-details/ for more information.
The minimum contribution is $1,500.
 The Task Force works with businesses on organizational training and volunteer opportunities. If you sponsor the Task Force, then they may advertise your company on their website.Corporate partnerships are a good way to support the Task Force and signal to the public your support for the LGBTQ community.


You should contact the Task Force’s Chief Development Officer at 415-378-2971 or by email at sbajaj@thetaskforce.org.
 The National LGBTQ Task Force also runs an Action Fund you can contribute to. You can make a one-time payment, set up recurring payments, or become a member for at least $1,500. The action fund pays for grassroots organizing and ballot initiatives.However, because the Action Fund engages in political organizing, contributions are not tax-deductible.


If you want to contribute to the action fund, then you should contribute through their own web page: http://thetaskforceactionfund.org/donate.html.

