 You know exactly what you want, and more importantly, what you don’t want for your 40th birthday. By throwing a party for yourself you maintain control of the situation. You can determine the guest list, the food, décor, location and everything in between.


Pick a theme. This will practically guarantee fun. If you’re a 60s baby, choose a disco themed event and have everyone dress up in their favorite throwback bell bottoms. Create a playlist of the best music from the era and boogie the night away.A casino night would make a memorable party too. Ask everyone to wear their best black and white attire and hand out fake cash at their door for betting. Hire a couple of card dealers to make it even more authentic and don't forget the prizes.
Don’t get so lost in playing the host that you forget to have fun. Remember, this is your celebration so enjoy!;
, No need to exclude them from all the fun. Involve the spouse and even the kids when considering ideas. Perhaps they already had some thoughts in mind, but if not, think of ways everyone can be part of the big day.


Head to a beautiful park and have the event catered by the best restaurant in town. This way, kids can go wild while the adults visit and reminisce.
Split the party into two parts by having a festive lunch and cake with the kids during the day and heading out during the evening with close friends.
 Take the stress away by hiring a professional. Someone who does this full-time will come with an abundance of knowledge, tips and tricks to create the atmosphere you want. They will also ensure the night goes off without a hitch, freeing you up to mingle with friends and family.


Be as specific as possible to ensure you have the event of your dreams.
Don’t forget about the budget. These things can sometimes get out of hand. If you are watching your pennies, make this clear to the planner and review all contracts and receipts prior to the day.
 Who knows you better than your BFF? Chances are they are already planning something perfect. Let them know what you had in mind and ask them to coordinate the logistics. They’ll be honored you entrusted them with such a momentous occasion.


Have them book a fancy limo to scoop you up along with your friends to make the day feel even more special.
Book a party bus and find the coolest places in town to go.
When asking a friend to plan a party, it’s best to keep it simple. You don’t want to overburden them with arranging an event fit for the queen. Instead, have a backyard affair or a small gathering at your favorite restaurant.
Keep in mind throughout the planning process that they are your friend, not hired help. Treat them as such to ensure your friendship lasts long after the party is done.
 This is a great option if you’re on a tight budget for your birthday. By practically vacationing in your own backyard, you can fall in love with your city all over again.Land a coveted reservation at that trendy, new restaurant everyone has been raving about.
Have a cultural getaway by visiting all the local museums and theatres.
This is a fantastic way to celebrate with the whole family too.
Consider treating yourself to a night or two at a chic, boutique hotel. You’ll forget you’re just down the road from your home.

