 There are many wrinkles to Chapter 13 which cannot be addressed in this article. Furthermore, the Chapter 13 process is incredibly confusing. People who file without the help of a lawyer are rarely successful. In fact, one district court in California calculated that fewer than 1% of all applicants were successful when they file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy without a lawyer.Accordingly, you should treat this article as for information purposes only and get a referral to a bankruptcy lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association.
Call up the lawyer and schedule a consultation. Ask how much it will cost to do the Chapter 13 from start to finish. Often, lawyers will charge a flat fee to handle a bankruptcy.
Remember that you can spread out your lawyer’s fees over the length of your repayment, which will be three to five years.;
, Priority debts will be paid first in a Chapter 13 bankruptcy before all other debts are paid. You should identify and then calculate how much you owe of the following:unpaid alimony and child support
taxes owed to the state and federal government
contributions to your employee’s benefit fund
money owed to your employees, such as salaries, wages, and commissions

, You have the option of holding onto your home. However, you will need to pay 100% of the amount in default if you choose to keep the house.A Chapter 13 bankruptcy will not wipe out unpaid mortgage payments.


You will also have to stay up-to-date on your current payments.This means that back payments can be spread out over the course of your repayment plan, but you will also have to make current monthly mortgage payments.
 You might have other property that has a security interest. For example, you might have a car with a loan secured by the car. You should identify all secured property, because if you want to keep it then you need to pay 100% of the loan.If you don’t, then the secured creditor can foreclose on the property.
 You have to pay 100% of your administrative claims, so you should hold onto all receipts and calculate the amount. Administrative claims include the following:the filing fee
the trustee’s commission, which is usually 3-10% of each monthly payment
your attorney’s fees, if you used an attorney

, Unsecured debts are any debts that aren’t secured with collateral. The most common kind of unsecured debt is credit card debt. You will pay 0-100% of the face value of the unsecured debt depending on the following:how much nonexempt property you have
amount of disposable income you have every month
the length of your plan

, You need to calculate your “current monthly income,” which is the average of your income during the six month period before you filed bankruptcy.You should gather your paystubs or proof of self-employed income and add up the amount.


Download and use Form 122C-1 from the U.S. Courts website to calculate your income: http://www.uscourts.gov/forms/means-test-forms/chapter-13-statement-your-current-monthly-income-and-calculation-commitment. Instructions are also available for download from the same page.
 The bankruptcy code allows you to exempt certain assets. When property is exempted, it is as if you don’t own it, and the trustee will not expect you to sell the property and apply the proceeds to your creditors. However, you may have non-exempt property. Under Chapter 13 rules, you are expected to pay your unsecured creditors an amount equal to your non-exempt property.For example, you may have a second home which you can’t exempt. If the home is worth $150,000, then you must pay that amount to your unsecured creditors.
There are state and federal exemptions. In some states, you must use the state exemptions, though other states give you an option of choosing between the state and federal exemptions.Your lawyer will help you identify what property is exempt.
 Generally, your repayment plan must be three years (36 months), but it can extend up to five years (60 months).However, whether you can propose a three-year plan will depend on whether your current monthly income is above or below the median for a household of your size in your state. You can find the medians at the United States Trustee’s website: https://www.justice.gov/ust/means-testing. At the website, click on "Choose Option" and select the date range during which you will file for bankruptcy.


If you are above the median, then you will have a five-year repayment plan.
If you are below the median, then you can propose a three-year repayment plan.However, you can also propose a plan that lasts up to five years, if you want.
 If your income is above your state's median, then you should calculate your disposable income, which you must contribute to your unsecured creditors. In order to calculate your disposable income, you should use Official Form 122C-2, which you can download from the U.S. Courts website at http://www.uscourts.gov/forms/means-test-forms/chapter-13-calculation-your-disposable-income. The court will compare the amounts of your deductions to the amounts allowed by the IRS.You are able to take deductions for the following:


health care expenses
housing and utilities
vehicle expenses
taxes
child and spousal support payments
childcare

, Only your lawyer will be able to precisely calculate your expected monthly payments based upon your debts and your disposable income. However, you can get a rough estimate of the minimum you will have to pay by using an online calculator at the Alllaw website.You must make payments on a fix schedule. Generally, people make monthly payments, though you could also make biweekly payments., You must attend a credit counseling course before you can file for bankruptcy. You must attend counseling with an agency approved by the United States Trustee’s Office.You can find a list of approved counselors at https://www.justice.gov/ust/list-credit-counseling-agencies-approved-pursuant-11-usc-111. Select your state and click “Go.” A list of approved counselors and their contact information will show up.
You can also find counselors who provide non-English counseling at the same website.
 Your lawyer will complete all of the necessary paperwork and file the petition in the bankruptcy court. It costs $310 to file.In order to file for Chapter 13, you must meet the following requirements:You cannot be a business. However, you can be a partner or sole proprietor.
Your unsecured debt must be less than $383,175 and your secured debts must be under $1,149,525.
You cannot have had a prior bankruptcy petition dismissed within the prior 180 days.
 You can file your proposed repayment plan with the petition. Alternately, you could file later. You must file the plan within 14 days of filing the petition., This meeting will be scheduled 21-50 days after you file your bankruptcy petition and will be held in a room at a federal building (but not in a courtroom). All creditors listed in your petition will be given notice and can show up to ask you questions about your finances and your proposed plan.You should prepare by going over your petition with your attorney. If you made an amendment, then you should be prepared to tell the trustee.
Be sure to bring proper photo identification and proof of your Social Security Number, such as your Social Security card.
 Ultimately, the bankruptcy judge must confirm your repayment plan. Within 45 days of your Meeting of Creditors, the judge will hold a confirmation hearing where they will analyze your repayment plan. The judge is looking to make sure the plan is realistic and that it satisfies the bankruptcy rules.If the judge does not approve the plan, you can modify it.


The judge will also hear any objections from creditors, who will receive 25 days’ notice of the hearing. Often, creditors object if they won’t receive 100% of the debt at the end of the repayment period or if they think you are not counting your disposable income accurately.
 You must start making payments within 30 days of filing your petition.The amount is based on the repayment plan you proposed. You will make payments directly to the trustee, who will probably require a money order or cashier’s check.The trustee distributes the amounts to the appropriate creditors.After your plan is confirmed, you will make payments based upon the amount that was confirmed. This could be different than what you proposed. After confirmation, you can enroll in payroll deduction.
 You cannot complete the bankruptcy process until you take a second course on debtor education. The course should teach you strategies for maintaining financial stability.You must take the debtor education course from an approved vendor. You can find a list on the U.S. Trustee’s website.
After you take the class, you will get a certificate, which you must file before the day you make the last payment on your repayment plan.
 You will need to make payments for the entirety of your payment schedule. At the end of the payment period, any unsecured debts (such as credit cards) will be discharged even if you have not paid them in full.However some debts, such as tax arrearages or student loans, will not be discharged.
If you fail to make payments, then the court can dismiss the case or convert it to a Chapter 7 liquidation.In a Chapter 7, you won’t get to keep your non-exempt property.
 You might lose your job or suffer some other setback in the three to five years that you are repaying your debts. If so, you can file a motion to modify your repayment plan.


See Modify a Chapter 13 Repayment Plan for more information.

