 The Quenya mode is most commonly used in written Elvish today. Different modes of writing the Tengwar alphabet are used for different dialects. These different modes affect, among other things, the way vowels are indicated when written down.Barring some specific rules regarding certain letters, you may be able to simply replace most consonants in your English name with their equivalent in the Tengwar alphabet.


For instance, to write the name "Dan," first simply find the Tengwar equivalent of "D", "a", and "n."

, Vowels will usually require a shift in lettering and marking, as opposed to a simple replacement of the letter. In the Quenya mode, vowels are indicated by diacritics that appear above the preceding consonant.Accordingly, shift the marking for a vowel up and to the left, so you end up writing it above the letter that came before the vowel.


Continuing with the example of "Dan," shift the marking for the letter "a" above the preceding marking for the letter "D". Follow these stacked markings with the marking for the letter "n", and you've written "Dan" in Elvish!
For “y” and “e”, the markings to indicate these letters go below the preceding consonant instead of above.
In Sindarin mode, diacritics that indicate a vowel appear above the following consonant.
 More specifically, draw a place holder beneath vowels that are not preceded by a consonant. For instance, when a vowel starts a word or follows another vowel, you need something beneath the marking for a vowel. This is most commonly a short vertical line that simply takes the place of the consonant that isn’t there., Double consonants of the same letter are indicated by a wavy line written beneath a letter. More specifically, instead of writing the same consonant twice in a row, write it once, then draw a wavy line beneath the letter. , Depending on where “s” and “r” are located in a word, certain markings most necessarily accompany or replace these letters. For instance, when “s”, “ss”, or “r” follow a vowel, there is actually a different consonant that does not have an equivalent in the English language. Similarly, when “s” follows another consonant, it is written with a downward hook.Another example involves drawing a line above a consonant that follows a nasal “n” or “m” sound.

