 You need to be a registered user to become a Supervisor.;
, A Supervisor is expected to know the community guidelines well, and all guidelines that regular users follow apply to Supervisors as well.
 You're required to have a minimum of three asked questions to become a Supervisor. Make sure your question is not against the community guidelines, or it will be deleted.
 Write well-written, easy-to-understand answers to questions that address the topic of the question. You're required to have a minimum of 10 answers to questions to become a Supervisor.
 You can copyedit the answer, add information to the answer, or anything else. Just don't vandalize it, or your edit will be reverted.
 Next to where it says "Uncategorized," click the pencil and add category/categories to the question. If the question is already categorized, you can add other categories or replace the category with a better category.
 If a user answered the question with vandalism or something that doesn't address the question, you can remove it by going to the url and adding "&action=edit" to it, going to the edit page, removing the answer, clicking on "Delete" when it asks you if you want to delete the whole answer, and clicking "Save."

, Read the page on becoming a Supervisor to see what Supervisors are and what they do. Once you've decided that you want to become a Supervisor, decide whether you want to be a Floating Supervisor or a Category Supervisor. A Floating Supervisor oversees the whole site, while a Category Supervisor oversees a specific category of the site. You'll want to become a Category Supervisor if there's a specific category that you know well and answer a lot of questions from.
 If you want to be a Category Supervisor, specify which category you want to supervise.
 Most likely, the reply will be one of these things:


You need to do more work before you become a Supervisor or you don't meet at least one of the requirements.
You'll be told to join The Initiates Program, which trains up-and-coming Supervisors by assigning them a mentor.
You'll be accepted as Supervisor, and given the Supervisor tools.
 Read these documents before using the tools. Some of the tools are very dangerous and can cause a lot of trouble if used in the wrong hands. You'll also be assigned a mentor who you can ask questions to within a few days of becoming a Supervisor, along with getting access to a Supervisors-only forum that you can ask questions about being a Supervisor on.

