 If you have access to a computer or a smartphone, you can connect to others living with cancer through social media. You may look for Facebook groups that connect those living with cancer as well as Instagram or Snapchat users who are cancer survivors or are currently living with cancer.You can search for Facebook groups by typing in “living with cancer” or a specific type of cancer, such as “brain cancer support group” in the search bar.
Many Facebook groups also have Instagram and Snapchat accounts, which you can follow and participate in. You may use the hashtags of a cancer support group in your postings so you can feel part of the community.;
, You can also join online support groups for those living with cancer. Online support groups can be good for reducing stress and anxiety as well as gaining practical information about living with cancer.You may search online for support groups or ask for a referral for an online support group through your doctor. You can also ask others with cancer for a referral to an online support group.
Once you join a support group, you can upload a picture of yourself to your profile and include a short bio. You can then connect with others in the support group, often any hour of the day.
Do not give out personal information in the online support group unless you know how it is going to be used. Let yourself get to know those in the support group over time so you can build trust and do not share any private information about yourself until you are comfortable in the group
Keep in mind that the members of the group are other cancer patients and not medical professionals. Talk with your doctor when you have questions about treatment and do not follow advice given to you by members of the group.
Be aware that bullying can occur in any type of online forum. If you experience it in an online forum, then evaluate whether or not it is worth staying or if you should find a different group.
 If you would prefer to connect with others over the phone, you may call a telephone hotline that focuses on those living with cancer. You can often get expert advice as well as support free of charge through calling a cancer telephone hotline.You may look for a support hotline that focuses on your type of cancer, or your loved one’s type of cancer.
You can also correspond with a cancer support organization via email. Many organizations will be available through email as well as by phone.
When you call the support hotline, you may explain your type of cancer or your current cancer treatment. You may also express your desire to connect with others living with cancer by saying, "I'm looking to talk to other people who can relate to having cancer and support me with what I am going through."

