 Pay particular attention to any new medications you may have started recently, that may have correlated with the onset (or worsening) of your constipation or irregular bowel symptoms.It is not unusual for medications to affect the bowels or to cause constipation as a side effect.If you think this may be the case for you, it is best to see your physician who can assess your medication list and make any changes as needed.
 If your diet (such as a prescription diet) makes it hard for you to get more fiber, then you can also add a daily fiber supplement or bulk forming laxative. These are over-the-counter products—often pills or powders to dissolve in water. Psyllium-containing products (such as Metamucil) are some of the most popular forms of supplemental fiber., A wide array of laxatives and other softeners are available to help soften stool. You can take a stool softener in capsule, tablet, liquid, or syrup form. Follow the instructions on the package to determine the correct dosage.Ask your doctor or pharmacist for recommendations as to what medication to take. Even though these products are available over-the-counter, it is best to consult a medical professional before choosing one, especially if constipation persists for you (longer than a few days).
Your doctor will likely recommend osmotic laxatives such as milk of magnesia, lactulose, magnesium citrate, or polyethylene glycol if bulk forming laxatives did not work for you.Or, your doctor may suggest stimulant laxatives such as bisacodyl or senna if osmotic laxatives do not work for you.
Notify your doctor if you experience extreme abdominal pain, pencil-thin stools, bloody stools, constipation alternating with diarrhea, pain in the rectal area, or unexplained weight loss. These symptoms are worrisome and definitely warrant further investigation.
 If nothing seems to help or if you cannot tolerate other types of laxatives, then you should talk to your doctor about prescription medications that are available to help with constipation. Medications, such as lubiprostone and linaclotide, can help to pull water into your intestines and help to soften your stools., If you have chronic difficulties with hard stools and constipation, you may want to consult your doctor to determine if there is a medical condition causing the problem.


Common causes include pelvic floor dysfunction, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), Crohn's disease, and hypothyroidism.Each disease will need to be treated differently, so it's important that you receive an actual diagnosis.
Also be aware of the fact that certain medications (including narcotic pain medications, antidepressants, and some blood pressure medicines) can cause your stools to become harder.Your doctor may or may not decide to change the medications you're on to see if there is any improvement.

