 You define "practical" for your own pathways and realities.;
, Like it may be by taking your own opportunity and making your own luck. People can still go to community colleges, study, understand, make the grades or forget college, and learn a lot on YouTube and at the library (books are still there!) for you idea for creating jobs.Be realistic: whether that means start part-time or as a hobby -- and "don't give up your day job", if you need to support your job creation idea, to get started.
 Plan (hopefully) for enough available resources: Live with parents or with spouse supporting you, to keep afloat until you're making enough or breaking even (after paying all fixed and variable operating costs)! Making a living is not just self-serving, self-interest, as: enough can bring progress and there remains "hope, faith and charity," to spur you and your workers -- but being a failed business may be a stepping stone -- or breaking-even, really a "bare bones" existence, but keep hope alive! (Greek: "charity" translates to "love". Love your neighbor as you love yourself. Support each other, if possible).
 All these started very small:

,: imagine that "Sky is the limit"; so, en garde: Ben Franklin, once just a printer (started a small printing shop) , but Franklin eventually invented the stove, bifocal glasses, became a giant of the political, scientific experiment, as well as publishing areas. Bell expanded telegraph concepts and created the telephone. Edison (started small with financiers support, did "1000-odd" experiments and went on to create (invent) the light bulb, phonograph, motion pictures, DC electrification). Tesla created fluorescent light, AC electrification. Ford started at home in his garage workshop: created the idea, then the economical automobile, airplanes, mass production assembly-line and well paid factory workers. Burbank bred new plants and sold seeds. Wright brothers started as bicycles mechanics, created the first successful, engine powered aircraft.
 This could be great, if you think of a unique service, or new -- or even an old idea (like a phone), becomes the new idea (smart-phone), or one of a kind creations, or an application of an existing idea -- possibly with a twist or turn which may often be a registered or trademarked name or a patented product.

