 Your local office will take your application. If it’s determined that you’re not substantially employed (that is, making over a certain amount of money per month—which the agency sets), your application will be forwarded to Disability Determination Services (DDS), which is a state agency (in every state). DDS then processes your claim., The DDS determines disability eligibility by looking at certain factors, and then weighing your impairment against the sum of those factors. The factors are:


The severity of the impairment
Whether the impairment matches one of the agency’s disability listings.

These listings are contained in a book that sets out the criteria for a particular impairment. Your condition is compared to these criteria.
If your condition isn’t contained in the “listing” book, you can contend that it’s equivalent to a listed condition and that, based on this, you should be entitled to social security disability benefits.Your ability or inability to do your past job
Your ability or inability to work in the future. In determining this, DDS will take into account such factors as your age, education, skills, and how limited you are by your impairment., If DDS determines that your particular condition doesn’t fall within its eligibility guidelines, you can request a med-voc allowance. This is actually how most people get approved for social security disability benefits. DDS takes certain steps to decide whether you’re entitled to a med-voc allowance.


First, it has your medical file reviewed by a medical specialist (such as a physician or psychiatrist) and, based on that, a residual functional capacity (RFC) assessment is prepared. This RFC assessment gauges whether you can do sedentary (sitting) work, light work, medium work, or heavy work. You can look here for more information on RFC’s.
Second, it evaluates whether or not you can return to your past employment. If you can, your claim will normally be denied. If you can’t, the process moves to the next step.
Third, DDS decides whether you can do “other work”. In order to make this assessment, DDS looks at medical-vocational guidelines, sometimes referred to as “grid rules”. These rules determine your disability eligibility status by taking into account your work history, age, education, and RFC level., The grid rules basically determine whether or not you’re disabled, and thus entitled—or not—to social security benefits.


If your particular medical condition and its resulting effects line up with the factors contained in a grid rule—and you’re over 50 years old—you could be approved for disability immediately. If you’re younger than that, the disability examiner may want to further evaluate whether your impairment actually prevents you from doing any other type of work.If the grid rules say you’re not disabled, you can still attempt to argue that the rules don’t apply to your particular situation.You’ll probably need evidence to back this up, most likely from a doctor or vocational specialist.
If there doesn’t seem to be a grid rule that applies to your situation, DDS will look into any other type of less-demanding work you might be able to do. However, it would still have to be work that you’re physically capable of performing, given your impairment. And if it’s skilled work, it would have to be suitable for your particular skills set., If your disability claim is denied, you have the right to take an appeal. You can request an appeal online here. You can also download the necessary forms to submit to your local SSA office. Finally, you can call 1-800-772-1213, to request that forms be sent to you, or to schedule an interview with an SSA representative. There are four levels of appeal. If you're unsuccessful at the first level, then you move to the other levels, in sequence.


Level 1 - Reconsideration. Here your file will be completely reviewed by an examiner who didn’t participate in the original review that resulted in the denial of your claim.
Level 2 - A hearing by an administrative law judge (who played no role in your original denial). You may bring witnesses to the hearing to back up your claim, such as doctors and vocational experts.
Level 3 - Review by the SSA’s Appeals Council. The Council will review your case. However, if it decides that the original decision was correct, it can deny your appeal without a hearing.
Level 4 - Filing a lawsuit in Federal District Court. This takes your case out of the administrative area of the law, and into the legal system., Although SSA offers a lot of information about the appeals process, you should think about hiring an attorney who has a strong background in these types of cases. This is particularly true once you get past the Level 1 - Reconsideration phase of the appeal, since now you'll have to appear before a judge. These attorneys work on a "contingent" fee basis. This means they get paid only if you win the case.