 To download it for free, point your browser to https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204283, then click the blue Download button.The installer will download to your computer.
 You’ll find it in your Downloads folder. Or, if your downloads appear at the bottom of your web browser, click it there to start the installation., You must select “I accept the terms in the license agreement” to use iCloud., You may also have to give iCloud permission to access files on your computer before the installation will begin. If prompted, click Yes or OK to start the installation. When the installation is complete, you’ll see a window that says “Welcome to iCloud.”, iCloud is now installed on your PC.

If prompted to restart your computer before continuing, follow the on-screen prompts to do so.
 Look for a blue cloud icon labeled “iCloud” on your desktop. If you don’t see it there, you’ll definitely find it in the Windows (Start) menu., Type your Apple account information into the provided blanks and click Sign In to continue., When asked “Do you want to send diagnostic and usage information to Apple?” choose one of the two options below. The option you choose will not affect your ability to get your iCloud photos onto your Android.,,,,, This was installed when you installed iCloud. To find it, click the Windows menu (usually at the bottom-left corner of the screen), then click iCloud Photos in the apps list., It’s at the top-left corner of the screen.

If it’s your first time using iCloud Photos, you may see an error message telling you to wait for downloads to become available. Just wait about an hour and try again, if so.
, Now you’ll return to iCloud Photos., This is a larger button with a cloud icon and a downward-pointing arrow. The photos will now download to your computer. This could take a while if you have a lot of photos. It’s best to wait until the download is complete before proceeding to the next step., To this, point your web browser to https://photos.google.com/apps, then click the white Download button., It should be called something like gpautobackup_setup.exe., The installer will now run. When the installation is complete, a new app called Google Photos Backup will be added to your Windows menu. You’ll also see a pop-up window that lets you know the software is installed.,, It’s in the Windows menu. If prompted to sign in, enter your Google account name and password (the account you use on your Android device) to do so., Check the box next to any of the listed folders to add them to Google Photos.

By default, your iCloud photos downloaded to a folder in the Pictures folder. Check the box next to “Pictures” to make sure it’s included.
 Google Photos comes with unlimited storage for users who use the “High quality” option. This option is great for most people, but if you’re a photographer or someone who works with very high-resolution files, you’ll likely want to choose “Original.”, Google Photos will now back up the photos on your computer, including the ones you downloaded from iCloud. The photos will be available immediately on your Android in the Google Photos app., It's the multicolored flower icon labeled “Photos” on your home screen (or in the app drawer).

Google Photos comes pre-installed on most Android devices, If you don’t have it, you can download it for free from the Play Store.
If it’s your first time using Google Photos, follow the on-screen instructions to connect to your account.
 It’s at the bottom of the screen. You should now see your photos.

It may take a while all of your photos to upload to Google Photos. Check back later if you don’t see them all.

