 Most materials can be cleaned with a basic solution of vinegar and water. However, the application of this solution differs if you have suede shoes. Check to see if your shoes are suede before treating stains.If you find you have suede shoes, get a small scrub brush. A solution should be scrubbed on rather than dabbed on.;
, Stuff the shoe immediately after you notice a salt stain. You want to begin the cleaning process as soon as possible. Stuffing your shoes with paper towel will help them retain their shape as you clean them.You can do this with any pairs of shoes, regardless of the material.
 An easy solution for cleaning salt stains can be made with white vinegar and water. Simply mix one part white vinegar to two parts water until you have an even mixture.You can also use a pre-made cleaning solution for shoes if you have one on hand. This can save you some time, but be sure to check the label. You want to be certain the solution is safe to use on the material of your shoes.
 Take a cloth and dip it in the solution. Wring it out until it's slightly damp.Remember, if you're cleaning suede shoes, use a brush. Get a brush slightly damp instead of a cloth., Begin gently scrubbing or brushing near the edge of the stain. As the stain begins to come out, move inward. You want to clean the edges first and then gradually move in. You want to work your way to the center and then scrub through to the other side of the stain.Do not use too much force. You do not want to damage the shoe by scraping off any material.
 Once you're done removing the stain, take a paper towel. Blot the area over the stain to remove any vinegar. Keep blotting until there is no longer vinegar visible on the stain. You may need to use more than one paper towel., Never attempt to dry shoes with a blow dryer or in the drying machine after washing them. Set them in a clean, dry space and let them air dry completely before wearing them again.Your shoes should air dry for at least 24 hours.
 If your boots are leather, buff on a leather cream after cleaning them. This is a cream you can buy online or at a department store. It's like lotion for dry skin. It keeps boots moisturized and prevents cracks and tears.