 By starting out close to the chair, you will have less work to do and are much less likely to expose yourself or miss your mark and fall.


At most formal functions, it is customary for a gentleman to help you be seated. He will pull out your chair, wait for you to stand in front of it, and then nudge the chair forward to touch the back of your legs. This is sometimes done by your date, a waiter, or another man seated nearby.;
, Make sure both your knees and most of your legs are lined up and squeezed next to each other. One leg should not be in front of the other. By sitting down with your legs together, you will keep your undergarments from showing, no matter how short your skirt may be.
 Do not bend forward; make sure to keep your torso straight. Keeping your knees together, sit down smoothly by bending your knees. Your calves will naturally tilt forward, which is a position you will want to hold.


Try not to use your hands for balance. Keep your arms either straight down or slightly bent at the elbow.
 If you are wearing a skirt or dress, it may have become rumpled while you sat down. Sitting will also have raised its hemline. If you don't want your skirt looking rumpled or shorter than it actually is, smooth it down gently with your hands.
 You have two main options for your feet: flat on the ground or crossed at the ankles. If you are short enough that your feet don't touch the floor, be sure to go with the ankle-cross. When crossing your ankles, be sure to do so with your knees still together. There should be no space between your ankles., If your legs are long or you've chosen not to cross your ankles, you will likely need to angle your knees to either your left or right. Such placement will make you look less stiff and more feminine. You do not need to maintain this angle for the duration of the event. In fact, it is polite to shift your knees towards the person you are speaking to.
 Do not lean back into your chair. For formal occasions, it's most appropriate to sit in the center of the seat with your back not in contact with the chair.Likewise, do not lean forward and slouch in your chair.
 When not in use, keep your hands folded or holding a clutch. Rest them just above your thigh. However, if you are attending a formal dinner in France, be sure to place your hands on the table on either side of the plate instead. There, it is considered rude to place your hands underneath the table on your lap.

