


For example, will you develop campaigns aimed only at physicians, or direct-to-consumer campaigns as well? Will you concentrate on pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, health care plans or all of the possibilities within the field?;
,


Your greatest cost will most likely be for the people you employ or partner with, but they will also be your greatest assets.
Having adequate creative resources will make you better able to respond to clients' needs. You will need to balance this with costs.
Choose creative and account staff with experience and contacts in the medical field. Medical journalists, hospital public relations staff members and nonprofit healthcare association communicators are examples of prospective team members for your ad agency.



Where do you see the business 5 years from now? What will you need to get there? Your business plan will outline the types of work your medical ad agency will do, its business goals and plans to develop a client base.
Survey the customary charges for services and develop a rate structure.



Unless you operate as a sole proprietorship, you need to register your business with your state. Check with your state's Department of State for specific regulations or contact the Small Business Administration (SBA) at http://www.sba.gov/content/incorporating-your-business

Consult your attorney and your accountant about the business structure that will be most advantageous to you. You can register as a Doing Business As (DBA), a separate name for your business entity, or as a limited-liability company (LLC) or partnership.
An LLC affords business owners some protection against personal liability for debts, fraud and malpractice actions and other actions against the business. LLC offer flexibility in how income tax is handled and have a simpler structure than corporations.
,


You will need a name and a logo that project the image of an advertising agency that is creative, yet well-versed in technical, medical issues.
Deploy the agency brand you create through corporate stationery, business cards, brochures and Internet and social media presence.
Consider branded giveaways at pharmaceutical and medical trade shows or resources useful to doctors or consumers that will remind prospective clients of your agency.
Sponsor local health events to develop a presence in the healthcare community.



Consider whether you will need to obtain office and meeting space near a major client, such as a hospital or pharmaceutical company, if you have already secured a founding client.
Find office space you can afford, but that also projects the proper image to clients.
 The healthcare advertising field has a high potential for liability for you and for your clients.
 The healthcare field is generally on the leading edge of technology. You can help your clients to leverage marketing opportunities such as developing apps for computers and smartphones in addition to traditional advertising.
 Your clients may be tainted by association if your medical ad agency represents questionable organizations or is seen as engaging in unethical practices.

