 Ask someone to cut-and-paste all but the lead paragraph of an online story into a new word document, or have them clip the lead graph out of a newspaper. Read the remainder of the story and glean as many details as you can. Using those, write your own lead with the aim of condensing the most important facts into one or two sentences. After that, read the original lead to see how well yours measures up to it.If the original writer followed the inverted pyramid, there may be info in the original lead that isn’t repeated in the text that you read. Don’t worry if your lead doesn’t include that precise info. Compare your lead to the original only to see how well each one summarizes the text that follows.
 Remember that hard news aims to report the bare facts objectively, nothing more.To practice objectivity, cover an event that touches on a subject that you feel passionate about (such as a presidential debate or football game in which you strongly favor one side over the other). Write an article about it. Then have someone read it and/or proofread it yourself to spot any instances where your personal opinion shows itself.


Look for adjectives and verbs that overstate what actually happened. For example, describing your favorite quarterback’s performance as “amazing” is unwarranted if all of their plays went by the book.
Watch out for words with loaded meanings that suggest bias. For instance, if you are writing about a crime, avoid using terms like “thug” to describe the perpetrator, since this implies a judgment on your part.
Check to see if you have represented all sides fairly. If you are covering a political debate, for example, make sure you haven’t just highlighted all of your favorite candidate’s high points and all of their opponent’s low points.
 Proofread your article (or even pieces by other writers’) to identify any words or sentences that could be cut without losing the story’s essence. If possible, rephrase necessary facts that could be described in a single word. Shift impressive but unnecessary details toward the end, where they can be cut by editors if necessary without upsetting the article’s flow.Use active verbs instead of passive ones. For example, “The candidate visits New York today,” instead of, “The candidate is visiting New York today.”
Identify clunky word structure and run-on sentences by reading the article out loud.
Use Twitter or the word-count feature to train yourself to write short, crisp sentences.