 Round up two or more people. Each person is their own team. Everyone keeps track of their own score., On a regulation basketball court, this is a straight horizontal line. Usually, this is 15 feet (4.6 m) from the basket.However, if you’re playing on a driveway or smaller court, you can improvise.
 This is the large semi-circle that encloses the free-throw line on a regulation court. Usually, this is 23.75 feet (7.24 m) from the basket.Feel free to improvise on a smaller court.
 Every game of 21 has its basic rules. However, you and the other players can make adjustments to create a challenge or make things easier for beginners.Some common rules are:


Regular shots are worth 2 points each. You can make them anywhere on the court except the free-throw or 3-point line.
3-point shots are worth 3 points each. Make them from the 3-point line.
Free-throw shots are worth 1 point each. Make them from the free-throw line., Take turns shooting at the hoop rim. The first person to hit the rim takes possession of the ball.You could adjust this rule so that you have to get the ball in the basket in order to take possession.
 The player with possession shoots the ball at the 3-point line. All other players try to stop them from making the basket.This is called busting-in or breaking-in the ball. A successful bust gets the opponent 2 points., Each 2-point shot you make earns you a 1-point shot from the free-throw line. After you make 3 shots in a row, one of your opponents can check you in a one-on-one match-up. If you make that shot, you get 2 points.If you miss your free throw, try to stop your opponents from putting the ball back in the basket.
 Dribble the ball outside the 3-point line. This happens if someone misses the 2-point shot and one of their opponents rebounds the ball. The player with the ball can’t shoot before clearing., Shoot additional 1- 2-, and 3-point shots until someone gets 21 points. In basic rules, the first player to 21 wins. You could end the game there or have a rematch.
 In a tip-in, one player shoots the ball toward the basket but misses. Meanwhile, another player jumps, catches the ball, and scores before it hits the ground.Make the game more challenging by reducing the score of the “tipped” shooter (the one who missed their shot).


You can reduce it to 13 or a lower number if the player has less than 13 points. To make it even more interesting, reduce the score to zero.
 Make a rule that the winner must have at least 21 points and lead by a set number of points. For example, you could agree to continue beyond 21 points until someone leads by 2, 4, or more points., Sometimes, a player will have to make a free-throw shot in order to make it to 21. If they miss, their score gets rolled back to 13 points.