 Take a look at job position. Are they interesting and descriptive? Instead of saying you were a cashier, say you were a customer service professional, or rather than saying that you’re a secretary, say you are an administrative assistant. Do not use a job title that is misleading, however. Simply think about how well the job title describes the work, and how interesting the title is.


For example, “Manager” does not describe who or what a person manages. “Sales Staff Manager” or “Executive Manager” may be more descriptive and desirable job titles on a resume.
Visit the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Occupational Outlook Handbook for an alphabetical listing of job titles to get ideas on how to make your job titles more descriptive.
 Because many employers now scan resumes with special software programs to determine the presence of certain keywords as a way of filtering them before a select few get passed along to an actual human being, you want to be sure that your resume contains all of the proper keywords for your industry, and the particular job for which you are applying.


Look at what words the employer uses in the advertisement. If an employer lists research as a required skill, be sure to include the word ‘research’ or ‘researched’ in at least one job description or skill set you include on your resume.
Avoid using every keyword mentioned in the job posting, however, or your resume will look suspicious.
 These will highlight your skills and your ability to do the job for which you are applying. Choose verbs that describe your responsibilities and then make sure to begin the descriptions of your duties with these verbs. For example, if you were a receptionist, you may want to use verbs such as 'scheduled', 'assisted', and 'provided'. You can do this by saying you ‘scheduled appointments’ ‘assisted clients’ and ‘provided administrative support.’

, This step cannot be overemphasized. Proofread your resume several times. Have someone else proofread it. Then, have another person further removed from you read it. Spelling and grammar errors in a resume will get it discarded regardless of your skills and experience.


Watch out for spelling mistakes, grammatical errors, incorrect contact information, typos, and misuse of apostrophes, plurals, and possessives.
Double check to make sure that your formatting is correct, and that you didn't forget any important information.

