 Do you want to explore? Relax? See a completely different place? There are many different places that you can go to. Some people don't feel comfortable when traveling to places that are too far and different. On the other hand, going somewhere that's too close might make you feel like you're taking a stroll in the neighbourhood.;
, Once you choose your vacation spot, you can start with your planning. Don't book a hotel room or a flight too early, because there might be some last minute deals. Use the internet or get some travel brochures to see what the local attractions are, as well. Some places could be dangerous and unwelcoming; make sure to read reviews of places you want to go to and stay in. If you have the choice to choose who you want to go with, think carefully. It has to be someone you like and don't have many fights with. The person you travel with greatly affects your travelling experience. Try to think of things that might ruin the experience (i.e. addictions, different travelling style, etc.)

, This is important, because sometimes those two can ruin an entire vacation. If you've had a bad experience with a certain airline, don't make the same mistake again. As for the flight, don't let any of it get to you. If it's a really bad experience, you can just say that it's technically not a part of the vacation. Find a good hotel that isn't too expensive and is located near many attractions. The hotel might have some flaws, but if it isn't something unbearable, then let it slide.
 There are things that have to be taken care of - just like every other vacation. Don't get it wrong this time; finish things early. If you know that you're always late to the airport, then try to leave the house an hour or two earlier. Also, make sure you have your passport and visa with you if you're going to a different country. Don't leave things for the last minute and pack your suitcase early.
 Learn about the place, as there might be some important things that you don't know about. Use Wikipedia and search engines to learn about the local customs. Read about appropriate clothing, tipping, laws, weather, and more. Check the forecast to see what the weather will be like and if the area you will be in might have natural disasters or conflicts that might arise soon. If the place you're going to isn't anything like where you live, make sure to see pictures and videos of the place to avoid culture shock.
 You don't need to bring your entire house with you. Pack things that you know you'll need. If you know you can't live without your mp3 player, than don't hesitate to take it. Packing isn't just about personal toiletries and clothes; it's important to bring things that you'll enjoy as well. Put the items that you use often in your backpack so you'll have easier access to them. Remember to bring extra batteries and all the equipment necessary to make them work throughout the vacation. If you're going on a plane, make sure that you don't put any sharp or dangerous items in your bag (i.e. scissors, swiss knife, toy gun, etc). Don't bring a really expensive or unique-looking suitcase, they have a higher chance of getting stolen or opened. Don't pack the things that you might wear. Bring the sort of clothes that you wear now, otherwise, you'll be stuck with a whole lot of clothes that you won't be able/want to wear.
 These days, there are many things that we need to carry around. It could be cellphones, laptops, digital cameras, and much more. Never let those expensive belongings be out of your sight. Keep them locked in a safe or hidden in a good place. When you're on the street, tie your camera on your wrist so it won't get stolen or keep it in your backpack. Don't leave your luggage and/or backpack unattended, even if you're going for a second. If you're travelling with someone else (who you trust), tell them to watch it while you're gone.
 As much as want to have the perfect vacation, we know that the world usually won't cooperate with us. Don't let the small things irk you and ruin your mood, just accept that they happen and move on. Try to see yourself as you are now; don't try to change and become perfect. You need to accept yourself right now instead of imagining yourself as someone you currently aren't and/or will never be. You won't be automatically happy/attractive/perfect the second your vacation starts. If you know that you're not the sort of person that can get up early and walk all day long, then don't expect yourself to be.
 It's important to plan, but it's just as important to try something new and unexpected. It could be something as big as deciding to bungee jump or something small like trying out some of the exotic cuisine. Either way, you'll have something interesting to do and tell your friends once you do it. Don't be afraid that you might ruin something or be off-schedule. Give yourself some time to do whatever you want and have fun doing it. Don't be afraid to do something you liked doing back at home, either. It will make you feel more comfortable and give you a sense of familiarity. If you find yourself disliking a place you go to, don't hesitate to leave. Try to go to all sorts of different places, not just tourist traps.
 Sometimes we don't realize how happy and carefree we really were until we no longer feel it. Recognize those moments and appreciate them; don't let any of your desires or worries get in the way. Try not to reflect or think too much about how it's been so far or give the vacation a grade before it's really over. Don't give yourself too much time to think about what happened, but give yourself enough to know what to do and where to go. You can take pictures and record videos, but remember to turn them off once in a while. Let yourself be in the present instead of taking pictures of a moment you weren't in for the future.
 There are some places that people know they'll never go back to. Some won't come back to keep the memories unique, some understand that they won't be the same, and others just know that they want to keep on going and discovering new and exciting places. Whatever you choose to do, remember this vacation and learn from it. You might just look back at it one day and realize how lucky you were to have experienced it.

