 - This is a must. No ifs, ands or buts. You have got to shower everyday or at least every other day. Keep your hair clean and healthy. Wash your hands and make sure your nails are neat. It's not "girly" to have good hygiene. Think you're a manly man if you never wear deodorant? Think again. Girls are impressed by guys who keep it clean.;
, Another necessity. If you don't have one, make one. Keep a basic URL, maybe just something with numbers. Rather then loading your page up with stupid garbage like pictures of babes or you hunting with your dad, keep it minimal, with a basic black or white background and a small 'about me' section where you glamorize your life as much as possible. One thing about the scene style is having lots of friends on Myspace. So add sexy, scene kids.
 Scene guys are notorious for their bitchy, self-centered attitudes. Same thing goes with the girls. They're gorgeous and they expect everyone to agree with that and constantly remind them. It's not easy keeping yourself stunning. Anyway, scene guys lean a little to the gay side being that they spend just as much time in front of a mirror fixing their hair as a girl would. Just make sure you know where you stand, and girls will appreciate but not like it if you're prettier then they are.
 You have to know what's really lame and what automatically clicks as being perfect. Please, please don't wear make-up. It's far too emo and emo is nothing like scene at all. Not to mention guys suck with make-up and girls are not impressed by your skills with eyeliner. Piercings are hot. Snakebites, septum, monroes, you name it. Tattoos are hot too but remember, they last forever. And not dragons or dippy tribal tattoos. Let's face it, girls love guys who are in shape. If you're on the chubby side you should head into the gym and work off those extra pounds so you can fit into your skinny jeans.
 Scene hair for guys is surprisingly easy to come by. It's rather unfair considering all of the work girls have to go through. How long is your hair? It's got to be past your chin for it to work. It's suggested that you go to the salon but you could cut it yourself. You want long sweeping bangs with lots of choppy layers all over the place. The better your fringe looks, the hotter you are. Period. Guys with hot hair drive girls mad.

Buy a straightener; this will be used everyday. Make sure your hair is clean and not greasy. Straighten it until it is completely flat. Make sure you protect your hair from the heat with proper products. You can keep your hair straight, or get some gel and hairspray and try to muss it up into a sexy, falling-into-the-face mess.
 One of the most adored genres though is screamo. Lead singers in screamo bands usually have pretty amazing hair and are good role models for the scene style. Take Olli Sykes for instance, the lead singer of Bring Me the Horizon. He is extremely gorgeous, with the hair, and the tattoos and the piercings. Not to mention the adorable British accent. Some very basic, necessary, bands include: The Devil Wears Prada, Bring Me the Horizon, iwrestledabearonce, Job For a Cowboy, Attack Attack!, Chiodos, Underoath, Dance Gavin Dance, Breathe Carolina, I Set My Friends On Fire, A Skylit Drive, A Day to Remember, August Burns Red, Handshakes and High five Sky Eats Airplane, Drop Dead Gorgeous, Alesana and the list goes on! If you like most or all of the bands and have them on your iPod, you are well on your way to the scene music tastes.
 Guys have it easy in the clothing department too. As long as you keep a mature, simple outlook and remember what's hot and what's not, you should be fine shopping at your local mall or Urban Outfitters. It's okay to embrace your feminine side but you don't have to adorn yourself with pink and girly clothing.


You have got to own skinny jeans. Nothing else. Are they uncomfortable? Get used to it.






As far as shoes go you should own a pair of basic Vans, nothing too flamboyant. Try to be fashionable when it comes to shoes. Wear moccasins or weird sandals. No white sneakers. Converse are A-okay, but drifting a little too mainstream.






Stock up on a good load of band tees from the above mentioned bands. Don't buy a shirt just because you think the design is cool. Know the bands and represent them.






For accessories every guy should own at least two bandannas and two pairs of sunglasses. Wear them around your neck, in your pocket, around your head, whatever. Guys should also own a couple of beanies and don't forget your studded belt!






Sweaters are hot if it looks like your grandpa would wear it buy it. Ugly old scarves and grandpa glasses are hot too.






You can wear a headband around your head as well. A few bracelets made of hemp or beads are stylish, but no sweatbands. Far too "Hot Topic Goth" look.






V-necks can never go wrong! Load up on plain colored T-shirts from American Apparel or wherever they're sold cheap. American Apparel also offers good-quality hoodies.
 Go to shows, hang out with friends, meet other hot scene kids. It's always good to have scene friends with you. Make sure you have a sexy guy-friend. Seeing the two of you together will impress the ladies. If you don't already play guitar, you'd better start. Scene guys will brag about their band's latest gig or at least how they're hoping to get a gig. It's expected, even if you suck.
 You're having fun as a young person. Remember to be yourself and to enjoy life!

