 Cut a sheet of aluminum foil in 3-inch (7.6-cm) squares.


You should have ten cotton squares and ten aluminum foil squares. You will need one of each for each finger.
The aluminum foil squares need to be large enough to wrap securely around each fingertip.
You could also use cotton balls instead of cotton pads. If using cotton balls, there is no need to trim them down to size. The aluminum foil strips may need to be slightly larger to accommodate the larger thickness of the cotton balls, though.
 Rub cuticle oil into the skin around your nails.


Cuticle oil is designed to protect, soften, and moisturize your cuticles. Applying it before stripping the nail polish will help to prevent your cuticles from drying out more than absolutely necessary.
 Dip the cotton square or cotton ball into acetone nail polish remover until it is fully saturated.


There is some debate over whether to use pure acetone or a diluted acetone nail polish remover. Pure acetone is most effective, but it can also cause your nails and skin to become extremely dehydrated. At the very least, you should not use pure acetone frequently.
Acetone-free polish removers are not powerful enough to work on shellac nails.
 Position each square of cotton directly over your nail, covering it completely.



Wrap each fingertip tight enough to secure the cotton but not so tight that you tear the aluminum foil or cause circulation problems.
Aluminum foil creates heat, which actually improves the effectiveness of the nail polish remover.
Give each nail a gentle press to make sure that the acetone comes into contact with the nail.
 The shellac will begin to peel away after 2 minutes, but you may find it more effective if you leave it on for a full 10 minutes, instead.


The more highly-concentrated the acetone is, the sooner you can remove the cotton.
If you wait much longer than 10 minutes, the cotton can dry out. If this happens, it can get stuck to your nail, making it more difficult to remove.
 Gently peel the flaking shellac polish off with an orange stick or manicure tool.


Place the flat edge of the tool against the bottom of your nail. Gently scrape the length of the nail until all the nail polish is removed.
You might be able to wipe the remaining polish away with another cotton pad soaked in more acetone remover.
 If there is any sticky or chalky residue left, use a soft cloth or other soft buffer to gently wipe it away.


Avoid buffing tools that use a motor or have a rough texture since these can weaken your nails.
 Remove additional residue with warm water and soap.
 After washing your hands, put some moisture back into them with hand lotion. Rub more cuticle oil into your cuticles and over your nails to further moisturize them.


No matter how careful you are, some dehydration is likely to occur. Lotion and cuticle oil will help restore some of the lost moisture.

