 Even though this technique seems oddly obvious, it does wonders. When you start craving something, your mind’s automatic response is to close in on the thought, making it stronger and more painful by the second. That is why it is usually incredibly helpful to force yourself to think about something else.


When concentrating on something else, you distract your brain, so to speak, and so the thought of alcohol is pushed to the back of your mind, in order to give way to the topic at hand.
Of course, do not tell yourself, “I want to drink but I am not going to think about it” – this is almost impossible to do; by trying not to think of something you just end up thinking about it more.
 Instead of focusing on your cravings, try starting a conversation with somebody (if you're home alone you can phone a friend), or look around and try to describe to yourself every single detail of your surroundings– don’t miss any color, texture, shape or position.


Try grounding techniques to distract yourself from emotional pain. Try running your hands in cold or warm water, or counting and naming the colors you see around you. There are hundreds of different grounding techniques you can find online and try today!Another thing you can do is play a game of your choosing. Chess, board games or video games will all do the trick of occupying your mind.
If you have a pet, like a dog, you can play with him, try to teach him new tricks or take him out for a walk.
Cleaning can also be very distracting in such situations, especially if you try to concentrate on those especially difficult to reach spots of the house.
 One of the worst things about alcohol is that it slowly but surely deprives you of any hobbies and activities that you might have enjoyed prior to drinking. In fact, if you have been drinking heavily for a while, this has probably become your biggest source of entertainment. Therefore quitting can cause a serious problem – boredom, which can make you want a drink even more. Changing your lifestyle by engaging in new activities is a great way to reduce the risks of boredom.


If you want to get yourself out of this vicious circle, it is a good idea to look at some activities that might interest you. It can be virtually anything, as long as it does not remind you of alcohol. For instance, you can sign up for a sport, an arts and crafts class or learn a new language.
You can also take short trips to nearby towns or make a habit of taking part in cultural events. It's best if you can schedule these activities in advance. This way, when you get a craving, you will have something to look forward to and think about.
In addition, new activities will build your confidence and the increased confidence will help with cravings. Increased confidence will also help keep you away from alcohol, because you will no longer need it to feel good.

