 While married, you may have fallen into a routine of doing things a certain way, or on a certain schedule. Consider new experiences. If there are things that you had always wanted to do, but never did, then go do them. Find things that interest you, outside of what your family, children, or friends may already be doing. Being passionate about something is an attractive quality to a potential new partner.


Get active. Go to the gym. Join a fitness or activity group. Be outdoors.
Get creative. Make art or music. Attend an art class. Write stories. Build things.

Get happy. Do things that relax and boost your spirits. Make time for fun.;
, There are many things you may have come to rely on during your marriage, including a sense of security or having certain expectations of your spouse. Remind yourself that you are starting with a clean slate and that things will be different when you begin dating. Your date may not know your expectations from your marriage or even be willing to live up to them. In addition, remember that dating relationships are not necessarily committed or monogamous.

Have a conversation early on about your expectations of the relationship. If you are looking for a committed, long-term, monogamous relationship, then let your date know. If that's not what your date is looking for, you may need to move on. Making sure you are on the same page on these subjects may save you some heartache and frustration down the line.
Remember, too, that a dating relationship doesn't have the same security as a marriage. Try to become comfortable with the possibly transitionary and ambiguous nature of dating — at least until the relationship reaches that level naturally.
For instance, you may encounter "ghosting," which is when someone tries to end things with you by ceasing to respond to texts, emails, and calls. This can be a confusing and painful experience, but try not to take it personally or continue to pursue that person.
 Dating should be about having fun and trying new things. The modern world is filled with ways to connect with other singles. Get out of your comfort zone. Consider these ways to find dates: Singles' groups or other group activities like an outdoor club or volunteer group.
Speed dating events. It's a way to meet a lot of other single people and find out if there's an initial spark.
Networking or alumni events. If you're career-oriented, you may want to find some like-minded people.
 At any age, online dating is a great resource for meeting new people. This has become a common way to connect with people in your community. There are many ways to date online, and you can cater the experience to your interests, age, background, or faith.Create a profile that focuses on your strengths and diverse interests. Consider asking a friend to help you edit and craft your profile to make it appealing.
Messages sent through dating apps or emails are like trying to get someone's attention in person. Be open-minded. Flirt in the ways you like and feel comfortable.
 If you're new to the dating scene after marriage, you may be wondering what to expect. Find your single (or also newly-single) friends, and talk with them openly about any fears or concerns.


Avoid seeing yourself as the odd-person-out. You are starting a new adventure, and you have the freedom to choose what happens next.
Go out with other single friends and identity the good and bad of the new dating scene. Depending on how long you've been out of the dating circuit, it may feel strange with new and different ways of interacting.
Kindness, chivalry, and good manners never go out of style in the dating world.