 You can access the store from your phone’s Application list, or you can visit it on your computer here. There are many free applications, games, songs, and videos available for download.


You will need a Google account in order to download from the Play Store.;
, In order to install apps from sources other than the Google Play Store, you will need to set your phone to allow non-market apps.


Press the Menu button on your phone and tap Settings. Scroll down to Security and tap it to open the Security menu. Scroll down and check the “Unknown Sources” box. This will let you install apps directly from the APK file.
An APK file is the file that Android uses to install a program. If you want to add a program to your phone, it must be APK format.
Make sure that you download apps from trusted sources. There are a variety of communities that offer applications that aren’t available on the Store, often for free. These can include beta versions of apps that are in progress, or apps that are purchased outside of the store.
When you download an APK file, you can open it by using the Downloads app on your phone. Tap the APK file and your phone will ask you if you want to install it.
 If you have files on your computer that you want to add, transfer them to your phone using the USB cable.


For Windows, as long as you have Windows Media Player 10 or higher installed, you can transfer files directly to your phone when you plug it in.
For Mac, you will need to install the Android File Transfer before your phone can be recognized.
Copy music to the Music folder, videos to the Videos folder, and images to the Pictures folder.
 When browsing the web on your phone, you can download files directly to your phone’s storage.


To download an image, tap and hold the image in your phone’s browser for a second, and then release. A menu will open and you will have the option to save the image to your phone.
Downloaded files will be stored in your Downloads folder on your phone. You can move these around by either attaching your phone to your computer and moving the files using Windows, or by installing a File Manager app.

