 Take your ring and index fingers and place them underneath your jawbone on either side of your face. Draw your jaw down two inches. Sing all five vowels, A E I O U, while holding your jaw in place.Try putting a cork or plastic bottle cap between your back molars to hold your jaw in place.
Continue this exercise to get it into your muscle memory until you don’t need to physically hold your jaw in place.
 As your voice rises, you may be tempted to lift your chin up to get more power. Lifting your chin can help to strengthen you voice for a moment, but it can also have a negative effect on your voice over time. Instead, try tilting your chin down while you sing.Try singing escalating scales in front of a mirror. Tilt your chin slightly down before you begin and focus on keeping it down even as the scales move up in range.
Keeping your chin down gets rid of strain on your voice while giving you more power and control.
 Vibrato is a beautiful, yet sometimes difficult sound to achieve. However, you can develop the ability to sing in a vibrato voice by practicing the technique.Press your hands to your chest and lift your chest higher than normal.
Breathe in, and then exhale without moving your chest.
As you exhale, sing “ahhh” on a single note. Hold the note for as long as possible.
Half way through singing the note, press on your chest while imagining the air spinning in your mouth.
 You can find your range by singing along with the keys on a keyboard. Play middle C on a keyboard. This is the white key to the left of the two black notes in the middle of the keyboard. Sing “la” as you play each key to the left, while matching the tone in your voice. Continue as far down the keyboard as you can, comfortably matching the notes until you feel strain or can’t reach the note. Make note of the key you end on. This is the bottom of your range.Work your way back up the keyboard until you find the note which marks the top of your range.
 Once you have found your vocal range, try adding one note on either end until you can comfortably match it. You may not be able to hold the note at first, but focus on hitting the note 8 to 10 times each practice until you are comfortable reaching the new notes in your range.Once you can sustain the new note for a significant amount of time, you can move on to adding the next higher and lower notes to your range.
Have patience and don’t rush this process. It is best to control the sound and be able to hit the note consistently.

