 It’s a fairly obvious point, but if you want to reduce your waist size, you need to reduce the amount of calories you consume. Weight loss is an obvious equation: You need to burn more than you take in, and exercise burns fewer calories than many people think.


It takes a caloric deficit of 3,500 to lose a single pound. Many studies have found that if you keep a food diary in which you list what you eat every day, with the number of calories consumed, you will be more likely to eat less.
Use online calorie counters to figure out the number of calories in everything you eat. Pay careful attention to condiments, like salad dressing, that might contain more calories than you think. Even eating 100 fewer calories per day will make a difference over time .

Running is a great way to burn calories. Try to work toward running for 30 minutes at least three times a week. You can alternate walking and running until you’re stronger. If you could jog 20 miles per week, you could lose a lot of belly fat in 6 months time. ;
, You will eat less if you eat protein-heavy meals because they make you feel fuller. You should make sure you eat a high-protein breakfast, especially. Don’t skip breakfast. You could increase your weight loss rate by 25 percent if you switch to a high-protein diet.


Remember that 80 percent of losing weight (including around your waist) needs to come from diet, not exercise. Eggs, tuna fish, vegetables, salads, almonds, apples, and lean meats are good choices. If you find it hard to clean up your diet, remember that having a waist over 34.5 inches means you’re at higher risk for a series of ailments, including heart disease, diabetes, and high blood pressure. And you simply will not shrink your waist dramatically without a decent diet. Try to limit how much dairy you eat. Foods that you should fill your diet with include skinless chicken, brown rice, and broccoli. These are good for the waist.
If you can pull it off, try to eat at least one-third of your overall diet raw.
 The problem with starches and sugar is that they raise the levels of insulin production. This hormone is associated with larger waist size. So you need to weed starch and sugar out of your diet. Avoid refined carbohydrates (foods made out of white flour won't help your waist).


Be aware that high sugar foods can contribute to belly bloat, and some of them are foods you might assume are healthy, like beans, potatoes, and bananas.
The other problem with sugar and starch is that you will end up with high calories and less satisfaction. These are basically empty calories with little nutritional value. Examples include doughnuts, French fries, and white bread.
Look at labels, and weed fructose out of your diet. Fructose makes it a lot harder to lose weight. It’s found in a lot of processed foods and drinks, and you should limit your intake of it to less than 15 grams per day. Some foods that are considered healthy but have a lot of fructose in them can include enhanced water, yogurt, and some foods labeled as diet foods.
 Even if the carbonated drink you typically reach for is a diet version, it can be problematic for your waist size.


Fizzy drinks increase the amount of gas in your intestinal system. In addition, some diet drinks contain sweeteners which the body has trouble breaking down. Both of these things contribute to larger waist size.
Instead, drink water (you need to drink water throughout the day, as it will also increase your metabolism). And try drinking peppermint tea. If you must drink alcohol, red wine in moderation is a better choice than beer.
Another reason to drink more water is because people often mistake dehydration for hunger. So, if you feel hungry, try guzzling a bottle of water instead. , There are many reasons to eat coconut oil. One of them is because it burns abdominal fat, as well as boosting your metabolism.


Coconut oil contains acid that makes the body feel more full. So studies have found that people ate fewer calories when they started eating coconut oil daily. Coconut oil metabolizes very fast in your body. Some studies have found that coconut oil reduces the size of the waist and belly fat. 