 One healthy food option to help reduce your lab's weight is a high protein food. Protein helps keep your dog’s metabolism high and gives him energy to stay active. This is generally a more tasty food for the dog, but might not be a filling and satisfying that way to a dog used to eating more food.If you choose to switch dog food, do so gradually over a period of one to two weeks. The first two day mix the dog food: ¼ new food with ¾ old food. The next four days mix the dog food: ½ new food with ¾ old food. The next two to four days, mix the food ¾ new food with ¼ food old food. Finally, your dog should be transitioned to the new food.If the dog leaves the new food in the dish, make a more gradual transition to the new food. If it absolutely refuses the new food, consult your veterinarian for advice.;
, Another option you may consider for your lab is a high fiber diet dog food. This type of food will be more filling to the dog while providing all the nutrients she needs to stay healthy while on the food. A high fiber diet help stimulate your dog’s metabolism.The downside of a high fiber dog food is this can be a bit less full of flavor so the dog may not like it as much.
 Labrador retrievers love to eat. Owners often give into the lab's cute face and begging and feed her more food. However, this helps lead to obesity.If you don’t want to change your dog’s diet, you can feed her a normal diet, but reduce the portion sizes. This uses your dog’s current food, but cuts down on the normal daily portion size you’ve been feeding her.


Recommendations vary, but try cutting 15 or 20% of her food from her diet., Another way you can cut calories in your dog’s diet is to eliminate all treats. Feeding your dog treats can cause weight gain or block the efforts to lose weight since each treat adds extra calories to the daily caloric count. Your lab probably loves treats and begs for them. Try to limit how many treats you give to your lab.If you feel a need to feed treats, get a good commercial one specifically made for dieting dogs.


You can give your dog vegetables or rice cakes for snacks instead of more calorie heavy choices.
If you know your family will give the dog treats, ration out the amount of treats that your dog can have each day.You can also place a few pieces of the dog’s daily dog food in a sandwich bag and use as treats.
 Many people leave food down for their dog to eat throughout the day. Because Labrador retrievers are greedy dogs who are always hungry, you should carefully monitor what your pet eats.You can control what your dog eats by removing the bowl of food and only feeding your dog at set meal times.If your dog was used to having food out to eat at all times, you will need to begin feeding your dog two or three times a day. She has proven she can’t control her eating if food is out all day, so you need to institute this control for your dog.

