 If you have been to this school for many years, it will be more difficult to change your style, because everybody knows that you don't dress well or they didn't even notice you. It will be harder, but the kids at your school will be so shocked they will say: "Who's that new girl?";
, You can donate them to charity or you can sell them at a market or yard sale! Don't worry if you have too little clothes unless you cannot afford to replace them. Talk to your mother explaining that those clothes don't fit you anymore, that the school begins in a few weeks and you want a new style. She'll understand and may give you some money.
 Look in fashion magazines to look for trends or ideas on how to wear something. Look around your school and notice what others wear, and how you'd feel about wearing them. Go online and look up makeup tutorials, etc.
 Don't buy two t-shirts that look alike or remind you of the other; choose items unique from one another (maybe one hoodie in a pattern and one plain?) and try to focus on a single style. Diversity is good, but not if you show up one day dressed in one style, and the next in some completely different style. Try to find a single style that matches your personality. That way, in the end, you're happy and confident with your new style and don't feel fake. Also, never buy anything that is flimsy or seems like it will "fall apart" in a while or so ( meaning bad-quality). It's not worth the money. See tips for some pointers when you shop.


Stores that sell stylish stuff for the fashionista include Forever 21, A'Gaci, Charlotte Russe, Papaya, and Delias. If you're going for the more down-to-earth, "hot" style, H&M, American Eagle, Hollister, PINK by Victoria's Secret, Abercrombie, PacSun, Urban Outfitters, and Wet Seal are some good stores. However, if you like other stores, want a unique style, or love all the mentioned stores, buy from them and mix-match.
 Talk to your hair stylist about what would look cute on you. It should be completely different from what you used to have, this way your friends will be completely amazed.
 If you are overweight, exercise to lose weight. If you are toned, work to maintain the body you have.
 Act different from how you used to be if you were insecure or shy. Maybe before people were laughing about you, but now you should ignore them. Laugh at your mistakes, and be social.
 Act like your style of clothes is a normal thing and you've always had it.
 You must not send a bad message to others. Brush your teeth twice daily, shower, wash your face, keep your hair clean and nice, use perfume, shave, and use deodorant.

