 Chances are your bottle of unopened vodka is fine to drink after storing it for an extended period of time. If you've already opened the bottle and it's been a long time since you drank it, check the vodka before mixing up a drink. Throw out the vodka if:If you notice a strange smell
If it has an unusual or noticeably bad taste
If it looks different (cloudy or simply looks different than when you bought it)

, Pure vodka will last for years if stored properly. But if you have vodka that's flavored with natural ingredients, you should be checking it periodically to make sure it's not going bad. It's a good idea to clean through your entire liquor cabinet every 6 months or so. This will encourage you to use up alcohol that has a limited shelf life or throw out alcohol that's no longer good.Liquors with dairy or natural flavorings often have an expiration date listed on the bottle. Some of these may even benefit from being stored in the refrigerator instead of in the cabinet.
 If you have young children in your house, you should take extra care to make sure your vodka is out of their reach. Although your children might not go looking for your alcohol, young children are curious and may find it. To prevent accidents, keep alcohol in a high up place and lock the storage container or liquor cabinet.Even if you trust your older children, locking the liquor cabinet is a good idea. If your teen is being pressured by a friend to take your alcohol, a locked cabinet gives your child a good excuse for not giving in to the pressure.
 If you have teenagers in your house, you should be monitoring how much alcohol you have on hand. While you should be able to trust your children, studies suggest that monitoring alcohol in the household sends a message to your children that underage drinking is not acceptable. To monitor alcohol in your house, try:Marking the sides of liquor bottles to track the levels
Writing down how many bottles of each alcohol you have
Making note of when you open a bottle of spirits or liquor

