 If this happens often, it may be chronic. Consider the health of the person at hand. Is this a result of sickness? Was anything unusual going on at the time that could have had a lowering effect on blood sugar levels? What's more, stay relaxed. There may not be a bigger problem at hand.You will need to ascertain if the symptoms point to dangerously low blood pressure. Generally the symptoms include dizziness, lightheadedness, unsteadiness, dimming or blurring of vision, weakness, fatigue, nausea, cold, clammy skin, fainting, and pale skin.;
, When blood volume is increased and dehydration is alleviated, hypotension may disappear.Sports drinks containing electrolytes return lost minerals to the body, too. Drinking these or water will keep dehydration from happening.


Another way of spiking blood pressure (temporarily, that is) is to drink caffeine. Scientists aren't quite sure how or why it does this, but it's thought that it either blocks hormones that widen your arteries or pumps up your adrenaline levels, directly causing a rise in blood pressure., The excess salt helps to make blood pressure rise. That's why heart patients are usually on low-sodium diets.


Sodium is known to raise blood pressure (and sometimes greatly), so doctors generally recommend limiting it. Check with your healthcare professional before you up your intake -- if you consume an amount that's not good for you, it can lead to heart failure (especially if you're older)., Raise the legs and put on compression stockings, if available. These are the same stockings that people use to reduce varicose veins and they're just as good for reducing blood pooling up in the legs., The problem could easily be failure to follow doctor's orders. Many medications lower or heighten blood pressure, even if just as a side effect. Certain combinations can also be more powerful than when taken alone.
 Make sure they (or you as the case may be) understand the importance of not missing doses. Or not taking too much!


In addition to their regular meds, know that acetaminophen (Tylenol) and certain anti-inflammatories and anti-depressants can also spike blood pressure levels. If you have some readily available, consider adding it in this instance., It's common for even healthy individuals to experience a dip in blood pressure when they rise after long periods of sitting. When going to stand (especially upon getting out of bed), sit up straight first and rise slowly.If you're able, get regular exercise to promote blood flow. If it's a chronic issue, keep up the exercise and eat small meals often.

