 Begin telling the friend that you are jealous of that you are proud of their accomplishments or abilities before you’ve totally overcome your jealousy. For instance, if you are jealous of a friend who got the job you wanted, say, “Wow, that is great news. I am so glad for you.”If you believe that your jealousy is so overpowering that you might betray it in your friend’s presence, just send them an email or text message to let them know that you are glad for them.
 When your friends meet with success or accomplish something great, thinking about them as an extension of you can reduce your feelings of jealousy and increase your feelings of happiness for them. This way, you can in some small part consider your friend’s accomplishments your own – at least privately.For instance, when your friend announces that they got a scholarship, you might reason to yourself, “I have been a good friend to them, and without me (and their many other friends), they might not have been driven to get that scholarship.”

, You have many faces and roles in life. You have a public outside face that you present to the outside world, and you have your private face that you may keep hidden from the world, and sometimes even from your closest friends and family. What you see and know of someone in their social setting may be completely different in their home or private setting. Even your closest friends and families may not show you everything about them, so it is unfair of you to make assumptions that things are perfect for that other person.

For example, a friend, co-worker, or classmate of yours may seem to have an awesome life, but he may be secretly struggling with many things.
Don't assume that all those rumors and things you see of the outer-world are true. Everyone has struggles with something, and you have no idea what that person’s inner-world might be like.
 When you think a jealous thought, reject it and replace it with a more positive thought that makes you feel happy for your friends instead of jealous.This might be hard at first, but with practice, you will get better at catching jealous thoughts and swapping them for thoughts that make you feel happy for your friends instead of jealous.For example, when you think, “My friend is really good at dancing. Unfortunately, I am a terrible dancer,” immediately stop and say to yourself, “It’s okay that she is a better dancer than I am. Her skill does not make me jealous. With practice, I can become just as great a dancer as she is.”
This pattern of behavior will help you take control of your negative feelings as they emerge so that you can feel happy for your friend instead of jealous.
 When you are jealous of a friend, you will likely behave in a cool and detached way toward them. Jealousy will cause you to, for instance, to keep your secrets and personal feelings hidden.Over time, tamping down your feelings around your friend will erode the trust you two should share together as friends.
This realization will inspire you to feel happy for your friend rather than jealous.

