 Kegel exercises are exercises that strengthen the muscles of the bladder that control urination. Both men and women can do Kegel exercises to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles.For women, start by identifying the muscles used in emptying your bladder by stopping the flow of your urine midstream. Once you identify those muscles, with an empty bladder, lie down, squeeze, and hold these muscles for a count of three. Relax for another count of three. Repeat this 10 times. Your goal is to do at least three sets of 10 cycles every day.
For men, start by identifying the muscles used in emptying your bladder by stopping the flow of your urine midstream. Once you identify those muscles, with an empty bladder, lie down with your knees bent and spread apart. Squeeze and hold these muscles for a count of three. Relax for another count of three. Repeat this 10 times. Your goal is to do at least three sets of 10 cycles every day.;
, In timed voiding, you urinate on a set schedule. You empty your bladder on a schedule instead of only going to the bathroom when you feel you have to go. This helps you from overfilling your bladder and having urges you can't control due to incontinence. This helps you control your bladder and when you urinate.You usually start this by going to the bathroom every hour. Slowly, you can increase the time between trips to the bathroom.
You can also by watches specially designed to help you with timed voiding.
The idea is to re-train your bladder to hold more and more urine.
 Some foods may make your bladder problems worse. Certain foods may lead to increased incontinence. Try to reduce the amount of these foods to help.Spicy foods, such as spicy curries or foods that use hot peppers, are believed to cause bladder problems.
Some acidic foods can worsen bladder problems. This includes tomatoes, tomato sauces, and acidic fruit like oranges, grapefruit, lemons, and limes.Other foods that may cause bladder problems include coffee, tea, chocolate, and other foods with caffeine, along with artificial sweeteners.
This is most likely because components of these foods are excreted in the urine and can irritate the bladder.
 Maintaining a healthy weight can help improve some forms of bladder incontinence. Being overweight can cause problems by placing pressure on the pelvic floor muscles.If you are overweight, consider losing weight to help reduce your bladder problems.
 Constipation can contribute to bladder problems. Since the bladder and colon are close together, having stool in the colon can place pressure on the bladder. This can either keep the bladder from filling like it should, not empty completely, or contract irregularly.Eat at least 25-30 grams of fiber each day to avoid constipation. That, along with drinking enough water, is enough for most people to prevent constipation.Occasionally, if you need to, consider senna or psyllium as a gentle laxative.

