 Eventually, it will take its toll and you will be too tired to enjoy the company of your grandchildren and might even take out your resentment on them by being irritable or frustrated all the time. Remind yourself that your health and well-being are also important.;
, This can the case especially where you have been caring for your grandchildren for a few years without finding it challenging and everyone has simply started to take your caretaker role for granted. If you've been putting on a brave face, it's impossible for your children to know what you're really experiencing. As such, don't assume they can read your mind and see just how tiring it has become for you––you'll need to tell them openly and with honesty.


Be aware that many families are so busy and stressed by being busy all the time that they don't necessarily take grandparenting care for granted, but rather assume that if they don't hear otherwise, everything is okay.
 Ask your children over for dinner or drinks when it's a quiet, good time for each of you to meet up. Tell them that you'd like the opportunity to have a chat about the care arrangements for the grandchildren, with their input and ideas.
 Tell them how much you have enjoyed looking after the grandchildren and the things that you've enjoyed the most, such as spending time with them and seeing them grow. Then explain that things haven't been as easy for you lately, that you're beginning to feel tireder a lot of the time or that you're finding the responsibilities more tiring than in the beginning. Some of the things you might like to explain include:


You're worried about your health. Grandparents don't live forever, and if you're starting to have health problems, your children need to know about it.
You're worried about what might happen if you got sick when the grandchildren were around or when there are no other plans in place to care for them.
That you really feel like it's time to cut back on how much you do caring for the grandchildren but still want to stay involved.
 Depending on how much less you'd like to do, you might suggest fewer school nights and more weekend visits. Also, ask about the possibility of after school activities near their home.
 Most children will be understanding and prepared to find ways to make it easier for you.

