 Do so if your canker sore does not go away after 4 days or if you have experienced chronic canker sores. Call your doctor if your canker sore is larger than a dime. There are many chronic causes of canker sores that you and your physician will be able to discuss. Vitamin deficiency is often a cause of chronic canker sores, but depression, hormonal imbalance, and immune disorders like Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE), Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, and a rare condition called Bechet’s disease can also cause ulcers too.SLE is an autoimmune disease where there is oral involvement in about 50% of cases. These oral ulcers look like irregularly shaped raised white plaques.Treatment for these lesions include topical or intralesional glucocorticoids. Behcet's disease is another rare disease that leads to mouth ulcers. It is a neutrophilic inflammatory disorder with recurrent oral and genital ulcers, Recurrent ulcers along with lesions in the genital, eye, or skin are required for the diagnosis. The mucocutaneous manifestations of Behcet’s disease can be treated with colchicine.
Inflammatory bowel disease is also known to be associated with mouth ulcers, particularly aphthous stomatitis. This form of mouth ulcers is the most common cause of mouth ulcers. Risk factors for mouth ulcers include family history, trauma, hormonal factors, food or drug hypersensitivity, immunodeficiencies, and emotional distress. Treatment for oral ulcers involve triamcinolone in an over the counter treatment called Orabase.
There are no tests for canker sores. Doctors can tell just by looking at it, if it is a form of cold sore or if it is a canker sore. Canker sores are shallow crater-like spots on the mucus tissue of the mouth. They are immediately recognizable by their round shape, reddish edge, and general whitish/grayish color.
 Be sure to note the number and longevity of your canker sores. They’ll be able to determine if you have a chronic condition. If you’ve had a couple in a week or so, your doctor will likely tell you to focus on your eating habits and environment. If you’ve had a couple constantly for months, then your doctor will probably run a spectrum of blood and urine tests to check for a myriad of conditions including vitamin deficiency., Normally, your doctor will simply ask you to monitor your canker sores and to use many at-home or over-the-counter remedies. In the most extreme cases, your doctor may prescribe certain oral steroids that will reduce inflammation and the pain.In even more extreme cases, your doctor may choose to cauterize the wound. There are two cauterizing chemicals that your doctor may use. The first is Debacterol. It is a topical solution chemically designed to cauterize your canker sore and to reduce the healing time to about a week. The second is silver nitrate. Like debacterol, silver nitrate will chemically cauterize the wound, but it hasn’t been shown to speed the healing process.