 This means that if you are turning right, you'll want to push the handlebar to the right. This is different than turning in close quarters. You are essentially keeping your handlebars square but initiating a lean. Gently, increase pressure from your palm on the handlebar, pushing it gently. Logically it may seem as if you were trying to turn the bike in the opposite direction you want to turn. However, as you do this, lean gently into the turn while shifting your weight slightly in the direction you want the bike to tilt. Again, while that may seem counterintuitive at first, this is the principle of counter steering, turning the front wheel slightly to drop the bike into a gentle lean, which allows for greater stability during a turn.
The sharper you want to make the turn, the greater your lean angle should be.
 Maintain pressure on the handlebars and look through the turn to the road ahead of you. Avoid looking at the side of the road or other distractions as target fixation can cause you to go directly toward it. Look at the path in the road you want to be on.
 Don’t decelerate during the turn or let off the throttle. You don’t have to speed up in the turn, just keep the throttle steady. If you need to let off it at all that means you entered the turn too fast. Try to have confidence in your bike. Just because it is leaning doesn’t mean it’s about to fall over – as long as you keep pressure on the throttle you should keep friction with the road. By holding down the throttle you’re pushing that back wheel into the road and keeping the bike steady.
 Don’t look at the ground. If your vision is wrong you’ll end up crashing. If you look at the ground, you’ll go to the ground. Keep your eyes where you want to be going – that’s not directly ahead of you, that’s at the exit point of the turn. Vision is incredibly important while countersteering. , When you are exiting the turn, release some pressure on the inner handlebar and add some more pressure on your throttle. Now push slightly on your outer handlebar and your bike will come back upright. This doesn't need to be a dramatic push back to the outside, just a slight nudge as you release pressure on the inside handlebar.

