 Go to a camera or electronics store or order the blower online. Lens blowers are small, rubber squeeze blowers, which shoot a puff of air on the lens. Giottos is a commonly bought brand, but other brands also manufacture lens blowers.This may seem like a waste of money when you could blow on the lens with your mouth. Experts specifically recommend against blowing on the lens as you’ll often blow saliva onto the lens making it dirtier than before.
Do not use compressed air, which can harm your camera lens. Manual blowers are the safest cleaning option for your camera lens.;
, Each time you use your lens blower, squeeze out a few puffs of air before you use it on the lens. This will clear any dust that may be inside the blower. If you don’t do this, you could blow more dust onto the lens., Position the blower as close to the lens as possible so you don’t blow contaminants from the air onto the lens. Hold the tip at a slight angle to the lens. Squeeze a few puffs onto the lens, aiming each puff toward a different part of the lens.Hold the point of the blower in the center of the lens and angle it slightly toward the outside of the lens.
 When you are done using the blower, put it into a plastic baggie for storage. This helps keep the blower clean and free of outside contaminants. Seal the plastic bag and store it with the rest of your camera cleaning supplies in your camera bag.


It’s important to store it in a sealed plastic bag, because any type of cloth bag will allow dust to sift through the fabric and get into the blower.
 LensPen is one of the most recommended brands, but many others are available. A camera lens brush uses soft camel hair bristles which are gentle on your lens. Never use a brush that is not designed for lenses, because the bristles can scratch the glass.Most brushes have a cap to keep them clean, and other are retractable.
Never touch the bristles of your brush because you’ll leave finger oils and the brush won’t do its job.
 After you’ve blown the dust away, press the bristles of the brush gently onto the lens. Twist the brush back and forth in circles to remove particles from the lens. Some brushes also have a soft felt pad on the other end which helps remove oils from the surface of the lens.Make sure that you don’t jam the bristles against the lens. You’ll damage the brush and it won’t clean the lens effectively.
 It’s important to keep the brush clean, or it won’t be useful. Always put the cap back on when you’re finished with the brush. If the brush doesn’t have a cap, store it in a sealed plastic bag to keep it away from dust.
 Pre-moistened lens wipes are the best option for cleaning stubborn smudges or dirty spots on your lens. Zeiss and PEC-PAD are trusted brands for non-abrasive, lint-free wipes. Do not use cleaning wipes that are not specifically labelled for use on camera lenses.
 Take a wipe from the pack and press it against the center of the lens. Move the wipe in a circular motion, slowly spiraling toward the outside. Try not to wipe the lens multiple times in the same spot or you’ll simply move the dirt particles around.If a second pass on the lens is necessary, use a clean portion of the wipe or use a new one.
 These lens wipes are not meant to be reused, so throw them away after you use them. Using old wipes will transfer grime back onto your lens, and this may end up scratching the glass.If the wipe is still damp and a section of it is clean, use it to wipe down another less-fragile piece of your camera equipment before you throw it away.
 Visit a photography store, an electronics store, or order lens cleaning spray online. Zeiss, ROR, and Nikon make lens cleaning solutions that are highly effective. Never use your breath, glass cleaner, or any type of chemical cleaner on your camera lens., Find a microfiber cloth and use it only for your camera. Never use your t-shirt or any cloth that isn’t a microfiber cloth, as other fabrics are too abrasive and can scratch the lens. Spray the solution on the cloth and never directly onto the the lens.You may find microfiber cloths that are also specifically designed to be used on lenses.
 Gently press the damp cloth to the middle of the lens and begin to wipe it in circular motions. Wipe the lens in a spiral, moving toward the outside of the lens. Be sure not to press too hard. Wipe the lens only once if possible. It’s best to minimize contact with the lens.
 When you are done using the cloth, store it in a bag so it stays clean. Rinse the rag out with clean, cold water after every three uses. Do not use commercial detergents to wash the cloth, as these could end up getting on your lens.

