 There is a vast world in amp technology that is very different from those built thirty and more years ago. When computers became more popular during the 80's and 90's, amp building never looked backed to the simple tube amps. This is one reason why amp selection can be so wide and confusing.


For the beginner, you will need a decent priced and decent sounding amp that has a 12 (30.48 cm) speaker. You are looking for good, clean, and distorted channels at about 30 watts or more. Something like this could cost you a pretty penny, but if you go further down the road with your hobby and start to play live shows you will be getting the best sound possible.
;
, As stated before, there is a vast world in amp technology that is very different from those built years ago. What you need is two amps and possibly some back-up ones. Also stated before, you will need a decent priced and decent sounding amp that has a 12 (30.48 cm) speaker, looking for good, clean. and distorted channels at about 30 watts or more. Obviously, this is not the best sound possible for an intermediate player and an amp that matches the description should be used for practice and a back-up amp.


To achieve the sound best suited to display your music, you will need a 412 cabinet and a 60 watt or more header, also known as an amp stack. You need one that has good, clean, distorted channels, four perfect 12 (30.48 cm) speakers, and an optional foot selector switch.
 There are two types of physical amps, tube and solid state. Whatever you choose is up to you, tubes require a bit of maintenance now and then and solid state can be poorly designed at times. The only thing that makes them similar are watt and amp usage, common controls, etc. Cost is a major factor when you buy an amp, for beginners you do not need to spend over $300 (267.59 euro) and intermediates should not spend over $400 (356.78 euro).
 Once you found equipment you need and/or can afford, buy it. If you buy used gear, make certain it can last a long time so that it can get you to where you want to go.
 Every kind of amp available in the market is in your favor because of the way you play. Most amps are designed solely on the use of standard tuning with clean and distorted channels. Sometimes low budget amps somewhat distort a distortion channel when gain is set very high and it may be caused by poorly designed gain channels, which were invented after players in the 1950s turned up the clean volume to get a distorted sound and hearing loss. After distortion channels had made their way into amps they seldom changed and thus would explain some amps (mostly low-end and low wattage solid state) at times distort high gain settings.


If you're the type of player that plays in standard and/or drop-d, likes high gain and needs a budget amp, then you may need a distortion pedal and a possible booster that's connected to a clean channel. However, this problem rarely occurs in separate headers and cabs, mainly heads that are 60 watts or more hence that there are more ways to correct the problem.
 There is a lot to consider when simply trying to buy an amp. In fact, the matter is hard because it's based off of your own opinion, but some seem to find it easier than others. A few examples are tube or solid state, low-end or a few more bucks for a decent budget amp, etc. All features are a matter of opinion, but one thing to remember when purchasing any gear is to fit your general hobby or career, such as wrongfully getting a bass amp when you play mostly distorted electric guitar.
 If you find an amp that fits your budget, general guidelines, and your preference purchase it immediately or place a hold on gear you're thinking of getting. You certainly do not want to have someone else purchase the amp you carefully selected.
 There is a limited amp selection available in the market for you because of the way you play. Most amps are designed solely on the use of standard tuning with clean and distorted channels in which sometimes low budget amps somewhat distort the distortion channel when gain is set very high and you're playing below standard tuning. A lot of high powered amps correct this problem, but some do not. If you suspect an amp is doing this, first change your strings to a heavier gauge and see if it was only this. If not, you may need to turn up the volume and see if this corrects the problem. If it does not, you may need a better amplifier, but before you try to find a new one see if you can fiddle around such as play with the tone knobs on the amp to find a better sound.
 There is a lot to consider when simply trying to buy an amp. Because it's based off of opinion and all features are a matter of opinion, one thing to remember when purchasing any gear is to fit it to your general hobby or career.
 With the way you play you add more natural bass to your overall tone, most amps cannot take this and simply give out on what matters most or they have a hard time getting all the extra tone under user's control. A way to correct this problem is with 2 or more speakers and higher wattage for your amplifier. When looking for such amps it is a good idea to try them out first and then see what you can do about purchasing options.
 As stated above, if you find an amp that fits your budget, general guidelines, and your preference purchase it immediately or place a hold on gear you're thinking of getting. You certainly do not want to have someone else purchase the amp you carefully selected.

