 Cold water helps reduce the denim's dye from bleeding. Use a natural soap and don't apply too much pressure when scrubbing. Soak your jeans for a couple minutes and then let them dry on a hanger.


You can effectively wash and soak your jeans in your kitchen sink, as long as it’s clean. Clog the drain, and fill the sink with cold water. Add your fabric soap while the water is filling up the sink.;
, You don’t have to clean and soak your jeans to freshen them. Reap the benefits of nature by simply hanging your jeans up during the day. Keep your jeans out of direct sunlight or else they will fade due to the sunlight., Instead of washing your jeans, you can alternatively mist the jeans. Use a squirt bottle and fill with one part cold water and the other part vodka. Spray down the jeans with solution and then hang them on a clothesline. Once the jeans have dried, place them in the freezer.This technique doesn’t clean bacteria off of the jeans, but eliminates odors from the jeans.
This an alternative to cleaning your jeans in a washing machine or by hand. This is a good technique if you want preserve the longevity of your jean’s quality.
 Even though your black jeans won’t show all stains, you should still attempt to treat the ones you know about. There are many products that can be used as stain removers. Remove stains as you get them to reduce the amount of washing times. Resist the urge to throw the jeans into the wash after spilling marinara on them.


Pine Sol wooden floor polish removes tough grease stains and Motsenbocker’s Lift Off removes paint without damaging the dye of the denim.You can also find natural based denim stain spotter to use on the go.
 Jeans can stay clean without much effort. There are occasions to use a machine wash, like if you’ve been frolicking in the mud, but typically they need a simple freshener. A quick way to freshen your jeans safely is by steaming them. You can use an iron’s steam function, if your iron has that function, or bring them into the shower with you.


Place the jeans on a hanger and place them in an area where they won’t get wet.
Take a hot shower as you normally would, and when you’re done, the jeans will be fresher than before.
Steam removes odor from your jeans similar to the misting and freezing technique.