 Using a thin marker suitable for drawing on plastic, trace around the nail shape, around its perimeter. Be as precise as possible, as these will be turned into the strips that you'll place back on when completed.


Repeat for each nail, including the thumbnails.
Label each tracing, so that you remember which nail strip goes back on which nail, for both right and left hands.
 Take the bag you've just added all the nail tracings to and flip it over the the non-marked side. This is the side you'll be painting on.


You don't have to flip over the bag; however, you may not want the marker showing through the nail polish, so it's recommended that you flip it over.
 Use the color of nail polish you'd like to wear for this set of nail strips. Color neatly within the confines of each nail shape traced onto the plastic bag.
 This is optional but it's here that you can really start to have fun and be very imaginative. For the purposes of this article, a very simple design is created to explain how to do it. However, you can use far more detailed and intricate designs when you get used to the process, depending on how artistic you would like the nails to be.



Note: You will need the thin designing brush with the desired nail polish color you want, or you will need a store bought nail polish design bottle.
 For example, a contrasting white. Use this color to paint on two fanning lines, placed in between the black lines you made in the previous step.
 Take silver glitter polish and made several dots along one of the white fanning lines.
, Twenty four hours is a decent amount of time to allow to pass, just to be sure they're fully dry. You may think they're dry earlier but this amount of nail polish takes at least 24 hours to dry fully. If they're not completely dried before attempting to use them, the nail polish will most likely crumble in your hands and you will have to start all over!

, Make a note of the marker indicator to which each nail relates to, so that you can be sure of adding the right strip to the right nail. You can do this by typing up, then printing out the nail names in a row, then placing each cut-out nail strip under its relevant name along the printed row. You're now ready to apply the nail strips.
;
, It is best to do one nail at a time, so that the base coat is fresh and acts like glue.
 Press down.
, The top coat should be applied generously, as it both seals and protects each nail strip.
 Your nails are now all done. Beautiful!

