 At the start of the semester there’s usually an event where all campus clubs have tables with information about their club. This is a great place to start, when you’re thinking about what club to join. Ask questions, take a look at the material the club is sharing, and think about whether it might be fun to try out.Remember that joining a club doesn’t mean a huge initial commitment. You can always sign up for lots of clubs, then drop out of the ones that aren’t fun for you.
There’s likely to be lots of fun, free stuff at the school’s club fair, like stickers, snacks, and other things.
 Most colleges and universities have student organizations based around certain interests. You might find an anime club, or an astronomy club. Some clubs are for sharing and learning about other cultures, such as Spanish club or Chinese club.Joining a club will allow you to meet other students who share your interests.
Staying active in areas that you’re interested in help you to remain connected to your own passions.
 One of the best things about college is the chance to participate in events and activities that broaden your knowledge of the world. A club that allows you to move outside your comfort zone may turn out to be very fun.For example, if you’re terrified about public speaking, consider joining the drama club.
If you’ve never participated in team sports, think about joining an intramural sports team such as Ultimate Frisbee.
 If there isn’t a club around something that interests you, consider starting one of your own. You’ll have to register your club with the university either online or through a paper document. Once your club is confirmed, you’ll be listed in the university’s directory of clubs, and you’ll have access to campus buildings and equipment.You might start a student club, a campus club (including students and faculty). or a community club (that includes students, faculty and community members).
For example, one student noticed that there were student groups for other cultural minorities, but not for students with disabilities. She started a student group so that students with disabilities could come together and get to know each other.
 Being part of a Greek organization does more than just provide you access to great parties. It also offers a sense of community with your fraternity brothers, or sorority sisters, that will last a lifetime.Choose a Greek that reflects your interests, values, and priorities. For example, Mu Phi Epsilon is a coed international professional fraternity, and Alpha Chi Sigma is a professional chemistry fraternity.
Greeks participate in fundraising for charitable causes.
If you join a Greek organization, you’ll have access to additional scholarships, tutoring and other benefits.
 Sometimes people join student clubs to enhance their resumes later on, but it’s worth thinking about joining a club that’s purely fun. Clubs can provide a much-needed outlet for your creative, artistic, or social interests.For example, you might join a line-dancing club, or a Star Trek club.
Having fun in clubs can help balance out the stresses of the intense studying of college.
 You’ll probably join more clubs at the beginning of the semester than you’ll have time for as the semester continues. You don’t want your club participation to become stressful when it’s meant to be fun.You can also change the number of commitments within the club that you’re responsible for. If you’re participating in more than 1-2 clubs, you might try to keep your commitments to a minimum.
If you find yourself stressed by the amount of club activities you’re expected to do, take a step back. Think about what your priorities are.

