 The most common selections are drama, action/adventure, horror, romance and comedy. Sometimes it can be great fun mixing genres together: for example, any comedy blending elements of a well-defined and more serious genre can add uproarious humor to your idea. Be creative!;
, Are you serious about creating a "large scale" home movie? Are you just looking to experiment and have fun? Especially when working with others, be keen on maintaining your desired atmosphere and don't let too much over-analyzing dry up your good time flick - or too much horseplay ruin your drama.
 Most of us are eager to give our friends top billing in our films, so cast them accordingly. For instance, if your main character is a tough, masculine type, it would only make sense to cast a friend you regard as rugged and strong into that role. Character's roles don't always have to go to the person with the most similar personality, however. Your pleasant, even-tempered party buddy might surprise you and conjure up a nasty, barbaric alter-ego and make the perfect cold-blooded villain for your feature. Some roles, particularly leading roles, should be experimented with!

, Improvisation is manageable too, but a decent idea of each scene is important in order to make this work. Don't allow your movie to meander and lose its focus due to poor improvisation. Editing is also a great method in ensuring a tight ensemble at all times.
 Sometimes this depends on the scope of your movie. But don't be fooled, a tight budget doesn't necessarily have to restrict the quality of your film. Discover creative alternatives to otherwise too-pricey scenes and let clever camera angles, smart dialogue and the power of suggestion take over where your special effects are limited.
 Learn your equipment. Know how to use your cameras, microphones, editing software and anything else you'll be using to create and hone your film.
 Multiple camera angles and unique shots maintain interest and accelerate your plot. Also be aware of tried and true cinematic effects such as wide establishing shots, close-ups and action scenes. Some are tricky, but with a level head and a keen understanding of the vision you want to bring to the screen, you can always make magic happen.
 Say you want to create a high-speed car chase, but the idea just looks too difficult to pull off. Don't sweat it! This is where good camera work and the power of suggestion is put to the test. In the scenario of a car chase sequence, alternate between close-ups of the drivers and their actions and a large array of vehicle visuals. When filming the actual chase, distance shots are probably easiest, but use different methods to get in close and if you splice these shots together tastefully during editing, you will likely be surprised at how authentic your chase looks! A good soundtrack always helps immensely, and timing your music to match high points in your movie can boost excitement.
 Don't have the right effect plugins for your video editor to bring that epic gunfight to life? Toy with the options you DO have: add your own "custom" muzzle flashes step-by-step in Paint and inject the improved graphics between their respective in-motion at a one half second speed, or dub text boxes with transparent white or orange asterisks over the gun barrels and modify the duration to the length of the gunshot. Sometimes a corny idea works good enough that in moderation it can add a nice touch where there otherwise wouldn't be one. Explore all possibilities.
 Get the most out of your actors. Most of us enjoy acting in character, and good costumes, props and settings will only enhance our acting abilities! Just remember, for all the good stories and editing in the world, terrible acting will kill any movie!

, Some romantic tension or a clever twist will always delight your audience and impress them with your multi-dimensional storytelling.
 A legitimate movie title and opening credits can establish instant credibility to your movie, especially when coupled with a suitable soundtrack!

, Websites like http:\\www.freeaudionetwork.com have hundreds of amazing musical selections to choose from, and a wealth of sound effects can be bought on CD or found on the Internet.
 Save your movie with a high resolution and burn it to DVD so you, your friends and family can enjoy it for decades to come! You never know, this could even be the original film that gets you recognized!

