 If you believe that you are suffering from some mental illness and require treatment, you may voluntarily have yourself examined. This examination may lead to additional ongoing treatment, as either an inpatient or an outpatient, depending on your level of need.When you arrive at a hospital or mental care facility, you will be provided with a form entitled, “Application for Voluntary Admission of an Adult.” This form asks you to explain briefly why you are applying for admission.The process for voluntary examination applies to adults. If a minor wishes to be examined for mental treatment, the minor’s parent or guardian must make the application.;
, When you voluntarily report to the hospital, you must receive a written explanation of your rights as a person on voluntary status. If you do not receive such a written statement, ask for it. Read it over carefully and make sure that you understand it. If there are any details that you do not understand, ask someone to explain them to you. By signing the Voluntary Admission form, you are verifying that you are aware of your rights and that you consent., It is possible that after you check in voluntarily, a physician may determine that you need to be retained involuntarily. You need to realize this before appearing. If you request to be discharged from the hospital, but a physician believes you should remain, the hospital may hold you for up to 24 hours for further evaluation. If during that time someone files a petition in court for involuntary placement, you may be held for up to two business days pending a hearing., After you have received notice of your rights, and have been warned of the potential for involuntary commitment, you need to sign the Voluntary Admission form in the presence of a witness. Someone at the intake desk at the hospital will witness the form.Part of signing the admission form is an acknowledgment that you may be billed for any treatment or services you receive. It is important that you check with your insurance provider before taking this step, to make sure that you know what treatment is covered, or that you can afford to pay for whatever is not covered.