 A U.S. citizen such as a close relative or an employer must fill out and file a visa petition for you.Generally, a sponsor must be over the age of 18 and live in the U.S. or U.S. territories, either as a citizen, a U.S. national, or a lawful permanent resident.
If you're applying for immigration because you have a job in the U.S., typically your employer would be your sponsor. Otherwise, your sponsor usually is a close relative.;
, USCIS has two visa petition forms, one for relative sponsors and one for employer sponsors.Relative sponsors can download Form I-130 and instructions at http://www.uscis.gov/i-130.
Form I-140 and instructions are available for employer sponsors to download at http://www.uscis.gov/i-140.
 Once your sponsor has completed the form, he or she must file it on your behalf by mailing it, along with the filing fee, to the appropriate processing location using the U.S. Postal Service.


Addresses to file Form I-130 are available at http://www.uscis.gov/i-130-addresses. The petition must be accompanied by a $420 filing fee.
Your employer can find instructions and filing locations for Form I-140 at http://www.uscis.gov/i-140-addresses. This petition requires a $580 filing fee.
 Once your petition is received, it may take up to 30 days for the USCIS to send your notice of approval.When your petition is approved, it is sent to the Department of State's National Visa Center (NVC) for further processing.
At this point, it can take several months of even years to get a visa number. How long you'll have to wait depends on how your application is categorized. U.S. immigration law limits the number of immigration visas available each year.
However, if your sponsor is your spouse, parent, or adult child, you may not have to wait as long. U.S. immigration policy prioritizes family unification, and there are no limits to the number of immigration visas that can be issued each year in this category.When a visa is available for you, the NVC will send you a welcome letter with your NVC case number, beneficiary ID number, and invoice ID number.After you receive your welcome letter, you must file Form DS-261 identifying your agent. This is the person who receives information and notices regarding your immigration application. It could be a family member, your employer, or your attorney. You also can act as your own agent., Which forms you need to fill out to apply for a green card depends on whether you are applying from inside or outside the U.S.If you are already living or working in the U.S., you need to download and fill out adjustment of status forms.
If you are applying for a green card from outside the U.S., you must fill out Form DS-260, titled the "Application for Immigrant Visa and Alien Registration."You can complete and submit the form online. However, you may want to download and print a copy so you can look it over before you begin.
 Look over the forms and instructions before you begin filling them out so you know which documents you will need.Some of the information required on the application you may know off the top of your head. However, you probably want to double-check your official documents to make sure everything you enter on your application is correct.You'll need to enter personal information about yourself and your family, including your criminal background and specific details regarding any trips you've made to the U.S.
 You can complete the green card application form using the Department of State's electronic application center.citizens


The Consular Electronic Application Center (CEAC) is available at https://ceac.state.gov/IV/Login.aspx. You must enter the case number found on your NVC welcome letter.
Once you start your electronic application, you can save what you've entered at any point and come back and finish it later on. Keep in mind that if there's no activity for 20 minutes, the system will log you out and you'll lose any unsaved information you've entered.
Generally, the application requires you to enter personal information such as your name, date of birth, marital status, nationality, current and past addresses, and employment information.
You also must provide family information, including the names, dates, and places of birth of your parents, spouse, and children.
The application also includes questions about your previous visits to the U.S., your work, education, and medical history, your criminal background, and other security information.
 You must submit all materials in one package, either digitally through email or by sending paper documents through U.S. mail.Typically you must have a sponsor complete an affidavit of support for you to file along with your application.The affidavit of support is a legally binding document through which your sponsor establishes that he or she has the means to support you financially and promises to do so. Your sponsor must submit financial documents to support these claims.
You also must submit copies of civil documents such as your birth certificate, court and prison records, and any marriage certificates. The documents must be written in English or translated and accompanied by a sworn certification from the translator., Green card applicants currently living in the U.S. must make arrangements to get a set of fingerprints taken.Keep in mind that it can take up to 30 days for your application to be reviewed before you can proceed to the next step. You will receive a notification when your application has been reviewed and judged complete. 

, After your application is reviewed, the NVC will mail you an interview appointment letter.Keep in mind that you may have to wait several months before an appointment time is available.
If you are located outside the U.S., your interview will take place at an embassy or consulate in your country. The NVC will send your entire file to that location prior to your interview. 
You must bring originals of all the documents you submitted with your application. Review your appointment letter, as it will contain a list of documents you must bring with you to your appointment.
You also must complete a medical exam and get any required vaccinations before your interview. After the exam, the physician will give you a sealed envelope to take with you. This envelope can only be opened by the U.S. immigration official who interviews you.
Take along two identical color photographs of yourself that were taken within the past six months. You can typically have these photos made at any retail location that produces passport photos. These photos are for your green card., If your application has been approved, the official who interviews you typically will let you know at the end of the interview. However, you may not receive your green card for several weeks.If you are outside the U.S. when your application is approved, you also will receive a sealed immigrant packet. Do not open this packet – you must present it unopened to USCIS officials upon your arrival to the U.S., As a lawful permanent resident, you are required by law to have your green card with you at all times.If your green card is lost or stolen, you should file an application to replace it as soon as possible.You also should file an application to have your green card replaced if you want to take up commuter status, or if your card contains incorrect information – for example, if you move or change your name when you get married.
 You can lose your permanent resident status even for misdemeanor violations.Many immigrants believe only conviction for a felony or violent crime will subject them to deportation. However, many misdemeanor drug offenses or crimes considered to be morally wrong, such as fraud or sex offenses, also can cause you to lose your green card.
You also may be subject to removal for violating immigration laws that don't involve any criminal sanctions. For example, you are supposed to notify USCIS of a change of address within 10 days of moving. If you fail to do this, you may lose your status as a permanent resident.
 Although you do have the right to travel, the USCIS may determine that you've abandoned your status as a permanent resident of the U.S. if you maintain a residence in another country or remain outside the U.S. for an extended period of time.If you live near the U.S. border, you can keep your green card status even if you live permanently in Mexico or Canada. You must apply for commuter status and show proof that you have a job in the U.S.
If you know in advance that you'll need to be outside the U.S. for more than a year, you should send in an application for a reentry permit before you leave. The reentry permit will allow you to stay outside the U.S. for up to two years and still keep your green card.
Keep in mind that whether you intend to maintain residency in the U.S. is a matter of all the facts and circumstances surrounding your travel. If you don't own or rent a home in the U.S., quit your job in the U.S., and have your kids enrolled in schools overseas, USCIS could determine that you abandoned your permanent resident status – even if you were only out of the country for a few days.
 Once you have a green card you are considered a U.S. tax resident, and can be deported for failure to pay federal taxes.You must report all of your income each year, including income earned overseas. Keep in mind that just because you have to report all income doesn't mean the U.S. can or will tax all income.
As a green card holder you must file taxes even if you spent a substantial part of the year overseas. The number of days you spend in the country only affects your tax residency if you have a nonimmigrant visa.
 Once you are a U.S. citizen you don't have to worry about possibly being deported.In most cases, you are eligible for citizenship after you've been a permanent resident for five years. If you were married to a U.S. citizen when you got your green card, you only have to wait three years.

