 It's really hard to use drugs and be serious about sports at the same time. All that running and coordination and teamwork gets pretty hard when your body is sluggish and your mind is cloudy. Staying active with sports is therefore a great way to avoid the world of drugs in the first place. Not only this, but being active causes your body to release so-called endorphins, which make you feel better and relieve certain kinds of stress.Participate in team sports. These sports include soccer, American football, rugby, lacrosse, baseball, basketball, hockey, field hockey, badminton, cricket, volleyball, water polo, and more. Team sports teach participants about mutual respect, the value of working together, and self-sacrifice.
Participate in individual sports. These sports include: skiing, wrestling, skateboarding, bowling, golf, darts, chess, fencing, track and field, tennis, surfing, swimming, and more. Individual sports teach participants the value of grit, determination, and hard work.
 Perhaps the reason why many people turn to drugs is boredom. There's nothing much to do, so why not have some fun and experience excitement? While there are other cures for boredom, you can avoid becoming bored in the first place by going outside and enjoying nature, even if you don't play sports.


Find time to take a hike. Many urban or suburban neighborhoods are close to parks or nature reserves where you can go to experience a bit of the great outdoors. If you can't make it out of your urban area, go exploring in a safe place inside your city.
 So you may think that these three activities are for your parents, or washed-up hippies, but there's some value in connecting your brain and your body in a single exercise. All three of these activities strive to do this. The person who is more in touch with his or her body is less likely to abuse it by taking drugs.


There are several different kinds of meditation. Maybe the simplest meditation exercise is closing your eyes, breathing in and out deeply, and trying to gain awareness of each part of your body — all at once. This is sometimes called awareness mediation.
There are dozens upon dozens of kinds of yoga. There's Hatha yoga, Bikram yoga, Ashtanga yoga, Vinyasa yoga, not to mention many more. Explore different practices with different teachers. Each has its unique set of poses and breathing practices.
Pilates was developed by a German physical-culturist in the first half of the 20th century. It is a body condition routine that emphasizes core strength as well as spinal and pelvic alignment. Many Pilates enthusiasts report feeling much better after their workouts. When you feel good already, what's the use in taking drugs?

, What does food have to do with drugs? What you eat has an effect on how your body functions, and how well you feel. If you make a habit of eating junk food and treating your body like you don't care for it, it's not going to feel its best. If your body doesn't feel it's best, you'll be more motivated to lean on drugs as a crutch.


Doctors recommend filling your diet with fruits and vegetables, lean protein, whole grains, and plenty of fiber. A diet rich in these foods will give your body the energy and nutrition it needs to keep you happy and drug-free.
Eat healthy fats instead of unhealthy ones. Healthy fats include omega-3 fatty acids (flax seed, salmon), as well as monounsaturated fats (avocados, pumpkin seeds).Unhealthy fats include trans fats (partially-hydrogenated oils) and saturated fats (animal fat, such as lard).
Drink water and unsweetened teas instead of colas and alcohol. There's nothing wrong with a Diet Coke or a glass of red wine every now and then. In fact, researchers believe that red wine, in moderation, may actually be good for you.But the majority of what you drink should be coming from water. Water will help you stay healthy and hydrated throughout the day.

