 There is no need to slow down, speed up, or otherwise alter your speech patterns while you are not actively stuttering. Even if you only speak without interruption for a few words at a time, speak them at your normal rate instead of trying to alter your speech patterns to avoid a stutter. It's more effective to relax and focus on what you're saying, rather than tense up and focus on how you say it.
 A major source of anxiety, and a major reason some people who stutter, is the feeling that you need to push through a word immediately. In fact, slowing down or pausing when you reach a stuttering obstacle can train you to speak more smoothly and with less anxiety., When you get hung-up on a word, your initial reaction will be to hold your breath and try to force the word out. This only worsens the stuttering. You need to focus on your breathing when speaking. When stuck in a block, pause, take a breath, and try again to say the word while gently breathing out. When you breath, your vocal chords relax and open up, allowing you to speak. This is easier said than done, but may become easier with practice.
 Paradoxically, you can help yourself manage your stutter by intentionally repeating difficult sounds. If you're anxious about the times when you can't control your speech, make the sounds deliberately to regain that control.Saying "d. d. d. dog." feels different than stuttering "d-d-d-dog". You're not trying to force your way through to the full word. You simply say the sound, making it clear and slow, then continue on to the word when you are ready. If you stutter again, repeat the sound until you feel ready to try again.


This can take a lot of practice to become comfortable with, especially if you are used to hiding your stutter instead of accepting it. Practice to yourself first if necessary, then work your way up to using this technique in public.
 A common experience among people who stutter is the feeling of a "wall" or obstacle that they know is coming up at a certain sound. Make this obstacle easier to surpass by leading up to it with a sound you have no problems with.For instance, making a nasal "mmmm" or "nnnnn" sound may help you "sneak past" a difficult hard consonant such as k or d. With enough practice, this may make you confident enough to say the difficult sounds normally, and just keep this trick in your bag in stressful situations.


If you have trouble with m and n sounds, you might try an "ssss" or "aaa" sound instead.
 Hiring a speech therapist to assist you can greatly reduce the effect stuttering has on your life. As with the other techniques described here, the exercises and advice a speech therapist may develop for you are intended to help you control your stuttering and minimize its impact on your speech and emotions, not eliminate it entirely. It may take a lot of practice to use these therapy techniques in the real world, but with patience and realistic explanations, you could improve your speech greatly.


If advice or exercise is not working for you, try to find another therapist. More old-fashioned therapists may advise slowing down your speech, or suggesting other exercises that many modern researchers and people who stutter find counter-productive., If your stuttering still causes you severe anxiety, you could purchase an electronic feedback device, a special device which allows you to hear yourself differently and with a delay. However, these devices can cost thousands of U.S. dollars, and are not a perfect solution. They can be tough to handle in loud environments, such as social gatherings or restaurants. Keep in mind that these devices are useful as an aid, not a cure, and it is still useful to practice anxiety reduction techniques and consult a speech therapist.

