 You can still achieve this look if you are overweight or short. If you so desire, a healthy diet and some exercise can help get you to a smaller size, and heels or boots with thick soles can make you seem taller.;
, At least past the shoulders, but it would be more ideal if grown to the elbows. If you want to get bangs, try choppy bangs. It doesn't matter what color your hair is, but black, white-blonde or red seems to be more like a Burton character.
 It is a must. To get clear soft skin drink eight glasses of water a day, wash your face twice a day and moisturize. If your skin is very acne prone you can see a dermatologist. Also, try to have your skin as pale as possible if you are white. Rubbing lemons on your body while in the shower helps. Use sunscreen with a high SPF to make this possible too.
 Use chap stick; black, grey or reddish eyeshadow; thick mascara on top and bottom lashes; and a somewhat thick line of black eyeliner. Make sure to apply the eyeshadow under your eye too. If you want a more dramatic look, try fake eyelashes. You can also draw lashes on using eyeliner, which looks cute but takes some practice. Look up Michelle Phan on youtube. She has a great example of Tim Burton makeup.
 Maybe an orange pair too, that way you can mismatch them and have that Halloween feel.
Skirts
Shorts
Black tops
Striped tights (Black and your favourite other colour, white if you have no preference)

,, But you can also use gray, ivory, and white, or some maroon or orange or purple, but only one of those last three colours at a time. Try to stick with things that are plain or monochromatic. Stripes, swirls, lace, brocade, and decorative corset lacing are often used in the costumes, but don't overdo it with the stripes unless they match.
 They have cute The Nightmare Before Christmas jewelry there. You could also try etsy.
 Spiders, cats, etc. would work as well.
 They are usually nice and gentle with a Gothic style.


Be selfless.
Have an open mind about love.
Have a sweet, gracious (but perhaps a bit sarcastic) personality.
Have a Tim Burton character for inspiration. Perhaps your favorite one. Or you could take a quiz on Facebook or somewhere online. Look for characters whose attributes you love and go with it.

