 To a certain extent, you are the people you surround yourself with. Over time, their opinions, actions, and emotions rub off on you, working their way into your life. To be as happy as possible, be sure to spend time with the people who are most important to you — the people who make you happiest. These can be friends, family members, coworkers, significant others, or even casual acquaintances. Only you know who makes you the happiest, so make this choice for yourself.
 Always go out of your way to thank the people who bring happiness to your life. When you make a habit of thanking people, it makes you realize how much happiness you have in your life. Thanking the people who mean the most to you also allows you to share your happiness. Being happy on your own is great, but being happy with someone you're close to is even better.


This doesn't have to be a flowery, gushing speech. Your thanks can be something as simple as, "Hey, thanks for helping me out the other day. It meant a lot to me." What's important is that you're sincere in your thanks — not the specific words you use.
 The happiness you get from achievements and successes is fleeting. Like with new purchases, it quickly fades, leaving you feeling the same as before. However, the state of working toward a goal can be a source of joy all on its own. Having a goal gives you a reason to live your best and makes you feel purposeful and active. In a way, having a goal is like giving your life "fuel" that you can burn over time for longer-term happiness.


Each milestone you surpass on the way to your goal should feel great when you accomplish it. When you do complete your goal, savor the happiness, but remember that it's only temporary to avoid disappointment. To get the same happiness again, you'll need to set a new goal for yourself.
 Even something as simple as your physical environment can have an effect on your happiness. Love flowers? Place them all around your house or workplace. Are you a car aficionado? Leave time in your schedule to do a little work on your car every week. Spending time — even just a little — around the things that make you feel good can have a major effect on your mood. It will also remind you how much you have to be thankful for.
 Don't hesitate to get outdoors. You'll always be better off discovering something new than staying at home. Try taking a walk. Head to the park. Have a friendly conversation with someone you meet. Take a bike ride. Visit a museum. Whatever you like to do outside of the house, do it. You'll notice your mood improve and your outlook change.


Staying inside watching TV or surfing the web is a great way to relax, but it shouldn't be all you do in your free time. Moderation is key here — balance your urges to veg out with the knowledge that life is temporary and that you won't get back the time you spend inside.
 With all the stresses of daily life, it's easy to forget to simply have a good time every once in a while. There are many ways to do this — only you know what your idea of a good time is. Some people will like going to parties or clubs. Others will prefer reading on the beach. Some will enjoy a good movie. Whatever you enjoy, always make time to do it regularly. Remember: there are no rewards for avoiding fun.


Companionship can make fun activities even funner, so don't hesitate to invite your friend, family, and/or significant other along with you. On the other hand, don't skip out on something fun just because you can't get anyone to go with you. Have confidence in yourself and go on your own — you may meet someone new, but even if you don't, you've still had fun.

