 One of the most useful features of Google Maps is that it allows you to get detailed, step-by-step directions to almost any place you can find in the world. To get directions, start by finding the place you want to go. You can do this with either its name or address — see the section above for greater detail.
 When you find your destination, look in the information panel that pops up for a button that says "Directions" and has an icon that looks like a fork in a road. Click this to continue.



Mobile: On mobile devices, instead, simply click the car icon in the bottom right that has a time value under it (e.g., 10 min., 1 hr 30 min., etc.)

, If your device can detect where you currently are, it will automatically give you directions from your location to the destination you've chosen. If it can't, you need to type your starting point into the text box that appears next to your destination.
 Often, Google Maps will offer you more than one route from the starting point you choose to your destination. For each route, it will display an estimated time for the trip and a short description of the route (e.g., "via I-880 North"). Pick the route from the list that is most appealing to you. This may be the shortest one, the one that avoids highways, or something else entirely — it's up to you.
 To see the directions for the route you've chosen, do the following:



Browser: Select the route from the list, then click "Details" to see your directions. Click each item in the list of directions to expand or collapse it so you can see the directions in greater detail. Use the printer button at the top of the directions to print.

Mobile: Press "Start Navigation" for the route you want. Google Maps will begin to give you directions in real time. In other words, as you make each turn, it will update you with the next turn you'll need to make. Click the tab at the bottom of the screen at any time to see a complete list of directions.
 By default Google Maps finds directions for car traffic. If you're not traveling via car, you can still get accurate directions for your mode of transportation. As you are choosing the route you want, use the small icons at the top of the screen that look like different modes of transportation to get different types of directions. Your options are:


Car
Public transportation (looks like a train)
Walking
Bicycle
Plane (Browser only; for long-distance trips)

