 Mix Turmeric in the correct ratio with a little water or yogurt and apply at night for at least 30-40 minutes before washing with water as a mask. However, be careful of using acidic products. Check the pH by using pH testing strips. It should not be below 3. Use of it over a period of time can give desired results. In a single night, the impact won't be instant.;
, This solution works best for soothing your skin and reducing redness but is not as effective as aforementioned solutions for killing bacteria. Mince a bit of cucumber to form a paste, and put this directly on your pimple or over your whole face. Wait for it to set for 15-20 minutes, and then rinse your skin off with cold water. Voila! Your redness should be significantly reduced, and you’ll feel cool as a cucumber.
 Steaming will help you open your skin pores as well as let your skin breathe. Using this method, you can deeply get rid of bacteria, dirt, and oils trapped inside the pores, which may cause infection or inflammation. To do this, you fill a big container with the hot water. Next, you let the steam come in contact with your face for a few minutes. Then, you rinse off your face using the lukewarm water. After drying, you should apply your oil-free moisturizer., Tea tree oil is used in many beauty products for its skin-soothing qualities and ability to naturally kill bacteria. Purchase a bottle of pure tea tree oil, dilute it with water, and use it to treat your pimple. Do this only once a day, and repeat until your zit has completely disappeared. Be careful though, as utilizing undiluted tea tree oil can actually have the opposite effect and cause a chemical burn.For a quick home remedy, use tea tree oil and witch hazel. Twice a day, take a few drops of tea tree oil and spread it over your pimple. If you have sensitive skin, dilute the oil with water. Then, before going to bed, clean your entire face with witch hazel (an astringent), focusing on the pimple. Each day the pimple should grow flatter and less red, and disappear in three to four days.
 As odd as it may seem, garlic is great for reducing pimples for two reasons: it is a natural antiseptic, and it also contains high levels of sulfur (good for drying oil). Either mince a clove of garlic to form a paste, or cut a clove of garlic in half and hold it to your pimple. Leave the garlic on for 5-10 minutes, and then rinse off with cool water.
 Honey is a great all-natural skin purifier, as it works to kill bacteria and block out dirt and grime. Pour a bit of honey onto your pimple, and leave it on for as long as you’re able. If you prefer to add the goodness of honey to your whole face, you can do so in the form of a honey mask. When you’re ready to take it off, simply dissolve the honey with a bit of warm water.
 Yes, the tropical fruit you often enjoy in smoothies is also great at cleaning your skin and getting rid of pimples. Juice a papaya or crush a small amount of the fruit to form a paste, and then dab it onto your pimple(s). Let it set for as long as you are able before washing it off and splashing your face with cold water. You can repeat this process several times daily if you desire.
 Salt great at treating lots of things. It will sting a bit, but soon the pimple will be gone. Wash your face first and then put a small amount of salt on your pimple. Leave it there for however long you want. The longer, the better. Do it every day until your pimple is gone. You can also use sea salt and mix it with warm water if you prefer that. Dab the water on your face and let the water dry. Repeat this every day until the pimple is gone.