 At this point, the other spouse may claim a spousal benefit.One spouse has to “file and suspend” so that the other spouse can claim a spousal benefit. Spousal benefits are available only for people whose spouse is already receiving a benefit. In other words, if no spouse filed for benefits, then neither could get a spousal benefit.
Normally, however, if a spouse filed for benefits then he would lose out on the compounding interest that accrues from his full retirement age until age 70. This is where “suspending” comes in. Because the IRS allows him to file and then “suspend,” his benefits can accrue while his spouse claims a spousal benefit at the same time. Normally, this should not be possible but the IRS allows the “file and suspend” strategy.
To employ this strategy, one member of the couple must have reached full retirement age.Both spouses cannot suspend at the same time., Chris and Cathy are both at full retirement age (66). Chris decides to file for his benefits but immediately suspends. He qualifies for $2,000 a month. By filing, he allows his wife to draw a spousal benefit, which she could not draw unless he filed. Chris also, by suspending, allows his benefit amount to increase 8% a year until age 70. Because Cathy has reached full retirement age, she qualifies for 50% as a spousal benefit. Thus, she can get $1,000 a month. Furthermore, if Cathy delayed on receiving her own benefits, then they will increase 8% a year until age 70 as well.Without “file and suspend,” Chris and Cathy would not be able to claim a spousal benefit while allowing their own benefits to compound until age 70. Instead, Chris would have to start receiving benefits at age 66 if Cathy wanted a spousal benefit. This would reduce Chris’s total amount of Social Security benefit because he is claiming benefits before age 70.
Alternately, both Chris and Cathy could wait until 70 to maximize their benefits. If they did this, unfortunately, Cathy could not receive the spousal benefit at 66 (since Chris is not receiving benefits). “Filing and suspending” allows them to both maximize their own benefits and also claim a spousal benefit at the same time.
Note that in this hypothetical Cathy is not also “suspending” payments of her own benefits. She is waiting until age 70 to draw her own benefits.
 This strategy is a bit of a gamble. If the suspending spouse dies before 70, then he or she will have missed out on benefits.You should also make sure that you have enough income to pay for living expenses until you reach 70 and begin drawing full benefits., A request for suspension may be made orally or in writing. You may also ask questions by calling this number., The spouse who “filed and suspended” at full retirement age will want to start receiving benefits at age 70, at which point there is no longer any reason to delay benefits.Contact Social Security at 800-772-1213 to discuss starting payments.

