 Early voting is a process by which a voter can cast their ballot in a given election before Election Day. Some states actually call the process “early voting,” while others use “in-person absentee voting,” meaning that you cast an absentee ballot by physically showing up at your local board of elections. If your state allows in-person absentee voting without requiring the voter to give an excuse, it is the same thing as early voting.There are currently 32 states which allow early voting, and all states allow absentee voting, although many states require voters to have an excuse such as age or sickness in order to cast an absentee ballot. The National Council of State Legislatures has a record of early and absentee voting rules by state. You can find a list at http://www.ncsl.org/legislatures-elections/elections/absentee-and-early-voting.aspx.
In Washington, Oregon, and Colorado, all elections are conducted by mail. The state mails all registered voters a ballot for each election, rendering early voting and absentee voting procedures irrelevant.;
, Absentee voting also allows voters to cast a ballot before Election Day, but involves mailing a ballot instead of voting in person. Absentee voting was originally designed only to serve voters who would actually be absent from their precincts on Election Day, but has gradually expanded in many states to cover a variety of circumstances.If your state does not allow early voting, it may allow absentee voting with or without an excuse. Because this method of voting allows the voter to cast a ballot before election day, it can be considered a type of early voting, but they are typically distinguished from one another. You can see what your state’s rules are by going to http://www.ncsl.org/legislatures-elections/elections/absentee-and-early-voting.aspx


, Even if your state allows early voting, your local board of elections may lag in implementing an early voting system. If you cannot find the county elections office number, go to the website of your state's secretary of state, which will maintain a listing of contact information for local boards of elections.


You can find a portal that links to all 50 of the various secretary of state websites at http://www.canivote.org/. This portal is maintained by the National Association of Secretaries of State.
Delays in implementing early voting, unreasonably short hours for early voting, and very few locations for early voting have all been used in the past as cheap tactics to suppress the vote.If you suspect this is happening in your area, you should contact your state attorney general’s office or the US Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division’s Voting Section.
You can file a complaint with the Department of Justice at http://www.justice.gov/crt/complaint/votintake/index.php. A directory of state attorneys general is located at http://www.naag.org/naag/attorneys-general/whos-my-ag.php.
 If you aren’t already registered to vote, you’re going to need to register in order to vote early. In most states, you’re going to need to register at least 15-30 days before the election in which you intend to cast a ballot, although some states have Election Day voter registration. You can see a list of deadlines at https://www.usa.gov/voter-registration-deadlines.


Luckily, registering to vote is easier than ever in many places. If you would like to register, simply go to https://vote.usa.gov/, and indicate in which state you would like to vote. The website will take you to the appropriate state website, where you can register online if your state allows.
If your state does not allow online registration, you can fill out a PDF of a voter registration form that you can then print out and mail to the appropriate address.Even if ID is required to vote, it is typically not required to register.
 As of 2016, at least 34 states have some type of Voter ID law in effect.That means that you will be required or requested to show ID at the polls in order to cast a non-provisional ballot. In addition, in order to vote where you are registered, you need to have an ID showing that you reside at the same address that is on your voter registration form.


Although each state decides which types of ID are acceptable, all states accept a state-issued photo ID with your residential address listed.
The National Conference of State Legislatures maintains a guide to the 50 states and their various rules regarding voter ID at http://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/voter-id.aspx.
Ironically, voter registration cards are usually insufficient for the purposes of ID. Although a voter registration card provides a record of your registration, it is not necessary to bring it with you to cast a ballot.
 Most states require voters to register at least 15-30 days before the election, and in addition to voter registration deadlines, many states that allow early voting only allow early voting on certain days or in certain weeks leading up to the election. The rules governing the days early voting is held vary widely by state. You can find a list of each state’s rules at http://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/early-voting-in-state-elections.aspx.
 Most states do not hold early voting in each precinct as they would on Election Day.In some states, your early voting location will be on your voter registration card.


If early voting locations are not listed on your voter registration card, you can call your county board of elections for the locations. In addition, this information will be available in many states through the secretary of state’s website.
 Many states will have statewide rules for the times of day early voting can take place. Other states will allow the county boards of elections to determine what times of day to hold early voting.


You can find out what your state does at http://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/early-voting-in-state-elections.aspx.
If you live in a state with a Voter ID law, remember to bring identification with you.
 Whether or not your state uses electronic voting machines, the poll workers can give you limited assistance should you need assistance in completing your ballot. If your state uses paper ballots, submit yours to the poll workers after you fill it out.

