 What do you like? Which items do you definitely need? What will you hand down to younger children? If possible, sell the clothing you don't need for extra money for new clothes, but don't rely on it. Second-hand clothing is usually not worth a lot.;
, Be prepared to spend a lot. You will need on average about ten outfits and more will accumulate over time.
,, These can be fit for any season. If you will be buying skirts, set aside extra money for this.
 Are your pants, jeans, shorts, etc. a special color? Are tops being sold with them? Look for tops you like, as jeans go with everything. For the skirts and pants, look for tops of matching color (not necessarily exactly the same color). Two or three sweaters will be needed for cold weather (unless you live in the south). Generally, one formal top, three shirts, three t-shirts, and perhaps some loose dress tops would do. Dress tops can be worn on jeans or leggings. This provides a lot of variation.
 Do you want sandals, or sneakers? Generally, one pair of sandals, one pair of sneakers, and one pair of formal shoes/boots will do. Snow boots are not an absolute must in all snowy circumstances.
 They're a cheap and easy way to vary your outfits. These include rubber bands, hair bands, small purses and jewelry. Buy two to three pairs of earrings and necklaces. One small set of rubber bands should suffice. Hair bands can also be made out of spare pieces of material (your Mum can help you with that).
 Fold clothing into categories: one pile for shorts/short skirts, one for skirts, one pile for t-shirts and shirts, one for dress shirts, one for pants, one pile for jeans and another for leggings. It will help to stay organized. If you take off any piece of clothing, fold it and put it into its right pile unless it needs to be laundered.
 Lay out lip gloss, rubber bands, mascara, jewelry, etc. here where you can find it. Put this into plain visibility, and if there are gaps in your closet shelf, place a strong piece of cardboard over it.
