 Because it can play a relatively wide range of notes perfectly in tune, a piano (or an electric keyboard) is usually the most useful instrument for finding your vocal range. Start by pressing the note middle C (also called C4) on the keyboard. Note that you won't need to know how to play the piano to use this method of finding your vocal range.


If you're not familiar with the keys on a piano, middle C is the fourth C natural note counting from the left side of the keyboard. In other words, it is the fourth white key that is two the left of two black keys. Usually, this is right in the middle of the keyboard, under the manufacturer's name or logo.If you're not sure whether you're using the right note, consider using a digital middle C reference tone (which can be found on YouTube, etc.) to help you find it.;
, When you've found middle C, sing the note out loud. Use a good amount of air support — you don't have to belt the note, but you need to sing it (and all of the other notes in this exercise) strongly and confidently.


Starting at middle C is a good idea because it's contained in all of the traditional voice classes (i.e., bass, baritone, tenor, alto, soprano.) However, middle C falls at the top of a bass's vocal range and at the bottom of a soprano's, so if you have an exceptionally low or high voice, you may not be able to hit it.This is OK — simply start at a more comfortable note instead.
 Press the white key to the left of middle C. This note is called B3. If you can, sing this tone as you try to match your pitch to the piano's. Next, press the white key to the left of B3 (which is called A3) and repeat. Keep moving down the piano through G3, F3, and so on until you reach a note that you can't sing comfortably. The previous note is the bottom of your singing range.


For example, let's say that Sandy starts from middle C and reaches F3 (four notes below it) comfortably. However, when she tries to sing the next note, E3, her voice wavers and she can't produce a clear tone. This means that F3 is at the bottom of her vocal range.
 Next, return to middle C and simply go in the other direction. When you reach a note that's too high for you to sing clearly and comfortably, you'll know that the previous note marks the top of your vocal range.


Let's say that Sandy starts from middle C and reaches D5 (eight notes up — over a full octave) without any problems. When she tries to sing E5, she can't maintain her pitch. This means that D5 is at the top of her vocal range.
 Your singing range contains all the notes in between (and including) your highest note and your lowest note.


In our example, Sandy can sing from about an F3 to a D5. This means her vocal range makes her roughly a contralto — traditionally the lowest vocal category for women.