 Besides a dog being in pain from an inoperable or untreatable condition, there is the dog’s quality of life that needs to be taken into consideration. Talk to your veterinarian about any concerns you have regarding your pet's quality of life. These can include the following factors:Complete loss of appetite or unwillingness or inability to eat
Trouble standing or walking. Falling over when standing or trying to walk.
Difficulty with breathing or every breath is labored
Incontinence or soiling problems
Chronic pain or inability to get comfortable
Chronic vomiting or diarrhea that threatens to leave the animal dehydrated;
, Before making the appointment you will want to prepare yourself and your family members for life without your beloved dog. Make sure you have photos of your dog, spend some time with your dog petting and comforting it, and giving it a special treat or food.Remember to let any children that cared for and loved the dog join in this process. Do not lie to them that the dog is going to another home or that it ran away. Instead, explain to them the decision making process to euthanize the dog and explain the death to them in an age appropriate manner. An excellent book for kids is When a Pet Dies by Fred Rogers of Mr. Roger’s Neighborhood fame.
 You will need to decide if you want to be with your dog to the end of its life. Only you can decide if you want to present for the process. Some people want to be, some don’t. It only depends on what is right for you and your dog.


Most veterinarians and their staff will be fine with you being present and will explain the process to you. If you can’t be present they will understand that decision as well.
When you call for the appointment to euthanize your dog you can ask if they will come to your home to do the euthanasia. Or you may prefer to have it done at the veterinarian’s office to avoid unpleasant memories at home. Either the way the procedure is similar.
 You will need to decide on the disposition of the body after the euthanasia is completed, basically whether you want the dog's body cremated or not. You will also decide whether you want to take its ashes or body home with you for burial.


Do you have a box or a special blanket to wrap the body in? Or will you decide to have the veterinarian’s office arrange for cremation, which will add more money to the final bill.
Do you have room to bury the body in your yard? Can you dig in the yard if it’s winter time? Is there a safe spot to dig? You may have to check with your local utilities to make sure you don’t damage any buried lines on your property.
 Pay any fees upfront, as you don't want to have to deal with this after your dog has passed away. Try to stay calm for the dog's sake. It will not know what is going on, so it's best to not make is scared at the end of its life.
 Many times a sedative will be given to your dog in one of its muscle. This will help it relax, as the euthanasia solution needs to be given in the vein, usually using a front leg vein. After access to the vein is achieved, the solution is slowly given and the dog’s heart will soon stop. This normally takes place very quickly.


Many veterinarians will place a small catheter into the vein while others are adept at using a plain needle on a syringe full of the euthanasia solution.The veterinarian will usually need their assistant to help hold the pet and keep its leg steady, but you should be able to stroke and speak to your pet if you want to.
Occasionally a dog with heart or circulation troubles will take a bit more time for the solution to work. The dog may give a sigh or a couple of deep breaths.
The veterinarian will check with his or her stethoscope to make sure your dog’s heart is stopped before pronouncing it dead. They will assist you in respectfully readying your dog's body for a proper disposition.
 Grieving at the loss of your beloved companion is normal. Your dog gave you companionship, loyalty, and unconditional love, which will be sorely missed. Everyone grieves differently: some cry, some get angry, some feel sadness. Here are some tips to help you cope with your loss:Create a memorial. This could be a spot on a shelf with your dog’s framed photo, a special photo album with photos, or you could plant a tree or bush in your dog’s memory.
Write your feelings in a journal.
Ask your humane society or veterinarian if there are any pet loss support groups in the area.
Call a pet loss hotline to speak with a counselorMost of all, remember the happy times with your dog and enjoy those good memories.

