 For example, have a classroom, library, and maybe a principal's office.
 Include a bathroom (You can also have this down the hall), a teacher's desk, desks for the students, and a board.


Outside the room, you'll need a library, a cafeteria, the principal's office, and a hall.
Have a recess bell, to tell your students when recess is over, or you could use a whistle.
Set up a white board or blackboard, or just use paper. If you're just in a house to teach, use a computer, go to the "Notepad" program.. Format size 72, font: Times New Roman. You could also visit the "Paint" program and fill with color black, and use the eraser to draw or write.
Have a sign-out sheet for any reason the students have to leave.
 Don't make someone to play with you if they don't want to. You can also play alone with some stuffed teddys.


Teachers: Decide with your friends who will be the teacher/s. If you can't figure out who to be the teacher/s play rock, paper, scissors and then take turns in a little bit. Have them write on a whiteboard, use a pointer, and assign small problems. Act like a real teacher.
Students: You can use a small tote bag or a backpack to keep things like pencils, notebooks,and other things you'll use in. Raise your hand and behave or be the "bad kid" for the day.
 Put a sign in front of the door that says what your teaching name will be and a classroom number.


When you make up your own name it can be serious or silly. It may be fun to come up with a silly name to depict your teaching 'personality'. For example, if you want to be a mean teacher, you can use a name that is unpleasant or the name of a fictional mean teacher in a book. You could be a dreamy teacher, with a proper name.
 If you are teaching every subject at once, then you probably will not need a grade. If teaching high or middle school, choose a subject.
 You'll use this for keeping attendance, the timetables, behavior codes and grades. You should probably draw out the plans for that day. If you are teaching P.E., track the students' progress.
 Also, have the students bring a packed lunch. No worries, if your student doesn't have a packed lunch, you can fix them a lunch!

, You can create full schedules to tell your students which classes they will be attending. Make sure that you include the academic classes like arithmetic, as well as the fun ones like art or choir (for choir you can use sing-alongs on YouTube)


Classes: Math, language arts, science, social studies, P.E, maybe even get out some books and have your class go to the library.
 You can write them yourself, or use old ones that you did not get to finish.


If you want, you can use some of your old school workbooks for the students so you don't have to spend a lot of time making up work for them. That makes it so you know what you're talking about. Of course, you'll have to use the pages that you haven't used.
 If your students do good deeds, get an answer correct (When doing work together as a class), add a gold star to a chart, or make a mark by their name and they can get a special treat! Also reward them if they do good with a substitute teacher. Don't reward them if they are naughty. Get some stickers, or candy to give to the students for good work, answers or behavior.


Make a misbehaving list. If the students misbehave, they'll have their name added to the list, which will result in loss of privileges - perhaps a timeout or no recess. You could even print out thinking sheets and tell the student to think about what they've done and write it down. You could even make the child stay after school and clean the classroom or give the student extra homework. If the child is very bad, pretend to call the parent(s) and find what punishment will be best for the situation.
 The classic teacher always has an apple, so bonus points for you if you have one as well. Plus, they're healthy!


Recess: After you've been playing for a while, have a break. Play a few games, have a snack, and then after recess is over switch teachers and students to keep the game fun.
 If your students won't listen, write a note home and make a pretend mother or father to sign keep them in the classroom during recess.

