, In the example layout, we start at point A with an End Post 2-3" away from the house and go away from the house 10' to point B which is a Gate Post. In this first 'run', we have 10' of fence, which divided by 6' (the width of the panels) equates to 1.67 panels which is rounded up to 2 because the panels are only shipped in 6' widths. Because there are 2 panels, we will have only 1 Line Post. Line posts quantities are equal to the number of panels minus 1. So in this first run from A to B, you will have:


1 End Post
2 Fence Panels
1 Line Post
1 Gate Post (these are typically just like End Posts but with a thicker wall. Point K is going to be a Blank Gate Post) Also, all posts come with a flattened pyramid cap standard. You may wish to upgrade to a ball cap.

1 Gate Post

, So here is this runs total:


1 Line Post
1 Corner Post
2 Fence Panels These panels can be installed in widths of 6' with the other panel cut down to 3' wide or both panels can be cut down to 4.5' to give a more even look. The same is true for the first section of 10'. It could be 6' wide and 4' wide or both cut to 5' wide. Not many, if any, of these runs will work out to be an exact measurement divisible by 6', so some cutting of the panels will be required during the installation process.
 Divided by 6 equals 6.67 panels (40 divided by 6' wide panel), rounded to 7 Panels and 6 Line Posts (7 panels minus 1 = 6 Line Posts). Here is this runs total:


6 Line Posts
1 Corner Post
7 Fence Panels 6 of these panels can be used without any cutting of the panels, but the last one will need to be cut down to 4' wide.
 This equals 7 panels and 6 Line Posts (7 panels minus 1 = 6 Line Posts). Here is this runs total:


6 Line Posts
1 Gate Post
7 Fence Panels

, This run only has:


1 Gate Post
3' Wide Gate gates include self closing hinges and Z-Lock Lockable Latch and can be upgraded to heavier framing or to an Arch Gate.
, It can be two standard gates or two Arches next to one another or one big Arch (Rainbow) across the whole width. Also, as mentioned previously, the final Gate Post should be Blank which means it has no holes for fence rails to slide into like the End, Line and Corner Posts have. In this final run you would have:


1 Blank Gate Post (the other Gate Post would have been included in the previous run)
10' Wide Double Gate gates include self closing hinges and Z-Lock Lockable Latch and can be upgraded to heavier framing, Arched Gates or a Rainbow Gate.
Drop Rod Assembly

