 Your doctor will discuss your medical history, current medications, family health history, your weight, exercise habits, your home and workplace environment, and other lifestyle factors. This visit will help you become as healthy as possible before you become pregnant.
 You should talk to your doctor to determine how much weight you should lose. Even if you do not meet your weight loss goal, losing some weight will still be beneficial.


You should lose pre-pregnancy weight in a healthy manner. A good diet and exercise program are recommended., Moderate aerobic activities (i.e. walking, jogging, dancing, and swimming), Pilates, yoga, and weight training are good exercise options.Your exercise routine should increase your endurance and build strength. Having strong core muscles and pelvic floor muscles will help you when you are pregnant.


Talk with your doctor if you have any questions about a safe exercise routine. Be careful of extremely vigorous exercise such as marathon training or super intense exercise classes. Exercise puts stress on the body. Vigorous exercise may make it more difficult for you to conceive.You should aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate-intensity cardiovascular exercise each day.



Your daily caffeine intake should not be more than 200mg a day which is equivalent to 12 oz. of coffee.
You should have a sufficient daily iron intake. Iron rich foods include eggs, nuts, green vegetables, and dark meats. Vitamin C will help your body absorb plant sources of iron.Omega-3 fats and omega-6 fats should be in your diet as well. Walnuts, spinach, and flaxseed are good sources of these fats. You may also take a fish oil supplement 1 to 2 times a week.
It is also a good idea to stop drinking alcohol when you are planning to conceive.
You should begin taking prenatal vitamins as well. These vitamins will provide your body with any nutrients that your diet does not provide. The most important vitamins and minerals are folic acid, iron, iodine, and calcium.Your doctor may prescribe you a specific type of prenatal vitamin.

