 If you don’t currently have a phone, you can go to the website to buy a prepaid phone that includes double or triple minutes for life. Prices are between $10 and $120.


These models will need to be shipped to you, and will require an advanced purchase to activate.;
, The TracFone website also allows you to search by zip code to find a licensed retailer. Many box stores, such as Sears, Safeway and RadioShack carry TracFone models.
 As of December 2013, you can bring your own phone to the TracFone prepaid wireless program. Sprint and Verizon phones run on the CDMA system, while former AT&T and T-Mobile phones work on the GSM system and can’t be used.Go through the process of unlocking your CDMA phone before you try to activate TracFone. You may need to call your former wireless country and/or cancel a contract to do this.
 Find the “Activate Phone” link on the home page.
, Turn on your phone and find the IMEI in the phone’s settings. It may also be in other documentation with the phone.
 Choose to get a new number, to switch your number or to transfer your number from another company. Press “Submit.”

, If you purchased a TracFone wireless prepaid card, enter the information from the back on this screen and press “Submit.” Make sure to include texts and data in your plan if it applies to your phone.
 This process may be instant but it can take up to 24 hours.
 Ensure you are in the local area that will be the main location for your phone use. The test call will establish that this location will not be eligible for roaming charges.
 Call the number and wait for it to go through. Although the call will not be completed, it will activate your phone.


Call TracFone Wireless if the phone says, “Roam” or “Roaming” on the main menu. The local area may not be properly set up. Call 1-800-867-7183.
 End the call quickly so that your plan does not deduct minutes. Your phone should be activated.If this activation process does not work immediately, wait 24 hours for your phone to be activated.
Call customer service if your phone does not activate through this process within 24 hours of setting up your account.

