 The best way to receive good customer service is to be a good customer, in the first place. People will respond better to you if you treat them with courtesy and respect.Say "please" and "thank you" to the employees that you interact with.
Make eye contact with the person who is helping you, and never underestimate the positive effect a smile can have.
Never threaten or insult an employee.;
, Following the company's rules makes it easier for the business to accommodate you. For example, don't go through the grocery express line if you have 30 items in your cart, or try to write a check in a cash-only lane.


If you must return an item, do so within the store's return policy window, and bring the appropriate documentation and packaging.
Don't expect stores to honor expired coupons, and then get angry when they cannot.
 If a customer service agent informs you that she cannot accommodate your request because it is against store policy, stay calm and remember that she did not create the policy and it is not her fault. You can ask to speak with a manager to find out if the policy is negotiable, but remember that in most cases it is not, and it is beyond the employees' power to change it., If you do need to make a complaint, take the time to tell the person you are complaining to that you are on his side, and understand that it is not his fault. Beginning with a statement like "I know you've probably dealt with a lot of frustrated customers today, and I hate to add to your list. . . " instantly makes the customer service agent see you as an ally instead of an enemy, and can greatly improve the level of customer service you receive.A little flattery never hurt either. Telling someone "You'd really make my day if you could help me solve this problem" can make a person a lot more eager to assist you.
 If you do have an issue with a service or a product, taking your complaint to the right person can help resolve the situation faster. Don't waste time complaining to a store clerk, or receptionist who cannot help you. Ask to speak to a manager or customer care specialist who can handle your dispute., If someone has made an error, first explain the problem calmly and give the company or employee a chance to fix the mistake. None of us are perfect, and a bit of patience and understanding can go a long way towards resolving a dispute.
 Viciously tearing apart a business is a terrible way to get better customer service, and in some cases can lead to fines if your complaints are found to be unreasonably damaging or libelous.However, waiting a day to cool off and then writing a factual, constructive account of your problem on a review site like Yelp, or on the company's Facebook page can often trigger a quick and productive response from a company that wishes to make amends.


If the company does end up fixing your problem, be sure to update your review or comments to let people know.

