 Focusing on more than one thing (multi-tasking) forces your mind to be scattered, this makes it easier for anxiety-producing thoughts to pop up. Being mindful means focusing on only one thing and focusing on that thing completely.Often we multitask without even realizing it. For example, we eat lunch while checking email or talk on the phone while editing a report.
Think about what you are about to do before you do it, and then commit to doing just that activity.
Stop yourself when you find that you have started multitasking and return your focus to your one task.
 If your mind is completely occupied with what you are doing, then there is less opportunity for anxiety-inducing thoughts to creep in.When possible, reduce the number of distractions around you so that you can focus only on the task at hand.
When it is not possible to reduce distractions, be mindful of them, but don’t let them grab your attention.
 Getting used to recognize your sensations while make it easier for you to be mindful of them during times of high anxiety and will decrease the number of anxiety-starting thoughts that you have on a regular basis.Be aware of what you see, hear, feel, taste, and smell.


For example, while cooking dinner, pay attention to the different textures and colors of the ingredients, the sounds of your cooking tools, the aromas that are produced, etc.
When brushing your teeth, notice how the toothpaste tastes and smells. How does the toothbrush feel in your hand? Pay attention to the feel of it on your teeth, tongue, and gums.
 While you are performing your task, think about how performing it makes you feel. Think about how the sensations of the task make you feel. You will be able to better recognize and handle your emotions when you are anxious if you make a habit of being aware of them.For example, when you are taking a walk, be aware of your sense of peace and calm.
Think about how the fresh air in your lungs makes you feel proud that you are taking care of your health.
 Slowing down helps prevent anxiety by slowing your mind in general. It also gives you the opportunity to halt anxiety by fully focusing on what you are engaged in., The goal of mindfulness is to stay present in the moment. Being able to bring your mind back to the moment can decrease the number of anxiety-producing thoughts that enter your head during difficult situations.


When you notice that your thoughts have drifted, move them back to your task at hand.For example, you might say to yourself, “I’m worrying about my report that is due next week, but I don't need to think about that right now. I’m going to focus on driving instead.”

, Although life can often pull you in many different directions, try to practice mindfulness in everything you do. Whether it’s washing dishes, eating, journaling, etc., do it mindfully. Practicing mindfulness at every opportunity will make it much easier for you to do it when you are feeling anxious.

