 Although single people may find themselves attracted to multiple prospects at once, finding out whether someone has a crush already can be a big indicator as to his availability. Find out through friends, or keep an eye out for the way he behaves towards people of the opposite sex.
 Everyone is always observing other people's behaviour, whether they mean to or not. If any of your friends know your crush, you should ask them what they think about any potential attraction your crush may have towards you. Even if you are very observant, another person will see things from a different perspective, and may have something to add.


A mutual friend is a great help if you're not sure about the person in question. A friend can offer her opinion on whether she thinks the two of you would be a good match or not.
 If you want a more definite answer but aren't ready to ask your crush directly yet, you should ask his friends what he thinks of you. Sometimes, they may tell you word-for-word what he's said about you. Other times, they might simply give a theory. In either case, it may give you a better idea if a particular someone fancies you or not.


Be warned that some friends may tell your crush that you asked in the first place. If you're trying to keep your curiosity a secret for the time being, this may be a risk.
Generally speaking, girls tend to talk more about their attractions and love lives than guys. However, the same advice can apply to both genders.
 In other words, what your crush's friends think of you will influence what he thinks of you. If his circle of friends is really into you, it's easier to imagine him liking you as well. On the other hand, a circle of friends that doesn't seem to care about you might suggest he feels the same way they do.


It is not recommended to ask anyone directly what they think of you. Many people would rather lie and be polite than risk an uncomfortable interaction. Instead, you should try to ascertain how they feel by observing their reactions to you. Are they making any effort to include you in the conversation? Are they actively listening to the things you're saying, or asking you sincere questions about yourself? It can be difficult to know what someone is really thinking if you have just met them, but you can usually get a general idea by looking at the behaviour of a few friends.
 Even if there are often friendships between genders, someone will undoubtedly treat their crush differently around his friends than he would with a regular friend. If he seems really interested to introduce you to friends, it's may be a sign that he's testing the limits for a potential relationship.


If he seems to ignore you around his friends, it is not a good sign. Although some people will feel nervous about showing affection around their platonic friends, there should always be a basic level of respect at work.
If he's trying to include you in the conversation or activity and has no problem showing affection in front of his friends, it may be a sign that he has a potential interest in you for a relationship.

