 On your start menu, you will see the Firefox program. Click on the name to open your browser to its home page.;
, There will be a button towards the top that has 3 lines on it. Click on the button to open up the drop-down list.
 The third line down, at the middle, is the “Options” button. Click on this to open your Options menu. You now need to make sure you are on the right tab.
 At the top of your options box, you will see a list of pictures. The first picture is a light switch with the word “General.” Click on the General tab to switch to that part of your options.
 The first subsection is titled “Startup,” followed by a drop-down box. This box will decide what opens when you start up your browser. You have 3 options:


You can select “Show a blank page,” which, as the name implies, will open up a blank page.
A second option is “Show my windows and tabs from last time.” This will open up your last browser session right where you left off.
The final option is “Show my home page,” which can be edited on the next step. You can select which option you would like by clicking on the drop-down menu, then clicking again on the option you want.
 If you decide to change the Start-up option to “Show my home page,” then you can change your home page to whatever you would like.


In order to edit your home page, click on the white box beside “Home page” and enter in the website you want as your home page.
 You have two options to choose from: You can either select a folder where you want to save your downloads, or you can let Firefox ask you where to save your downloads each time. In order for you to pick an option, you just need to click on the bubble beside the option you want to use.


If you decide to save downloads to a specific folder, it can be done easily. Next to the “Save Files to” line is a “Browse” button. Click on that to open up your drive folders. Click on the folder you want to use, then click “Okay.”

, Once you have adjusted your settings, look over them to make sure they are correct. Click the gray “Okay” button at the bottom of the options box. This will save your changes.

