 You can also do yoga meditation outside, as long as it is not noisy and in direct sunlight.;
, Yoga meditation is best done regularly at the same time, so make sure you are choosing a time that will work well most days of the week.


Many people like to do yoga meditation in the morning because the air is fresh and the mind is calm from sleeping. Other people prefer to do yoga meditation at night to rid the body of stress and relax before sleeping.
 Use the toilet, wash your hands (and feet, if you wish), and get into comfortable clothing. Eat or drink if you are hungry or thirsty. Then, wait a little while to allow your body to digest.
 Roll out your yoga mat and place blankets nearby. Focus on making it a calm space by doing 1 or all of the following:


Close doors to block out noise.
Turn the temperature up or down so you will be comfortable. If the weather is good, open a window to increase ventilation.
Light an aromatherapy candle, made of a relaxing scent. Focus as you light it, and picture it burning away negative thoughts.
 The purpose of Hatha and some other kinds of yoga is to prepare your mind for meditation. Practicing your favorite yoga poses releases tension and helps you to turn the focus inside to your breathing.


If you often do flow or Ashtanga yoga, then do 3 sun salutations to prepare for the yoga mediation.



Sit in a cross legged position with your knees as close to the ground as possible. If your hips are inflexible, place 1 or 2 blankets under your buttocks.
Do 10 shoulder shrugs to loosen the shoulders, lifting your shoulders up while you inhale, holding them for a second, and then releasing them on an exhale.
Roll your neck from right to left 5 times and from left to right 5 times.
Move your legs so that your knees are still bent outward and your feet are touching. Pull your feet in toward you. Bring your knees up and down for 2 minutes, in the butterfly position.
Get on your hands and knees, with hands shoulder width apart and knees hip width apart. Arch your back gently, like a cat, and hold the posture for a breath. Allow your head and pelvis to fall as you do this. Move to the opposite position, with your back flexed and your head and pelvis pointing up. Hold for a breath. Do this slowly for 2 to 3 minutes.
Sit back on your knees with the top of your feet flat on the ground. Spread your knees apart and lay down so that your head is resting on the ground. Place your hands either straight above your head with palms facing down, or straight, next to your feet with palms facing up. Stay in this baby pose for 2 to 3 minutes.
 If you are not flexible, sit in a crossed leg position on 1 or 2 blankets. Your back should be straight.


If you have a knee problem, place bolsters or blankets beneath your knees to protect them from strain.
If you have a back problem and cannot sit up straight, use pillows or blankets to find a comfortable semi-upright position, preferably with a straight spine.
Yoga meditation should not be done lying down. Although this is a relaxing position, it encourages sleep rather than concentration. Your spine should be straight and your chest should be facing up to properly perform yoga meditation.
, Sustain the word "Aum" (pronounced "Ohm" as long as you can. This mantra focuses on purification and dissolving negativity.
 Start to do diaphragmatic, deep breathing for 2 minutes.


A good way to practice is to breathe in 3 steps for 8 seconds each. Inhale slowly, hold your breath steady and exhale slowly. Repeat for 2 minutes.
After you become familiar with breathing techniques, you can practice yoga meditation breathing that energizes the body. For example, you can do bhastrika or kapalabhati for 2 to 5 minutes before breathing deeply.
,