 It needs to be long enough to wrap around the table and back rest of the high chair, plus about 14 inches (35.56 centimeters).;
, Hold the cut ends of the ribbon near a flame for a few seconds. This melts the ribbon and seals them, thus preventing fraying. Tie a knot into the ribbon 7 inches (17.78 centimeters) away from each cut end., Decide how long you want the tutu to be. Double that length, then add 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters).
 The cardboard needs to be a little wider than your tulle. You will be wrapping the tulle around this in the next step.
 Tulle ribbon is also called tulle on a spool. It is 6-inch (15.24-centimeter) wide tulle sold on a spool. You can typically find it in the bridal section of an arts and crafts shop. If you can't find any, buy regular tulle, and cut it into 6-inch (15.24-centimeter) wide strips.


Make sure that the colors go well together. Consider having one solid color and one glittery one.
 Place the end of the tulle strip against one of the narrow ends of the cardboard. Wrap the tulle around the cardboard template. Be careful not to pull too hard, or the tulle will stretch.Wrap the tulle a few times around the cardboard; you will need to do this process a few times.
If the tulle slips too much, secure it with double-sided tape.
 Slip it off the cardboard when you are done. Now, you will have twice as many strips of tulle. This is just like making a pompom, except that you won't be tying it in the middle.
 You will end up with 3-inch (7.62-centimeter) wide strips of tulle. A quick way to do this would be to fold it in half a few times widthwise, then cut it in half down the middle., You can have the same amount as your first color, or fewer. You can also do more colors, but make sure that they all go together. Plan on having one strip of tulle per inch (2.54 centimeters) of ribbon.
 Lay the ribbon out in front of you, right-side-up. Fold a tulle strip in half, widthwise. Place it behind the ribbon, with the folded end pointing down. Pull the loose ends of the tulle across the ribbon and down through the loop. Tug on the ends to tighten the knot.Start looping the tulle after the first knot on the ribbon.
 As you finish knotting a tulle strip, push it up against the last one. This will make the tutu nice and fluffy. If you run out of tulle strips, simply make more.


Finish looping the tulle before the last knot on the ribbon.
Have a pattern in mind. Try four strips of your base color, then one strip of your accent color.
 Place a few self-adhesive Velcro squares or circles onto the back of the tutu. Place the matching Velcro pieces onto the high chair. Wrap the tutu around the high chair, then tie the 7-inch (17.78-centimeter) ends into a bow.Use your fingers to comb through the tulle and make it lay nicer.

