 It's sure to look suspicious to whoever you're faking to if you're fine one minute and the next you're throwing up. Start slow, and let the symptoms get worse slowly.;
, Try to sit down often, holding your belly.
 It's always easier to fake sick if you make yourself feel it. Remember the last time you had an upset stomach. Remember how you felt, and what that made you look like. Queasy? Achy?

, Even if you look completely sick, you need to sound it. Moan a little in the bathroom, even if no one can hear you. When talking, speak slowly and quietly, as well, or a bit faster than usual, in shorter sentences, as though you don't want to talk because you're in pain. Sound strained.
 If you want, you can buy really cheap perfume or badly-scented water and put on a tiny bit, making you smell sweaty and sick.
 It's doubtful the only thing you feel is a pain in your stomach. Fevers are possible, although this can be risky and get you sent to the doctor's.
 Don't groan loudly, clutch your stomach and scream "My tummy hurts". Be a little more subtle. Wait until someone isn't looking straight at you, but will see you, then hold your stomach and close your eyes for a second or two before opening them. Moan softly.Sit down and squeeze your eyes shut between getting ready for what you're trying to get out of. Grimace. Be careful to act when people aren't looking straight at you, but will notice.
 Don't tell your parents that you're sick and need to stay home if you always try to get out of going to the doctors. Be quiet about it. Never say you need to stay home. You might want to suggest it, but look uncertain and undecided, but it's better if you let your parents suggest it first.
 If you fake a lot and are often caught, look back on what you did previously and change something. Never over-do it, but don't under-do it, either.
 If it looks like no one's noticing, suggest something before it's too late. Say hesitantly, "Uh, mom, do we have any medicine?" Speak quietly, slowly, and urgently. It might be a good idea to make her ask you to repeat yourself, and like it strains you to raise your voice. Hold your stomach lightly while asking. Don't be too specific as to what type until she asks, then say, "um... I don't know!?" Sound urgent, like you might throw up soon if you don't get it. Don't give the exact name of the medicine, this will show you knew what you were going to say.
 Groan quietly, especially if someone's passing by or waiting for you do finish. Move sluggishly.

