 You will need at least two different shades of makeup: one that is significantly darker than your natural skin tone for the shadows and one that is just a little lighter than your skin for the highlights. Depending on your skin tone and preference, these can be any combination of foundations, bronzers, highlighters, and blushes.


Use creams rather than powders for better blending.If you're putting on a full face of makeup, contour after the foundation and concealer.
Keep in mind that products labeled as "highlighters" often contain light-reflecting compounds. Even if you find a highlighter that looks dark enough, it will likely be ineffective for shading.
For darker skin tones, pick bronze or coppery gold tones for the lighter color. Avoid highlighters not specifically made with darker skin in mind, which may make your skin look too shiny.Pick a second bronze shade that is just a little darker than your natural skin tone. You may also want to consider a translucent contouring gel, which is a product that creates shadow while allowing your skin's texture to show through.A very wide range of colors work well for medium or tan skin. You can usually use a bronzer of your choice for your shadows. However, be sure to find a lighter color that matches your skin tone well, albeit just slightly brighter.
If you have fair or pale skin, go with taupe for the shadows and a light foundation or illuminator for the highlights.;
, Make a line that's roughly parallel with your hairline on your forehead. When you reach your temples, bring the line forward. Stop just above your cheekbones., Make a "fish face" in the mirror and add shadow to where your natural hollow forms. This will create a much more realistic contour than shaping without a guide. Gradually add more pigment until you start to see definition.However, if you want extreme, dramatic cheekbones, draw a line with your darker tone from your ears to your mid-cheek. Try to make one continuous line that goes directly underneath your cheekbones., Apply your highlighter along the natural curve of your cheekbones.Remember that the highlighter is used to create the illusion that light is hitting the parts of the skin where it is applied. By adding it to your cheekbones, they appear more prominent.
 Dab just a pop of color to the apples of your cheeks. Using a cream blush will make blending easier and give you results that look more natural. Use light pink tones for fair skin and mauve tones for darker skin., Blending is the most important part of creating a look that seems natural. Use a makeup brush, a sponge, or even your fingertips. Buff your makeup with small circular motions, paying more attention to the outer edges. Blend until your makeup appears even and natural.


If you've used makeup powders, you may find blending difficult due to dryness. Spritz on a facial mist to make blending easier., This final step is important when using cream makeup. Use a thick brush to lightly dust on some translucent powder. Try to brush the powder evenly over your skin, but be especially sure to hit any areas where you've used creams. This will help keep your makeup, including your contours, from smudging as you go about your day.If you've only used powdered makeup to create your look, setting powder is unnecessary.

