 A ladder stitch brings two areas of the hem together to match a project that has been sewn inside out to create a hem. The area you use to turn the project right side out will be the area you will ladder stitch.






;
, You may need to pop the corners out with a sewing needle through the entry point. You may also need to stuff the inside of the project before sewing up this last part of the hem.
 You want it to match the seam allowance on both sides of the stitch. If it doesn’t stay turned inward very easily, you can iron the open section so that it will lay flat while it is turned in.
 If possible, hook your pin through the rough edge of the hem on the inside of the opening. It will be less likely to poke through and reveal your stitches later on.
 You will want to double thread it for extra strength. Pull an eight-inch to one-foot section (20 to 30 cm) of thread through the eye of your needle.









Then, pull it until the ends meet and the needle is in the middle. Knot it several times at the ends.
Test the knot by pulling it between two fingernails. The knot should be tight and strong.
Snip off the threads below the knot. Leave about one cm (0.4 in) of thread remaining.
 Pull it up through the machine stitch and ensure the knot is secure and hidden between the folds of the project before continuing.
 Make sure they are perfectly matched at the point where the machine stitch stopped. Think of the two folds as the right and the left side of “the ladder” the makes the stitch.
 It is important to always insert the needle through the inside edge of the fabric, where the hem was folded inward. It ensures that your stitch is hidden within the fold, rather than showing on the outside edge of the fabric.
 Pull it through the center.
 Pull it through toward the center.
, Stitch into it to connect the stitches on either side.
 The thread should close your stitch and hide the ladder stitch you just made within the fold of the hem. Pinch the thread and fabric where it emerges so that you don’t lose any of the tension before you secure the stitch.
 Thread your needle through the loop and pull it taut.









Repeat several times to secure it.
 Tuck the ends into the fold.
