 Breasts are made of fat tissue. Following a plan to lose body weight overall can successfully reduce the fat tissue in your body, helping to reduce the size of your bust. Many women even see a lot of initial fat reduction in their breast area.Adopt a cardio routine. Exercises like walking, cycling, or doing the elliptical machine are great for boosting metabolism and burning fat. Dancing, swimming, and kickboxing are other good cardio ideas. If it is comfortable to do so, try running and jogging. Just go for something that will get your heart rate up and get you moving.
Shoot for a minimum of 45 minutes 5-6 days a week.Make sure to wear a correctly fitted sports bra when doing cardio exercises to protect your breasts.
If you follow a regular exercise and diet plan and don't lose any weight in your breasts, you might have dense tissue instead of fatty tissue. Dense breast tissue cannot be burned off through diet and exercise., To help your weight loss and fat burning, make sure to eat a healthy, fat-burning diet. Foods good for burning fat are whole grains, lean protein, fruits and vegetables, and lots of water.Don't crash diet. Cutting calories too drastically slows metabolism, which can negatively impact your hard work. Shoot for at least 1200 calories a day, and remember to replenish your energy stores after working out.
 Adding in muscle building exercises will help to tone and build chest muscles. These strength training exercises won't melt fat away in your chest area, but combined with cardio and a healthy eating plan, they will help you tone your chest area.


Try the following exercises: push ups, pull-ups, dips, pectoral flies, bench press, and upright rows.
Strengthening your chest, back, and shoulders can help you if you have upper back pain, neck pain, stress on your shoulders, or poor posture due to your breasts.These exercises should be done 2-3 times a week. Start with 8-10 reps and increase from there. To tone, you want to use lighter weights and do a higher amount of repetitions. More weight with less reps will build bulkier muscle., Binding your breasts is helpful is you need to limit their movement, are dressing as a man, or otherwise need to flatten your chest. Chest binders safely flatten your breasts and can be purchased online and at certain retailers.


Never use ace bandages or duct tape to bind your breasts. They can cause serious side effects, like broken ribs and fluid build up.Always wear a binder that fits you. Never buy a binder that is too small to try to flatten your breasts more. That can also lead to serious side effects.
 Breast reduction surgery removes fat, tissue, and skin to reduce the size of breasts to a size more comfortable or aesthetically pleasing to the patient.This procedure can be expensive and may be drastic for some women. If you are interested in breast reduction surgery, schedule a consultation with a plastic surgeon.

