 To be eligible for federal disaster assistance, you and your home affected by the disaster must be located in an area that has been declared a federal disaster area by FEMA. Using the federal government disaster assistance website ( https://www.disasterassistance.gov/get-assistance), you can type in your address and find out if help is available.


First, click on the "address look-up" function once you are at the federal website.
Second, type your address in the box provided then click "look-up."
Third, if disasters have been declared in your area, they will be listed. Click on the disaster that damaged your home to start the application process.;
, In addition to looking up your address, you can also answer a series of questions to help determine your eligibility. Start by visiting the federal disaster assistance website and navigate to the "get assistance" section. Next, click on the "find assistance" button and a questionnaire will become available. Answer the questions in order to find out what you might be eligible for. The questionnaire will ask you the following questions:


Due to the disaster, do you need assistance in various categories (e.g., employment, financial, food, housing, legal, medical)?
Prior to the disaster, what was you living situation (e.g., rent, own, rural)?
Was your home flooded?
Have you experienced a life-changing event because of the disaster (e.g., an injury, a death, relocation)?
Are you a member of a special group that might be eligible for extra help (e.g., veteran, retiree, business owner, farmer)?
Do you receive government assistance (e.g., Social Security benefits, Section 8 housing)?
Are you a U.S. citizen or an eligible immigrant?
Are you a part of a tribe?
What state did the disaster occur in?, If you know what type of assistance you need, or you want to see what types of assistance are available, you can search for assistance by category. To do so, visit the federal disaster assistance website and click on the link for "assistance by category." Select the applicable categories to see what types of assistance may be available. Examples of categories of assistance include:


Career development assistance
Disability assistance
Disaster relief
Food/nutrition
Legal counsel
Loan repayment, While FEMA will handle the entire application process, you may be able to receive assistance from multiple federal agencies. Each agency will offer different types of assistance depending on your specific situation. If you want to know what agencies might be able to help you, browse through the list available on the federal disaster assistance website, which you can find by clicking on the link for "assistance by federal agency." Some agencies that offer assistance include the:


U.S. Department of Agriculture
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
U.S. Department of Justice
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
U.S. Postal Service
U.S. Small Business Administration, FEMA, other federal agencies, and private organizations make guides and handbooks available online in order to help you through the application process. Once you find what type of assistance you need, or if you have more questions, visit various agency websites and search for information. If you do not have access to the internet, call FEMA at (202) 646-2500. Ask the representative you speak with for information regarding disaster assistance. Examples of valuable documents available online include:


The "Applicant's Guide to the Individuals & Households Program." This guide is put out by FEMA and helps you understand the most common type of assistance available, which is the Individuals & Households Program (IHP). It will tell you who is eligible, what losses are eligible, how to apply, and how to appeal a denial.The "Federal Disaster Assistance Response and Recovery Programs: Brief Summaries." This guide will provide you with all of the contact information you will need to get in touch with the people that can help you prepare an application for disaster assistance. Read through it, find the assistance you need, and contact the agencies involved., Before you apply for federal assistance through FEMA, you will need to have your Social Security number available. If you do not have a Social Security number, you can apply for one through the Social Security Administration. If you cannot obtain a Social Security number, you may still be eligible for assistance if there is a minor in your household that that has one., You will also need information about the insurance coverage you have. In order to be eligible for most assistance programs, you will have to have insurance coverage that will not cover your losses. If your losses are covered by your insurance policy, you will not be eligible for federal assistance.It is therefore important to start an insurance claim before applying for federal assistance., The federal assistance application will require you to provide your household income information to determine how much assistance you can be provided. You should be able to provide FEMA with your family's total annual income, before taxes, at the time the disaster occurred., In order to assess your eligibility, FEMA will need to know where the damage occurred and how they can reach you to follow up. Therefore, you will need to provide the address where the damage occurred, as well as the phone number associated with that home. in addition, you should provide an address and phone number where you can be reached now (if you had to evacuate or cannot live in the home affected by the disaster).


If you end up being approved for assistance, and would like the assistance funds directly deposited into your bank account, you will need to provide your bank account information (i.e., your bank account and routing numbers)., The final piece of information you should have on-hand before applying for assistance is the type and extent of the damage caused. Walk around the affected area (so long as it is safe to do so) and take note of any damage sustained and how it was sustained. For example, if your home's basement is full of water and it was caused by a flood, write that information down.
 When you are ready to apply, visit the disaster assistance website at https://www.disasterassistance.gov/get-assistance to get started. When there, click on the button to "apply online." This will start the process of submitting a general application for assistance.
 When you click the "apply online" button, you will be taken to a screen with general application instructions. Read them carefully and understand what is expected of you. Once you have done so, click "Start." You will now begin filling out your application., The first section of your application will require you to provide your personal information. This will be used to verify your identity and make sure you live in an area eligible for assistance. If you enter your address and it is not in a federal disaster zone, you will be notified. However, you may be able to continue with the application despite this if assistance may become available in the future.


When you arrive at this page, enter your name, birth date, and Social Security number. The Social Security number must match the name you provide.
You will also enter the address where the damage occurred as well as the phone number of the address where the damage occurred., If your address corresponds to an area eligible for federal disaster relief, a list of disasters will show up on your screen. Choose the disaster or disasters that affected your home and click "continue." Examples of disasters might include floods, earthquakes, fires, tornadoes, or hurricanes., Similar to the type of disaster that occurred, you will also be asked to provide information about the type of damage you incurred. Choose the damages that fit and move forward. For example, if you experienced a hurricane and the high winds damaged your roof, you would indicate that you have wind damage. If those winds took down power lines in your area, you may also have sustained power damage. These things should all be indicated in this section., Here, the application will ask you to provide more individualized information about the disaster and your belongings. This is your opportunity to tell FEMA exactly what's going on. Common questions might include:


Was your home damaged?
Were your personal belongings damaged?
Are you without essential utilities?, FEMA will need to know more information about your current situation in order to assess your eligibility for assistance. Your answers to these questions will help determine how much assistance you need and how quickly you need it. The application will want to know:


Whether the damaged home was your primary residence. If not, you may not be eligible for assistance.
Whether you are able to access the home (i.e., were you evacuated or is it dangerous to go back). If you do not have access, it may indicate you need assistance quicker than normal.
Where you are currently living. This will help FEMA understand how they can get ahold of you and where they should contact you. It will also help them understand if assistance may be available to help you pay for the costs of living somewhere else (i.e., the costs of paying for a hotel)., In order to be eligible for federal assistance, you must not have insurance that covers the damages you sustained. If you have insurance covering these damages, you will not be eligible for assistance. It is important you are able to prove to FEMA that you have started an insurance claim and that it has been denied. Therefore, you will provide information about:


The type of insurance you have
Who your insurance provider is
Whether a claim has been started and/or denied
Who your contact is at the insurance agency, If you have experienced losses above and beyond those already covered in your application (i.e., household losses), you will provide that information here. The application will ask whether you have had to pay for medical expenses, dental expenses, or funeral expenses. Assistance may be available for these expenses in certain situations., If you need assistance quickly, this is the main section for letting FEMA know. The more pressing your needs are, the quicker FEMA will try to provide you with assistance. For example, you should include information here if you need clothing, gas, medicine, food, or shelter., The amount of assistance you receive will be in part based on how big your household is. The more people you are responsible for, the more assistance you may receive. It is important here to list everyone in your household.However, do not lie or stretch the truth in order to get more assistance. This can be considered fraud and you may be punished for making false statements.
 Your financial information will help FEMA determine how much assistance will be required to get you the help you need. The larger your household income is, the less assistance you will receive. The application will ask you to provide an accurate estimate of your family income at the time the disaster occurred., If you want any assistance funds to be directly deposited into your bank account, you will need to provide that information here. The application will ask for the name of your bank, the type of account you have, the account number, and the routing number., At the very end of the application, you will have an opportunity to provide FEMA with a phone number, address, or email address that you can be reached at. Because you may not have access to your home, you want to make sure this information is accurate and complete so FEMA can get in contact with you., At the end of the application process, you will click "done." Once you click this button, your application will be sent to FEMA for review. You will immediately receive a registration number and disaster number you will use to identify your application. Keep these numbers close in case you ever need them.


You will usually here back from FEMA regarding the acceptability of your application within 15 days of submitting it. They will contact you using the preferred method you indicated in your application., You can appeal almost any decision you do not agree with once you get your FEMA determination letter. An appeal might relate to your eligibility, the amount you received, late applications, or requests to return money. If you were denied assistance, it may be because you haven't gotten your insurance claim started yet, may not have given FEMA all the information they need, haven't given FEMA proof of residence ownership, or may not have signed the correct documents.Regardless of why you want to appeal, read the letter you receive from FEMA in order to understand why you are unhappy. When you appeal, you are asking FEMA to look over your application again. Your letter will also provide you information about the appeals process., To start the appeals process, you will need to explain, in writing, why you think the ultimate decision from FEMA was incorrect. You need to include your full name, date and place of birth, and address. Your letter must be notarized in order to be valid. In addition, your letter must include a statement stating, "I hereby declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct."


When your letter is complete and contains all of the required information, sign and date it., In the header of your letter, which should show up on every page, you need to provide your FEMA registration number and disaster number. These are the numbers provided to you as soon as you submitted your application online. These numbers will help FEMA match your appeal to your case., Every appeal must be made within 60 days of receiving your determination letter. It must not only be completed within 60 days, it must be postmarked within the 60 days in order to be valid. You can choose to either mail or fax your appeal letter.


If you are mailing your appeal, you will send it to "FEMA, National Processing Service Center, P.O. Box 10055, Hyattsville, MD 20782-7055."
If you are faxing your appeal, send it to (800) 827-8112, ATTN: FEMA., In some instances, it may help to have your entire FEMA file available for you to review before you draft an appeal. Your file will contain all of the information you have provided to FEMA from the beginning. If you want access to your file, you can request a copy by writing to, "FEMA - Records Management, National Processing Service Center, P.O. Box 10055, Hyattsville, MD 20782-7055."