 Unless you do not have a choice in the matter, such as with business relocation, the decision is yours to figure out where you see yourself living best. To the beautiful rose city of Toulouse in southwest France? To Berlin in Germany? To the beautiful Nordic country of Iceland? To Mexico? Venezuela? Spain? Russia? China?


Imagine living in that new country. Watch videos online to get a sense of what it like there, during all seasons of the year. Consider weather, pollution levels, ease of access to food, transport, and medical attention. List what things there are to do there by way of work and activities.
Look online to find the stories of people who have already made this move. Ex-pats can be the best source of information; reading their experience will help you develop a wider sense of whether or not this is a sensible option or whether it is something that a majority find problems with. Give some credence to what they say, since they are experiencing it; however, also beware that individual experiences will vary considerably depending on the reasons for their move, their income levels, their job experiences, the area of the country they are living in, etc. Ask questions if the forums of the site permit.
Will you be able to work in the new country? Is there a demand for your profession? What hoops will you have to jump through for employment? Is there a possibility of getting a job there before moving so that you can be reassured of earning? Few people can afford to take the chance of not having a job in a new country unless they are already wealthy enough to cover the length of stay there. Also, find out about social insurance and what tests you'll need to meet to be eligible—be aware that you may not be eligible for months or years, or maybe never.
 Guidebooks are a good source of information, but do not rely on them completely. Try avoiding the touristy areas of the country and visit places "off the beaten path," where you can interact with locals on a personal level. However, be warned: If you are enthused to move overseas as a result of having visited a place during a vacation, realize that having a vacation somewhere and living there are two completely different experiences. On vacation, you have no daily grind, no interactions with the daily bureaucracy and routine that locals do and generally not a care in the world. Once you live there, the realities of life in that country may be something quite different from the pampered experience of a tourist. Do not base your decision to move merely on having visited a place!

, This includes local customs (very important), language (even more important), and the areas that make up the cities and regions. It is vital to know whether you think you can handle living under different laws, customs and routines because these will affect your everyday life. For example, stricter regulations about what you can and cannot do in a country like Singapore (down to not chewing gum in public at the risk of being canned) may cause a freedom-loving US citizen to feel constricted.
 Can you even shift to the country you would like to live in? Some countries have very strict requirements for immigrants based on income, age, skill set, training or family connection. You may find that if you are not rich, not skilled, too old, or without family already living there that you do not have a chance to move to the country in question. Read the rules laid out for the particular country on its immigration website. Call the relevant immigration department and ask for more specific information in relation to yourself—no amount of printed information can ever be as clear as laying out your personal situation before someone who can advise on the specifics.


Contact the country's embassy as your first port of call. They often keep information packs for those wishing to emigrate.
 Do people speak a different language from your own in the country you are planning to move to? If so, do you speak that language? Be honest about your ability to pick up a new language—it is quite hard for some people to learn a new language, even when immersed in it. During the time that you do not know it, you will find yourself disconnected from a lot of what is happening around you. If you already lack confidence in yourself, this can be an extremely alienating experience.


Consider learning the language to a proficient level before leaving your own country.
Book lessons for language immersion the moment you arrive. Find a sympathetic tutor who understands both your language as well as the one they are teaching you. Ensure that this person can make the time for you to go to places together to help you learn the language in specific contexts, such as shopping, dealing with a landlord, banking, buying a car, registering for school/college, etc.
 For starters, think hard about whether you want to pull your children out of their current routine and friendships. This could be a devastating change for them. Is the schooling in the new country as good as or better than where you are now or is it less reliable? What options are there for decent schooling as a foreigner if the local schooling is not good? Find out about these things well in advance because they really matter!


Don't forget that depending on where you go, your children will likely have to learn a new language or a new dialect of a language (for example, they may need to become familiar with differences between Australian English and American English). While some parents see this as a good thing because their child has an opportunity to become multilingual, if your child has educational issues of any kind, this might really throw them through hoops.
This is especially true if the local language functions on a different alphabet than the child's first language.

