 Medication is widely used to treat bipolar disorder in adults but its use for childhood bipolar disorder is controversial. It's recommended you consult with both a psychiatrist and physician before using medication.


People with bipolar disorder generally have to be on some form of medication for much of their adult life. Starting medication early can help your children prepare for medication in adulthood. It can help them get used to taking medication at the correct times of day and figure out early on what kinds of meds they best respond to.On the negative side, the types of medication typically used to treat bipolar disorder can have adverse neurological side effects for children under six. Children might experience headaches, confusion, and loss of coordination. Lithium can also cause acne and weight gain, which can be troublesome issues for teens.Spend a great deal of time talking over the pros and cons of medication with a psychiatrist and physician before choosing to medicate your child. You want to make sure that any medical path you choose is safe given your child's health and medical history., Mood stabilizers are usually the first course of action when prescribing medication for bipolar disorder. They usually treat and prevent manic symptoms, but often might not help with symptoms of depression. Mood stabilizers are often prescribed in conjunction with antidepressants.


Lithium, approved for use in children over 12, is often used to treat bipolar disorder. Some teens and preteens respond well to lithium, but others may experience side effects like mood swings, dizziness, diarrhea, constipation, heartburn, and cold-like symptoms.Lithium and mood stabilizers in general can increase thoughts of suicide, especially in teenagers. Medication use should be monitored closely by a psychiatrist and a physician., If a child does not respond well to mood stabilizers, a psychiatrist or doctor might suggest atypical antipsychotics. Approved for the use of children 10 and up, atypical antipsychotics help regulate mood and reduce symptoms of mania.


Atypical antipsychotics can benefit some children and teens, but long term use is not recommended. Using such medications for too long can lead to conditions that cause uncontrollable muscle movements around the mouth and hands.Weight gain is a serious concern with many atypical antipsychotics. Changes in metabolism can cause sudden, fast weight can that can raise cholesterol levels and increase the risk of diabetes. Children and teens taking atypical antipsychotics should have their weight monitored closely and maintain a healthy diet and regular physical activity., Antidepressants are often used alongside other medication. As mood stabilizers and antipsychotics tend to address manic symptoms, adding antidepressants to a medication regimen can help combat depression.


The effectiveness of antidepressants and children and teens are mixed. While some teens and children respond well, studies indicate the using antidepressants with mood stabilizers provides no significant different than using mood stabilizers alone.Physical side effects can include nausea, weight gain, headache, and sleep problems. While antidepressants are generally safe, your child should be monitored closely while taking any psychiatric medication. For some, antidepressants may increase thoughts of suicide.