 Pick two pegs to use. Place one rubber band across two hooks, twisted once to make it a figure 8. Push that towards the bottom of the pegs, and place two more rubber bands on top without twisting them.;
, Use your hook to grab one end of the bottom band and pull it over the top of the peg, so that it's looped over the other two bands. Do the same with the other side of the bottom band. Then put a new rubber band on the pegs, again without the twist, so that there are three rubber bands total on the pegs. Twist one band into an infinity shape.
 Use the hook to bring both ends of the bottom rubber band over the top of the peg and the two other bands on it. Then add another band to the peg so that you finish each step with three bands on the pegs.


To make an ordinary fishtail bracelet, you would simply continue this step until the bracelet was long enough. For the inverted fishtail, this step is just to make sure all the rubber bands are secure before you begin the trickier inverted pattern.
 You should have three bands on the pegs. On one side, slide your hook in between the top two and use it to pull the middle one backwards, away from the pegs and out of the way. With the middle band still pulled back, use your hook to grab the bottom band. Pull the bottom band up through the middle band and then over the top of the top band. Pull it off the peg and leave it sitting on top of the bands stretched between the pegs.
 Then make sure to add another band on top, so that you always finish the stitch with three bands.


This stitch is very similar to the regular fishtail. The only difference is that the bottom band comes up inside the middle band and then outside and over the top band, rather than going outside and over both of them.
 Use your hook to pull the middle band out of the way. Reach inside and grab the bottom band, then pull it over the peg. Do this on the other side, and then add another rubber band on top.
 Depending on the size of your wrist, this can take more than 40 rubber bands.
 Finish the way you started, with two regular fishtail stitches. To do this, simply pull the bottom band over the peg on both sides. Add another band and repeat with the new bottom band. You should have two bands left on the pegs.
 The two bands that were left on the pegs won't be connected to anything. Holding the ends of the last band that you wove, slide the two loose bands out of the bracelet.
 Slide the two looped ends of the last band you wove onto one end of the C/S clip. The other end of the bracelet will have two crossed loops from the first band that you wove; slide these loops onto the other end of the C/S clip to secure your bracelet.
