 If everything goes as planned, you will have extra time to do whatever you like.
 If you showered the night before, you don’t have to. If you don’t take a shower, then simply splash your face with cold water to help you wake up.
, This is really important, as it has been scientifically proven that people who eat a healthy breakfast do better in school. Really take the time to eat well. Some options are: All of these are good options. Don’t just eat a granola bar and say ‘I ate’.


A bowl of cereal
Yogurt with muesli
A bowl of fruit
Toast
Eggs and bacon

, Brush your teeth well and floss only if needed. If possible, save flossing for night (and maybe even rinse with a mouthwash before bed). Brush and style your hair, but don't overdo it. Again, don't wear a beautiful bun with little curls if you're going to wear a ponytail every other day of the year. If you're style isn't working and you've tried more than twice, skip it. For now stick with a bun, a ponytail, or a simpler version of what you were trying to do.
 Think ‘Did I eat?’, ‘Do I have everything I need’, ‘Have I done everything I need to do’.
 Always try to leave early so that you have plenty of time.
 At school try to make friends as quickly as possible. That way you will feel more secure. Try complimenting someone on their handwriting or something. Usually a conversation will start from there. If someone compliments you, remember to smile, say thank you, and try to return the favour.
 You can also right the subject, you form, and your teachers name. Make sure you know where everything is, and put your P.E kit, and schoolbag away in your locker.
 if they say no, just say "Oh, okay, have a great day" and move on. Be friendly and you'll make friends quickly.
 If your teacher asks a question about you don’t be shy, she and your classmates are more likely to take an interest if they know something about you. Always write neatly in your books and use a ruler to underline things.
 She will not be pleased if you lose or forget your homework on the first day. Use your homework planner to write down all of your assignments as soon as you get them. Also write down their due dates, as well as tests. That way everything is in one place. If you have a large calendar on your wall at home, transfer items from there to your planner on the weekend. Go to your locker when you planned to.
 Do not do it in front of the television. Then take a shower, pack your bag, making sure all your homework in it, read or watch T.V, and go to sleep at the time you’ve planned.
, This is extremely important to leave great first impressions on your teachers and classmates.

