 You may want to have an idea of what you would like to do for a career that is directly involved in human rights activism so that you can plan out your career path. Many paid human rights activists take on important advocacy work to change the conditions of the individuals around the world who are suffering by working to influence and change the policies of governments and international institutions.It is useful to pick a career that is in line with the volunteer work you are currently doing, so that you can continue to gain experience to obtain a paid position in the future. For example, if you would like to have a career in working for LGBT rights and are already volunteering in that area, you should continue what you are doing so that you can leverage your experience into a paid position.
 If you have chosen the college route and are entering your first year of college, or looking to change your major, you can pick a major that will suit a job in a field related to your human rights activism.


Some majors include social work, sociology, women’s studies, philosophy, and law.For example, if you would like to be a lawyer someday, you can major in law or pre-law, depending on the institution you are attending and your level of study, and study international law or human rights law.
 You will want to apply for as many positions as possible if you would like to obtain a paid position in human rights activism. This will increase your chances of getting an interview.


Look for job opportunities online and by asking fellow activists if they know of any opportunities. You can start by asking, "Do you know of any jobs that will be opening up in the near future?" of the people you know at any organizations you currently volunteer with.
There are a few websites that index human rights activist jobs, such as HumanRightsCareers.com and Human Rights Job Board.Many human rights activist positions will require previous experience with volunteering and references from past volunteer work. Be sure to stay in touch with individuals you have worked for in the past so that you can use them as a reference to obtain a paid position.

