 Wash your hands often with lots of soap and water. Make sure you wash your hands after you sneeze and cough. The entire procedure takes only about a minute. Following proper handwashing procedure can help reduce the spread of germs.First, wet your hands. Then, use enough soap to cover your entire hand up to at least your wrists.
Rub your hands together, palm to palm. Wash the back of your left hand with the palm of your right hand, then do the same for the other side.
Spread your fingers and rub your palms together with the fingers interlaced, washing the webs between the fingers. Interlock your fingers so that the backs of the fingers are against the palm of the opposite hand and rub.
Grab your right thumb with your left hand and wash, using a circular motion. Repeat using your right hand to grab your left thumb. Bring your fingers together and use the right hand to rub the central part of the left hand and vice versa.
Rinse well with warm water. Dry your hands thoroughly with either a single paper towel or a clean cotton towel that only you use. Use the towel to turn off the water.;
, Do not share any personal care items such as razors, towels, cosmetics, and handkerchiefs. This can spread the staph bacteria., Do not touch any potentially infected objects. These objects include kleenex, towels, clothing, bandages, and athletic equipment. If you have to touch these items, make sure you are wearing gloves., If you have a cut or abrasion, keep it covered with a bandage. Make sure you use a clean, sterile bandage. This is especially important when you go out because you may come in contact with a carrier.Keep all wounds covered when playing sports.
 If someone near you has a cough, cold, or is sneezing, ask him to wear a mask. If the person has an obvious skin infection, ask him to cover the infected area with a bandage. Stay away from close physical contact.If you have a cough, cold, are sneezing, or have an infection, wear a mask and cover the infected area with a bandage. Make sure not to spread germs to others. Stay away from close physical contact.
 At home, clean any surfaces that may have come into contact with contaminated materials. Clean with a 10% bleach solution for one to five minutes.When making a bleach solution, just add bleach to water to dilute it. Add ¾ cup of bleach to one gallon of water.
 If you are an athlete, you can spread staph through athletic equipment. Make sure to clean any shared sports equipment with an antiseptic or antiseptic wipes. Place a protective cloth layer between the equipment and your skin. Don’t share medical equipment, like bandages, braces, or splints.Shower after exercising.
Cover wounds with bandages when playing sports.
Don’t use whirlpools if someone with an open sore has used it.
 Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS) is associated with tampon use and is caused by the staph bacteria. If you use tampons, use low absorbency tampons and replace every three to four hours., Staph bacteria may be on clothing or bedding that hasn’t been washed properly. Wash all clothing and bedding in as hot water as possible. Use bleach on bleach-safe materials and use an oxidizing agent such as Oxy-Clean on items that are not bleach-safe.Placing the clothes in the dryer is better than air drying and may kill some additional bacteria, though they may survive the dryer.
 If you are unable to properly wash your hands, use a hand sanitizer. Make sure that it contains at least 62% alcohol.You can find alcohol content on the label.

