 Choose a time when your parents are not busy and are in a good mood. This will increase your chances of getting what you want. A long car ride, sitting at the dinner table, or going for a walk are all good times to approach your parents.You can say, “Hey do you have a minute? I wanted to talk to you about something?” or “Let me know when you have some time. I wanted to talk to you about something.”

, Plainly tell your parents that you would like to have a cell phone and the reasons that you want a cell phone. If you are nervous about talking to them, write a letter that explains your reasons.


You could say, “I really would like a cell phone, and I wanted to tell you why this is a good idea.”
You could also say, “I would love to have a cell phone. What do you think about this?”

, Try to make the cell phone appealing to your parents. Talk about all of the positive things about having a phone. Some benefits you can highlight are:A phone is good in case there is an emergency when your parents are not around.
It will help you keep in touch with your family that lives out of town, or they will always be able to reach you when you are not at home.
Having a cell phone can teach you to be responsible.
Never tell your parents that you want a cell phone because all of your friends have one.
 Remember that your goal is to have a cell phone. It may not be the exact phone that you want, or you may not be able to talk and text as much as you would like. At the end of the day, having any cell phone is better than not having a phone at all. Some compromises you can suggest are:To help pay for the phone.
Get a flip phone instead of a smart phone.
Get a pre-paid phone instead of a phone with a contract.
Agree to any rules or limitations your parents have.
 Be respectful of any answer that your parents give you. Do not whine, beg, or have a bad attitude if they say no. Show your parents how mature you are by the way you handle their response. If you get upset because your parents said no, they will not want to get you a phone.


Ask your parents about getting a phone again in a couple of months. In the meantime, do all of your chores, do well in school, and show how responsible you are

