 Jem’s makeup look is all about the bold eyes, so primer is an imperative first step. Makeup primer creates a nice base for your makeup, helping it to go on smoothly and stay put. It will help keep your makeup from smudging, which is very important for Jem’s crisp, geometric eye makeup.Typically, eye makeup primer only goes on the eyelid. However, apply primer all over your eyelid to your brow bone as well as underneath the eye. Jem wears more eye makeup than you might in your typical, everyday look!
Apply the primer simply by dabbing it into your skin with your fingertip. Let it absorb into your skin for a minute or so before moving on to the next step.;
, Jem’s signature look is a bold pink shape around her eye. Purchase a hot pink eyeliner at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store. You don’t need to purchase anything fancy, because you may or may not use hot pink eyeliner after aside from creating this look!First, place your eyeliner in the center of your bottom lash line. Draw a line slanting outwards to your cheekbone. Then, draw another line extending from your temple and meeting the first line in a point. These two lines should look like a triangle extending down from your eye.
Draw a third line extending from the tail of your eyebrow and meeting the line at the temple. This will create another point at your temple.
Draw a final, straight line extending from the inner corner of the eyebrow down to the top lash line.
Repeat these steps on the opposite eye, so that you are left with two symmetrical shapes framing your eyes.
Jem has a variety of specific looks in the television show and movie, so feel free to create an alternate one if you desire. By sketching the shape first with the pink eyeliner, it’s easier to clean up any mistakes.
 Again, you can purchase this product at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store, and it doesn’t have to be a high end product. Simply look for the brightest pink you can find, because that is Jem’s signature, bold style. Using an eyeliner brush, fill in the pink outline you created with the eyeliner, making sure to cover all of your skin completely with pink shadow., When you’re satisfied with the pink shape you’ve created with liner and shadow, it’s time to clean up the edges. You really want these shapes to have crisp lines and corners. Use your favorite concealer and concealer brush to carefully clean up the borders, sweeping concealer around the perimeter of the shapes to conceal any smudging or mistakes. Once you’ve outlined the shapes with concealer, carefully blend it all out.
 You don’t want to change the color of your lid, but adding a soft layer of white shadow can add a bit of dimension. When your lid and surrounding skin is all pink, your eyes may appear dull and flat. By adding a bit of white shadow to highlight the eye, you can make them look big and bright. Make sure that you don’t cover up the signature pink, however! A light dusting is all you need., Jem uses a bright blue to add even more pop to her intense eye makeup. You can buy a bright blue eyeliner at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store, and feel free to buy whichever type of eyeliner you like working with best. Draw a thin line across your top lash line, extending fully from inner corner to outer corner. When you reach the outer corner, wing your eyeliner out subtly to open up your eyes.If you don’t want to purchase a new, royal blue eyeliner, you can use the black or dark brown you already own.
 This will help make your eyes stand out from their bold pink background. Using your favorite black eyeliner, simply line the very inside of the waterline from inner to outer corner. Connect the bottom eyeliner to the top eyeliner in the outer corners., Hold your eyelash curler at the base of your lashes and press down, holding for about five seconds. Then, release the curler and do this again at the middle and ends of your lashes. This will create a voluminous curl. Coat your lashes in black mascara, wiggling the wand as you sweep the product onto your lashes from base to tip. Apply your mascara generously, and feel free to do a couple of coats. You want your eyelashes to be dark and full so that they can stand out against the pink makeup.If you want fuller, darker lashes than you can achieve naturally, you can also apply false lashes now.
 This is the cherry on top of your eye makeup. Jem is all about glitter, so add some sparkle with a pink glitter shadow. Use your finger to gently dab it over the pink eyeshadow, covering the entire pink shape.You can find glitter shadows at many beauty supply stores, but you can also order it online if you have difficulty finding it locally.
 After your eyes are finished, clean up any fallout and apply your favorite foundation. There is no special trick to Jem’s foundation, so you can apply your foundation as normal. Your foundation will even out your skin tone, allowing the eyes to really steal the show. Be careful to avoid smudging the carefully created eye look.
 Just like with the eyes, your lips should be hot pink. Use the hottest pink lip liner you can find, similar to the eyeshadow you used. Carefully trace your lips, starting in the center and moving to the outer corners.
 You can use a bubble gum pink or a hot pink, just make sure it is bright and bold. Once you’ve applied it to your lips, blot them to remove any excess product. Then, grab your lip liner and blend out edges, so that you don’t have a stark line., Again, choose a bright pink for this step. Pick up the blush on fluffy blush brush and hold a smile. Sweep the blush onto the apples of your cheeks that raise when you smile. Dust it upwards towards your temples. Remember, you really can’t have too much pink for this look!, Jem has fierce pink hair, and unless you want to dye your hair pink, a wig is your best option. Depending on your local costume store, you may be able to find a pink wig to purchase. You can also find pink wigs online. However, if you cannot find a pink wig or want to repurpose a wig you already own, you can dye it yourself.In order to dye your wig, it has to be a light color. Otherwise, you will not be able to see the pink overtop. White, blonde, and silver synthetic wigs all work well for this.
 Because costume wigs are synthetic, you cannot use regular hair dye. Regular hair dye only work on real, human hair. Instead, head to a craft store and pick up a bottle of acrylic ink. Make sure to choose a dark pink color, because you will be diluting it with the isopropyl alcohol. You can purchase the alcohol at a pharmacy., Dying your wig is a messy process, so make sure to cover a large surface area with garbage bags or papers. Ideally, find a place outside to do this so you don’t risk getting paint on walls or floors. Because you’ll be spraying the homemade hair dye onto your wig with the spray bottle, it can really make a mess. Be generous with your coverings!, The more alcohol you add to the ink, the lighter your final color will be. If you want a pastel pink, add more alcohol. If you want a bright, vibrant pink, add less. Jem has rocked both looks, so it’s really up to you. Just make sure that you create enough spray to fully saturate your wig.Pour the ink and alcohol into the spray bottle and give it a shake.
 Make sure to wear rubber gloves as you do this, because this will get messy. As you spray the dye into each section, use your hands to rub it into the hair. Make sure to move the hair as you spray so that the dye covers the entire wig, rather than just the top layer. Continue spraying and running your fingers through the hair to make sure you don’t miss any sections. The hair should be completely saturated when you are finished., Depending on how long and thick your wig is, the drying time will vary, so don’t dye your hair the day of Halloween. Give yourself plenty of time! When you are able to run your bare hands through the wig and not get dye on your skin, it is ready., Once your wig has dried, it’s crucial to wash out the dye. Otherwise, you risk getting dye all over your clothing and hair and ending up even pinker than you meant to. Hold your wig under the cold water until the water runs clear. Make sure to rub the hair, getting the dye out of every section. Make sure to rinse the cap as well., Again, let your wig air dry completely. Once it’s dry to the touch, brush it out. Brush your wig gently so that you don’t break or rip any of the synthetic strands. Once it is fully brushed, it is ready to wear., The original Jem was an 80’s rock star, so her signature look is all about the 80’s. Band t-shirts and distressed jeans are perfect for Jem, but so are bright mini dresses. Don’t worry about buying expensive pieces that you’ll only wear once. You can certainly wear pieces you already own, or buy a few things that you’ll wear after Halloween. The costume designer for the Jem and the Holograms movie says that Jem (and her Holograms) wardrobes were eclectic, a mixture of vintage pieces and new pieces from places like Forever 21 and Goodwill. You can have fun and be creative in making your very own Jem-inspired outfit., Your pink eyes and lips aren’t enough! Jem loves wearing pink clothing, so make sure to add pops of pink throughout your outfit. A pink jacket is perfect, and Jem rocks a pink leather jacket in the movie. If you can’t find a great jacket, try adding things like a pink belt or pink shoes. Embrace Jem’s signature color, and make sure your outfit has enough of it!, If you couldn’t tell by Jem’s makeup, this costume is all about glitter and pizzazz. Try to incorporate pieces that sparkle and catch the eye. Think rhinestones, sequins, metallics, and glitz. If you find a funky piece that is probably not something you’d ever wear to school, it’s probably perfect for your Jem outfit., If you don’t have anything in your closet that screams “Jem” and you aren’t in the mood to hunt for individual pieces, simplify the process and buy a Jem Halloween costume online. Amazon sells a few different versions of a Jem costume, and you can even buy a pink wig as well. This option is perfect if you want to embody Jem this Halloween, but don’t necessarily want to build her look from scratch.

