 Rinse the beans first using cool water. Pat them dry, then trim or snap off both of the pointed ends.;
, For extra flavor, add a little bit of salt. For a sharper flavor, add a few minced garlic cloves to the water. Depending on how many beans you are steaming, you will only need one to three cloves.If you do not own a steamer basket, reduce the amount of water to ½ to one inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters).
 The bottom of the steamer basket should not be touching the water. If it touches the water, you have added too much; pour out a little bit of the water. If you do not have a steamer basket, omit this step.
 Wait for the water to boil.
 Cover the lid and reduce the heat to low so that the water will simmer.
 After about four minutes, pull one of the beans out and taste it. The beans are ready when they are bright green and somewhat crunchy. If the beans are too hard, then cook them for another one to two minutes.


If you are planning to stir fry the beans later, cook them for only two minutes.
 If you are using a steamer basket, simply lift the basket out of the pot and shake it over a sink to dislodge any excess water. If you are not using a steamer basket, pour the beans into a strainer over the sink. The strainer will catch the beans and drain the excess water.
 The beans will continue cooking after you have taken them out, which can lead to a dull color and mushy texture. To keep this from happening, fill a large bowl with cold water and add a few ice cubes to it. Transfer the beans into the icy water. After a few seconds, take them out.


Try placing the beans into a strainer first. This way, all you have to do is dunk the strainer into the water, then lift it out.
This process is known as "shocking."

, Return the beans to the saucepan. Add your desired seasonings, and stir to evenly distribute. If you are adding butter, wait for the butter to melt; you may have to turn the heat up again. Once the seasoning is evenly distributed, transfer the beans to a serving dish. Here are some combinations to get you started:


Try salt and butter.You can also use garlic salt instead of regular salt for a more intense flavor.
Try sea salt, dill, and some butter for something more herby.
Try salt, freshly-ground black pepper, and some butter for something spicier.

