 You want your attitude to assist you in achieving your desired outcome not hinder it. Whatever you do, do not argue with the officer or create any sort of animosity. Arguing with the officer does not increase your likelihood of leniency so treat him as if you would want to be treated.
 This is so that you can take away any unnecessary tension that the officer may have in pulling a car over. He does not know that your car is not loaded with drugs or weapons and they are trained to expect the worse. By having your hands in plain sight and the interior of the car visible, you are showing complete submission to him and will be better prepared to explain your situation.
 Do not start asking him questions or begin pleading with him until after he has gotten through his initial questions. Once he has gotten your information ask him politely if you can speak with him regarding your speeding violation. Plead your case in a very polite and non-combative manner. Most officers will be lenient with you if you simply admit to speeding and tell them that his will cripple you financially. Let them know that you are very sorry for speeding and that you realized you were speeding but felt the flow of traffic was also going at the same speed but you were at fault for assuming that.
 You want to be as inconspicuous as possible to the officer.
, They will help you beat a California speeding ticket!

, Use the particular Vehicle Code number on the ticket in the look-up field and find a reliable website for details. As an example, use the California Department of Motor Vehicles site.
 Consider the following story as an example of how important these vehicle code loopholes are.
 He knew that there were two spots up ahead where California Highway Patrol (CHP) officers ‘hide’ and wait for the unsuspecting speeders to race by. This man reduced his speed prior to passing the ‘hiding’ officers but, to his dismay, the CHP squad car pulled out and turned its lights on even though he had slowed to 65 mph (105 km/h). When the officer approached his car, the gentleman asked why he was being pulled over. The officer responded that it was because the gentleman was traveling close to 85 mph (137 km/h). The gentleman rebutted stating that he was only going 65 mph (105 km/h). The officer then informed the driver that an aircraft had clocked him at 85 mph (137 km/h) a few miles back. “Wow,” the driver thought to himself, “how am I going to beat this speeding ticket?”.
Well little did he know that he was actually in a pretty good position to beat this speeding ticket. The way that the aircraft ‘clocked’ him was by clocking the time it took the gentleman’s car to travel between two fixed points on the ground. Although math doesn't lie, there are a few points that should be examined in this scenario. First and most important, because two officers were involved in giving this citation, both must show up for court. If either officer does not show up, the gentleman’s case is dismissed. If the driver gets the case postponed, there is an even more likely chance that both officers will not show up. Secondly, being caught by an officer in an aircraft is a bit of a slippery slope. If one reads the law carefully he may be able to beat his speeding ticket. Consider this:
“40800. (a) A traffic officer on duty for the exclusive or main purpose of enforcing the provisions of Division 10 (commencing with Section 20000) or 11 (commencing with Section 21000) shall wear a full distinctive uniform, and if the officer while on duty uses a motor vehicle, it must be painted a distinctive color specified by the commissioner.”
What are the chances the officer in the aircraft was in full uniform? How about the aircraft itself, would it be considered a motor vehicle? Was it painted a distinctive color as specified by the commissioner? These are all valid points that can lead some to beat a speeding ticket before some judges.;
