 The freezer is just an odd place to hide things because of the temperature. Some items can be ruined in the freezer, and there isn’t a lot of room for storage. Think about smaller items that won’t be affected by the temperatures.


Mini-sized items fit perfectly in frozen vegetable bags. They know you don’t like broccoli, so they put what they want to hide where you’d least want to go.
Hiding something in a frozen dessert would be a clever choice. A box of ice cream sandwiches is prime for hiding things. Your parents know you want desserts and aren’t allowed to have them without permission. More than likely have an idea of how much is left.
Check behind the ice. If there are ice cube trays, move them and check underneath or behind. Also, some older freezers get a bit of ice buildup in them, a great spot to hide something small like a charger.
 Believe it or not, there are safes and hiding spots made to look just like food. Books, cases, and folders are way more obvious than food hiding locations.


Who would even think about hiding something inside a head of lettuce? Well, it’s been done.Frozen bags of vegetables are very tricky locations to hide from kids. Parents know you're very unlikely to look there.
Look behind vegetables in the pantry. Vegetables are often bunched together, which would make a prime hiding spot for kids who don't like vegetables.
 The fact there are so many options makes the hiding spot time-consuming to discover. They may have even wrapped the hidden contents in bubble-wrap so there is no noise.


Sniff the spices. Emptied coffee cans or spice jars are great diversion safes. They’re fairly common, but really difficult to find since there are so many spices. Shake pill bottles. Emptied out medicine bottles are brilliant spots for tiny items or rolls of money. Check their medicine cabinet or maybe even a potted plant.Squirt some lotion. An emptied out lotion bottle is an ideal location for spare keys, small remotes, cell phones, and credit cards., Your parents already know you're not going to use several appliances in the house. Try searching in, on, or behind appliances that are big enough to conceal something.


Pull out the vacuum. The vacuum cleaner is perfect for hiding big things out in the open. Vacuums have a large, easily accessible cavity to stuff in various items.Mixers often have bowls big enough to use as hiding spots. Tip each bowl carefully and see if there is something inside.
Open doors on all appliances. The oven, the microwave, the toaster-oven, they all make great hiding spots, especially if your parents are the only ones who cook.

