 Your body needs sleep to heal itself. Studies show that sleep deprivation can weaken the immune system, increase the production of stress hormones, put you at higher risk for chronic disease and lower life expectancy. If you suffer from sleep apnea or insomnia, talk to your doctor for possible treatments. If you have a cold or nasal congestion, try to lie on the side that is least congested to breathe comfortably and allow the mucus to drain. To get plenty of rest, you can also:Avoid caffeine, alcohol and sugary foods 4-6 hours before heading to bed. These can act as stimulants to keep you awake.
Create a regular sleep schedule by going to bed early and waking up early to set your body's internal clock. This will make sure you get better quality and consistent sleep. If you can't fall asleep after 20 minutes, get out of bed, go to another room and do something relaxing until you are tired enough to sleep.
Melatonin (1 to 3 mg) and/or 1 to 2 Valerian capsules may also be helpful to fall asleep.
If you suffer from obstructive sleep apnea—frequently interrupted breathing during sleep— ask your doctor for treatment options. Your doctor may recommend surgery or CPAP.CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) is a common therapy for sleep apnea which uses a small machine to supply constant and steady air pressure, a hose, and a mask or nose piece. Some CPAP devices come with a heated humidifier to help with a dry, stuffy nose.
 Make sure your room is well-ventilated, quiet, dark, cool environment (between 65 - 75 degrees). Use heavy curtains or an eye mask to block light, a powerful cue that tells the brain that it's time to wake up. Improve airflow and keep mucus flowing by propping your head up on a pillow.The pillow should support the natural curve of your neck and be comfortable. Place a firm pillow between your knees and pull your knees up slightly toward your chest if you sleep on your side. This will prevent your upper leg from pulling your spine out of alignment and reduce stress on your hips and lower back.


Avoid sleeping on your stomach, since this can block breathing, promote acid reflux and cause stress.
Avoid working or exercise 3–4 hours before going to bed. Physically and psychologically stressful activities can make the body to secrete the stress hormone cortisol. Cortisol may increase your alertness. In this context it is interesting to note that melatonin counters the effects of cortisol.
Try listening to relaxing music or doing some light reading a few hours before sleeping. Regular, moderate exercise, especially in the afternoon, can help deepen sleep.
 Place ½ teaspoon of sea salt in a glass of distilled or sterilized warm (30-35ºC) water. Stir until it's dissolved. Gargle the water for 1–2 minutes, then spit it out instead of swallowing. If the salt irritates your mouth or throat, you can also use plain, distilled warm water for gargles. Repeat gargling every few hours.This helps ease a sore throat and moisturizes your sinuses. This lets mucus drain and prevents postnasal drip that can trigger coughs.
 Experts recommended that you blow by holding a finger over one nostril and gently blowing the other into a tissue. Don't blow too forcefully since the pressure from blowing hard can impact your ears, giving you an earache on top of your cold. Be sure to blow gently, and only as often as necessary. Wash your hands each time you blow your nose, to avoid chances of other infections from bacteria or viruses.It's important to blow your nose while you have a cold. This can prevent postnasal drip, keep your sinuses clear, and prevent mucus from irritating your throat, which can easily trigger a cough.
 Smoking can cause respiratory illnesses, chronic coughing, and even stroke since it deprives the body of oxygen needed to circulate blood throughout your body. It's one of the leading causes of chronic coughing and bronchitis, also known as “smoker’s cough”. Try to avoid secondhand smoke and other hazardous fumes if you have a cough or sore throat.Avoid smoking especially when you have a headache or fever, since smoking can weaken your immune system and prolong the condition.
Ask your doctor about ways to reduce and quit smoking.
 Mild to moderate exercises such as walking or stretching boosts your immune system, reducing the recovery period and alleviating symptoms. Regular exercises also reduce the risk of infection over the long term. A daily 30–45 minute workout with moderate intensity exercises like brisk walking, jogging and swimming is recommended. If needed, talk with a physician. Try to avoid intensive training if you have a cold, fever or headache.If intensive exercise is triggering your cough, along with symptoms such as wheezing, chest pain, and shortness of breath, you may have exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB).This happens when the tubes that bring air into and out of your lungs narrow with exercise, causing symptoms of asthma. Some people with EIB do not otherwise have asthma, and people with allergies may also have trouble breathing during exercise. Talk to your physician or an immunologist to help develop a personalized fitness plan for your condition. Avoid cold, dry temperatures and changes in atmospheric pressure as these can trigger EIB.
 Dry air can aggravate the symptoms of a cold, making it harder for mucus to drain and triggering coughs. Use a humidifier in your bedroom or living room to add moisture to the air, prevent dehydration, help clear your sinuses and soothe your throat. Aim for the right humidity. The air in your home should range from 30% to 55% humidity. The simplest way to measure humidity is with a gauge called a humidistat, which can be purchased from most hardware stores.If the humidity is too high, mold and dust mites may thrive, both of which are common causes of allergies. Mold also causes an unpleasant smell and can discolor surfaces. If the humidity falls too low, it may cause dry eyes, throat and sinus irritations.Both portable and central humidifiers must be cleaned thoroughly. Otherwise, they tend to become contaminated with mold and bacterial growth that may be blown through the house. Stop the humidifier and call your healthcare provider if you develop any respiratory symptoms that you feel are related to the use of a humidifier., For a natural humidifier, consider getting a houseplant. Plants can help regulate indoor humidity by releasing water vapor from their flowers, leaves, and stems. They also help clear the air of carbon dioxide and other pollutants such as benzene, formaldehyde and trichloroethylene.Good indoor plants include aloe vera, bamboo palm, weeping fig, Chinese evergreen, and various species of philodendron and dracaena.