 Wash your mint in the sink and remove any stems from the leaves. Then place the mint leaves in the bottom of a small saucepan.Using fresh mint will give your frosting a slightly stronger and fresher flavor.
 Use an unvarnished muddler to lightly press down on the mint leaves in the saucepan. Gently twist the leaves with the muddler to extract the oil from the leaves.If you don’t have a muddler, use the bottom of a spoon to gently press and twist the leaves.
Don’t grind or break the leaves. Being too rough with the mint leaves will release a bitter or grassy taste, as opposed to the pleasant, herbal taste of the mint.
When you are done, your leaves should look darker and slightly crushed and you should be able to smell the mint. .
 After you have muddled the mint leaves, place the saucepan on the stove and turn the heat up to medium low. Add the butter and melt, stirring continuously for 15 minutes.Heating the butter and mint together will infuse the butter with mint flavor.
 After you have melted the butter for 15 minutes, use your fingers or a spoon to pick the mint leaves out of the butter. Then pour the melted butter into a large bowl., Make an ice bath using either your sink or a bowl larger than the bowl that you put the butter in. To make the ice bath, fill the bowl or sink with cold water and ice cubes. Then place the bowl of butter in the ice bath, making sure not to get any of the water from the ice bath into it.An ice bath will cool the heated butter mixture and make it ready to be whipped into frosting.
The bowl of butter should float in the ice bath, but if not, hold it above water level with your non-dominant hand.
 Holding onto the bowl of butter with your non-dominant hand, use your dominant hand to beat the butter with a hand mixer on high. Beat the butter until it becomes pale and fluffy, about five minutes., After the butter is fluffy and lighter in color, add in the sugar and salt, still mixing with the hand mixer. Mix until all the ingredients are incorporated and smooth.You can also add green food coloring if you want your frosting to have a more traditional mint color.
 Add the frosting to the baked goods you are preparing using a wide knife. Make sure that the baked goods are room temperature or only slightly warm to prevent the frosting from melting.