 Assigning blame is unhealthy and breeds anger. While both you and your former friend may have been at fault for the dissolution of your friendship, you are not in control of the each other’s thoughts, feelings, choices, or actions.Understanding that both you and your friend have roles to play in the ending of your friendship is important and will help you to consider the potential reasons for the end of your friendship from both your point of view and from the point of view of your former friend.;
, Be aware that you may feel anger, guilt, sadness, or grief over the loss of your friendship.

This is completely normal. It is important to process and work through these feelings on your own or with the help of a licensed mental health professional. You might work through your emotions by:

Writing about your feelings
Talking about your feelings
Making art about your feelings
Channeling your feelings into something else

, You may feel a range of emotions when faced with a loss. It is important to allow yourself to process these feelings and understanding where these emotions come from.
 Do you miss the person? Do you miss the support that your former friend had given to you? Do you miss the activities that you used to do as friends? Understanding why you feel the way you do is the first step in coming to terms with your emotions.
 Do not try to block out the negative or painful emotions that accompany the dissolution of your friendship. Sitting with the pain or negativity will eventually allow you to move beyond those feelings and heal., In order to heal from this loss and move forward, you must be patient. Rushing through your natural process is unhealthy and will not resolve your negative feelings properly.
 Understanding that this is a normal fact of life might help you better accept the end of your friendship.


Think about who you were when you met your former friend.
Think about who your former friend was when you met.
Think about the reasons you became friends with this person.
Think about who you are now. How have you changed during the time you were friends?
Think about who your former friend is now. How has s/he changed?
Write down the significant changes you and your friend experienced in a list form from the time you met until your friendship ended.
Read over your lists and understand that change, while at times imperceptible without scrutiny, is inevitable. You and your former friend have both changed and it is possible that you are no longer compatible as friends as a result. Understanding and accepting this fact without placing blame will help you move on.
 While acceptance can be difficult, it is an important step in moving forward with your life.

Moreover, accepting the situation means that you have made peace with it and you are no longer tormenting yourself with what-ifs, or details of the dissolution that cannot be changed, or negative emotions., Instead, try to spend your time and energy on your personal actions. Moreover, focusing on your choices and actions will help you to live in the present, rather than focusing on the past. Examples of personal actions and choices you can focus upon include:


Acknowledging and working through your emotions
Acting with kindness and generosity toward others, including your former friend
Deciding to spend time with your other friends and family members
Working to move forward with your life

, Better still, when you stop interacting with your friend, you are less likely to think about them as well. Finally, in ceasing all contact with your former friend, you are ensuring that no negative interactions between the two of you come to fruition. You might consider cutting off contact with your former friend by:


Blocking their phone number
Ignoring and/or deleting emails
Not returning text messages
Unfriending or blocking them on social media
Avoiding them in face-to-face situations

, You might decide to go shopping, to go see a movie, or to go for a walk if you are looking for a short-term distraction. If you think you’ll need a longer activity, you might consider taking up a hobby or donating your time to help others. Regardless of what you decide to do, it is important to fill your time in some way in order to positively channel your energy and emotions. Activities you might enjoy include, but are not limited to:


Dancing
Making music
Reading
Exercising
Playing a sport
Undertaking an art project
Volunteering your time at a charity organization
Mentoring someone else

, You need time to process the dissolution of your friendship. While you are processing your loss, you need to make sure that you are caring for yourself. Make sure that you are eating properly, getting enough rest, working through your emotions in a healthy manner, and not isolating yourself.Remember that sometimes you need to put yourself first. You can improve your well-being by:


Seeking out the company of friends and family when you are lonely
Eating healthy foods in appropriate quantities
Getting adequate exercise
Spending time alone in order to recharge and relax
Sleeping regularly at night
Investing your time in activities you enjoy

, Keeping your feelings bottled up will hurt you in the long run. This doesn’t mean that you should you’re your former friend, but certainly you should talk about your feelings with someone you know, love, and trust. Your friend or family member can offer you support and love through the act of listening. While they are not a replacement for your former friend, your friend or family member can diminish the impact of your loss.
 You can go to social networking sites or simply start conversations with other people that you may encounter in your daily life. Know what traits you are looking for in a friend as you are getting to know new acquaintances. You might even look for positive qualities in your former best friend in the people you are befriending. Here are some ways to make new friends:


Strike up a conversation with a stranger in line at the grocery store
Talk to the barista at your local coffee shop about his or her interests
Go to an art or music show and talk to people there
Meet people online through social networking sites
Open the lines of communication between the yourself and another person
Participate in mutual self-disclosing behaviors with others
Invite new acquaintances to hang out with you

, Mental health professionals are impartial listeners and it is their job to avoid making judgments. If you need to vent to someone, or if you feel that the loss of your friend has created a severe imbalance of emotions for you, please do not hesitate to seek help. You do not have to go through this loss alone.
 While an animal cannot replace your former friend, you can form a new and important bond of companionship and love with an animal, which might help you reconcile the loss you have experienced. Studies have shown that owning a pet also leads to lower stress levels, better psychological health, and emotional support.All of these emotional and health benefits would certainly be a pro for someone who is dealing with the loss of a close friendship.

