 In order to understand the scoring system, you'll need to know the value of the cards. They are consistent within the game.


Jokers are with 50 points
2's and Aces are 20 points
8's through Kings are 10 points
4's through 7's are five points
Black 3's are used as "block" cards; when discarded, the next player cannot pick up the pile for that turn. Black 3's can be placed down for points if and only if the player is going out and has no other card in his or her hand to be discarded. When used in this manner, black 3's are worth five points

The value of the meld is determined by the rank of the card within the meld. What's a meld, you ask?

;
, A meld is a group of cards (3 minimum) that each have the same rank. The initial meld in a hand must be worth at least 50 points (though this value increases as the game progresses. Upon reaching 1,500 points, the player must have a meld of at least 90. At 3,000 points, the player must have a meld of 120). Melds can include several groups of cards. For example, if you need to have a meld of 90 for a hand, and you have three 5's, 7's, and aces, you can place all of these cards down for a total of 90 points. Once you have your first meld down, you're free to meld in whatever combinations you see fit.


Each meld must have a least two natural cards (no wilds, etc.)
Jokers and 2's are wild and can be any value (except 3's)
A meld of 7 is a "Canasta." They must have at least 4 natural cards. A natural Canasta has no wilds and is worth 500 points, as opposed to a "dirty" Canasta, which has at least one wild card in it and is worth 300 points.
 They are treated as bonus cards, and are scored separately from melds at 100 points each. If a player has a red 3 in his or her hand, it must be laid on the table at the start of his turn, and the player draws a replacement card from the draw pile in addition to the regular draw of two cards he or she just made. If a player draws a red 3 from the draw pile, it is laid on the table and the player draws another card. Failure to do so penalizes a team 500 points.


Melds cannot be made of red 3's, though if you have 7, you're pretty set.
 This ends the hand. When you get rid of all your cards (after you have at least two Canastas), it is known as "going out." If you have a partner, you must ask them if you can go out. If they say "no," the game must continue.


If you can go out all on one turn (getting rid of all your cards in one go), that is known as a "concealed hand." This is worth 200 points, instead of going out on the regular, which is just 100.

