 If you suspect that you have an ear infection, do not attempt the following method to unclog your ear. If you have any of the following symptoms, call a doctor immediately:Persistent and severe pain in your ears lasting more than a few hours.
Fever
Vomiting or diarrhea.
Yellow or green drainage from the ear.;
, You can purchase a solution at the drugstore to soften Earwax, or you can make your own at home. The upside to mixing it yourself is that you probably already have the ingredients you need. Combine warm water with one of the following








A few drops of baby or mineral oil
A few drops of glycerin
Hydrogen peroxide: 3% no stronger or this can cause damage (in an amount equal to the amount of water)

, Putting water that's too hot or cold into your ear can cause dizziness or vertigo.









Dip your (clean) finger into the water. If you don't notice a huge temperature difference in either direction, the solution is perfect.
Allow a solution that's too warm to cool for a minute or two before pouring it into your ear.
If your solution has cooled too much, warm it up by adding a little bit of hot water, or by putting it in the microwave for 10 to 15 seconds.
 Enlist gravity's help by lying so that the ear you want to drain is facing the ceiling. Put a towel beneath your head to catch any excess solution that spills out of your ear.









This position is easier if you have someone to help you pour the solution into your ear.
If you can't lie down, tilt your head to the side as much as you can. You should get nearly the same effect.
 This will make it easier for the solution to get into your ear. Grab the outer edge of your ear, by the lobe, then pull it gently outward. Your ear lobe should be perpendicular to your neck.
 You can use a glass measuring cup, a plastic syringe or a rubber bulb syringe to put the solution into your ear, or just pour directly from the bowl.









If you do use a syringe, be careful that you don't put the end of it deep into your ear — holding it above your ear canal without inserting it should be fine.
Be prepared for a little spillage if you're pouring from a bowl, especially if you're trying to do it while lying down. Or, ask someone to pour it for you.
 This gives the solution time to break up the wax.









If you used peroxide, don't be alarmed if you hear it bubbling in your ear. When the bubbling stops, you're ready to drain.
 Place an empty bowl beneath your ear, and turn your head so that the canal drains into the bowl.









To drain completely, pull your ear lobe to straighten your ear canal (as in Step 4).
 If your ear still feels blocked, repeat the irrigation process. If you've done it three times and you still feel blocked, look at another method section in this article or contact a doctor.
 Gently drying your ear once the wax is out cleans up any excess solution or wax. You can do it a few different ways:









Use soft, light pats with a cloth or paper towel.
Put a handheld blow dryer on low heat and low power, and hold the barrel a few inches away from your ear.
Put a few drops of alcohol into your ear — it'll dry the skin as it evaporates.
 If your Earwax is so impacted that you can't drain it by yourself, call a doctor and evaluate your options.









Your general practitioner can prescribe ear drops that should break up the wax. Use them with care, though — overdo it, and you'll damage your eardrum.
An ear, nose and throat (ENT) specialist can manually remove Earwax with specially designed tools.

