 The most direct way to promote a political party by volunteering is to volunteer with the party itself rather than with a specific campaign.


The two major parties have organizations in all fifty states and in most counties. Simply look up the address and contact information for the county or state party headquarters and pick a time during business hours to go.
You can also go to the website of either party, give them your information, and wait for them to contact you. The Republican Party’s website is at https://www.gop.com/get-involved/volunteer/, and the Democratic Party’s website is at http://my.democrats.org/page/s/help-elect-democrats.
If you want to volunteer for a particular candidate, the same steps apply. You can go to the campaign website and give them your information, or look for a campaign office and show up in person.
You can always feel free to work alone by printing posters, bumper stickers, t-shirts, and the like. However, political parties make all of these items on their own, and they have professional advertising agencies to design them. Volunteering as part of a team is far more effective.;
, Once you’ve found where you’d like to volunteer, go to the party or campaign office and let them know you’d like to volunteer. Let them know your availability, and they can work with you to find times when it is good for you to volunteer., Unless you have a very unusual skill (like graphic design) and are working for a small party office or a small campaign, you will probably be doing one of two things as a volunteer—knocking on doors or making phone calls.In case you’re worried, neither of these activities is usually for the purpose of soliciting a donation. Rather, they are for the purpose of educating voters about your candidate or the party’s candidates during that election cycle.
Even though phone calling and door knocking aren’t particularly complicated tasks, a bit of training is still required. There are usually scripts, talking points, and techniques a campaign or party organization will want you to know.
 Once you’re trained and scheduled, it’s time to show up and get to work. One of the most difficult things about relying on volunteer labor is unreliability. Volunteers “flake” a lot—that is, they don’t show up when they say they will. Don’t be that volunteer. Make sure you only commit to work shifts you can actually work.As a volunteer, you're under no obligation to work any shifts at all--but as someone who wants to advance a political agenda, you should understand that organizers and other campaign staff make plans based on what volunteers commit to doing. When you don't show up, you make their jobs that much harder.

