 Before you settle in to take photos, do a little primping. You'll feel more relaxed in front of the camera knowing that you already look stunning, and you won't have to do as many (if any) photo touch-ups afterwards.


Do bold makeup. Use a slightly heavier hand than usual to make sure your features stand out in a two-dimensional image. For classically sexy, pinup-style makeup, try false eyelashes, black eyeliner, and a bright red lipstick.
Tousle your hair. Add some volume and messiness to your hair for a suggestive bed-head look that implies a recent roll in the hay. You can tease already-dry hair with back-combing and hairspray, or you can wash and blow dry your hair, applying a root-lifter or mousse around your scalp.
Remove stray hairs. Hop in the shower and get shaving, plucking or trimming! Smooth legs, a well-maintained bikini area, and tweezed brows are all good ideas for an erotic photo shoot. Remove any other noticeable strays while you're at it.;
, How much you choose to show in your photos is up to you, and depends on how comfortable you feel. Keep in mind, though, that more skin isn't always sexier — if you look over boudoir shoots, old pinups, or even Playboy pictorials, you'll notice that it's more about teasing and intrigue than straight-up nudity. Arouse the imagination with clothing items like these:


Basic underwear: You don't have to go all-out and buy new lingerie to take sexy photos — what you already have will probably work great, if you present it in the right way. For bras, try push-up, balconette or plunge styles for maximum effect. On panties, steer clear of the baggy granny briefs and go for thongs, tangas, boyshorts or a bikini-cut style.
Lingerie: If you have pretty lingerie on-hand, now's the time to use it! Corsets, bustiers, negligees, slips, stockings and garters are all great options.
Other items: High heels, oversized button-up shirts, men's ties, ruffled miniskirts, or a simple bed sheet are all popular erotic wear, as well. Or, if you'd prefer to be mostly naked with a few accessories for visual interest, try sexy shoes, long necklaces, thick cuff bracelets, hats, scarves, glasses, or whatever else strikes your fancy.
 Make sure you're the star of the photo by removing any distractions from the area where you plan to take your shots. Remove clutter, get rid of any loud wall hangings, and clear out anything else that doesn't fit the look you want. One common place to take photos is on a bed, so clear off your nightstand and anything else in the immediate area. Or, if you're taking them in front of the bathroom mirror, take everything off the counter. Consider these factors as well:


Framing: Pay attention to what's in the photo and what isn't. For instance, you probably don't want to cut off the top of your head, but you might not want half of the bedpost in the shot, either.
Lighting: You can use lighting to accentuate or hide, depending on where you put the light source. If it's behind you, you'll appear as a silhouette; if it's to the front or side, you'll end up with shadows, which you can use for dramatic effect. If this is your first time, though, it's probably best to go with soft, diffuse lighting. Turn on a few different lamps around the area, and throw a sheer scarf, shirt, or other fabric over them to soften the glare.
Using a tripod: Take photos of yourself without actually holding the camera! This isn't an option if you're using a camera phone, but it might be if you're using a traditional camera with a timer. Set up the tripod that came with the camera, or put the camera on a completely level and stable surface.
 Try to relax and let go of your nervousness. If you feel confident and alluring, it'll show in your photos. Likewise, tense muscles and a forced smile will show up equally well. Here's some tips to get into the mood:


Put on some sensual music. Make up a playlist that helps you feel sensual and comfortable, and play it softly in the background as you take photos.
Set the mood with a long bubble bath, candles, a glass of wine, or whatever else signifies a romantic evening to you.
Try to get some privacy. You'll be a lot more comfortable doing this, especially the first time, if you know you're alone. Don't worry about how you might look to another person, just focus on feeling sexy and getting a good photo.
 If you're not a professional photographer, it might seem like models use witchcraft to look amazingly proportioned in every photo. But actually, a lot of it is just clever posturing. Use these positions to look your best:


Make the S-curve. Arch your back as much as possible, so that your breasts are pushed forward and your butt is pushed back. This will help accentuate your curves and imitate an hourglass shape even though you're working on the two-dimensional surface of the photo.
Keep your chin up. Raise your chin even a little bit more than you think you need to. It'll help your neck look longer and slimmer, and avoid creating weird shadows over your collarbones.
Throw your shoulders back. As with arching your back, this posture helps to push your breasts forward.
 As you're taking images, consider doing a mini-striptease to add a playful, sensual aspect to the photo. Lower a bra strap, remove a piece of clothing, or otherwise show a bit more skin.
 After you've taken your photos, you can retouch them or add different effects to enhance their appeal. Crop out mistakes, cover imperfections with a blemish tool, add different filters, or try black and white for an old-world feel.

