 If you are manufacturing products for retail sale, especially at major retail outlets, you will almost certainly need to have identifying barcodes on the packaging. Contact your intended retailers, including those online, for information.


If you intend to use barcodes only to track the production process and/or manage inventory (that is, they will only be used internally), you as a manufacturer can define your own barcodes. However, it is required by the international barcode governing body (GS1) that these barcodes not leave your manufacturing premises or be offered for sale.
If you are using the barcode in any other way than for internal tracking, you need one authorized by (if not necessarily directly purchased from) GS1.;
, A non-profit organization known as GS1 sets the standards for global commerce using barcodes. GS1 operates in over 100 nations, so you can likely contact an office in your country or region.


To find the closest GS1 office to you, visit the GS1 website and click on "I need a barcode." Then click "contact a local GS1 office" and find your closest office on the drop-down menu., Purchasing barcodes directly from GS1 requires a membership and payment of an annual fee, which is why some people prefer to buy their barcodes from resellers for a one-time charge. GS1 membership, however, is the best way to ensure the legitimacy of your barcodes.


To join the U.S. chapter of GS1 (GS1 US, formed in 2005 by a merger of GS1 and UCC, the originator of the UPC barcode), go to the GS1 US homepage; click on "I need a barcode," then "I'm new to GS1 US."If you're already a member and need to buy more barcodes, click on "I have a GS1 company prefix" on the second page.
 The first step in joining GS1 U.S. is acquiring a GS1 Company Prefix, and the length of the prefix (6-12 digits) determines how many barcodes you can create.


A six-digit prefix lets you create 100,000 barcodes, while a ten-digit prefix gives you only ten., Not surprisingly, the more blocks of barcodes you buy, the lower price per barcode you pay.


Currently, for example, you will pay a $250 initial fee and $50 annual renewal fee for up to 10 unique barcodes, and $10,500 / $2,100 for 100,000 of them., GS1 US claims that within one business day of purchase you will receive a "Welcome Email" with all the information you need to start creating unique barcodes for your product line(s)., Instead of buying already-created barcodes as you do when purchasing secondhand, with GS1 membership you will actually create the barcodes for your product(s).


GS1 US offers a "Data Driver" interface that enables you to create the barcodes yourself, or you can utilize (for a fee) an authorized GS1 US Solution Provider to do the work for you.Contact GS1 US if you need to modify or add to the series of barcodes that you create.

