 This is probably the most important thing you can do to make your kiss romantic. If you try to kiss a girl in front of your friends, she'll think you're trying to show her off as a trophy. Instead, make it seem like an intimate and special moment by making sure you're alone with her. Pull her away from the pack with these tactics:


Tangle your hands up in hers, pull away, and look into her eyes.
If you're with a group, ask her to hang back with you for a minute.
Even when you are surrounded by people at least try to touch her, like hands, shoulder etc, confidently to sub-communicate your intentions.
In school you can ask her to go to your locker with you or a walk around the school. It's very romantic in the summer or in autumn.
Ask if you can walk her home, whether it's from school, work, or a party.
Or, if all else fails, ask her out on a date if you want! That way you're guaranteed alone time.;
, Make sure the atmosphere around you is romantic, and half of the hard work is done! Going through the effort to set up an enchanting scene communicates how you feel, as well as making it easier for her to see you in a flattering way. Here's how to do it:


Find a softly-lit place. It's probably possible to come off as charming in broad daylight, but it's not easy. Instead, find a setting that has forgiving lighting that conveys a sense of romance. Try these ideas:
Sunsets are considered universally romantic, especially if you have a good viewing point
If it's a full moon, you could rely on the moonlight — you should still be able to see after your eyes adjust.
If it's a rainy day, find shelter under a porch or in a car. The small amount of light filtering through the rain should be shimmery and soft.
If you're camping or at a bonfire, make use of the flickering firelight! To recreate the look indoors, you can light a few candles.
 If you want a kiss any time in the next hour, steer the talk away from anything that she might find disgusting or revolting. A quick review of what to do:


Do not talk about:

How amazing you think other girls are. Seriously, don't ever bring this up.
Everything that's wrong with your life/all the stuff you don't like. Complaining isn't sexy.
Stuff that you'd discuss with your guy friends.
Bodily functions. Ever.


Do talk about:

How amazing you think she is. For how to pay a great compliment, keep reading.
Her interests and thoughts. If you're ever at a loss for words, ask what she thinks about something or just say you like her hair.
Things you two have in common, such as shared experiences or hobbies.
There could be millions of things to talk about movies, music, sports, wine, food, interests, games, sex, relatives, crazy things, memes, random things, etc. still if you run out of things to say try to talk about the place where both of you are at present. If you are at some restaurant, beach, a slogan you saw basically anything which you would find funny.
 Everyone loves to be complimented, and girls are no exception. A compliment is the perfect way for you to hint that you want to kiss her, while making her feel beautiful and adored. Here's a quick primer on how to do it:


Focus on something you genuinely like about her. If you can, try to make it something that's special and unique about her, compared to other people you know. A compliment that you truly mean will always sound better than something you make up, so choose carefully.

Do not build your compliment around physical features such as her butt, her figure, her weight, etc. If you're going to use her looks, stick to her eyes, her hair and her smile; don't venture out of those three areas for now.


Think about the phrasing. You could just say, "Hey, I like your smile," but that's not exactly memorable. You want the compliment to be something she remembers the exact wording of, because it made her smile. Here are some examples that are better worded:

"Your smile is completely dazzling."
"Your laugh is my favorite sound in the world."
"Honestly, your eyes sparkle like the stars."



Say it in a romantic way. Delivery matters — the nicest compliment in the world can fall flat if you rush or mumble. Try these methods:

Lower or smooth the tone of your voice slightly. Doing this conveys a sense of intimacy.
Lean in slightly when you say it. If you do this, you can also turn down the volume of your voice a bit. Another trick that makes the compliment seem private.
If you're feeling really brave, you can lean in and whisper it in her ear. Doing this is a good test for whether or not she likes having you that close to her face. If she responds well, you're probably clear to try for a kiss.
 Most girls like guys who are spontaneous. One example would be if you are walking with her and there are not many people around then stop her abruptly, put your arms around her waist and pull her towards you and go in for the romantic kiss. If she denies don't think of it as a big deal (because it's not), and don't feel bad about it. She is still with you, isn't she? Try again after some time in a different way.
 If you're unsure about whether she wants you to kiss her, try doing a few small touches first. If she seems to like having you in her space, you can move forward. Here are some possible moves, listed from least intense to more intense:

, If you're walking next to her and she has her hands at her side, casually grab one. Or, if you're sitting by each other and she doesn't have her arms folded, go for it.
 No need to make a big deal about it — if she's sitting close to you, go ahead and rest your arm lightly on her shoulders. If she snuggles in closer, you can hold her more firmly.
 Hold it for four or five seconds before letting go. If she seems to like it, you can try moving in for a kiss.
 Note that you won't be able to pick these up on every girl — some might be really shy and closed off about their feelings, even if they are interested in a guy. But here are some common signals that you're headed in the right direction:


She starts conversations, makes a joke, or otherwise tries to get your attention.
She glances at you, and quickly looks away when you look at her.
She blushes when you talk to her.
She bites her lip.
She pushes her hair back a lot.
She leans in for more contact whenever you try to touch her.
Her breathing and heart rate get faster when you're close.
 If going from a hug to a kiss on the mouth seems like too big of a leap, you can try a "small" kiss first.


Slowly raise her hand to your mouth and lightly (that is, absolutely no spit) kiss the back of it. This seems like an old-world and chivalrous gesture, and most girls love it.
Kiss her on the cheek. Try not to pucker and "smack" like you would if you were kissing a relative. Instead, keep your lips soft and your pressure light. If you're extra brave, you can angle downward toward the side of her mouth or up toward her ear.
 Before you move in to kiss her, lock eyes. This is a clear signal that you're thinking about kissing her. If she backs away or abruptly changes the subject, hold off on the kiss. If she seems receptive, though, keep moving forward.
 Move your face closer to hers at a slow pace, so that she has plenty of time to back away. (Tilt your head slightly, opposite of her tilt, otherwise your nose would be in the way.) Stop just before you reach her lips.


If she backs away or starts talking, that's a no. Don't take it too hard, and try again another time.
If she doesn't move, that probably means you can go ahead and kiss her. (Or better yet, she might move in the last little bit and kiss you.)

, This is particularly important if this is your first kiss with this girl — you don't want to seem aggressive or unskilled. Lightly graze your lips over hers, keeping the pressure as soft as possible. After you've done that a few times, shift your focus to gently kissing her lower lip, so that it's between both of yours.


Try to avoid smacking as much as possible — the sound can be distracting.
 Don't just let your hands sit at your sides like limp noodles — use them to make your kiss even better! Here are some good places to put them:


On the sides of her face, so that you're cupping her jaw in both of your hands.
On the back of her head, so that they're tangled up in her hair.
On her shoulders.
On her waist.
If she seems interested in the kiss but also seems shy or timid, here's a move you can try: use your hands to grab her hands, and put them up on your shoulders. It's a quick and easy way to get her to move in closer, and makes it so that you're the one putting yourself out there and risking rejection — saving her the potential embarrassment.
 If you're ready to move into a more passionate liplock, you can attempt the French kissing. Gently run the very tip of your tongue over her lower lip a few times. She'll get the message, and open her mouth a bit more, if she's interested.
 As unbelievable as it sounds, you will need to take a break or stop kissing at some point. Instead of just breaking off abruptly, though, you can do it in a way that seems cute.


Pull your lips away, but rest your forehead against hers. Stay there for a few seconds while you catch your breath.
Pull away and put your cheek against hers, so that your mouth is next to her ear. (If you want to pay her another compliment or tell her how amazing she is, now's a good time!)

, If you're ending the kiss, try to do so with a gentle caress. Run your fingers through her hair, stroke her cheek with your fingers, or softly kiss her cheek. It seems like a small step, doing something like this can help end the kiss on a positive note and get her looking forward to next time. Don't rush into things! Girls like to take their time with things.

