 You can use your prayers to Jesus to tell Him about the difficult things that are going on in your life. Praying can be helpful for coping with emotions like frustration and pain. If you can let out your anger during prayer rather than in daily life or in your relationships, then it can become an emotional support that you can use to calm you down.When something bad happens to you, for example, you lose your job, you can pray to Jesus to help process your emotions and find relief from your stress. Give your words of frustration, anger or fear over this loss to Him.
You can use the Psalms as guides in how to pray through hard times. For example, in Psalm 4 the Psalmist asks that God to give him relief for his distress. , Remember that God made you in His image, and Jesus loves and His Spirit accompanies you on your journey. He wanted you to choose to repent, to seek to please God and acknowledge Him in all you do, just the way you are: Free to choose to follow His plan to be saved. When you are having a hard time loving yourself, remind yourself that Jesus came to this earth and died, in part, because of His great love for you. His grace passes all understanding.Remember John 15:11-13: These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. This is my commandment,

'That you love one another, as I have loved you, and greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends,.
 In your prayers to Jesus you have an opportunity to reconsider why things have happened to you. Perhaps when you reconsider your circumstances you will be better able to understand how God could be using something bad in your life for good.For example, although you have lost your job, you have been able to spend a lot more time with your kids.
Consider the beatitudes. Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 5:1-12) says that “Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth”.
 Going to Jesus in prayer when you are going through a hard moment can help shield you from the negative emotions that you are experiencing. For example, if someone you love is sick or in surgery, you may need to take a moment and refocus on Jesus and take comfort in his presence and strength.Although you should use Jesus as a support, continue to support others and allow other people you are with to support you as well. Continue to stay present with your loved ones and share with them the routine, the joy and pain of what they or you are experiencing.
 While you pray about the situations in your life, consider the ways Jesus would respond.


If you are having difficulty at work with someone who has interrupted your career by receiving the promotion you desired/deserved, you can think about Jesus-like responses to the situation. For example, in Luke 6:27, Jesus says “But I say to you who hear,Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you.”

