 If the device is in a belt clip or other snap-on attachment, pop it off using the large tab on the side.


The process for removing a Defender Otterbox case will be the same for virtually all devices.The only differences will be the number and the style of tension clips.;
, The most difficult part of removing the Defender case is peeling off the flexible silicone layer. Your best bet is to start at the camera opening, the charging port, or a corner of the screen., If you can't fit your finger into one of these openings, use an old credit card or other hard, flexible piece of plastic.Stick it underneath the slipcover, and wiggle it back and forth until you can insert your finger into the gap.
 Once you've wedged a corner open, you should be able to go around the phone pulling off the silicone. Be careful when removing the silicone from your open ports to avoid tearing any port covers., New Defender cases have clips along the side that you can pop open with your fingers. The larger the device, the more clips you'll find along the edges. There is typically a clip on each corner and clips in the middle for larger devices.


If you're using an iPad and don't have tabs or slots, click here.
 Use your fingers to pop one of the tension clips open along the side of the case. If you can't get your finger under the clip, you may need to use a small flat-head screwdriver or a stiff credit card to get some leverage. The tension clips release from the bottom.









If using a tool to pry the clips open, lift towards the front of the case. Don't try to pull down, or you may break the plastic.
Some clips may be easier to remove than others, especially when all clips are closed. If you're having trouble with one, move onto a different clip.
 The front and back of the case should come apart completely. Don't force the two apart, or you may damage the tension clips.









You may not be able to release all of the clips for some devices while the device is inside. Instead, release them along the top, bottom, and one side, then open the case like a hinge.

