 Many experts like the combination of a soft creamy cheese, a blue cheese and a hard cheese. For example, Camembert, Stilton and Manchego.;
, One wheel of aged or traditional cheese is perfect for surprise guests or a snack before going out to dinner., Once you know what type of wine, beer or spirits you’ll be serving, go to the local cheese counter and ask for suggested pairings., Try to use the cuisine of the country where the cheese is made as a guide. For example, a Spanish cheese might pair well with roasted peppers and a feta might go well with olives.


Other common pairings include quince paste, fruit, jam, salt, pickled items and butter or oil.
A good pairing will bring out the flavor of the cheese. However, you should taste test to ensure a good match., They should be served at room temperature.


Keep the climate in mind before you serve. If it’s a hot summer day, your cheese may only need 10 or 15 minutes. If your refrigerator is particularly cold, your cheese may take an hour to come to room temperature., Keep the rest of the wheel in a cool room or refrigerator.
 Wipe the knife, then score the cheese rind.


Apply pressure to the section of cheese you want to cut off by rocking the knife back and forth.
, Good etiquette dictates that guests shouldn’t leave the rind on the board, whether or not they follow that rule. Most rinds are edible.
 Unless your crowd recognizes cheese by sight, a small chalkboard, a serving card or a label will help them navigate. You are less likely to have people select a cheese that they won’t like and refuse to eat if you label everything.
 of cheese per person. For a light snack or appetizer, plan for 30 to 60g (one to two oz.). For a party where cheese is the highlight, plan on 100 to 120g (3.5 to 4.2oz.) per person.


Multiply the number of people you are hosting by the number of oz. you want to provide and shop accordingly.
 Cheese platters or trays should be large, so that a person can cut off a piece of cheese without it touching other types of cheese with their hands or utensils.
 Cut two, lay them perpendicularly to the cheese wedge and lay a sharp knife nearby.


Avoid cutting all the cheese into slices or cubes. It will dry out more quickly, especially if it is left out in the open air.
 Use a different knife for each cheese, so that the flavors don’t get mixed. Use knives with prongs at the end, if possible, so that guests can easily transfer the cheese to their plate.
, Don’t place them around the cheese plate or parts of your platter may get covered by the crackers.

