 These aren't the only way to train your brain, but many think brain-training games are the best. Some examples of popular brain-training games include "Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day!" for the Nintendo DS and "Brain Challenge" for Apple's iPod. These supposedly work all of the areas of the brain and can help you exercise your brain effectively., These can include, but aren't limited to: basic arithmetic, puzzles like crossword and sudoku, games that require thought like Chess, etc. These problems require your brain to work and not only help train your brain, but make you better at these things(maybe you'll become a Chess master).
 Not only can exercising your brain help it, but exercising other parts of your body may help, too. Exercise has many mental benefits such as improving cognitive functioning, reducing the risk of developing dementia, and many other benefits, too.You can also supposedly think better after exercise, so it would also be a good idea to exercise your body immediately before you exercise your brain., Eating the right breakfast can have quite an impact on brainpower. It has been shown that kids who have fizzy drinks and sugary snacks for breakfast perform poorly on tests of memory and attention.Eating a good breakfast everyday will also insure that you have the energy throughout the day to exercise your mind and body.
 When you watch TV, your brain goes into neutral. In one study says that people watching TV had increased alpha brain waves—their brains were in a passive state as if they were just sitting in the dark.TV watching has been tied to low achievementof course, and why would you want that?

, Studies have shown that people are typically better at solving exercises designed to measure creative thinking right after exposure to comedy.Subjects claimed that they felt more alert, active, interested, and excited after watching comedy. There's a caveat, though: Humor can be distracting and may decrease performance on non-creative tasks.
 By learning something else, you are exercising an important skill of your brain - the ability to learn. By searching wikiHow or some other site, you can learn something that will be helpful to you in the future and help your brain, too.
 If you get bored doing mental maths problems, don't do them. Don't feel you have to do it just to make your brain better. If you don't enjoy it, you won't learn anything!

