 Whether you want to re-dye it the original color, or perhaps change the color to a different hue, the choice is yours. There are many great sources for leather furniture dye, just be sure to use a professional and reputable source, and not an "As Seen on TV" type of product.;
, Avoid paint, which many stores may offer. You can choose your color off of swatches or color charts available from true professional vendors and suppliers, check with leather repair and restoration professionals or leather furniture companies to find high quality dye.
 You'll need good light, good ventilation and enough space to move freely around the furniture.
 This is to protect any flooring, walls, or nearby objects that you do not want dye to get on.


If there are any areas that you do not want dyed on the leather furniture, such as a reclining handle, push buttons or decorative tacks, etc, be sure to cover them using masking tape and/or paper towels to prevent over-spray.
 Use a very diluted dish soap and water mixture thoroughly to remove dirt, grease and grime from the leather's pores. Use about 5 drops dish soap in a bottle of water, shake, pour onto a rag or paper towels and scrub the leather gently.
 Use leather prep that you can get from a leather furniture dye distributor. Mist a sponge or paper towels and wipe down the leather, massaging the prep on to the surface but not spraying directly on the leather because you do not want to saturate it. Prep removes the protective silicon top coat of the leather, and using too much can damage the leather.


You may use other products such as acetone but these are extremely erosive and too much can actually cause a chemical burn and severely weaken the leather!

,, You may also apply dye with an airbrush tool, many people find this application to have a more even and smooth finish. When applying dye, be sure not to put it on too thick, thicker areas may result in a drip or thickness that will not cure totally and could later peel away if it does not bond to the leather's surface.
 Then dry (cure) the dye with a household hair dryer. Be sure all areas are cured thoroughly before applying any more layers of dye, if you are unsure if the dye is cured, you can wait an hour or two before applying the next coat.
 Continue until you are satisfied with the resulting color, its brightness and its evenness. Usually 2 to 4 thin layered applications is all that is needed for satisfactory results.
 This is to protect the leather as well as the dye. Be sure the top coat is totally dry and cures for at least 3 days before using the leather furniture!

