 Make sure they think you're ready enough so that you don't crash and burn in front of 50+ people.;
, There are many, many feisanna in the spring.
 Usually these will be available somewhere in your dance studio. Make sure you have a copy of the official form, because some feisanna require that you submit an actual entry form and ignore index cards or paper. Better safe than sorry. On the flip side, some feisanna will ask that you use an index card. It will probably say, "Entries to be submitted on a 3x5 card." This means a standard index card. The information sheet will then give you a list of things to write down (i.e. 1. Name, 2. Age, and so on). Always number the card 1 through 10 and write each tidbit of information down next to the number designated on the form.


If you read about the feis online, there will usually be a link that takes you to the syllabus and entry form.
Some schools will mail you your number if you enclose a self-addressed, stamped envelope big enough for however big of a card they say. This is optional, because all feiseanna will give you your number when you get there if you don't have it already.
Sometimes schools will post the list of competitors and their numbers, schools, levels, etc. on their website once they have received all the entries. If such is the case, you can look, but don't write your number on your own index card, because the card they give you will also have other important information on it. This is, however, a great resource to use to see how many people you'll be up against. You can also check to see if your friends will be there.
,,, The syllabus is the sheet that says which category you belong in, what songs you dance to, and what dances you do.
 if you have never competed before, you most likely fall into Beginner. Check with your teacher to be sure. For experienced competitors, check the syllabus and it will say where you belong. Read carefully above each table where it lists the category name, and then it should say, "For dancers who have won__________in________category or something similar.
 This is whatever age you are under, or going to be. For example, if it's February, you're 11 years old and you turn 12 in the summer, and your feis is in April, you would list yourself as Beginner, U12.
 Beginners typically do a reel and a light jig, and a slip jig is also a choice if they feel they're ready. Check with your teacher to see if s/he thinks you're ready for a slip jig. Find your U under your category (in the table on the left hand column it should say, "U12" and then three numbers). For a reel, light jig and slip jig, the numbers are usually in the 120's. Fill them in. So in the lines it might say, "Beginner U12, 121, 122, 123."

,, This should be the head director of your school. The names of student or assistant teachers are NOT appropriate in this field and may be disregarded.
 Most feisanna charge something like $8 per dance. For example, $8 times three dances = $24.
 This is a fee for any parties who want to watch you dance. If you are dancing with no one in the audience with you (sometimes you're better off that way, because family only agitates you at a feis) you have no gate fee to pay. Instead of a gate fee, however, many feiseanna now ask that everyone pays a "basic fee," which is only once per family.
 This is your total fee.
 On the school's website, they will post lots of important information, so check for things like your competition number and which stage and time you're dancing on (there are like 4). It will include information about the venue (not driving directions though!), local restaurants and lodging and anything else they feel you should know about where you'll be dancing. Some studios mail out the competitor numbers to the school you dance at, and you find the index card with your name on the back. On the front is your number.
