 The following steps will make it clear on how to wash your jacket:




Check for any unwanted material in the jacket pockets and remove them. Now close all the zippers and Velcro flaps present in your jacket. This is to ensure that nothing unwanted goes in or comes outside while washing.
Dry-brush the jacket with a soft bristled nail brush or a toothbrush to remove any mud, grease or any easily removable stains. Use a minute quantity of spot fabric remover solution to ease the process.
Now put a moderate quantity of waterproofing liquid cleaner like Granger's and Nikwax in the washing machine and use cold water for washing. These waterproofing liquids preserve the DWR (durable water repellent) layer of the jacket while ensuring to remove dirt, oils and stains without harming the DWR. These liquids will make your jacket work like new again and will restore its original performance. For stubborn grease and dirt use non biological detergent containing no softeners or conditioners provided the care label on your jacket allows it.


Now machine wash your jacket at 30ʡC (86ʡF) for a short interval of time while ensuring that the jacket doesn't start bubbling while inside the washing machine.


As the cycle gets over , put the jacket for Tumble drying at a low heat setting (Duration: 20 minutes or as instructed on care label) to rejuvenate the DRW layer.(Skip if care label doesn't allow tumble drying)
Now hang the jackets in hangers and let them air dry in shade.
If you prefer a hand wash then use a slightly lukewarm water with a little amount of liquid cleaner or special cleaners to wash your jacket. Avoid using detergents and detergent based soaps or fabric softeners as they affect the DRW layer of waterproof jacket. After washing once Wash under running water to get rid of any leftovers. Also, Avoid scrunching or kneading as this will crush the feather stalks. (Duration: 15min approx.)
After washing just roll the jacket or shake it to get rid of excessive water. Now hang it in a hanger under shade for air drying.;
, Here are the steps to wash a waterproof trouser:


Wear your trousers and also wear some waterproof shoes.

If your trousers are made up of rubberized Flexothane then wash them with a solution of hot washing up liquid and use a hog brush to brush away the stains
If you are wearing the woven type then you can probably wash them with cool washing up liquid with a little biological powder but make sure you brush the mud off first.
Now as the washing is over, try drying with a sponge or just jump here and there a little to get rid of all droplets. Now remove them and leave for air drying in a hanger.
