 When temperatures drop, your tire pressure drops in response. Check to see if air pressure in your tires need to be recharged, especially in cold climates of 30 degrees and below., Traction is always important when operating a vehicle, but become even more crucial to cars in inclement weather of snow and ice. Inspect your tire threads thoroughly to gauge their efficiency.Use a penny to help you determine the depth of your tires’ treads. Insert a penny with its head toward the tire tread into the groove. If the back of the penny is covered, your tire tread is in the clear. If you can see the entire back of the coin, it’s time for new tires.
Additional signs that you should consider buying new tires include: nicks and holes, uneven wear, and bulging sidewalls on the tires.
 Snow tires are better than regular tires because they are made with special materials that stay soft to provide tires with maximum traction in below freezing temperatures. They also have tread patterns that grip snow covered and ice covered roads.Install winter tires in sets of fours to maintain the traction, safety, and control of your vehicle. If or when the weather warms up, it is important to change out the tires for all-season or summer tires.Carry a set of snow chains for your vehicle while you travel. Although it might not be necessary to install them on a car that has snow tires installed on it, having snow chains are a requirement when passing certain roads throughout the winter season.
 Place the snow chain over the tire, holding it at the top and letting it fall evenly over the front of the tire and wheel. Once the chain is evenly and securely placed on the three quarters of the wheel not touching the road, place the snow chains onto the rest of the tires.When the snow chains are on three quarters of all of the tires, get into your car and drive forward for less than a meter. This will expose the part of the tire that was touching the ground previously.
Put on the brake, get out of the car, and finish securing the remaining chains to the rest of the wheel. Use a closer link to tighten the chains where they close.
Adding snow chains to your vehicle might be necessary during drives in some states, but often times if you have snow tires installed, you can save yourself a little trouble and not have to bother adding snow chains to your vehicle at all.
 Inspect the blades of your wipers ahead of the winter time to ensure that your wipers will have a quick response to whatever may potentially obstruct your vision while you drive. If your blades don’t sweep across the windshield cleanly or are cracked, replace them immediately.Also make sure that your windshield defroster is up to par. Replacing your blades will be an insufficient move if your defroster isn’t in working order.
 Make sure the fluid levels in your radiator are adequate. Confirm that you have the proper coolant in the car’s system. Check to see that all of the hoses are in good working condition and do not have any obvious indications of wear., Cold weather can deplete an older battery at an accelerated rate. Look at the top of the battery for the installation date.If the date on the battery is older than two or three years, think about purchasing a new one before winter begins.
Remove any signs of whitish powder that might have gathered on the terminal connections. Clean away the buildup with an equal parts baking soda and warm water solution.
 Ensure that your engine is performing at optimal performance level by having a mechanic or auto service. If you’re good with cars, feel free to conduct your own inspection at home.