 The citric acid in lemon juice is a natural bleaching agent which could possibly be used help to lighten the skin, if used carefully. It's critically important to avoid going out in the sun with citrus juice on your skin, however, which can cause a painful reaction called "phytophotodermatitis."To use lemon to safely:









Squeeze the juice from half a lemon and dilute it to half strength with water. Dip a cotton ball in the liquid and apply the lemon juice to your face, or wherever you wish to lighten the skin. Leave the lemon juice to sit on the skin for 15 to 20 minutes. Do not go outside during this time, as the juice makes your skin hyper-sensitive to sunlight.
Thoroughly rinse your skin when you're done, then apply a good moisturizer as lemon juice can be very drying. Repeat this treatment 2 to 3 times a week (no more) for best results., Turmeric is an Indian spice which has been used in skin lightening treatments for thousands of years. While the effects haven't been studied, turmeric is believed to inhibit melanin production, thereby preventing the skin from becoming tanned.









Mix turmeric with some olive oil and chickpea flour to form a paste. Apply the paste to the skin using gentle circular motions. This will help to exfoliate the skin.
Leave the turmeric paste to sit on the skin for 15 to 20 minutes before rinsing off. The Turmeric may stain your skin slightly yellow, but this should quickly wear off.
Repeat this treatment once or twice a week for best results. You can also use turmeric in your Indian cooking!, Raw potato is believed to have mild bleaching properties, due to its high vitamin C content. Vitamin C is used as a lightening ingredient in many OTC skin creams. To use:


Simply cut a raw potato in half, then rub the exposed flesh over the skin you wish to lighten. Leave the potato juice to sit on the skin for 15 to 20 minutes before rinsing.
You will need to repeat this treatment several times a week in order to get any beneficial results. Instead of a potato you could use a tomato or cucumber, as both of these foods also have a high vitamin C content., Aloe vera is a very soothing substance, which can help to ease redness and fade discoloration. It is also very moisturizing on the skin, which aids skin rejuvenation.


To use aloe vera, break a leave off of an aloe vera plant and rub the gel-like sap over the skin.
Aloe vera is very gentle so it's not necessary to rinse it off, however you may prefer to remove it if it makes your skin feel sticky.
 Some people claim that coconut water is an effective skin lightener and it also makes skin supple and smooth.


To use, simply dip a cotton ball in the liquid and use it to rub the coconut water all over the skin you wish to lighten. Coconut water is very natural and gentle, so there's no need to rinse it off.
You can also drink coconut water to boost your hydration levels and increase your intake of several essential minerals.
 According to some dermatologists, papaya can be used to tighten, brighten, and otherwise improve tired-looking skin. Rich in Vitamins, A, E, and C, papaya is also packed with alpha-hydroxy acids (AHA), a common ingredient in anti-aging skin formulas.While eating papaya can have many overall health benefits, if you want to use a papaya for skincare, try this:


Cut a ripe papaya into half, then remove the seeds. Add half a cup of water. Blend the papaya until it is a purée. Place the purée in a small container. Keep refrigerated. Apply it to your skin three times a week for best results.
 Hydroquinone is a highly effective skin bleaching cream which can be used to lighten large areas of skin, or to bleach sun spots and moles. Although hydroquinone is FDA-approved as a skin lightener in the US, it has been banned in large parts of Europe and Asia due to research that claimed the ingredient was a potential carcinogen. It may also cause permanent skin discoloration, so use this product with caution.


Discuss treatment with your doctor or dermatologist first. Concentrations up to 2% are available OTC, while stronger concentrations (up to 4%) require a prescription.