 Dirt on the floor takes away the shine. Use a fine fiber broom or a dust mop to remove any loose dirt from the floor. Keep the floor dry to ward off areas for dust to collect. Continual traffic on a dirty floor acts like the grit on sandpaper and can put little scratches in the floors finish.;
, A vinegar-water mixture at a 1:4 ratio is a good cleaning agent for your floor. You may also use any hardwood floor cleaner. Use a sponge mop. Do not let the mop get too wet. Dry the floor with a towel immediately. You can harm the wood if too much water sits on the floor.
 Fill a spray bottle with vinegar solution, and spray the area before wiping it up or you can very lightly dampen the cloth. Remember to dry the area with a towel immediately.
 Drying the floor with a towel helps to polish the floor and remove any marks left from the dampness of the mop or cloth. Take care not to use an oil-based cleaner, which will leave your floor cloudy and streaked.
 Make sure you lift items and set them down. Put felt or coasters under furniture to keep the pieces from marring the floor when they shift. Keep pets' nails trimmed. Vacuums with a beater bar should not be used to clean the floor.
 Shoe marks can leave dirt and scuffs on the wood. Be cautious of heeled shoes. Place rugs or runners down in high-traffic areas to protect the floor from dirt build-up, scratches and scuff marks. Also place mats or rugs at each doorway to cut down on some of the dirt entering the room. Be sure to clean or shake out the rugs regularly.
 Only use a damp cloth and appropriate cleaning solution on the floor. Scrubbing or rubbing the floor aggressively will harm the finish and the wood. Stains that are set in will need to be buffed out and the finish reapplied.
 Hang curtains or blinds over windows to keep prolonged exposure from the sun from fading your bamboo flooring. Window tint can also be applied to windows to limit the sun's UV rays and to protect bamboo flooring.
 Do not wax the bamboo or use oil cleaners. Further information about bamboo floor care and refinishing can be received from the manufacturer of the floor.

