 Always talk to your infant's doctor before giving the baby any kind of medication. Listen closely, take notes, and converse with the doctor until you are absolutely sure you know the answers to questions like:What condition does my baby have?
What is the name of the medication?
What will it do for my child’s condition?
What form does the medication come in?
How exactly will I dose it out and give it to my baby? And how often?
How will my baby respond? Are there side effects I should watch out for?
How should I store the medication?;
, Never put the medication into another container. Keep the instructions with the medication, and consider even making a copy to keep in another conspicuous location.Make sure anyone else who gives your baby the medication is as clear on the instructions as you are.
 Some medications need to be kept at room temperature, or refrigerated. Refer to the package instructions and your doctor’s guidance.Keep the medication in a safe place, like a high cabinet or locked drawer, especially if you have toddlers or young kids in the house as well.
 Most liquid infant medications will utilize a syringe dropper. If a dropper is included with the medication (as it normally is), use only this vessel.Never use a teaspoon instead of a dosing cup or medical syringe.
Measure out doses of medication as precisely as possible. Never think to yourself “Close enough” or “A little extra won’t hurt.”

, Call the doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions or concerns, or if you are in any way confused about how to dose or dispense the medication. You’re not bothering or annoying them by doing so — it’s their job to help you and your baby., Make sure you know what types of negative reactions to the medication to watch out for. If you believe your baby is having an allergic reaction or is exhibiting a negative side effect, contact the doctor right away. If necessary, take your child to get immediate medical attention., Even infants can pick up on their parents’ anxiety, and this is likely to exacerbate their own discomfort. Take a moment to compose yourself and take a few deep breaths if necessary. Remind yourself that you are helping your child, and that you know what you’re doing., Make sure you are not transmitting germs along with the medicine. Wash with soap and warm water for at least twenty seconds.