 Telling your best friend about your secret little romance may be a good idea at the time, but what happens when your friend accidentally asks you how your boyfriend is while your mom is driving you to school? Telling others (even people who seem trustworthy) about your secret romance will most likely backfire, so keep it to yourself.;
, Don't flirt or look like you want to be with them while you're in public. People will become suspicious that there's something going on, and the gossip mill will start. Treat your secret lover like another random person out there. Don't avoid them like crazy, as this will cause suspicion as well. Just treat them normally.
 Avoid texting or emailing each other romantic notes, or posting cute things on each others' Facebook profile. You never know who could be reading over your secret lover's shoulder, or if their parents go through the texts on their cell phones. Things are easier to deny when they're not in writing.
 When going out, don't go to the local coffee shop, or the mall that your friends frequent. Go somewhere far away that nobody you know would be. There's always a chance that you'll see someone that you know (it's a small world), but lessen the chances as much as you can.
 If your parents ask you where you're going as you're heading out the door to meet your secret lover, don't stand there and stammer out a pathetic excuse. Have a good cover-up story planned out beforehand, in case anyone asks you where you're going or what you're doing. Say that you're going to the library, somewhere to study, the spa, a friend's house, etc. If someone asks to go with you, don't let them. Tell them that you need quiet so that you can concentrate, or that you want a little time to yourself, etc.
 Don't leave any evidence of your secret romance, whether it's misplaced underwear, an undeleted text message, or a lipstick mark on your cheek. Don't come home with messed-up hair, your face covered in lipstick, and without one shoe. Look the exact same way you did when you left, and cover up any evidence that you two were together.
 If one of your friends asks you, "Have you met _____?" Just say "Yes". Don't say, "Oh yeah, we're great friends." or "I know him really well!" Don't give out more information than you're asked. This is important!

, Don't get so caught up with keeping the romance a secret that you forget to have a romance! Go out, kiss, hug, etc.
 Find a private place to talk, or wait until your parents/family aren't home. Be romantic! Don't be afraid to do some hugging, snuggling, and cozying up! Snuggle up to him really close and tilt your head up. If he is in the moment, the kiss will naturally come. Don't try to kiss him, let him kiss you. If the kiss happens, focus on making it a memorable kiss. When getting cozy, be sweet but assertive; don't be afraid to say no.
 You're surviving your secret romance! Congratulations! But remember, if you are in the middle of a secret romance, future dates are hard. Call him; follow up on first date with a phone call, invite him to go to a place (mall, movies, park, your/his house, amusement park, etc.), and with luck, no one will suspect your romance.

