 If you have acne, try to keep your skin as dirt-free as possible and never cake on your makeup. Wash your face before you put on your makeup. Don't over wash your face because that strips your face of natural oils that make your face smooth. If you want to use tanning lotion, be sure to test it out on a small patch of unseen skin to make sure you don't have an allergic reaction or that it turns you orange. It's best to wait 2-3 days before applying all over.;
, If you have strict rules about this, get a French manicure. It looks natural but is gorgeous! If a French manicure is out of the question, clear nail varnish is a sneaky alternative. Nail biting isn't a good thing to do and it will ruin your nails. You can buy top coats that are specially formulated for people that have this bad habit, ones that taste really bitter as soon as you bite your nails.
 Body odor and bad breath are huge turnoffs! Always carry some mint gum and deodorant along with showering daily. Foot powder is also available from most pharmacies should your feet need freshening.
 Wear a cute necklace or a ring that is eye-catching. Keep it fun and funky and true to your personal style. If you aren't allowed jewelry or have to keep it to a minimum, ex. you can only wear studs/sleepers and a watch but nothing else, make sure that what you do wear makes a statement. Keep in mind that excess jewelry might be confiscated, so don't go overboard. Another cute jewelry item is an anklet. These look really cute as a simple accent. Don't overload your ankles with these! The thinner your layers of anklets, the longer you legs will look. The more layers of anklets you have, the shorter your legs will look. Whenever you're at markets or on vacation, keep an eye out for pretty anklets, like silver ones or ones with colors that pop out.
 Keep in mind that many schools have strict rules about footwear (ex. they have to be black, leather, closed-in, lace-up, etc.). Mary-Janes are usually a fail-safe option for a quirky-cute look. If your school requires you to wear lace ups, choose cute combat boots or converse. Don't wear shoes that are uncomfortable to walk in, as you may need to walk a bunch between classes.
 Wrap it around a bun or tie it in a bow on top of a ponytail. Either way, it's an attractive look! Thin ribbons look best in bright colors and the thicker ribbons are great in any color or pattern. You could also wear a Chanel ribbon. These come in black and white and look super stylish, but you have to buy a Chanel product as they are part of the packaging. Be creative with the ribbons you put in your hair, but try not to copy someone else. Choose ribbons that coordinate with your hair color. For example, if you have blonde hair: white, blue, and pink. If you have brown hair: red, periwinkle, green, and pink. Red hair: green, pink, and blue. Black hair: white, royal blue, and colorful patterns.
 Try not to use heat on it every day. If you do, make sure you use heat protectant and also use a good shampoo and conditioner. Make sure you don't wear clips too often, as these can give you headaches or damage your hair. One alternative to hair elastics are called Twist bands. They're really pretty and don't do nearly as much damage like regular hair ties can. Don't over dye your hair because the process will strip away the natural oils of your hair. To stand out, you might highlight your hair with color streaks. Also, don't wear the same hairdo everyday because it can damage your hair and cause unnatural oil accumulation.
 Pay attention to any rules in your uniform policy on tight fitting clothes.
 If your uniform has patterns, make sure to wear solid colored socks so that you don't have clashing patterns going on. If you are wearing solid color socks, make sure they are not the focal point of your outfit. If you are wearing black shoes, choose more neutral colored socks. If you need a pop of color, choose your favorite! If your uniform lacks a pattern or print, you can choose patterned socks. To look less out of place, consider choosing socks that match your school colors or uniform colors.
