 Although androgenic alopecia is linked with the presence of male sex hormones (androgens), its exact cause is unknown.Male pattern baldness is caused by genetic predisposition and the main androgen believed to be associated with baldness is dihydrotestosterone (DHT).Increased level of DHT in hair follicles is believed to shorten the hair's growth cycle and delay growth of new hair.Over time, the hair follicles stop growing new hair; however, the follicles remain alive, suggesting that they may still be able to grow new hair.;
, Minoxidil is an FDA approved topical treatment to treat male pattern baldness. It is a solution that stimulates the hair follicles to grow and is applied directly onto your scalp.Minoxidil slows hair loss and some men experience growth of new hair. However, hair loss usually returns if the medication is stopped, so you must continue using minoxidil to continue to see results.
Adverse events associated with Minoxidil include itching, skin rash, acne, burning, inflammation, and swelling.Serious side effects that may indicate too much of the medication has absorbed to your body include blurred vision, chest pain, dizziness, fainting and irregular heartbeat., Finasteride (marketed under Propecia and Proscar) is an oral prescription pill and somewhat more effective than minoxidil. It works by binding to the enzyme that would otherwise convert free testosterone to DHT.Finasteride slows hair loss as long as you take it. However, as soon as you discontinue therapy, hair loss typically returns within a year.Side effects associated with finasteride include chills; cold sweats; confusion; dizziness; hives; swelling in the legs, arms and face; tingling; erectile dysfunction; decreased libido; and ejaculatory dysfunction; and weight gain., During a hair transplant, tiny patches of hair are moved from one part of your scalp to the balding area. Hair transplants are usually done during several sessions and although they can be expensive, the results are effective and permanent. Before the procedure, you will receive local anesthesia to numb the scalp.
During the procedure, a small section of a hairy scalp is removed (donor area) and the remaining skin is stitched together. Then, small groups of hair are carefully separated out from the donor area and inserted into the bald area.Thousands of hairs may be transplanted during one session
Hair transplants can cause scarring and bleeding, and there is a risk of infection.

