 After two weeks without adding any chlorine to your pool and with the pump running, you should test the chlorine levels. The most accurate way of measuring chlorine concentrations is through a DPD (N-Diethylparaphenylenediamine) test, although test strips or a colorimeter can also be used.DPD test kits use a comparator. A comparator allows you to compare your sample to color standards. You put your sample in the slot and then compare the color to the standards on the side of the instrument.
A colorimeter is an instrument that uses white light to determine chlorine levels. It is a separate instrument, which won’t be included in standard DPD test kits.
Test strips can also be used to determine chlorine levels. They are the simplest and cheapest option.
 You’ll need to get a DPD test kit, which should include some test tubes to obtain water samples. Reach into the pool to obtain a water sample from at least elbow depth. Add the recommended drops of DPD reactant to the tubes. Mix the solution in the tube by turning it upside down with the cap on., Since the use of the color comparator included in your test kit will involve differentiating between different hues of the same color, such as shades of yellow or pink, you’ll need to perform the test in good lighting conditions. If you are outside, you’ll need to hold the comparator at eye level with the sun a bit to the side, as opposed to shining directly through the comparator. You’ll need to remove your sunglasses, which could interfere with your reading.If you are inside, you’ll need to establish lighting that is as close to daylight as possible.
 On the front of the test kit, you’ll see a color chart that you can use to determine the chlorine level.Find the closest match and note the associated chlorine level in a notebook., Instead of the comparator included in a DPD test kit, you could use an instrument called a colorimeter. This tool uses a white light beam, which is sent through an optical filter. You just insert your water sample in the top slot. Turn on the colorimeter, which will send a white light beam through the sample. You will get a number on a digital display on the front of the instrument, which indicates the amount of chlorine in the sample., If you are looking for a simple and cheap way to test chlorine levels, you might want to use test strips. Dip the test strip in your pool. Pull out the test strip and wait for the number of seconds indicated on the test strip kit. You’ll need to hold the test strip horizontally. Then, compare the color on the test strip to the color chart included in the test strip kit. Once you find a match, note the associated chlorine concentration.Although not as accurate as a DPD test using a comparator or a colorimeter, test strips will give you a good enough reading in most situations.
 You’ll want to use one of the testing methods to determine whether the chlorine levels are close to zero or at least at an acceptable level (<0.1 mg/L). If the color in the water sample indicates an acceptable level of chlorine, you have successfully dechlorinated your pool.If the chlorine level is not acceptable, you can let it naturally dechlorinate for another couple weeks, or use a chemical method.

