 Screen beauties are an ideal starting point to find the style and appearance that you'll be wanting to copy. To start off your inspiration, check out the following movie starlets:

Rita Hayworth (Gilda)





Ava Gardner (The Killers)





Elizabeth Taylor (Cleopatra)





Vivien Leigh (Gone with the Wind)





Hedy Lamarr (Samson and Delilah).




;
, A 1940s femme fatale has either long, side-parted waves (think Rita Hayworth and Veronica Lake), or shorter pin curls (think Elizabeth Taylor and Ava Gardner). No highlights, and no eccentric rainbow dyes. A femme fatale's hair color is always solid black, deep dark brown, auburn, brown, or platinum blonde.

Keep your hair shiny and luxurious. Tame any frizzy hair, split-ends, dye damage, and so on. A femme fatale sees the hair stylist regularly.
 Femme fatale makeup is glamorous and vampy.Perfect, usually matted, powdered (not caked on) skin, with red or maroon lipstick.
Match your nail polish with your lips.






Faux eyelashes are divine if you want drama or if your eyelashes are short.






You should also consider shaping your eyebrows.
Top it of with black mascara. For the "cat's eye" effect, use black liquid liner. Before you put the cat eye liner, put on an understated eyeshadow color that is slightly lighter than your skin tone. Then, rest your elbows on a flat surface and carefully line your eyes, not too thick, and be steady. It takes practice at first, but the results are worth it! When you have reached near the end, do a little curve, a small sweep for the full effect.
Leave the under-eyes free of anything. Shades of white eyeshadows are an exception. No colorful,tropical or trendy eyeshadow.
 Femme fatales don't wear casual flat shoes or runners. A femme fatale is always dressed to the nines. Her shoes are always high: marabou mules, stilettos and platforms (not the 70s ones or the stripper ones), and look for some embellishments like feathers (marabou or ostrich), texture, animal print or rhinestones.
 When it comes to hosiery, a femme fatale is always in fine, black mesh fishnets and/or seamed stockings. Avoid leggings, pantyhose, or opaque tights.
 Understand and study the beautiful women of the 1940s, as well as some of the women from the 1950s and earlier eras such as the 1920s and 1930s who are known for being femme fatales. Note how they used to dress: it's all about the old Hollywood glamour and sexiness with a dark side. The femme fatale wardrobe often has an evening edge, even during the daytime. Femme fatales rarely wear denim. Here are some examples of femme fatale wardrobe:, It can be strapless, backless, halter in satin or art deco designs-whatever flatters and makes you feel sexy and evokes the Golden years of Hollywood.

To cover up: fur coats (a must), fur wraps, fur stoles, fur shrugs, and/or feather shrugs. The fur should be either mink, sable, fox, chinchilla or ermine. Use faux fur if you object. Vintage fur coats are easily found in thrift stores and auctions at a very reasonable cost.





A femme fatale usually wears elegant, long opera gloves. They can be satin, silk, lace and/or velvet. Shorter gloves gloves are also acceptable in the daytime.





When it comes to lingerie, it's all about the black,silk and lace. The wasp waist completes the femme fatale look. Invest in a girdle and/or corset if needed.Femme fatale clothes need base garments. Corsets are a very good option; wear one as a foundation garment or as part of your outer wear. Avoid "basic" and boring cotton underwear. Remember a femme fatale is always seductive and sexy in a dark way. Lace bras, merry widows, bustiers and garters are some examples.
 When out in the daytime, a femme fatale always wears dark sunglasses possible.It can be retro cat-eyes or big Jackie-O ones; whichever suits your face shape best as long as no one sees your eyes.
 Something with structure and flatters your face shape, preferably decorated with a veil, jewels, furs or feathers. A good example is a veiled pillbox hat., You don't have to smoke to be a femme fatale—in fact, modern day etiquette dictates that you should not. If you do, however, use a cigarette holder.
 Make it your signature scent—you want to be remembered.
 Go for diamonds, diamonds, diamonds! Make sure they are big enough to be seen far away.
 (Listen to her voice here) This is the cherry on top to becoming a femme fatale. Lower your voice and do some voice exercises.

Avoid making your voice sound too masculine and low that you are no longer audible.

